AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE,
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 79.—(Vol. IV.—No. 9.) LONDON: FEBRUARY 27j 1874. Published Weekly; Price Threepence
Contents.
The Mediumship of Mohammed  
Spirit Teachings. No. YII   .,
The Spiritual Sunday Meetings  
Baron Du Potet's Visit to England 
Mr. Epes Sargent’s New Book 
The Testimonial to Judge Edmonds
Poetry—“ Not dead hut changed" s ■“ Death "
Correspondence—The National Association
' Literary Notice—Psychische Studien  
Mediumship of Miss Showers   ...
Paragraphs—A Remarkable Book, 107; The National Association
97
98
101
102
103
103
105
105
107
108
108
Crown 8vo. pp. 126, Cloth 2s. 6d.
HINTS for the “ EVIDENCES of SPIRITUALISM.”
By M.P.
London: Triibner and Co., 67 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits ; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London: Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
THE
LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1873.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.
Mr. John Davidson, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
Treasure)'.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. G. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. R. Casson.
Mr. D. Gay.
Mr. T. B. Griffin.
Mr. Riece.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Casson.
Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. John Lamont.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Mr. Bretherton. I Mr. H. J. Charlton.
TiTHE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
JL in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
i. CORA L. V. TAPPAN’S SUNDAY EVENING
INSPIRATIONAL DISCOURSES.
New Course.
AT CLEVELAND HALL, OLEVELAND-STREET, OXFORD-STREET.
Committee:—
Dr. Gully, M.D., Hill Side, Streatham, Chairman.
N. F. Dawe, Esq., Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
J. T. Hoskins, Esq., 5, Oonnaught-square, W.
T. H. Noyes, jun., Esq., “United University Club,” Suffolk-street
Pall-mall, S.W.
Thomas Slater, Esq., 136, Euston-road, N.W.
Mrs. Honywood, 52, Warwick-square, S.W., Treasurer.
Webster Glynes, Esq., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C., Hon. Secretary.
At an influential meeting, recently held, the above-mentioned persons
were appointed a working Committee, with power to add to their number,
for inaugurating a further course of 12 Discourses by Mrs. Tappan, on
Sunday evenings.
_ The lectures commenced on the 18th January, and they will be con¬
tinued up to the 5th April next. Doors open at 6.15 p.m., to commence
at 7 precisely.
It is estimated that the expense of holding the course will be £144, or
£12 a night.
Of this amount it is expected that £50 only will be obtained from the
admission of the general public.
The balance of £94 must therefore be procured from other sources.
The Committee make an earnest appeal for support, and solicit liberal
donations from the friends of the movement.
Tickets sold at the doors, also at Chappell’s or Ollivier’s, Bond-street, or
Burns’s, 15, Southampton-row, Holborn.
In order to prevent interruption it is requested that no person leave be¬
fore the conclusion of the service. No admittance after the discourse has
begun.
Donations thankfully received by the Treasurer or Hon. Secretary.
Reserved seats 2s. and Is. each.
Body of the Hall free.
PLANCHETTE.—ENDLESS AMUSEMENT for Old
and Young. Physical science is, as yet, baffled by the mysterious
performances of this little instrument. It writes intelligent answers to
questions which the operators do not hear. In polished mahogany, whole¬
sale and retail from Sturmbey and Co., Constitution-hill, Birmingham.
Post free, 51 stamps.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL-
ISTS.—Sunday Evening Services are Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o'clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
R. Pearce, Hon. See.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till' 9, and .on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
RS. CORA L. V. TAPPAN’S INSPIRATIONAL
DISCOURSES at the Cleveland Hall, Cleveland-street, Oxford-
street. The Committee have arranged for the' delivery of these dis¬
courses at 7 o’clock every Sunday evening till April 6th, inclusive.
The expenses are not nearly covered by the sale of tickets and col¬
lections.
Donations or Subscriptions in aid will be received by the Treasurer,
Mrs. Honywood, 52, Warvvick-square, S.W.
Tickets can be had at the doors; also at Chappells; at Oliviers, Bond-
street, and at Burns’s, 16, Southampton-row, Holborn, Reserved seats 2s.
and Is. each. Body of the hall free.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 27, 1874.
Lately published,
TXT'HAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Mental
Y Y Philosophy and Psychology. Yol. % The MECHANISM of MAN
By EDWARD W. COX, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s. 6d.
CONTEUTS.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.)
President.—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
CHAP.
1. Introduction.
2. What am I?
3. The Man.
4. How we Grow.
5. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind.
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the Will.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
31. Soul—Spirit—Anima.
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. The Natural and the Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul,
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery,
45. Conclusions.
Mrs. C. A. Blyton,
Mr. George Blyton,
Mrs. Amelia Comer,
Mrs. Theresa Wood,
Council.
Mr. A. M. Greene,
Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mr, A. M. Greene, Secretary, pro. tem.
A DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on heart¬
ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, and in*
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might be
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 15th September, 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis Lor honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter careful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modem Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations {vide Rule IX). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordi-
Mory seance held on the first Thursday eveningin each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seanc.es with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on Va.e> first Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Rooms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelope
should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and charming X>oo\l.—Standard.
Serjeant Oox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and no
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Herald.
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—i^'yaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I ?”—Leicester Mercury
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflectiv readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literacry
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest.—Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—Vomic/i Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
London: Longman and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just published,
The second yolume of “what am i ?”
A Popular Introduction to Psychology and Mental Philosophy. By
EDWARD W. OOX, Sergeant-at-Law. Price 10s. 6d.
This Volume completes the work. It treats of the Mechanism of Man in
action. The following are the
Contents :—
CHAP.
Preface.
1. Introductory.
2. Ofthe Intelligent Motive Forces.
3. The Conditions of Existence.
4.. The Mechanism in Health.)
5. Of Sleep.
6. Of Dreams.
7. Of some of the Phenomena of
Sleep and Dreams
8. Of Delirium.
9. Of Insanity.
10. Of Natural Somnambulism.
11. Of Artificial Somnambulism. I.
The Condition.
12. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
II. Clairvoyance.
13. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
III. The Mental Phenomena.
14. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IV. Catalepsy.
15. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
V. Insensibility and Uncon¬
sciousness.
CHAP.
16. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VI. History.
17. Of Artificial Somnambulism,
VII. Healing Power.
18. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VIII. Supersensuous Percep¬
tion.
19. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IX. Thought Reading.
20. Of Trance.
21. Of Unconscious Cerebration.
22. Of Psychic Force.
23. Of Psychic Force. I. The
Proofs.
24. Of Psychic Force. II. Its Phy¬
siology.
25. Of Psychic Force. III. The
Directing Inteligence.
26. Other Psychic Phenomena. I.
Communicated.
27. Other Psychic Phenomena. II.
Experiments.
28. The Summing Up
29. The Conclusions.
VOL. I. MAY BE HAD, PRICE 8s. 6d.
London: LONGMAN & Co., Patempster-row.
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Weekly Journal. Edited by J. Tyebman.
Price Threepence. Tojbe had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
T\ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
JLJ SPIRITUALISM. {Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly ; 5s. half-yearly; 10s. annual
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
Mr. A. M. GREENE, Secretary pro. tem.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
VERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
into England the subject attracted attention in [Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assocciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
\ ARON FRANKLIN, PRESERVER OF BIRDS AND
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE. Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’-heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. Aakon Franklin, 100, Suf-
folk-street, Birmingham.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &e., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
jriuce zs.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND—
YJT Showing the harmony of things spiritual with things material.
“ The tone of the book is exceedingly pure and good.”—Christian Spiri¬
tualist.
A list of spiritual and mesmeric works on application.
London: Bailliere and Co., King William-street, Strand,
t
#9
ofj of % Jrfpt*
tifif
gjAb
£ttit
VOtUJVtE FOUR. JMU]VIBEF( JHINE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27th, 1874.
Cjre
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS:—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch
Beduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually tom up when read, hut preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions]:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of 11 The Spintualist" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be infoi'med of such impediments and m'egulan-
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Oadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseUer, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.,
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road,
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thomfeldt, Main-ttreet.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher.
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny,
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 10s., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
Jp E M A L E MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects :—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—Fitzroy-square, W
THE MEDIUMSHIP OF MOHAMMED.
Now that knowledge of the phenomenal characteristics
of spirit influx is gradually “accumulating inconsequence
of the experience gained by constant observation in a
scientific age, it often becomes very interesting to read
the records of the past, and to discover how very much
light is thrown by modern manifestations upon the
mediumship of the great religious teachers of the world
in ancient times. The student of Spiritualism has a
great advantage in this respect over everybody else, be¬
cause others who at the present time are giving atten¬
tion to the science of the comparative study of religions,
have a tendency to deny the reality of the spiritual
phenomena which have been witnessed in all periods of
the world’s history, these phenomena being generally
ascribed by them to the imaginations of enthusiasts who
gradually allow the miraculous to creep into their
sacred traditions, as century after century elapses after
the death of the revered teacher they follow. But the
Spiritualist who has accurate practical knowledge of the
nature of the modern phenomena, can bring that know¬
ledge to bear upon the facts stated in ancient records,
and to some extent is thereby able to separate true spiri¬
tual manifestations from the miraculous stories inciden¬
tal to tradition.
An illustration of the truth of these remarks was
furnished by a thoughtful lecture at the Royal In¬
stitution, given by Mr. R. Bosworth Smith, M.A., of
Harrow School, last Saturday, on “ Mohammed and the
Mohammedans.’, The great Mohammedan religion,
which now numbers from one hundred to one hundred
and fifty millions of followers—a religion which has
spread over a large portion of three continents, and
which is extending in Africa with a hundred times
more rapidity than Christianity—was undoubtedly
founded by a trance and clairvoyant medium. Mr.
Bosworth Smith entered much into the question of the
sincerity or otherwise of Mohammed, a point which is
much disputed by his modern biographers, but the lec¬
turer gave his verdict altogether in favour of the sin¬
cerity of the prophet. Had all the modern writers on
this subject been acquainted with Spiritualism and its
phenomena, the question would never have been a matter
of debate, since the facts on record prove beyond all doubt
that Mohammed was a trance and clairvoyant medium,
consequently that the imposture theory is altogether
untenable as applicable to his career. Although Mr:
Smith had not the knowledge which would enable him
to authoritatively decide this point, his conclusions were
right nevertheless. He narrated that Mohammed was
troubled with “ fits,” and that in one of these fits, or
in a dream, he saw an angel holding a scroll before
him, which the future prophet was asked to read, but
which he could not decipher until spiritual power was
conferred upon him to do so ; thus he read the decrees
of God, which he afterwards put on record in the Koran,
98
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 27, 1874.
The divine messenger told him afterwards that he was
the angel Gabriel.
After Mohammed became convinced of the divinity of
his mission, it was some little time before he made his
belief publicly known, and then the result was that for
many years he was subjected to insults and derision,
and in these, its early stages, the new religion had to
force its way by virtue of its moral influence alone.
Mohammed believed himself to be but mortal man; he
considered himself but a channel through which these
divine revelations could flow, and he felt that he was
not pure enough to fulfil his mission; yet his life was
simple and upright, and in his career mankind was pre¬
sented first with the life and then with the theology,
which is ever the case, whether it be in the life of an
individual or in the life of a nation. So many diffi¬
culties did he have to encounter at the outset that his
teachings seemed to make no way at all; indeed, once
in despair he thought of committing suicide; still he
was comforted by angelic visions, and his enthusiasm
gradually rose till he resisted all discouragements.
Mohammed had curly black hair, and coal-black
sparkling eyes—eyes that flashed with the light of
prophesy; he was very fond of animals and children,
and had an affectionate nature. One of his servants,
who lived with him half his life-time, said that he had
never been scolded by the prophet. He was simple and
abstemious in his diet, even after he rose to place and
power ; in fact he had all the characteristics of a good
trance medium. Powerful mediums are always of an
affectionate and passionate disposition; they are governed
by_ impulse rather than by the steady force of strong
convictions, except when they believe that they have a
mission to perform. Unfortunately, many physical
mediums do not feel that they have any mission to per¬
form except to gratify their impulses, but it is frequently
different with those mediums who are gifted with trance,
clairvoyance, and the higher forms of revelation. To¬
wards the close of his career, when Mohammed pos¬
sessed such vast power, the messages in the Koran be¬
came worldly, and seemed framed to carry out merely
the temporal wishes and designs of the prophet: this
same declension may sometimes be seen in modern
mediums; in those cases wherein they have sometimes
morally deteriorated after becoming subject to the
the temptations incidental to popularity and worldly
distinction. It by no means follows that the worldly
messages in the Koran were imposture any more than
the others, because it is a fact that when the minds of
mediums are not in a passive state, and when they
strongly desire particular things, such a state of mind
has a tendency to warp the messages which flow into the
lower world through their organisms:
The Mohammedan religion is well worthy of study
by the light of modern Spiritualism, because from first
to last, it is a strictly historical religion; instead of
there being as many readings of the Koran as there
are of the Bible, the text of the Koran may almost be
said to be stereotyped. Mohammed and his followers
lived altogether within the historical period, so that it
is possible, by examination of the records of his own
time and of succeeding generations, to see what pro¬
portion of genuine spiritual manifestations actually
occurred in the presence of Mohammed, and how a vast
mass of unreliable miraculous tradition gradually
accumulated after his death, which had no real founda¬
tion in fact whatever. In so doing, Spiritualists will
have a great advantage over Mr. Bosworth Smith, who
describes trance and visions as “ fits,” and so far as can
be seen as yet, seems to have a tendency to deny the
reality of spiritual phenomena altogether. But as he
has announced that next Saturday he will speak of
miracles and the miraculous generally in connection with
the career of Mohammed, no doubt he will then define
his position in this respect more fully than he has done
in the two lectures already delivered.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
NO. VII.
At a seance, "held June \%ili, 1873, many questions
were put on points of theology, and a long trance address
was delivered, which was partially taJcen down at the
time, hut many points ivere necessarily omitted, or im¬
perfectly recorded. On the following day, without ques¬
tioning, it was written by the same communicating spirit
who had spoken on the previous evening:—
There was much in what was said last night that
was imperfectly said, and hurriedly, and that was not
accurately preserved in the record which was taken at
the time. It is of the last importance that on a sub¬
ject so momentous we should speak with care, and that
you should understand exactly what we wish to convey.
We therefore wish to state more clearly what we said
imperfectly to the circle. The conditions of control
do not always enable us to be so precise in speech as
we are studious to be when communicating thus with
you. Perfect isolation commands conditions suitable
for precision and accuracy.
We were dealing with the Divine mission which we
have in charge. Of the many difficulties which beset
our path this is one of the most considerable, that those
who are most congenial to our purpose, and whose co¬
operation we most desire, are usually so hampered by
preconceived theological notions, or are so fearful of
what seems to contradict some things which they have
learned, that we are unable to influence them, and
grieve sorrowfully to find that which is derived from
God charged on the adversaries, and boldly attributed
to an all-powerful and malignant Devil.
Of all classes of our opponents these are to us the
most sad. The pseudo-scientific man who will look at
nothing save this his own medium, and on his own
terms; who will deal with us only so that he may be
allowed to prescribe means of demonstrating us to be
deluders, liars, figments of a disordered brain—he is of
little moment to us. His blinded eye cannot see, and
his cloudy intelligence befogged and cramped with life¬
long prejudice can be of little service to us. He can at
best penetrate but little into the mysteries of com¬
munion with the spheres, and the foundation of know¬
ledge that he could acquire, though useful and valuable
* In the Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of some
remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-road, St. John’s-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extracts they gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium, free, to a large extent at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently, the “spirit teachings” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu-
nicating spirits are many: each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing, peculiar to the communicating intelligence, is always preserved,
and the individuality remains throughout the same.—Ed,
Feb. 27, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
99
even, ■would be of little service to us in our special
work. We deal with other issues than those which
would principally engage the attention of those few
men of science who deign to notice the phenomenal
aspect of our work. The mind, long trained in obser¬
vation of phenomena of physics, is best devoted to the
elucidation of those facts which come within its pro¬
vince. Ours is other, and connected rathgsr with the
influence of spirit upon spirit, and the knowledge of
spirit destiny that we can impart;
And the ignorant and uncultured mind which knows
not of what we would tell; and cannot know until a
long course of preliminary training has prepared the
way—this class of mind, though hereafter it may
attain to a plane of knowledge on which we can work,
is of no service now.
To the proud, the arrogant, the wise in their own
conceits, the children of routine and respectability, we
can say very little. The more physical evidence is
necessary to reach them. The story which we are
charged with would be but an idle tale to them.
It is to the receptive souls who know of God and
heaven and love and charity, and who desire to know
of the hereafter and of the haven to which they tend,
that we turn with earnest longing. But, alas ! too
often we find the natural religious instincts which are
God-implanted and spirit-nurtured, choked or distorted
by the cramping influence of a human theology, the
imperceptible growth of long ages of ignorance and
folly. They are armed at all points against the truth.
Do we speak of a revelation of the Great Father?
They already have a revelation which they have decided
to be complete. Do we tell them of its inconsistencies,
and point out that it nowhere pretends to the finality
and infallibility which they would assign to it ? They
reply to us with stray words from the formularies of a
church, or by an opinion borrowed, and very frequently
adapted from some person whom they have chosen to
consider infallibly inspired. They apply to us a test
drawn from some one of the sacred records which was
given at a special time for a special purpose, and which
they imagine to be of universal application.
Do we point to our credentials, and to the miracles
so-called which attest the reality of our mission, even
as they attested the mission of those whom we in¬
fluenced of old ? They tell us that the age of such
miracles is past, and that only the inspired of the Holy
Ghost long centuries ago were permitted to work such
wonders as evidence of Divine teaching. They tell us
that the Devil, whom they have imaged for themselves,
has power to counterfeit God’s work, and they consign
us and our mission to darkness and outer antagonism to
God and goodness. They would be willing to help us,
for indeed we say that which is probable, but that we
are of the Devil. We must be, because in the Bible it
is said that false and deceiving spirits will come; and
so we must be the deceivers. It must be so, for did
not a holy and elevated Teacher prophecy of those who
should deny the Son of God ? And do we not practi¬
cally remove Him and His work from the place in
which God has placed it and Him ? It must be so;
for do we not place human reason above faith ? Do we
not preach and teach a seductive Gospel of good works,
and give credit to the doer of them ? And is not all
this the work of the arch fiend transformed into an
angel of light, and striving to win souls to ruin ?
It is such arguments, honestly put forward by those
whose respect we fain would win, that are to us a bitter
sorrow. They are in many cases loving, earnest souls,
who need but the progressive tendency to make them
bright lights in the world’s gloom. To them we fain
would give our message; but before we can build on
the sure foundation which they already have of know¬
ledge of God and duty, we must perforce clear away
the rubbish which renders further elevation unsafe.
Religion, to be worthy the name, must have its two
sides—the one pointing to God, the other to man.
What has the received faith, which is called orthodox
by its professors, to say on these points; and wherein
do we differ in our message; and how far is such
difference on our part in accord with reason ? For, at
the very outset, we claim as the only court to which
we can as yet appeal the reason which is implanted in
man. We claim it; for it was by reason that the sages
settled the list of the writings which they decided to be
the exclusive and final revelation of God. To reason
they appealed for their decision. To reason we appeal
too. Or do our friends claim that Divine guidance
prescribed for them what should be for all time the
body of revealed truth ? We, too, are the messengers
of the Most High, no less surely sent than the spirits
who guided the [Hebrew seers, and who ministered to
those whose fiat settled the Divine word. We are as
they: our message as their message, only more ad¬
vanced ; our God their God, only more clearly revealed,
less human, more Divine. Whether the appeal be to
Divine inspiration or not, human reason (guided doubt¬
less by spirit agency, but still reason), sways the final
decision. And those who reject this appeal are out of
their own mouths convicted of folly. Blind faith can
be no substitute for reasoning trust. For the faith is
faith that either has grounds for its trust or not. In
the former case the ground is reasonable; in which
case reason again is the ultimate judge ; or it is not,
in which case it would commend itself to none. But
if the faith rest on no ground at all, we need not
further labour to show it baseless and untrustworthy.
To reason, then, we turn. How far are we proved
reasonably to be of the Devil ? How far is our creed
an evil one ? In what respect are we chargeable with
diabolic tendency ? These are points on which we will
instruct you.
* * # #
After this communication was written, some questions
of a purely personal nature were discussed ,* and at a
seance more information was given by means of an ad¬
dress in the trance on the religious aspect of the teachings
given. An elaborate attempt was made to defend the
peculiar theology of the spirits from the charge of being
on the one hand atheistic, and on the other diabolical in
its tendencies. The orthodox views of the Church of
England were maintained as against the latitudinarian
teachings given. On the following day the written com¬
munications were resumed, the communicating intelligence
being the same as on the previous occasion.
You have objected to our teachings that they are not
consistent with the received creed of orthodoxy. We
have more to say on this subject.
Religion, the spirits’ healthful life, has two aspects
.—the one pointing to God, the other to man. What
says the spirit creed of God ?
In place of an angry jealous tyrant it reveals a loving
Father who is not loving in name alone, but in very
deed and truth; into whose dealings nought but love
can enter; who is just and good and full of affection
to the lowest of His creatures.
100
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Feb. 27, 1874.
It does not recognise any need of propitiation to¬
wards this God. It rejects as false any notion of this
Divine Being vindictively punishing a transgressor, or
requiring a vicarious sacrifice for sin. Still less does it
teach that this omnipotent Being is enthroned in a
heaven where His pleasure consists in the homage of the
elect, and in the view of the tortures of the lost, who
are for ever excluded in quenchless misery from light
and hope.
No such anthropomorphism finds any place in our
creed. God, as we know Him in the operation of His
laws, is perfect, pure, loving, and holy, incapable of
cruelty, tyranny, and other such human vices: viewing
error with sorrow as knowing that sin contains its own
sting, hut eager to alleviate the smart by any means
consistent with the immutable moral laws to which all
alike are subject. God, the centre of light and love !
God, operating in strict accordance with those laws
which are a necessity of orderly existence! God, the
grand object of our adoration, never of our dread I
We know of Him as ye cannot know, as ye cannot
even picture in imagination : yet none has seen Him:
nor are we content with the metaphysical sophistries
with which prying curiosity and over-subtle . specula¬
tion have obscured the primary conception of God
amongst men. We pry not. The first conception with
you even, is grander, nobler, more sublime. We wait
for higher knowledge. Ye must wait too.
On the relations between God and His creatures we
speak at large. Yet here, too, we clear off much of the
minute points of. human invention which have been
from age to age accumulated round and over the central
truths. We know nothing of election of a favoured
fdW. The elect are they who work out for themselves
a salvation according to the laws which regulate their
being.
We know nothing of the potency of blind faith or
credulity. We know, indeed, the value of a trustful re¬
ceptive spirit, free from the littleness of perpetual sus¬
picion. Such is God like, and draws down angel
guidance. But we abjure and denounce that most de¬
structive doctrine that faith, belief, assent to dogmatic
statements, have power to erase the traces of transgres¬
sion ; that an earth life-time of vice and sloth and sin
can be wiped away, and the spirit stand purified by a
blind acceptance of a belief of an idea, of a fancy, of a
creed. Such teaching has ruined more souls than any¬
thing else to which we can point.
Nor do we teach that there is a special and potent
efficacy in any one belief to the exclusion of all others.
We do not believe that truth is the perquisite of any
creed. In all there is a germ of truth; in all an ac¬
cretion of error. We know, as ye know not, the cir¬
cumstances which decide to what special form of faith
a mortal shall give in his adherence, and we value it ac¬
cordingly. We know exalted intelligences who stand
high in spirit life, who were enabled to progress in
spite of the creed which they professed on earth. We
value only the earnest seeking after truth which may
distinguish the professors of creeds, the most widely
dissimilar. We care not for the minute discussions
which men delight in. We shrink from those curious
pryings into mysteries transcending knowledge which
characterise your theologies. The theology of the
spirit is simple and confined to knowledge. We value
at nothing mere speculation. We care not for sec¬
tarianism, save that we know it to be a mischievous
provoker of rancour, and spite, and malice, and ill-will.
We deal with religion as it affects us and you in
simpler sort. Man—-an immortal spirit, so we believe,
—placed in earth-life as a school of training, has
simple duties to perform, and in performing them is
prepared for more advanced and progressive work. He
is governed by immutable laws, which, if he trans¬
gresses them*work for him misery and loss; which,
also, if respected, secure for him advancement and
satisfaction.
He is the recipient of guidance from spirits who
have trod the path before him, and who are commis¬
sioned to guide him if he will avail himself of their
guidance. He has within him a standard of right
which will direct him to the truth, if he will allow his
spirit guides to keep it and protect it from injury. If
he refuse these helps, he is punished by transgression
and deterioration. He is thrown back and finds misery
in place of joy. His sins punish themselves. Of his
duties he knows by the instinct of his spirit as well as
by the teaching of his guardians. The performance of
those duties brings progress and happiness. The spirit
grows and gains newer and fuller views of that which
makes for perfect satisfying joy and peace.
This mortal existence is but a fragment of life. Its
deeds and their results remain when the body is dead.
The ramifications of wilful sin have to be followed out,
and its results remedied in sorrow and shame:
The consequences of deeds of good are similarly per¬
manent, and precede the pure soul and draw around
it influences which welcome and aid it in the spheres.
Life, we teach you, is one and indivisible. One in
its progressive development: and one in the effect on
all alike of the eternal and immutable laws by which it
is regulated. None are excused as favourites; none
are punished mercilessly for error which they were un¬
able to avoid. Eternal justice is the correlative of
eternal love. Mercy is no divine attribute. It is need¬
less ; for mercy involves remission of a penalty inflicted,
and no such remission can be made save where the re¬
sults have been purged away. Pity is Godlike. Mercy
is human.
We know nought of that sensational piety which is
wholly wrapped up in contemplation to neglect of duty.
We know that God is not so glorified. We preach the
religion of work, of prayer, of adoration. We tell you
of your duty to God, to your brother, and to yourself—
soul and body alike. We leave to foolish men, groping
blindly in the dark, their curious quibbles about theo¬
logical figments. We deal with practical life ; and our
creed may be briefly written:—*
Honour and love your Father, God;
Help your brother onward in the path of progress';
Tend and guard your own body;
Cultivate every means of extending knowledge;
Seek for fuller views of progressive truth;
Do even the right and good in accordance with your knowledge;
Cultivate communion with the spirit-land by prayer and frequent inter¬
course.
Within these rules are roughly indicated most that con¬
cerns you here. Yield no obedience to any sectarian
dogmas. Give no blind adherence to any teaching that
is not commended by reason. Put no unquestioning faith
in communications which were made at a special time,
and which are of private application. You will learn
hereafter that the revelation of God is progressive,,
bounded by no time, confined to no people. It has
never ceased. God reveals Himself as truly now as of.
old He was revealed on Sinai. God does not shut off
the progressive revealing of Himself in measure as man
can bear it.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
101
Feb. 27, 1874.
You will learn also that all revelation is made through
a human channel: and consequently cannot but he tinc¬
tured in some measure with human error. No revela¬
tion is of plenary inspiration. None can demand cre¬
dence on any other than rational grounds. Therefore
to say of a statement that it is not in accord with what
was given through a human medium at any stated time,
is no derogation necessarily from the truth of that state¬
ment. Both may in their kind be true; yet each of
different application. Set up no human standard of
judgment other than that of right reason; "Weigh
what is said. . If it be commended by reason, receive
it; if not, reject it. If what is put before you he pre¬
maturely said, and you are unable to accept it; then in
the name of God put it aside, and cling to aught that
satisfies your soul, and helps its onward progress.
The time will come when what we lay before you of
divine truth will he valued amongst men. We are
content to wait, and our prayers shall join with yours
to the supreme and all-wise God that He will guide the
seekers after truth, wherever they may he, to higher and
more progressive knowledge, to richer and fuller insight
into truth. May His blessing rest On you.
THE SPIRITUAL SUNDAY MEETINGS.
Last Sunday evening Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan delivered an
inspirational lecture at the Cleveland Hall, Cleveland-street,
Portland-road, under the presidency of Mr. Thomas Shorter.
The proceedings commenced with the singing of a hymn,
and the reading of a chapter from the Bible.
Mrs. Tappan then passed into the trance state, and delivered
the following inspirational prayer: — “ Our Father and
Mother, God, Thou source^ of every blessing, Thou infinite
spirit, Thou divine and perfect mind, Thy life pervades
immensity, Thy power is manifest everywhere, and through
the laws of Thy divine being, nature perfects the workings of
her life. The soul of man, with which Thou hast endowed
such wonderful gifts—the gift of Thine own being, transcends
all the forms of nature, and is superior to the stars and the
suns ; it is greater than time and death, because it is eternal.
What can encompass Thy power ? What can grasp Thy in¬
finitude? The mind cannot know of Thee, and thought can¬
not reach up to the heights of Thy beauty, but the soul, ever
aware of Thy presence, may come nearer and nearer to Thee
by the laws of its divine allegiance to Thee. Father, Spirit, Life,
we would know the laws of the spirit, we would comprehend more
of the divine nature, we would know more perfectly the hidden
mysteries of life. We thank Thee for Thy many blessings, for
the wondrous perfection of law in nature ; we thank Thee for
science, for the knowledge which has reared up fabrics of vast
usefulness to man, but we also wish to know more of those
other laws, those interior impulses of the spirit, .whereby the
agencies of life are outwrought, and which link us for ever to
Thine own immortal nature. We would know more of the
spirits in prison, where they abide, what sounds and thoughts
may reach them, what uplifting prayers, what elevating pur¬
poses may comfort those spirits who walk up and down the
world, clad in the garments of despair, who live in sorrow and
in darkness, who in great remorse cry out with complaining
voices, and ask for a ray of light from heaven. Let us pene¬
trate into the realms of darkness, and see that Thou hast not
forgotten any living spirit, and that all the souls in the great
universe of spirit are bound together by cords of sympathy, so
that not one is beyond the reach of human love. Oh, let us
have the infinite compassion of Thy servant of old, to behold
God’s love, and to uplift a voice for humanity. Let our souls
be clothed with such humility, that we, too, may speak Thy
truths to all the peoples of the earth, and may Thy signs
follow them that believe.
Mrs. Tappan, still in the trance state, said—“ And these
signs shall follow them that believe.” She added that she
wished to call attention to some forms of spiritual manifesta¬
tions mentioned in the New Testament, illustrated in the ap-
appearance of Jesus to Mary, the appearance of Jesus to the
two disciples on their journey, His appearance to the disciples
when they were assembled at night, and to the appearance of
the angel who rolled away the stone from the sepulchre. She
said that whatever might be supposed to be the power of
Jesus to overrule the laws of nature, it was certain that others
besides Himself had some of His powers, for the angel was
stated to have rolled away a heavy stone from the door of the
sepulchre. Jesus had promised that signs should follow those
that believed, and that was sufficient concentration of
spiritual testimony to all people, and to all who believed in
the biblical record. Although it is claimed that to-day
similar manifestations actually take place, including the
moving of the heavy objects, the healing of the sick, the
casting out of devils, the speaking with tongues, and
prophecy, the matter is made the subject of dispute, and the
professed believers in the ancient revelations are the first to
deny the existence of such manifestations. The evidence
which Jesus promised should follow them that believe, is not
to be found at the present day in the established churches,
and there is no need to look far for the reason, for the de¬
parture from the original spiritual faith had been the cause of
the lessening of the workings of the spirit. The material¬
ism of the present age had so far penetrated into the
sanctuary, that the power of the spirit was comparatively
nullified. But when Christ speaks of several forms of spiritual
power, and at the same time is speaking as a spirit to His
diciples, it is such strong evidence and such overwhelming
testimony of the reality of such powers, that it is wonderful
that no effort has been made to cultivate in modern times
the latent spiritual forces. One reason why this has not been
done is, that the spiritual beings of the other world have been
erroneously divided into two great classes, by nearly all the
nations of the earth; they have been divided into the powers of
light, and the powers of darkness ; an imaginary line of de¬
marcation has been drawn, so that the public are afraid, lest
in opening the door between mortality and the spirit world,
they may admit the evil spirits as well as the good. It is said
that Christ went and visited the spirits in prison, and if He
did this to evil spirits, it is evident that such spirits have
power to gain knowledge, and to be improved after they have
departed this life. But it is a great mistake to divide humanity
into two distinct and absolute classes ; for instance, who could
draw a line of demarcation between the righteous and the un¬
righteous, the good and the bad, among those who were then
listening to her discourse ? Every human being had within
himself a mixture of good and evil, of truth and error ; the sum
of human crime was caused by ignorance and cupidity, and
in any attempt at reformation the motives for crime should be
removed. Spirits departed from earthly life endowed with all
the attributes, faculties, and powers which they had in the
world ; but the motive for crime was removed to this degree—
There were no material possessions to be gained in spirit life,
so temptation to do wrong was removed to that extent; but
those spirits who had done wrong upon earth were afflicted
with remorse ; they were not necessarily evil, but frequently
haunted places where they had committed crimes, trying
to make atonement for the wrong. They were not
necessarily evil spirits trying to do harm. The majority of
them were earth-bound ; they were spirits in prison who
needed compassion, who needed kind words and good teach¬
ings from those who had any of the power or of the love of
Christ to restore all these fallen ones to life, light, and im¬
mortality. A spirit might be possessed of an evil, and yet
not an evil spirit. In the olden times the phrase “ casting
out devils,” commonly meant merely the casting out of tor¬
ments, pains, and diseases. It was true that disease of the
physical body would sometimes give facilities for the action
upon that body of untoward spirits, and of those who
through ignorance could not control a medium properly, but
it was an error to ascribe too many of the misfortunes of life
to evil spirits; many of the sufferings which were once
ascribed to evil spirits arose from material causes, and have
been removed by modern science. On the other hand there
was a tendency in physical science to erroneously ascribe all
bodily ailments to physical causes. Discrimination should be
used in all these things, and exact knowledge of spiritual and
physical truths should be brought to bear ; men of science
erred in consequence of their ignorance of the laws of the
spirit life, and of the nature of the action of one mind upon
another. In truth the knowledge of the spiritual powers
whereby good men in olden times had worked miracles, had
been wholly blotted out from the history of man’s religious
experience, in consequence , of the influence of the material¬
ism of the age; consequently the religion of the churches had
come to be a mere theory, with no spiritual links to connect it
with the world of causes. In the days of the founding of our
chief religions, the spiritual nature received more attention
102
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. • 27, 1874.
than the physical or the material nature. The balance of
probability was strongly against the banding together of evil
spirits to do harm to man; they had no motive for so doing; the
human mind did not love evil for the sake of evil; they could not
find in the lowest prison cells in the great city of London, any
human beings so utterly depraved that they'would say, that
if they had the chance, they would not prefer to be better.
Criminals are very much the creatures of circumstances.
The motor power of evil is gone when a spirit ceases to be
connected with the material form, and is divorced from the
wants and appetites of the body which form the prison cell
of the soul ; the released spirit is ignorant, but not neces¬
sarily aggressive; persons prone to insanity ior illness may
sometimes be injuriously affected by such, but not necessarily
wilfully. A truly spiritual nature is marked by simplicity,
naturalness, dependence upon the unseen, and in the recogni¬
tion of the higher nature of the spirit in all that belongs to
daily life. The building up of a material church, without
spiritual powers, is such a disaster, that it has well-nigh cut
humanity off from those inspirations which once bound it to
the spiritual world, and has made civilised people in some re¬
spects lower than many savages who know of the reality of com¬
munication with a world beyond the grave. It is singular that
at the present day, outside of Christian nations, there are more
of the gifts of the spirit enumerated by Christ, than are to be
found within the Christian nations themselves. The North
American Indians have many of these gifts, which are also to
be found in India and Central Africa. If any organisation
upon earth is calculated to do good, it must be through a
spirit and by a spirit; it is not possible for man to take out of
the hands of God, and to build on earth ; there must be the
living presence of the Spirit in the daily lives of those who
would form a spiritual organisation. So long as there are
famished and sick people to be found in the midst of any
nation, so long is it proved that the gifts of the spirit have not
been invited by those people, who may nevertheless claim to
be seeking the kingdom of heaven on earth. Spiritual gifts lie
within the grasp of all people; they are round about every
soul; they are valuable and useful, but they must be j
used intelligently; like steam, they may produce disastrous
' effects in the hands of an ignorant man, but all disaster is
traceable to lack of care or lack of knowledge. Every wave of
thought influences other minds than that of the thinker; it
influences spiritual beings around, who also influence mortals
in return. Hence by placing a larger number of criminals
in prison-houses, men lock up adverse spiritual forces which
poison human society, and produce rank corruption where
God intended only beauty and utility. Prayer alone will not
reform these evils, but prayer accompanied by works will do
anything. Spiritual and mental forces properly understood
can be made subservient to human welfare, and used to uplift
mankind. Men should not be afraid of evil spirits; they
should not, like children, be afraid of the night; there are no
greater demons in the darkness than in the light; the greatest
demons are ambition and cruelty, which act upon society every
day. Why then should men fear those unfortunate beings
who are tethered to some unhappiness which a few kind
words on the part of a mortal can sometimes scatter to the
winds? In the realms of spirit there is nothing to fear. If
men will go into that realm with the love of God and the love
of man in their hearts, they will find no demon to injure them.
Why should men linger by the grave fearing death ? An
angel of light sitteth there in the sepulchre, and the loved
ones have risen and gone far into the world of knowledge, to
bring back messages of love. Why then sit still and shudder
before the walled sepulchre? When they learnt that there
was no death, and that the hereafter is now, who then would
be in dread of something which may not be? Only ignorance,
crime and prejudice should be feared, and the light of that
living soul which penetrated the ancient depths of darkness can
do the same now ; there is no limit to the space or time
wherein that light can be given to man. Whatever spirit
abideth in prison, knowledge stands ready to open the door,
and it is only necessary to trust the powers of goodness.
The title of Baroness Yay’s chief hook in connection with
Spiritualism is Cfeist, Kraft, Staff, or Spirit, Force, Matter,
Veby excellent photographic copies of the illuminated
address presented by English Spiritualists to Judge Edmonds,
of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham, price one shilling or three
shillings, according to size. I
BARON DU POTET’S VISIT TO ENGLAND.
One of the earliest and the greatest of the surviving
advocates of mesmerism in Prance—the Baron Du
Potet—is now in England, on a visit to Mrs. Mack-
dougall Gregory, of 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square.
Baron Du Potet, who is related to some of the most
ancient families in Prance, was born in the year 1796,
and he takes much delight in telling how, during the
early years of his life, he was an enfant terrible, or, in
other words, a very bad hoy; indeed, at the age of
fourteen he could neither read nor write. He narrates,
with much glee, how during those fourteen years he
received many corrections, which did not correct him,
and adds that the end of this “ savage ” life was brought
about by a single remark. One day a visitor asked,
“ Who is that young man ?” “ The Baron Du Potet.”
The response was, “ What a pity he is so stupid.” He
overheard these remarks, which covered him with con¬
fusion ; consequently he walked out of the room red
with humiliation, and from that day he began to teach
himself, without a master. In this way he acquired a
large amount of general knowledge, but not much in¬
formation about science.
One day some slight conversation called his attention
to mesmerism, and he at once thought that he had felt
some of its effects acting upon himself while walking
in the fresh air, in the woods, or by the river side. He
accordingly resolved to begin some experiments, and he
succeeded in his first attempts to mesmerise others.
The success of these experiments induced him to search
out the Marquis De Puysegur and M. Delouze, who
were then the two most celebrated mesmerists in
Prance. This was about the year 1827. At first,
although he acknowledged the facts, he did not gene¬
rally accept the truth of mesmerism, for he thought
that the effects were produced by the imagination of
the patient, or by animal heat, or in some cases by im¬
posture. At that day mesmerists were all looked upon
either as rogues or knaves, but since then the truth has
been accomplishing its work in Prance, little by little,
until at the present day the more important of the
phenomena of mesmerism are acknowledged and ap¬
preciated. But in those early times the truth pro¬
gressed slowly, and it was many years before it began
to spread among the learned in Prance, who, he says,
were frightened by the importance of the discovery, so
that they made reports which differed from the truth,
and urged the Government to, prevent the practice of
mesmerism in that country.
In spite of this national opposition, the young Du
Potet—the “ untameable savage,”—spoke to the savans
in Paris, and demonstrated before many of them the
truth of mesmerism; he then entered their hospitals
and proved before them the power of mesmerism to heal
many diseases which would not give way to ordinary
medical skill. He effected wonderful cures in these
hospitals, and his experiments in them caused great
sensation at the time. He also, about this time,
resolved to devote his whole life to the advancement of
mesmerism. Notwithstanding the little scientific
knowledge he possessed, he forced the matter upon the
attention of the Parisian scientific world, and his experi¬
ments were published at the time in Compte Rendus.
He even made one of the members of the Academy of
Medicine to succumb to the power of mesmerism, and
he spread a knowledge of the subject in many of the
departments of Prance.
Baron Du Potet afterwards came to London to
Feb. 27, 1874.
THE SPIBITUALIST.
103
disseminate the truth of mesmerism, hut for a whole
year no English person came to see him, and he was
considered to be a charlatan. Then Earl Stanhope paid
him a visit, and offered to help him, and to introduce
him to several of the English nobility and prominent
men of science. This was in 1837, the year in which
the Queen was crowned. During that visit to England
he made the acquaintance of Dr. Elliotson and of Dr.
Esdaile. Dr. Elliotson printed a full account of the
cures wrought by Baron Du Potet, which raised such a
clamour that Dr. Elliotson lost many of his patients.
Baron Du Potet afterwards returned to France, much
poorer in purse, but having a hope that in future years
his efforts would be recognised, and that the world
would appreciate the sacrifices he had made in the
endeavour to make more widely known a great truth
in this country;
When he returned to France he found that times were
changed, and that the public prejudice againstmesmerism
had to a large extent broken down. He continued to
write, and to speak, and to lecture; he published no
less than thirty-two volumes in all, on the subject of
mesmerism. He travelled through France propagating
the new science; attempts were made to eject him from
Montpelier, but he got the better of his adversaries.
He studied books on ancient magic, and succeeded, he
says, in reproducing some of the phenomena recorded
therein; he brought these phenomena under the notice
of many distinguished men, who for the most part were
strangers to him, and who carried the knowledge thus
acquired into other countries. In later years he became
acquainted with the physical phenomena of Spiritualism;
indeed throughout his earlier mesmeric experiences he
often felt powers acting upon him for which he could
not account, and which he felt could .only be due to
some new force. He admits the reality of the phenomena
of Spiritualism, and great facilities are now being given
to him to observe them, by Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
MR. EPES SARGENT’S NEW BOOK.
Me. Epes Saegent’s last book on Spiritualism,
Planchette, published by Triibuer and Co., was one of
the most valuable ever issued from the press, to place
in the hands of enquirers; it is therefore very grati¬
fying to announce that he is about to issue another on
the same subject. Last week Mr. Benjamin Coleman
received a letter from Mr. Sargent, who is now living
in Boston, United States, and in the course of the note
Mr. Sargent makes the following statements about the
contents of his forthcoming book, the title of which has
not yet been chosen :—
r 1. An examination of the present state of belief in regard
to the immortality of the soul, in which I quote from J. S.
Mill, Mr. Greg (author of the “ Enigmas of Life"), my friend
Professor F. W. Newman, Alex. Humboldt, Strauss, and
others, eminent in literature or science, showing the very
languid character of the belief in many cultured minds.
2. The origin of the belief. I show that the speculations
of philosophers, and others, on this subject, are wide of the
mark. The belief does not (as they say) originate in
desire, or in abstruse speculation, or in the unsupported
affirmations of priests, or in arguments addressed to
the intellect. But the universality of the belief (among
uncultivated as well as educated tribes) is to be at¬
tributed to hard objective facts and phenomena, precisely
similar to those which are now presented in Spiritualism.
Taylor’s Primitive Culture, and many French scientific
works, fully sustain me in this view, namely, that men have
been led to belief in a future life, simply because the supposed
dead have returned and reported themselves as still living.
This view of the subject can, I think, be scientifically
established.
3. What do these facts and phenomena amount to ? I pro¬
ceed to say that they amount to a good deal, and that they
fully justify us in the belief of the reality of spirits. For in¬
stance, take the common facts of clairvoyance ; if I can fulfil
all the functions of sight, and a good deal more than the
normal capabilities of sight, without the aid of my external
eyes, in what does that transcendent faculty inhere ? Not in
my exterior eyes—not in my physical brain (unless we spiri¬
tualise it and give it powers which materialism denies to it).
The faculty must, therefore, inhere in a part, or higher
duplication of, our organism, which is supra-sensual—in other
words, in a spiritual body, structure, or essence, which is the
continent, or inner citadel, of our individuality; either not sub¬
ject to perpetual change and ultimate dissolution like the
cellular tissues of our mortal body, or else containing within
itself a principle of renewal and of duration through change.
Proceeding from the facts of clairvoyance, somnambulism,
&c., I arrive at the transcendent phenomena of modern
Spiritualism, culminating as they do in the actual appearance
of materialised members, and of forms, having speech, in¬
telligence, activity, &c. I conclude that the construction
which men in all ages, both savage and civilized, have put
upon these objective manifestations, is the true and rational
construction, and that, in the complex, fairly studied and
weighed, they afford a scientific solution. of the question
whether the death of the phenomenal body is the end of the
real man.-
This will give you but a vague idea of the scope of the
book. I give a series of what I call representative facts,
selecting such as are fully substantiated, and not cumbering
the book with a great many—assuming that the facts pre¬
sented have been scientifically confirmed.
.THE TESTIMONIAL TO JUDGE EDMONDS.
Mant of our readers who have become acquainted
with modern Spiritualism, within a brief period of the
twenty-five years of its existence, may not know what
sacrifices have been made of time, money and worldly
prospects by those early converts to the great truth on
the American continent, among whom, by his. fearless
and energetic public advocacy, Judge Edmonds holds
a prominent place in the hearts and minds of Spiri¬
tualists of all countries. It is therefore a great satis¬
faction to announce that the testimonial to the venerable
judge, proposed by Mr. Benjamin Coleman (one of the
earliest to accept Spiritualism in this country), has
been presented to the judge, and we have been favoured
with a copy of the correspondence which has passed on
this gratifying occasion.
The testimonial, which is a masterly specimen of
penmanship done on vellum, handsomely illuminated,
and beautifully framed, was accompanied by eighteen
volumes bound in calf, each bearing the following
inscription printed in gold letters. “ Presented to the
honourable John Worth Edmonds, of New York, by the
Spiritualists of England, 1873.”
The following is a copy of the correspondence on the
subject:—
Deae Judge Edmonds,—For some time past I had set my
heart ou accomplishing two objects—to obtain the assent of
the Spiritualists of England to mark their appreciation of
the distinguished services which Mr. William Howitt in
Europe, and yourself in America, have rendered to the cause
of Spiritualism, by the influences you have each exercised
over the thoughtful minds of both countries'.
The first object I have recently accomplished, and I have
now the pleasure of completing my task by presenting to you
an address, signed by a committee who were among the first
converts on this side of the Atlantic, on behalf of the body at
large, expressive of our respect and admiration for your
character, and of your fearless advocacy of a great though
unpopular truth.
The address is accompanied by a number of books written
on Spiritualism by English men and women ; and by two
albums, one of which contains the portraits of one hundred
104
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Spiritualists ; the other contains an equal number of spirit-
photographs, more or less reliable, full particulars of which I
will give you in another letter.
As I feel that I can add nothing of any value to the terms
of the address, in which Mr. Thomas Shorter has so elo¬
quently expressed our sense of the signal services you have
rendered to the cause for more than twenty years past, I con¬
tent myself by requesting you to be good enough to receive
from my hands that address, with the accompanying testi¬
monials which English Spiritualists have authorised me to
present in their name to “Judge Edmonds, of New York.”
With pleasant recollections of our meeting, and of the
readiness with which you facilitated my enquiries at that
time, and with the assurance now that my part in this matter
has been “ a labour of love,”—I am, my dear Judge, very
sincerely yours, Benjamin Coleman.
1, Bernard Villas, Upper Norwood, 15th Dec. 1873.
Upper Norwood, December 17th, 1873.
Deab Judge Edmonds,—The works alluded to in my
letter of the 15th instant, consist of eighteen volumes, written
by fifteen difEerent authors, viz. :—
Mrs. De Morgan,
William Howitt.
W. M. Wilkinson.
Thomas Shorter.
William White.
Egbert Cooper.
D. D. Home.
Anonymous.
J. Enmore Jones.
Mrs. Crowe.
Mrs. Honeywood.
Tracts by Various Authors.
Dialectical Society’s Eeport.
“ Fritz.”
Benjamin Coleman.
From Matter to Spirit, and Spiritualism in America, are
taken from my own library, as I could not procure them from
any other source, and they consequently have my name in
them. The album No. 1 contains the portraits of many of
the best known English and Scotch Spiritualists, whose
names will be found in the index which accompanies the
album.
An index also you will find of No. 2 album, containing
spirit photographs, with their accompanying letters. About
these productions there has been much controversy, and their
genuineness has been freely condemned.
The artist, Mr. Hudson, was a poor man, and no believer.
The medium in the first instance was Mr. Herne, a powerful
physical medium, and, like too many of this class, thoroughly
unreliable. This gave rise to the well-founded suspicion that
Herne and Hudson manufactured many of the earlier spirit
photographs for the sake of the money it brought them. But
Hudson himself, and several other mediums, have since ob¬
tained in his studio spirit portraits, and among some hundreds
which have been taken there during the last year or two, there
are no doubt many that are genuine, and also some that are
indisputable likenesses and recognised by the sitters.
Miss Houghton, whose portrait appears in many of those
I send you, is an impressional medium, a very worthy person,
but too enthusiastic to carry weight with practical minds.
She is an earnest Spiritualist, and a great admirer of yours,
and as she makes her mediumship available for these spirit
portraits, I have got her to select those which are in the
album, and she has endorsed them with her impressional
remarks.
Those which have been sent to me from Bristol are part of
a series which have a distinct character, and being conducted
under the eye of my friend, Mr. James Beattie, of Clifton,
are entirely reliable. They are described in the index book,
and Mr. Beattie says they have come providentially to support
the reality of the spiritual hypothesis, as, if a thousand men
had tried to make shams, not one would ever have thought of
such forms as these present. I do not know if these shadows
are expected to come out in perfect forms, but as the Bristol
party are continuing their experiments, we shall see by and
bye.
Those spirit drawings done in darkness either direct, or
through the hand of David Duguid, of Glasgow, will no doubt
interest you, and they too may be thoroughly relied upon as
genuine spirit productions.
A full explanation of them will be found in the index-book.
The last remaining photograph to which I desire, to draw
your attention is the one in the first page, or frontispiece of
the album—the most wonderful fact, where all is so strange,
that has yet occurred of this nature. It is of Dr. Gully,
holding the hand of the spirit Katie, taken in full view of the
assembled party by the magnesium light.
I have written, in the current number of the Spiritual
Magazine, to which I refer you, an account of a seance I have
recently had with Miss Cook, the medium who obtains these
Feb. 27, 1874.
materialised forms, which will, perhaps, give you an idea of
the way in which the figure is presented; nothing of a
shadowy nature, but to all appearance, and in substance, too,
as real as any human being. I don’t know if you have ever
seen anything of this nature which you have not ventured to
make public, and I shall be glad to know your views of my
hypothesis, which, however, is denied by the spirit, who
insists that she is a separate individuality, and I am not dis¬
posed to dogmatise on such a subject.
The case containing the address, books, and album, was
sent yesterday to Liverpool, and, I hope, will be forwarded
to’you by first steamer. You will be good enough to apprise
me of its safe arrival.
Trusting the testimonial will be as acceptable to you as it is
pleasing to me to have had the honour of presenting it,—I am-,
my dear Judge Edmonds, very truly yours,
Benjamin Coleman.
The following is the reply of Judge Edmonds, received
by Mr. Coleman last Monday:—
Gentlemen,—Your address to me of last November, with
its accompanying books and albums, has just been received,
and for them I beg to offer to you and those whom you repre¬
sent, my sincere thanks.
To find my efforts in the cause of truth so appreciated by an
intelligent but far distant people, is a source of unfeigned
gratification to me, but it is a cause of far greater joy to receive
such evidence of the wide-spread nature of that truth.
Most fully do I accord with you in the impression that our
“ cause knows no limit of party, country, or creed,” and is
“as universal as humanity.” It has made its appearance in
all parts of the earth, and among all peoples, wearing every¬
where the same grand features, however much it may vary in
details. The rapidity of its spread is unparalleled in history.
Its grand principle—love to God and man—commends it to
every heart; and that principle is enforced by a revelation
easily comprehended by every mind—a revelation of what is
the future life, made so certainly and so distinctly that every
one may know for himself how to use the present life as a due
preparation for the next.
Much as we may recognise the wisdom with which the un¬
seen intelligences have guided this movement from the be¬
ginning, still we must be aware that there is much for us to do
to remove obstacles that stand in the way of its progress.
Chief amongst those obstacles is the unusual character of
the instrumentalities employed. The world at large testing
those means by their preconceived opinions have been prone
to regard them as miraculous, and thus either to receive them
with blind faith, to regard them as diabolical, or to reject
them as impracticable. We who have investigated the matter
know that in all this there is no suspension of universal law,
but that, on the other hand, all iJ in conformity with such
law, and that that law can be investigated and be compre¬
hended by us.
The duty to the cause growing out of this knowledge, has
been best performed in your country.
Fifteen or twenty years ago these things were publicly pro¬
claimed in this country, and the men of science were urged to
make the investigation, but in vain. With few exceptions,
the educated scientific men of America turned a deaf ear to
our entreaties. It has been otherwise with you. Your men
of science have had the good sense to investigate and the man¬
liness to proclaim the result, and believers in our sublime
philosophy throughout the earth must be full of gratitude for
the act. I, for one, say “ God bless you for it!” for you have
made solid the foundation of that which we have attempted
to establish, namely, that this whole thing of spirit com¬
munion and its consequences, is addressed to the reason as well
as to the heart, and ought not to be received unless the judg¬
ment and conscience alike welcome it.
We may therefore now look forward with confidence for an
increasing rapidity in the spread of the doctrines of our divine
faith. To your country shall we be mainly indebted for that
result, and you and we, on both sides of the great ocean, can
unite in a common prayer of thankfulness to the Giver of
every good and perfect gift, that He has sent into our midst
that which is equal to the emergency in which the progress of
the race has found us.
Congratulating you alike on the facts of the past, and the
prospects of the future,—I remain yours in the bonds of
brotherly love, J. W. Edmonds.
New York, February 8th, 1874.
To (Here follow the names of the committee).
THE SPIRITUALIST.
105
Feb. 27, 1874.
The following paragraphs are taken from Judge
Edmonds’ private letter to Mr. Coleman, received last
Monday:—
The address is now hanging conspicuously in my library,
facing the portrait of my wife 
The articles are beautiful specimens of work, and are very
much admired, I never saw a finer specimen of illumina¬
tion. . .
The spirit photographs are decidedly superior to anything
we have ever produced in this country, and the whole thing
is most valuable as specimens of art, aside from the personal
gratification to myself.
The books are very valuable 5 some of them I have never
seen till now, but have wished for them not a little.
The account of your visit to this country is new to me, and
on reading it I was attracted by what you say of Mr. L.
(Mr. Livermore). At that time he was'unwilling to have his
name given to the public. He was then, as now, moving in
fashionable society, and feared the obloquy that seemed in¬
evitably to follow every open avowal of belief in spirit com¬
munion.* He continued so until the trial of Mumler, the
photographer, on the accusation of fraud in his spirit pictures.
He then came forward of his own accord, and gave testimony
which was of great value .... I send you herewith one of the
best of the spirit pictures obtained by him of his wife,
“ .Estelle ” as she was named in your account.
I also send you a likeness, as you request, of myself. It has
a sombre, melancholy look, which I would fain hope is not
common with me. ... I am desirous of making to your com¬
mittee something more than the formal acknowledgment
which accompanies this, and I intend therefore to send to each
one a bound volume of my “ Tracts,” with a new likeness in
each. I am going to send them to your address, and will
advise you in due time.
I want also to send to you a pamphlet of some ninety pages,
which I published shortly after the close of our civil war. It
is not so much on account of its subject, viz., “ Reconstruction
of the Union,” as on account of the manner in which it was
written, and this is the way it came about.
I was in the act of having a communication through a
medium, when our late President Lincoln came, and said he
wanted to address the people of the United States upon the
subject of reconstruction, and that he desired my aid.
I replied, that I was at his service, and proposed to arrange at
once with the medium for our seances. He said, however,
that would not be necessary.
A short time after, as I was sitting alone one afternoon in
my library, his spirit came to me and told me what he wanted
to say. He occupied me about two hours then, some three or
four hours later in the evening, and an hour or two next
morning. I took notes as he went on, as I used to do of law
arguments when I was holding court, and covered some
twelve or fourteen pages of foolscap paper, and then he said
he would come again, and we would write it out. This took
place in the month of November, and the notes lay by me
until February, when Lincoln came again, and said Congress
would soon adjourn, and he wanted the matter written out and
published before that happened. So I sat down at once to the
work. We occupied three or four hours each evening for ten
successive days, and the intermediate Sunday, and finished
the work ; but I declined to publish, because a good many
things were said, and places and names mentioned of which I
was entirely ignorant, and which I had never heard of before,
and I must first find out how far truthful all that was.
I accordingly searched the matter out, in my own library, in
the Astor Library in this city, and the State. Library at
Albany, and thus I found that many of the matters (pre¬
viously, as I have said, unknown to me) were true, and I then
sent to Washington and obtained some Congressional docu¬
ments, which showed me the truth of the rest, and then
I published the pamphlet. But I did not deem it advisable to
publish the statement of how the pamphlet originated in the
pamphlet itself, though I did not hesitate to publish it in one
of our spiritual papers. It will show you to what extent the
spirit communion has been carried with us, in its mental, as
distinguished from its physical form.
This is showing itself in various phases among us in the
churches, in our social relations, and in our government. Its
ultimate effect can readily be defined, though I can hardly
expect to live to witness it.
* Mr. ColemaD, in his narrative of these extraordinary facts, said Mr. L.
was also restrained by his commercial position as one of the bankers to the
government engaged in negotiating their loans.
But be assured it mill come, thanks be to God, and we may
be thankful that it has fallen to our lot to aid its advent and
its certain progress.—As ever, truly yours,
J. W. Edmonds.
13oetu).
“NOT DEAD, BUT CHANGED.”
BY JOHN S. ADAMS.
I SAT and mused on all the years gone by;
Of friends departed—and of others going;
And dwelt upon their memories with a sigh,
Till floods of tears, their hidden springs o’erflowing
Betrayed my grief. Soon a bright light above me,
Voices saying, “ We’re near thee yet to love thee,”
Dispelled my tears. I raised my drooping head,
And asked, “ Who ? who ? The dead ? ”
When the angelic host around me ranged,
Whispered within my ear, “Not dead, but changed,"
The Shekindh, Vol.IL, 1853.
DEATH.
An inspirational poem given through the mediumship of Miss Catherine
E. Parker.
Death is not the end of knowledge,
But the open door
To that sphere where wisdom showeth;
Where the tree of Knowledge groweth,
And upon the wind bestoweth
Love and Truth.
Death is not the end of life;
' It is but the birth
Of a life that knows no ending';
But for God and truth contending,
Learns, through higher spheres ascending,
Life’s true worth.
Death is not the end of joy,
But it shows the way
To a bliss that knows no telling,
To a joy all fear dispelling;
Guiding us from this dark dwelling
Up to day.
Death is not the end of love—
True love cannot die;
Earthly loves, are buf reflections,
Yet they weave us sweet connections,
With the new and pure affections
Of the sky.
The Shekinih, Vol. II., 1853.
(KmespcmUence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritual Magazine."
23rd December, 1873.
Sir,—Mr. Howitt has made his letter to Mr. Everitt public
property in sending it to you for publication. Everything
written by so old and tried a worker in the cause of Spiritual¬
ism must needs have great weight with all candid Spiritual¬
ists. His anathema is, therefore, eminently calculated to do
the Association serious injury, if left unanswered.
I therefore crave space in your pages for a few words on
the other side, unless some abler pen than mine have fore¬
stalled me.
Mr. Howitt argues that because Spiritualism has, without
the aid of associations, or combinations, or human struggles,
progressed in a manner which has excited his ” increasing
wonder ”—because “ this spiritual force has (he considers) not
failed in any way ”—because its expansion and diffusion have
been unparalleled—therefore associations and combinations
are unnecessary, and incapable of “ adding to its operations
the elements of a more decided success ”—that, because its
progress has been the work of the ”, Great Invisible Spirit”—
because it has triumphed thus far, ” not by favour, by human
care or plans, by human aid or wisdom, but in direct opposi¬
tion to all the forces and intellectual subtleties of humanity,”
and in spite of ” sneers and malice,” therefore “ it is clear
that it is a divine element which no hand but that of its Creator
can wield,” and it were impious for man to meddle with it—
at least, ” as conductors,” or in the way of association to pro¬
mote the study or the spread of it. Surely, sir, such argu¬
ments need not be answered, but only to be stripped of those
stately folds of rich and florid rhetoric in which Mr. Howitt
knows so well how to clothe his ideas, and to be stated in
their naked simplicity ? Or, if they need any answer, this
106
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 27, 1874,
should suffice, viz., “ All history proves ” that it ever pleases
God to work out His ends by human means. The very suc¬
cesses of Spiritualism, which Mr. Howitt so much exults in, are
no exception to this rule: “ human cares and plans, human
aid and wisdom,’ the forces and intellectual subtleties of
humanity,” have been elements which have contributed to
those successes, by God’s will and grace, though they may
have been arrayed at the same time on the other side as well.
And though the triumphs of Spiritualism hitherto may have
been unparalleled, we may yet hope that, if we do not neglect
it, its triumphs hereafter may surpass the former. The plan
and objects of the association differ rather in scope than in
kind from those which have hitherto been pursued by the
earnest disciples of Spiritualism, and their principles remain
the same.
Mr. Howitt asks whether the Association aspires to “ pro¬
tect,” &c., “ this evidently divine afflatus ? ” Not exactly ;
(there is a slight touch of sarcasm in the use of the word
“protect” here, and of the other expressions in. this para¬
graph). It humbly hopes to aid in cherishing, fostering, and
diffusing this divine gift, and, if necessary, to “protect”
Spiritualists.
He asks, “Gan you add fresh"wings to the wind? fresh
mpulse to the tides of ocean ? fresh speed and brilliancy to
the light ? ” No ; but we can utilize the wind, the tides, and
the light. We can divert, concentrate, or diffuse these
“ sublime elements ” to advantage, nor is it, in the present
day, generally considered sacrilegious to do so. Mr. H. “ can
only follow with admiration and thankfulness to God the
career of glorious energy and victory of development of
Spiritualism.” If he had always been content merely to
stand thus idly gazing up into heaven, I much doubt whether
Spiritualism would have spread so much as it already has done
in this country. Steam is a wonderful thing, and no less a
gift of God than Spiritualism is ; but if James Watt had
contented himself with staring" at the kettle, and wondering,
we should not have been much the better for it. Even now
in taking the trouble to write this letter, Mr. Howitt belies
his own theory.
He says that combination is unnecessary to Spiritualism, be¬
cause this latter has shown *no sign of decadence or defect,
and because history proves that combination leads to disinte¬
gration, and he instances Judaism, Christianity, and Protes¬
tantism. Is it not, perhaps,rather true that the disintegration
began first, through human frailty, and that the combinations
were attempts, partly unsuccessful (owing also to the human
element of error), to stay the process of decay ? And may
we not hope that the Association will profit to some extent by
the lesson of these partial failures of the past ? As to there
being yet no sign of decadence or defect, is it.not true that
Spiritualists in this country are already to some extent split
up into factions, more or less at open war with one another,
one of them, perhaps the largest, eminently autocratic in its
constitution, the self-constituted leader of which does much
injury to the cause of free Spiritualism, by the unscrupulous
and tyrannical use he makes of the almost complete monopoly
which he usurps of spiritual patronage, and of the diffu¬
sion of that modicum of spiritual truth and knowledge
which he allows to circulate; and daily shows signs of
becoming more intolerant, more bitterly hostile to those
Spiritualists who are not of his way of thinking, and who
decline to bow down before the molten image which he has
set up ? The Association humbly hopes to do something
towards healing these sores, by affording a common ground of
union on the broadest spiritual basis—a common centre of :
action where all may meet, free from extraneous influences;
and learn to know one another better, and therefore to love I
one another better, and to co-operate for the general good.
Bickerings there may be no doubt, and heartburnings, perhaps
not a few quarrels, for we are human ; but these evils will exist,
not because association is wrong, but because men are fallible,
and it may, I think, be doubted whether they will not be
moderated rather than aggravated by our attempts at union.
Else it were better we should each of us hide his light under
a bushel altogether, and confine himself for ever in his sepa¬
rate hermit cell.
Mr. Howitt pleads that our Association will hereafter fall
nto the hands of selfish men, who will use it as a means of
ruling. No doubt this is a great danger, and one which,
guard against it as we may, we shall probably not be wholly
able to avoid ; we can only try to do so as much as possible
and, as I have already said, there seems no good reason for
supposing that the Association is likely to induce any worse j
usurpations, tyranny or monopolies than exist already, but
rather the reverse. Has this danger not yet arisen ? Has no
selfish man yet. used Spiritualism as a means of gratifying his
vanity and ambition ? From such the Association would fain
rescue it, so far as may be possible.
Mr. Howitt asks whether the Association proposes to estab¬
lish itself by the “ authority of an election by every individual
independent Spiritualist in the kingdom ?’’ Surely ! Why
not? AM may join. AM may vote at the general meeting.
There are no tests—no qualification, except an annual sub¬
scription of five shillings, which if we succeed as we hope to
do, may possibly be reduced hereafter, or done away with.
Mr, Howitt “ solemnly protests against any "such design”
as the formation of an Association, because “ those who do
not approve of such a public machinery will dissent and
oppose.” No doubt, if there were many Spiritualist as dog¬
matic and obstructive as your correspondent, we should have
stormy times of it, and probably fulfil his prophecy of utter
failure; but we hope for better things. And he has already
urged that Spiritualism thrives under opposition—that it has
“ lived on poisons.” By his own showing then, “our Pan¬
dora’s box” ought to do Spiritualism good service.
He thanks God that he has “ lived in the glorious time of
the persecution and contempt of this Church of the latter
ages.” He does well. God forbid I should deny that sweet
are the uses of adversity; but that fact does not justify
voluntary penance, or submitting to persecutions which may
legitimately be avoided. The genuine martyr, such as he has
been, may well glory in his tribulations, and he is indeed to
be envied and reverenced. But he would be a fanatic, and
no genuine martyr, who should insist on being burnt at the
stake, or on his friends being burnt, when it might be avoided
by a little combination, provided it did not entail a sacrifice
of principle. Mr. Howitt maintains that it does entail such a
sacrifice, but the burden of proof rests with him, and I
humbly submit that he has not borne it out successfully.
Moreover, all of us are not made of the iron fibre, or gifted
with the same amount of noble powers of self-denial which
distinguish him. What of the many thousand fearful ones
who, yearning in secret isolation for sympathy and spiritual
food, dare not go out to seek it in face of the opposition and
ready ridicule which surround them, and so pine and eat their
hearts in silence, till kind death releases them, or perhaps
suffer moral deterioration from this starvation ? In the former
case—nay, doubtless, even in the latter—such discipline may
be for their ultimate benefit, but is it for us to inflict it ? Are
me to constitute ourselves the scourges of the Almighty ? For,
by holding aloof we do inflict these sufferings on our weaker
brethren. Would not this Association be to such a strong
wall of defence, a grateful source of encouragement, an ark of
refuge, a firm ground whereon to cast the anchor of their
hope, a well of consolation?
Mr. Howitt allows local associations. Before we can avail
ourselves of this permission we should know what number of
Spiritualists may constitute, or how many square miles may
be covered by a local association ? For he advances no argu¬
ment, nor can I conceive any, applicable against a central
association which would not be equally applicable against
a local association in a greater or less degree, nor any
work that could be done by the latter, whether in the way of
the “ conduct of schools, or of lectures,” or What not, in which
a central association might not be of the greatest assistance to
the local ones. Such at least is one great object of the central
Association, another is to promote the formation of such local
associations.
Mr. Howitt asserts that “ at present Spiritualism all the world
over stands free and independent.” Query. “ No man nor
set of men can claim any right to say “ Do this,’ or ‘Do it
not.’ I know not about the right, but certain I am that some
men do say, “Do this,” or “ Do it not,” and say it pretty
strongly and peremptorily, too.
Summarily and finally. “ If it be true that Spiritualism has
maintained and disseminated itself infinitely beyond what all
human powers could have done,” is (so far as I understand
the sentence) not a fair way of putting the matter, because
the Association does not profess to supplant the Almighty, but
only to try to carry out His purposes as His humble but wil¬
ling and thankful instrument. The point which Mr. Howitt
had to prove was rather that Spiritualism has maintained
itself infinitely more than it weuld have done if there had
been any combination of human powers to assist it. I deny
that he has proved his premiss, as he was bound to do, but
granting the premiss (as put by me), I deny the conclusion that
the Association is therefore now “ unnecessary and uncalled
for.” It may have been unnecessary hitherto, but the time
THE SPIRITUALIST.
107
Feb. 27, 1874.
may have come when it has become necessary. “IE it be
true,” which, I submit, he has also failed .to prove, “ that
the dissensions of all great Spiritual bodies have sprung out
of the attempts to incorporate them,” it would not necessarily
follow that the Association would be wholly “ mischievous,”
but only that it would be subject to certain evils inseparable
from everything human, but which we maintain would be
over-balanced by the good, and would probably be less than
the evils already existing. “If it be true that Spiritualism
has always been free and universal as the air we breathe, then
to enclose it, in partial boundaries and with partial cognomen,
is to strip it of its glory.” No doubt; but the Association
does not enclose Spiritualism, or give it a partial cognomen.
The Association itself is limited to the United Kingdom, for
the present, because that affords it as wide an area as it can con¬
veniently compass in the present state of things. Mr. Howitt
condemns it as being too broad and comprehensive, and again,
almost in the same breath, as being too narrow and exclusive.
I am sure, however, that he has written his letter in the most
perfect good faith, and with the best intentions, which I
believe to be the case with all his actions, and that his con¬
cluding prayer for our enlightenment is sincere. I therefore
heartily thank him for the one, and earnestly reciprocate the
other.
I am not authorized in any way, formally or informally, to
speak for the association, or for any one but myself, but I
know that I am not alone in the sentiments I have ex¬
pressed.   A. J.
Sxa,—When the meeting of Spiritualists held at Liverpool,
for the purpose of organising a National Association, was con¬
vened, I was unanimously invited by the committee to preside,
which honour I was obliged to decline, feeling that I was no
longer equal to the task of fulfilling to my own satisfaction the
duties of such an office, and I also felt indisposed to take an
active part in a movement for which I did not see a necessity,
and without conferring with any of those with whom I have
been for years associated in disseminating the truth of Spiri¬
tualism, I determined to look on and not even to enrol myself
a humble member of the Association, and Mr. Howitt’s letter
of December last confirmed me in my previously expressed in¬
tention, my feeling being against all organised bodies. I am
now, however, bound to say that the reasoning of A. J., in his
reply to Mr. Howitt, has caused me to change my determina¬
tion and at once to join the Association as a member ; and as
my good friend Mr. Howitt does not object to local union, 1
hope he will waive his opposition to one having a wider scope,
and that he will follow my example, and for the reasons which
influence me, namely, that by a strong united action such an
Association may at all events rid Spiritualism of the charla¬
tanism by which it is presented hy some, whose audacious
pretensions and vulgar personalities have a direct tendency to
lower and degrade the movement in this country.
Upper Norwood, Feb. 22nd. Benj. Coleman.
Sir,—We who think organisation necessary for the ad¬
vancement of Spiritualism, cannot help feeling regret that
Mr. William Howitt should have brought to bear against our
cause his great literary abilities and the influence of his
world-wide reputation. I am not convinced, however, that
he has decided rightly, and cannot acquiesce in his judgment.
With a glowing imagination he makes a display of a bril¬
liant corruscation of poetic rhetoric in a description of the
progress of Spiritualism, and also quotes the words of a
psalm, which, even if intelligible, are by no means applicable
to the subject. For what in reality has been the progress of
Spiritualism in this country that it should be regarded with
astonishment ? In a few of our large towns there are spiri¬
tual associations, consisting of a limited number of members;
but even in our vast metropolis there are so few people really
attached to it, that they rarely fill the room in which Mrs.
Tappan affords to the public such a beautiful demonstration
of the truth of spiritual existence. In country parishes you
will hardly.find a single Spiritualist; and if any one dared to
express his conviction of the truth of our fundamental belief,
be would be much disliked as a black sheep of the flock, and
regarded with pity for his folly ; but if he were also to try to
circulate spiritual literature, his neighbours, both Churchmen
and dissenters, whose minds are influenced by their pastors,
would decline the tract or pamphlet offered them as 'if it came
from Satan.
There is, in fact, every reason, therefore, for the National
Organisation of Spiritualists, in order to give legal protection
and fraternal assistance of all kinds to each other when suf¬
fering on account of the confession of their faith. All re¬
ligious, as well as political associations, can only exist and
succeed in attaining their ends by means of a good organisa¬
tion. I quote as examples the Anti-Corn-Law League and
the Birmingham Education League and Spiritualists cannot
expect to obtain full toleration without it. I do not see how
it can occasion divisions. Man, as Cicero formerly said, is a
religious animal—religion tends to sectarianism; but organisa¬
tion cannot make this natural tendency better or worse.
As for the superstitious part of Mr. Howitt’s letter, it is
simply lamentable, and afflicting to read. He compares
Spiritualism to the Jewish theocracy, and describes it as the
work of the Great Invisible Spirit, the ever present God, the
Immortal King; and speaks of it as the renewed covenant of
God with man. But who besides himself would- ever have
dreamt of making such a comparison? The Jewish dispensa¬
tion had an unmistakably divine origin. God is said to have
shown Himself to the Jews with supernatural awe and
majesty, so that the people trembled. But every one knows
that Spiritualism commenced by the puerile manifestation of
table rapping, the work of some spirits of low development;
that it then exhibited wonderful spiritual conjuring tricks,
such as the Davenports paraded through England and
America, and that it has since improved itself into full and
perfect communication between the worlds of the spirit and
the flesh. Still, even now, there is nothing that can reason¬
ably be considered divine about it. It is but an additional
branch of human science. The spirits have over and over
again, through respectable mediums, denied that there is a
personal God ; and .said that if there is a Christ existing in
the spirit wprld, he can be nothing more than a man.
They teach, indeed, as intuition almost suggests to us,
without any effort of reason, that the best thing we can do
here below is to act with justice and humanity to each other,
and promote each other’s happiness as much as we can.
I maintain, then, that Mr. Howitt ought not to mislead us
again into bowing our necks to the yoke of superstition ; and
I trust that his letter will have little influence. The best thing
he can do is to remain at Borne, and to seek for admission
into the Bomish Church. A Friend.
Bath, Feb. 20th,
Eiterarg K-ottce.
Psycldsche Studien (Studies in Psychology). A Monthly
Journal devoted to the inquiry into the Phenomena of Man’s
Spiritual Existence. Edited by Alexander Aksakof, Bussian
Imperial Councillor at St. Petersburg. Oswald Mutze,
Leipsic. 1874.
This is a new periodical, which, as yet, has only reached
its second number, and is ably edited. In the preface to a
translation of the first part of Mr. Crookes’s late article in
the Quarterly Journal of Science, the editor, after comment¬
ing on the boldness with which Mr. Crookes has given the
results of his inquiry to the world, advises his German readers
to supplement their study of this paper by the perusal of Mr.
Crookes’s former pamphlets, and, above all, impresses upon
them, before adopting any of his conclusions, the necessity of
pursuing a course of personal experiments in their own homes.
He speaks of the wonderful multiplication of spiritual phe¬
nomena in England and America, as far exceeding those at
present developed in Germany.
The journal also contains an extract from the report of. the
Dialectical Society," and the greater part of Dr. Sexton’s
lecture—“ How I became a Spiritualist.” It concludes with
“ Directions for forming Spirit-Circles,” and other extracts
from the Spiritualist newspaper.
Thus our German brethren are kept well-informed about
Spiritualistic events in England.
A Remarkable Book.—Mr. BailHere, publisher, of
King William-street, Strand, has a work on mesmerism to
sell, written by. the late Dr. Esdaile. It is full of unpub¬
lished coloured native drawings of cases which had been
cured by him in the hospital at Calcutta, by the aid of
mesmerism. The work is unique, and . of a very interesting
character to the medical profession, but to those not interested
in medicine and surgery, the pictures are very repulsive. We
believe that he is offering this work for sale for ten guineas,
and that it contains an autograph letter, written by Dr.
Esdaile, one of the chief mesmerists of the past generation.
108
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 27, 1874.
THE MEDIUMSHIP OF MISS SHOWERS.
Some very interesting particulars were published in
a recent number of this journal about the medium-
ship of Miss Showers, the daughter of a lady residing
in Teignmouth, who is now on a visit to London to
learn more about Spiritualism, of which she has seen
so much in her own home. After passing through
various phases of development, Miss Showers is now
getting curious manifestations.
Last Tuesday week at a seance at Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory’s, 27, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, Mr.
T. Herbert Noyes, B.A., and Dr. W. L. Richardson
tested the mediumship of Miss Showers, by tying her
themselves with tape to the leg of a heavy piano in the
darkened room used as a cabinet, and sealing the two
knots with the seal of the Baron du Potet. The aper¬
ture in the cabinet was a long way from the leg of the
piano, and the face of “ Florence ” appeared and
talked, and after the seance the seals on the knots were
found as they had been left. Mrs. Gregory and Dr.
Richardson wrote to us and gave information of the
success of this seance.
Last Tuesday night there was another seance at Mrs.
Makdougall Gregory’s, and the guests present were
Mr. Oowper Temple, M.P.; Mrs. Cowper Temple; the
Baron du Potet, Lady , Mr. H. M. Dunphy, bar¬
rister-at-law ; Dr. W. L, Richardson; the Rev. Mr.
Hawes; Mrs. Hawes; Mrs. Showers and Miss Showers;
Mr. Percival, the gentleman through whose mediumship
the W Spirit Teachings ” published in this journal are
given; and Mr. W. H. Harrison. Mr. Cowper Temple
and Mr. Dunphy tied the medium and sealed the more im¬
portant of several knots they made; Baron du Potet’s
seal was used, and the impression was unbroken at
the close of the seance. When the face of “ Florence ”
came, he, with her permission, tried for some time to
mesmerise her, without success. Miss Showers, like
most powerful mediums, is easily mesmerised; on the
previous evening she had been mesmerised at once by
the Baron du Potet, and a few weeks previously had
been mesmerised with the greatest ease by Mr. Tapp.
Miss Showers obtains manifestations in any ex¬
temporised cabinet. A few weeks ago we saw her
placed in one, suggested by ourselves just before the
seance began ; it consisted of the recess formed by the
bow windows of a private house; curtains were drawn
from the wall to wall, to shut off the recess formed by
the bow windows, which were at a considerable eleva¬
tion, because the ground floor of the house was below
the room in which the seance was held. The Venetian
blinds were down.
Some little light came into this recess from the gas
lamps in the street, and there was still more light
inside, when, according to custom, a lighted candle
with sealing wax, and tape, were placed on a chair
alongside the medium. The tape having been used on
a former occasion, chanced to contain a great many
knots, and Miss Showers asserted that she saw the
knots apparently untying themselves, for nothing
visible was touching them. They then began, she says,
to go round her hands and wrists, tying them tightly
together. A second piece of tape then went round her
waist; the ends were afterwards knotted throughout
their entire length, and finally tied very tightly to a
china knob in the wood work of the window. Then
she asserts that she saw the sealing wax go by itself to
the candle and begin to seal the knots. When they
had all been sealed, a legal gentleman present was asked
to impress upon the wax a seal which he chanced
to have brought with him in his pocket. On entering
the cabinet we found Miss Showers very securely
bound, and the final knot on the piece of tape binding
her hands, was at the back of one of her wrists, where
it had also been well covered with sealing wax. The
gentleman then applied more wax than that already
over the knot, and had to do it very carefully to avoid
burning the medium,''after which he im pressed his seal.
The wax and candle were then brought out of the
cabinet, and the medium was left alone in such light
from the street lamps as found its way through the
Venetian blinds into the recess. She talked with us for
a little while, then passed into a trance, and in a
powerful male voice began to sing some sacred music,
the responses being given by a female voice, the
general effect being very impressive.
Soon afterwards a face with a dream-like expression
appeared at the aperture; it was to a large extent, if
not entirely, the duplicate of the face of the medium,
and surrounded with white drapery. Mrs. Showers
often speculates whether it is not the face of her
daughter freed from her bonds by spirits, and
brought there in a trance, Mrs. Showers says the face
varies in its amount of resemblance to Miss Showers at
different times. The eyes are always wide open, and
staring. At this seance they were wide open for
fully ten minutes without the eyelids blinking once,
except when done at our request; perhaps physiologists
can inform us whether any person in the normal state
can keep his eyelids from closing over the balls of the
eyes for that extended period.
The intelligence speaking through this face calls
herself Florence, and she talked to us for a long time.
The seance was a good one, and at its close Peter asked
us to come and see the medium before he woke her up.
She was in a graceful attitude in the recess, and ap¬
peared as if in prayer, with her head leaning in one
corner. We were told not to touch her, or it would
injure her. When we came out of the cabinet the
spirits woke her up, after which we released her from
her bonds by cutting the tapes. The seals were all right.
Soon after Florence left the aperture for the last
time, she remarked, “ I am partially unmaterialised,
we are reducing the trance of the medium which is
now very deep, but before she is quite awake we are
going to let you see her in the trance.” Miss Showers
states that the trance is a very deep one, since she has
not the faintest recollection whatever of anything that
takes place after she has gone to sleep. The white
drapery about the head of “Florence” is only an
ordinary veil.
The Marylebone Association of Spiritualists is about to
give an amateur concert; the particulars are given in an
advertisement on another page. The last concert was a suc¬
cess, and Spiritualists would do well to attend the next one,
to encourage the members in their good work.
The National Association. — A council meeting of
this Association was held last Monday; present, Mr. Alexander
Calder in the chair, and eighteen members. The revision of
the draft prospectus was concluded, the last act being to
change its title to “ Declaration of Principles and Purposes
corrected proofs are to be submitted for final approval on
Monday next. A committee was appointed to make arrange¬
ments for a social, and also for a public meeting, in the course
of next month. Other business of minor importance was
transacted. At the previous meeting, Miss E. Kislingbury
was unanimously elected honorary secretary, in lieu of Mr. 0.
W. Pearce, who had resigned.—A. Joy, Hon, Sec.
Feb. 27, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
AN
EVENING- CONCERT
In Aid of the Above will be Held at
QUEBEC INSTITUTE, SEYMOUR STREET, PORTMAN
SQUARE,
On WEDNESDA F, March ith, 1874.
To commence at Eight o’clock.
Artistes—Miss Malvina Olaxton, Miss Emily'Maltby, Miss Annes, Miss
Lizzie Clark, and Mrs. Robert Castleden. Mr. Arthur Griffiths, Mr. Arthur
Glazier, Mr. Caleb Bull, Mr. James Hooker, and Mr. W. J. Griffiths.
Instrumentalists—Pianoforte—The Misses Maltby, Miss Malvina Claxton,
and Mr. F. Tindall. Concertina—Mr. Robert Castleden will perform upon
Messrs. Wheatstone & Co.’s Concert Concertina.
Accompanyists—Miss Malvina Claxton and Miss Emily Maltby.
Conductors—Mr. Robert Castleden and Mr. Maltby.
Tickets—Stalls, 2s.; Body of the Hall, Is.; Admission, 6d.
Tickets may be had of Mrs. Maltby, 8, Hanover Place, Regent’s Park;
Mr. Cowper, New Church-street, Edgware-road; Mr. Maynard, 103, Lisson
Grove; Mr. Hocker, 33, Henry-street, St. John’s Wood; Mr. Whitley, 2,
Wellington-terrace, Bayswater; of the Secretary, Mr. White, 4, Grey-street,
Manchester-square; and at the Spiritual Institution, 15, Southampton-row.
PART I.
Duet—Pianoforte, Overture—“ Semiramide ” The Misses Maltby.
Glee, “The Chough and Crow.”
Song, “ Stay, fleeting time ” .Miss Emily Maltby
Ballad, “ One happy year ago ”   Mr. Arthur Griffiths
Song, “ Oh, fairest Italy!”... Mrs. Robert Castleden
Solo—Concertina—“ Fantasia on Scotch Airs ” Mr. Robert Castleden
Song, “ Where the bee sucks ”     Miss. Malvina Claxton
Ballad, “ Farewell! Farewell! my mountain life ” Mr. W. J. Griffiths
Song, “ The lover and the bird ” Miss Lizzie Clark
Ballad, “ The king and the beggar maid” Mr. J. Hocker
Song, “ Esmeralda”,.,.,      Miss Annes
Solo—Pianoforte—“Clara Waltz”   Mr. F. Tindall
Interval of Ten Minutes.
PART II.
Solo—Pianoforte—“ Home, sweet home ” Miss Malvina Claxton
Part Song, “ Sweet and low ”
Song, “ Stirrup Cup ”   Mr. Arthur Glazier
Song, “ The Forsaken ” Mrs. Robert Castleden
Song, “ Oh, Chide not my heart.” Mr. Caleb Bull
Solo—Concertina—“ Willie, we have missed you ” Mr. Robert Oastleden
Song, “ Sweet Dreamer ”   Miss Lizzie Clark
New Spiritual Song, “ I await thee ”   .....Mr. W. J. Griffiths
Song, “ The Ballad Singer ’’ Miss Malvina Claxton
Song, “ The Bridge ” Mr. Caleb Bull
Glee, “ Sleep while the soft evening breezes blowing.”
'UGKH McLEOB, M.D., Psychometric, Impressional, and
healing by the laying on of hands; in which departments of Medium-
ship Dr. McLeod is prepared to give the highest references. Terms, 5s.
each person. Visits by arrangement. Hours 10 till 4. 22, Robert-street,
Hampstead-road, N.W.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOTANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Revealing Startling Facts
to the public, can be consulted on either Medical or Business Affairs con¬
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 12 to. 5. Terms, One Guinea.
Address, care of Mr. Middleton’s Z City Temperance Hotel,” foot of Lord
Cockburn-street, Edinburgh.
TNSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press.
_ |Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“The prayer over he commenced an eloquent and philosophical address
on modern Spiritualism.”—North-Western Daily Times.
“ The medium then passed into what is termed the trance state, and in
clear and forcible language, with a readiness of expression and fluency of
utterance delivered a discourse on Spiritualism.”—Liverpool Daily A Ibion.
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lecturer, or what¬
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram¬
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature and its Needs’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!”—South Wales Press.
“ Those who are intellectually inclined, and desire to know what Spirit
ualism is as taught by the spirits, will learn more in an hour’s conversation
with Mr. Morse's guides than in months of misdirected seeking.”—Medium
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.”—Spiritualist.
“ Mr. Morse is what is called a speaking-medium, of no mean order, for
he kept crowded audiences intently listening each evening for above an hour
and a half to his certainly most powerful and accomplished addresses.”—
Darlington and Richmond Herald.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald..
MR. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces', to attend seances, or address public meetings.
Mr. Morse holds a seance every Friday evening, at 8 o’clock, at 15, Southamp¬
ton-row, "W.C, when he is in London, where letters, &c., may be addressed,
or to his private residence, Warwick Cottage, Old Ford, Bow, E.
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER, LETTER¬
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facino the church).
Newspapersand Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Spiritualist N e wspaper.
For sale, price £5y breeches’ bible
{Geneva edition), 1610, black letter, with copious annotations through¬
out. Illustrated with plates. In perfect condition. To be seen on applica¬
tion to T. Blyton, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bernard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—19, Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy-
square.
MR. CHARLES E, WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p,m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
S.s; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
R. W. G. SCORE Y, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—194, Gomwall-road, Notting-hill, W. (Hammersmith line).
Please write.
DR. JOHN HUNTER and DR. MESMER may be
consulted upon all forms of illness, through MR. ROBERT HARPER,
from whom Mesmeric Treatment and Eclectic Medicines may be obtained,
at 114, Wardour-street, Oxford-street, W. Fees, 10s. and upwards. Hours,
one to five o’clock daily.
RS. EMPSON, Medical Clairvoyant and Mag¬
netic Healer, undertakes the Diagnosis and the Cure of Diseases
(if curable). Patients at a distance may obtain diagnosis and advice by
sending magnetic link and fee of 10s. Address, 114, Wardour-street,
Oxford-street, W. Hours, one to five o’clock daily.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Association are
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tern., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Richard Fitton, Secretary pro term.
"PHOTOGRAPHIC COPIES OF THE ILLUMINATED
JL ADDRESS to be presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain to
Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
iv
THE SPIBITUALIST. Feb. 27, 1874.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deser-ves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and mot a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., P.Q-.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D. ; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. O. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles E. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.E.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmqnds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.E.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; G. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Yolckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans, Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.;
Jpsiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
12. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’   
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.,
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the Circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or- six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; ,jt is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let ■ one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
bo afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound , together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STEELING.
Head 0#ces.-BBO WN STBEET AND MAESDEN STBEET, MANCHESTER
FIBE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates
Bonus Beturns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Benewed. Premiums.
FIDELITY GUAEANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers agginst
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STBEET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities
TO OWNERS OF HOUSE PEOPERTY.
E. BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
n, PARK GROVE, SHEPHERD’S LANE, BBIXTON, .
T> ESPECTFULLY solicits the patronage of Owners of
JLmj House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixton
Bead, and near the Railway Station—offering special facilities for the
prompt letting of Houses of every description.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS. — Handsomely-printed Blue
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion, may be obtained in packets, each containing 400, price 2s. 6d. per
packet. They are especially useful for distribution at public meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, reading-rooms, clubs, and places of
public resort.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, London, E.C.
A NEW ERA IN JOURNALISM!
THE FREE SPEAKER, a High Class Family News¬
paper. Weekly—One Penny.
SPECIAL POLITICAL AND SOCIAL ARTICLES,
BY INDEPENDENT WRITERS.
Full Reports of Home, Foreign, and General News. Law and Police.
FREEDOM OF CORRESPONDENCE.
WEEKLY TALES BY THE FIRST WRITERS.
Publish mg Office: 125, Fleet-street. Advertisement Office: 106, Shoe-lane.
LUNACY LAW REFORM.
ALL PERSONS cognisant of cases of INCARCERATION,
under a false plea of Insanity, or of MALTREATMENT OF
LUNATICS, or who are ready to co-operate in obtaining AMENDMENT
OF THE LUNACY LAWS, are earnestly requested to communicate with
MRS. LOUISA LOWE,
97, BURTON ROAD, BRIXTON.
The following Extract from the “Act to Amend the Law relating to Luna¬
tics " is a fair specimen of Lunacy Legislation :—
“ It shall be lawful for the Proprietor or Superintendent of any licensed
house with the previous assent in writing of two or more of the Commis¬
sioners, or in the Case of a House licensed by Justices, of two or more of
the Visitors to entertain and keep in such house as a Boarder for such time as
may be specified in the assent, any person who may have been within Five
Years immediately preceding the giving of such assent, a Patient in any
asylum, hospital, or licensed house, or under care as a Single Patient''—25
& 26 Viet., ch. iii , sec. 18.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lano London, E.C.
