A RECORD OF THE PROQI\Ej3£ OF THE £CIEJ\fCE AND ETHICS Of ^PII\ITUAEI^M,
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 60.—(Vol. m.—No. 21.) LONDON: SEPTEMBER 15, 1873.
Published on the 1st and 15th of every
Month; Price Fourpence.
Oftmtentg.
Alleged Completion of EdwinDrood by the Spirit of Charles Dickens—
How the Powers of the Medium were developed; The Chapters
added to Edwin Drood; The Preface to Edwin Brood; Mr. Sapsea
and his Opinions; Oloisterham; Mr. Peter Peckcraft; Critical
gyg Comments; Conditions under which the Writings are said to be
given        322
Spiritualism in Dalston     327
An American Spiritualistic Convention ...   327
Spiritualism in Australia  327
The National Association of Spiritualists   328
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan      329
Testimonial to Judge Edmonds    329
The Logic of the Spirit—Opinions of the Ancients about the Human
Soul; The Subjective and Objective Nature of Spiritual Pheno¬
mena ; Dr. M'Leod’s Definition of Spirit; Believers in Spiritual¬
ism; The Determination of Energy ... ...    330
Poetry:—“Revealed to Babes”  •  334
Correspondence:—The Schumann Festival in Bonn; Forthcoming
Spiritualistic Meetings; A Seance at Liverpool; A Prophetic
Dream; Robert Schumann’s Mediumship; The National Associ¬
ation  .'.   334
The Liverpool Conference    ... 335
Paragraphs:—St. John’s Association of Spiritualists, 327; Winter
Lectures, 327; The Special Number of The Spiritualist, 329; The
British Association, 329; Spiritual Vision, 333; The Dalston Asso¬
ciation, 333; Mrs. Andrews, 335; Spiritualism in the Cannibal
Islands ...         335
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. N. TERRY, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
The Best Book for Enquirers.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modern spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits ; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching deatbfthe future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
  LONDON: SlMPKIN, MARSHALL & C6. 
“ The first Work ever written, in any language, on the subject of which it
treats.”
CONSUMPTION;
ITS NATURE, PREVENTION, AND HOMfEOPATHIC TREATMENT,
With Illustrations of Homoeopathic Practice.
Br Dr. WILLIAM HITCHMAN, F.R.S. (Arezzo),
Author of “ Lectures on the Spiritual Constitution of Human Nature,” de¬
livered in the Theatre of Anthropology, Liverpool, &c., &c.
 London: Turner & Co., 74, New Bond-street, W.
AT GOWER-STREET ROOMS (145)
Near the Metropolitan Railway,
On WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17th, 1873, at Half-past Seven o’Clock,
THE REV. F. W. MONCK,
Of Bristol, will deliver a Speech on
PHENOMENAL PHASES OF SPIRIT - POWER.
Dr. Sexton and other Speakers will be there to answer objections. The
Meeting will be Public.
J. ENMORE JONES, ESQ., in the chair.
The Rooms have been taken for Meetings to be held on the three follow¬
ing Wednesdays at the same hour.
Dr. Sexton has agreed to deliver a Speech on Wednesday, 24th Sep¬
tember. His subject will be “SPIRIT.”
The Series of Meetings is given to enable all who wish to obtain correct
information on a subject at present puzzling the minds of many persons.
Spiritualism proper being—1st. A knowledge that man passes out of his
body a living intelligent substance.—2nd. That, under certain conditions,
many such can and do visit,* and also as “ ministering Spirits,” assist the
families they are connected with by ties of affection,
Lately published,
AV
HAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Mental
Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. I. The MECHANISM of MAN.
By EDWARD W. COX, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s. 6d.
Contents.
chap.
1. Introduction.
2. What am I?
3. The Man.
4. How we Grow.
5. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP. '
24. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the Will.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
31. Soul—Spirit—Anima.
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs. ,
35. The Natural and the Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery.
45. Conclusions.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and charming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with ahold, free, and not
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Herald.
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I?”—Leicester Mercury.
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflective readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest.—South Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—Norwich Mercury. ■
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
London: LONGMAN and Co., Patemoster-row.
B
IRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.-
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
-29 and 30,
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks,
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Dalston association of enouirers into
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
THOMAS BLYTON, Secretary and Treasurer.
322
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 15, 1873.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTSThree shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, s^d
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
Count as one word.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually tom up when-read, but preserved for binding.
OorrbspondbnOe.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions^:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 4s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of 11 The Spiritualist" in
London or in iheprovincesis the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave, Maria-lane,
E. V., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Bochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Areade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Bichard Boberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTBALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Eussell-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-ehurchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny;
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 12s. 6d., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
ALLEGED COMPLETION OF “EDWIN DROOD” BY
THE SPIRIT OF CHARLES DICKENS.
Recently there have been floating paragraphs in one
or other of the London daily papers, about the alleged
completion of Edwin Drood by Charles Dickens through
an American medium. The first information giving
any weight to these rumours reached us by the last
mail, in the Banner of Light of August the 9th, pub¬
lished in Boston, U.S. It contains an article on the
subject eight columns long, quoted from the Springfield
■ Daily Union of July 26th, 1873. The Banner of Light
is the chief organ of Spiritualism in America, and if, as
stated, the Spiritualists in Brattleborough recognise the
medium as a genuine one, it gives considerable weight
to the narrative, because there is no instance on record
of experienced Spiritualists having been deceived by
the imposture of one person for any considerable length
of time. The literary matter itself fully equals that of
Charles Dickens, and must have been written by some¬
body of very considerable genius and ability. Whilst,
therefore, the balance of evidence is strongly in favour
of the genuineness of the narrative, the possibility
of the whole being an ingenious and unprincipled
Yankee hoax should be borne in mind. The Ex¬
change and Mart suggests that it is neither impos¬
ture, nor the work of the spirit of Charles Dickens, but
a curious instance of unconscious action of the brain.
HOW THE POWEBS OF THE MEDIUM WEBE DEVELOPED.
The Springfield Daily Union sent a correspondent to
Brattleborough, Yermont, to inquire into the particu¬
lars, and the reporter, in the course of his narrative?
says:—
Dickens being dead, the work has been done by an amanu¬
ensis—a medium, if you will, but an unprofessional one, and
a person who knew nothing whatever about Spiritualism until
this strange experience befell him; who has no theories to
advance or proselytes to make, and who cares not a fig appa¬
rently whether Spiritualism stand or fall. He is a good-
looking man of average height, and not far from thirty years
of age. With dark hair and moustache, a round face, fair
and sometimes florid complexion, restless eyes of nameless
hue, neither blue, gray, black, nor brown, but perhaps of a slaty
colour, and with an indescribable expression, as of one looking
at something and not seeing it, yet seeing much more beyond
—these characteristics, with an undeniably nervous tempera¬
ment, describe the man. • Meeting him casually, you discover
nothing more remarkable about his personal appearance than
about that of scores of young men whom one may see any
day in any of our New England villages. He is a native of
Boston, and in his fourteenth year was apprenticed to learn a
mechanical trade, which he has since steadily followed, so that
his schooling was finished when h© was only thirteen years of
age. While he is by no means unintelligent or illiterate, he
has had no training whatever for literary work, &nd has mani¬
fested no bent that way, having never written before, even so
much as a newspaper paragraph, for publication. This is the
man who has taken up the pen of Charles Dickens where he
laid it down, and has already nearly completed the Mystery of
Edwin Drood.
Who he is, probably not half-a-dozen people in Brattleborough
know to-day. Rumours that such a work was in progress
have crept into the papers, and its authorship has been
charged on several young men of supposed literary leanings,
but never once upon the right one, and while others have
been “ suspected ” and bored accordingly, he has kept at his
task unmolested. The village gossips have, indeed, settled
down to the opinion that nobody knows positively anything
about it, and who it can be is as great a mystery as Edwin
Drood itself. It is somewhat significant that the young man
in question is determined not to be dragged into notoriety,
and has resisted all the entreaties of his intimate friends and
advisers who wish to allow his name to be published. In the
most unassuming manner, he declares that his connection
with the work is simply that of an agent of the author; that
whatever credit or discredit may attach to it belongs to
Dickens and not to him ; and that he will not become a party
to the appropriation of what is anothers, even though it be so
intangible an article as a dead man’s fame. Reporters from
New York, Boston, Springfield, and other “ great cities,” have
been here on purpose to interview Mr. A., but have been
unable even to find out who he is; so what has been published
heretofore is the merest rumour, and anything but reliable.
I have the good fortune to be the first person to whom he has
related this strange story, and the only one who has yet
examined the manuscript and been permitted to make
extracts therefrom..
It came about in this wise:—One night, about ten months
ago, a young man (who, for convenience of designation, we
will call Mr. A.) was solicited by a small party of friends to
sit around a table and see what would come of it. Up to
this time he had laughed at all “ spiritual ” performances as
so much humbug, and, probably, no man was more thoroughly
sceptical with regard to the whole business than he ; while he
was, of course, quite unaware that he was the possessor of
any mediumistic powers. The circle was no sooner formed
than raps began to be heard with alarming frequency, and the
table waltzed exuberantly about the room, and finally tipped
over into Mr. A.’s lap, as if to indicate that he was .the cause
of it. This was enough for him. He had seen all he wanted
to see of Spiritualism, and although the others entreated him
to continue his “investigations,” he would do nothing more
that night. The next evening, however, he was induced to
take part in another sitting. The demonstrations were re¬
peated even more emphatically ; and while they were going
on, Mr. A. appeared to become suddenly entranced, and,
seizing a pencil, wrote what purported to be a message to a
gentleman in the room from a child of his long dead,—a child
of whose existence Mr. A. knew nothing. Subsequently,
messages of the usual tenor were written, assuming to come
from the other world, and it is said that some tests of an
astonishing character were given to prove the identity of the
writers. With all that, however, I have nothing to do.
During the latter part of October, Mr. A. wrote, at a seance,
Sept. 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
323
a message addressed to Hmself, requesting a sitting on the
15th of November, and signed, in a plain, bold hand, “ Charles
Dickens.” Several subsequent communications reminded
him of the date, entreated him not to deny the request, and,
as the day approached, demanded in the most unequivocal
terms that it should be granted. After rising from the table
•where he had been writing, in one instance, a few evenings
before that date, he exclaimed that a face was looking down
upon him from one corner of the room, with hands out¬
stretched toward him. Others in the room could see nothing,
but he rushed to the spot, and appeared to shake hands with
the imaginary being, whoever or whatever it was. On relating
the circumstance, the next day, to a gentleman who has been
his confidant through the whole affair, his friend stepped to a
book-case, and took down a Life of Dickens, containing an
excellent portrait of that author, and showed it to him. His
face instantly became blanched, as he cried, “ Good God!
that’s the man I saw last night! ” The ownership of the face
seemed not to have occurred to him before ; but since then,
as he earnestly avers, and as the few friends in his secret
implicitly believe, he has seen him many times.
The result of the sitting on the 15th of November—which
took place according to directions, in a dark room, with no
one but the medium present—W£^s a long communication,
ostensibly from Mr. Dickens, expressing a desire to complete
through him the novel left unfinished at his (Dickens’s)
death. He had long sought for means by' which this could
be accomplished, but had not before been able to find any
which he believed could be employed successfully. He de¬
sired that the first sitting should be on Christmas eve,'—the
night of all the year which he loved best when on earth,—
and asked that the medium would allow as much time to the
task as he could, without injury to his business and health.
After adding the assurance that the undertaking would prove
of pecuniary benefit to him, the message closed with Dickens’s
customary “ Faithfully yours.”
Here was laid out a greater task than our hero had bar¬
gained for; and it must be confessed that he looked forward
with anything but pleasure to the occupancy of all his few
leisure hours by work of this kind. Neither then, nor for
months afterwards, had he any faith that this extraordinary
sort of authorship would amount to anything. He regarded
the time so spent as simply Jhrown away; and but for the
entreaties of the few friends referred to, backed up by alter¬
nate entreaties and commands purporting to come from
Dickens himself, the irksome job would more than once have
been abandoned. As the work progressed, however, it became
evident that a master-hand was in it, and Mr. A. has, for a
few months, submitted himself more willingly to the strange
fate which has befallen him, having at last a genuine interest
in watching for its consummation.
The results of his labours from Christmas-eve to the present
time—labours entirely outside of the ten hours a daj* which
he has steadily devoted to his business—appear in over twelve
hundred pages of manuscript, the pages being those of ordi¬
nary Congress letter paper. In other words, he has written
enough to make an octavo volume of more than four hundred
pages.
The correspondent also says:—
Three or four times a week the dictations for the book are
accompanied by brief notes from the author to the amanuensis,
occasionally bearing words of encouragement and good cheer,
and at other times treating purely of matters of business.
These communications—a thick pile of themselves—have all
been preserved, but are regarded as of a confidential and per¬
sonal nature, and so not for the public eye. We are permitted,
however, to extract from one or two of them. When the work
had progressed as far as the fifteenth chapter, this word
came:—
“ We are doing finely. I am more than satisfied with the
result of this undertaking. You have no idea how much
interest this matter is exciting here among the hosts by whom
I am surrounded. This is only the beginning of what is to
come years hence. When this work is finished, you will con¬
tinue to be my amanuensis. I shall write more after this.
There are others here who have signified their intention of
finding some one through whom they can convey their ideas
to persons inhabiting the earth we have left behind. I only
hope they will find so faithful a worker and one so much after
their own hearts. God bless you 1 D.”
Full directions have been given as to the manner of proce¬
dure to procure a copyright, how the work should be published,
&o. Only a few days ago came this direction:—
“In regard to English publishers:—As soon as the first
proof sheet is done, address a letter to Sampson Low, Son,
and Marston, Milton House, Ludgate-hill, London, England.
It is very probable that they will be glad to negotiate for
advance sheets.—Faithfully, Dickens.”
It is a fact of significance, or not, as the reader may choose
to take it, that the present style of this house is Sampson
Low, Marston, Low and Searle; but at the time of Mr,
Dickens’s death the name of the firm and their address were as
stated in the note given above.
THE CHAPTEES ADDED TO “EDWIN DEOOD.”
In criticising the new portions of the novel, the cor¬
respondent says:—
Here, to begin with, is a full company of actors to be carried
on in some way, each with his separate characteristics, to the
end of the play—a hard task for a man who never before
wrote half a dozen pages on any subject. But we are startled
to find in the very first chapter a wonderful identity with the
published volume. The stitch is taken up just where it was
dropped by Death; and the story proceeds so completely
united, the new with the old, that the sharpest-eyed critic,
not knowing before where the old left off and the new began,
would not be able to say, for the life of him, where Charles
Dickens died! Each one of the dramatis personas is as dis¬
tinctly, as characteristically himself, and nobody else, in the
second volume as in the first; and in both we know them,
feel for them, laugh at them, admire or hate them as so
many creatures of flesh and blood—which, indeed, as they
mingle with us in the progress of the story, they seem to be.
Not only this, but we are introduced to other people of the
imagination (Dickens was always—shall I say is always ?—
introducing new characters up even to the last chapter of his
stories), and become, in like manner, thoroughly acquainted
with them. These people are not duplicates of any in the
first volume ; neither are they commonplaces ; they are crea¬
tions. Whose creations ?
There are twenty-three chapters in the first volume (already
published), and there are to be twenty in the second. Only
two remain to be written, the work having now progressed to
the end of the eighteenth. The captions of the new chapters,
several of which are in Dickens’s happiest manner, run as
follows:—
“ Chapter I—What the Organ Said.
“ Chapter II—A Light Breaks on Staple Inn.
“ Chapter III—Mr. Jasper Keeps His Appointment.
“ Chapter IV—Beginning to Forge the Chain.
“ Chapter Y—The Reader is conveyed to Billickin Harbour
and Meets an Old Acquaintance.
“ Chapter YI—A Recognition and a Meeting.
“ Chapter YII—Another Night with Durdles.
“ Chapter YHI—Fopperty’s Mission and a Sudden Disap¬
pearance.
“ Chapter IX—Opens the Door for Mr. Brobity.
“ Chapter X—Introduces Joe Sloggers, and Relates how
Jasper visits the Puffer’s House, and What Occurs There.
“ Chapter XI—Treats of Various Subjects, and, the better
to carry the preceding chapter to a successful termination,
introduces the reader to Mr. Peter Peckcraft.
“ Chapter XII—In which Mr. Grewgious Transacts some
Business in his Ward’s Interest, and Fopperty Relates to
Jasper his Success as an Emissary in the Latter’s Interest.
“ Chapter XIII—A Happy Meeting.
“.Chapter XIV—John Jasper’s Nerves receive a Shock, and
Mr. Sapsea’s Dignity Receives Another.
“ Chapter XY—Roses and Thorns.
“ Chapter XYI—A Fellow Traveller Joins the Invisible Hosts,
and Mr. Grewgious once more Beholds a Picture and a Ring.
“ Chapter XYII—Mr. Datchery Affixes the Last Stroke to
his Score and Strikes a Balance, and Bessie sets her Face
towards the Golden Shore.
“ Chapter XVIII—Bessie Bids Good-bye to the Thorns and
goes to Join the Lilies.”
The captions have in every case been dictated before the
chapters themselves, showing the contents of each to have
been clearly laid out in the mind of the author beforehand;
but after the completion of the eighteenth chapter, the last
line of which was written to-day, its title was changed to read
as follows:—
“ Chapter XVIII—While the Dawn Appears to Others,
Jasper’s Night Comes On.”
I find through all these chapters an extremely interesting
development of the plot, which was but partially laid in the
324
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 15, 1873.
first volume. Characters and incidents, whose pertinency
does not appear there, and who, as one reads the first volume
and then stops, seem to have no part in forwarding the story
towards its denouement, are proved in this manuscript to have
been introduced with a deliberate purpose. At the same time
the new personages fill perfectly the places assigned them,
and likewise “ prove their usefulness.” Several passages in
the second volume are more powerfully dramatic than any to
be found in the first, as, for instance, Jasper’s second mid¬
night excursion with Durdles (chapter seven) in the crypt of
the old'cathedral.
THE PREFACE TO “EDWIN DEOOD.”
The following is the preface to the work:—
During the progress of this work, as with all others on which
I was engaged during my earth-life, I have felt a great desire
to know the comments which would be bestowed upon it by
its readers, and so have been glad when the last line was
written, that I could read and hear the different opinions which
were to determine its success.
If I was apprehensive then, when on earth, it will be easily
understood that I am so now, when attempting to give the
public a work, every word of which could only be placed on
paper through the agency of earthly hands, used by me as the
operator uses the instrument which transmits words thousands
of miles by the power of electricity. The day is not far dis¬
tant when this wonderful science will be better understood by
millions who now believe it a delusion, and when that day
comes the world will be the better for it, and thousands who
are in this happier world, and those who are yet to come, will
be happier to feel that the dear ones they have left behind will
regard their absence as a blessing certain, and so abandon the
harrowing thoughts that it is possible a dear mother, father,
sister, brother, wife, child or friend may be engulfed in a
flaming sea that is to burn them for ever and ever. How little
such people know of the goodness of that dear Creator who
made all things for a wise purpose, and who has placed before
the eyes of his earthly children so many evidences by which to
convince them that nothing in nature is ever totally destroyed,
much less human souls, which are a part of Himself.
It has not been my intention, in any portion of this work, to
strive to influence any living person to change his opinion. I
would be glad, however, if my personal friends on earth would
seek to investigate the truths which this science—religious
science, I should say, perhaps—contains ; for I feel confident
they would be the happier for it in the end. No man has a
moral right to denounce a theory till he has had an oppor¬
tunity of seeing its workings, and has tangible evidence—the
evidences of his senses—that it is not a consistent or reasonable
one. These evidences are within your reach, if you will only
seek them. But if you are satisfied as you are, and do not
care to know more for fear you will compromise your dignity,
at least have some regard for the feelings of those loved ones
who have gone before, and do not ridicule that which to them
is a sound truth, or condemn that of which you know nothing,
and of which you have no desire to learn.
Since the fact of this work being in preparation was first
made public, I have been pained to observe the ridicule which
was apparent in some published articles; but I have also found
cause for considerable amusement in witnessing the owl-like
wisdom displayed by those poor, ignorant bigots who believe
“ the world was made for the people, and we are the people.”
We here are filled with pity for those bigots; but our consola¬
tion is that they will be sufficiently punished for their bigotry
when they leave the world where they now think themselves of
such great importance, and find out for a certainty how dif¬
ferent a world and life they are to enter upon.
I think that honest, candid men and women who read this
work will be satisfied that it is not a “delusion”—as some
have claimed, even before an opportunity had been given them
to read a line of it, and so form any opinion of its merits—but
will recognise in its pages the same desire which animated the
author while living—the desire to make his readers the happier
for following the fortunes of those who were his “ players; ”
and if I have succeeded in even one instance in making any
reader happier, if not better, by the perusal of this work, I
shall be content.
I cannot close this page without assuring the dear ones to
whom I was so much attached on earth—family and friends—
how anxiously I await their coming, that they may realise by
experience how truly I speak concerning this other life. May
God help and protect you all is the earnest prayer of
The Author.
MR. SAPSEA AND HIS OPINIONS.
Chapter IX. introduces Mr. Brobity, with an amusing
description of that magnificent egotist, Sapsea:—
Blunderheaded Sapsea, notwithstanding the greatness of
his mind, was possessed like thousands of ordinary mortals,
through relationship, of a brother-in-law. That is, people
called Solomon—or Sol Brobity, as he was most often ad¬
dressed—brother-in-law of Mr. Sapsea, in consequence of
Miss Brobity, Sol’s sister, marrying that Wonderful Being—
that quintessence of wisdom and greatness. But Mr. Sapsea
would not allow common customs to apply to him, even in
relationship, and so he declared, whenever the subject was
mentioned, that Solomon was not brother-in-law to him, but
that a relationship of that nature might be allowed in that
Mr. Sapsea himself was the brother-in-law—by no means
Solomon.
Sapsea’s opinion of the whole Brobity family was not a
favourable one. They were not, to use his own expression, a
people of Mind.
If, as it sometimes happened, the Brobitys were mentioned
in Sapsea’s hearing, he would lean back in his chair, and
speak of them somewhat after this fashion :—
“ There is no depth of reasoning power existing in them
which enables them to discern Mind. The Perceptive faculties
are dull. Matter, with them, is of more weight than Mind.
Ethelinda was the only person who bore the name of Brobity
that had the power to discern Mind. It was that discerning
faculty that led her to consent to change her name to Sapsea.
The inevitable consequence of this lack of intelligence on
the one hand, and the possession of it on the other, was what
might have been expected—objection to me from them, ad¬
miration from her. I do not say, however, that even she had
Mind to correspond with mine—no Brobity could have that;
but her redeeming quality lay in this,—that •she appreciates a
Great Mind, and hence Ethelinda Sapsea where what before
was Ethelinda Brobity.”
Then he would usually wait a moment for his hearers to
thoroughly digest the great thoughts to which his words had
given expression, and then continue :—
“ Of Ethelinda’s mother, I say nothing—she is a woman,”—
a term which evidently implied inferiority in Sapsea’s esti¬
mation. “ I say woman. Of Ethelinda’s brother Solomon, I
will say this: there is no excuse for him. Perhaps it is wrong
for me to speak thus. You may say that the strong should
not trample on the weak. There are times when it cannot be
helped. There are times when the mind is stronger than the
body, and this is one of those times. And I repeat that there
is no excuse for him, and for this reason—he could have
learned from me, but would not.”
Now it was pretty generally known that, previous to the
deceased Mrs. Sapsea’s marriage with that great Mind, Sol
Brobity was very frank in his expressions concerning it, and
declared that the name of Sapsea was enough to object to, if
nothing more; but when to the name was coupled such a man,
he felt it to be his duty, as a loving brother, to utter a protest.
Sapsea was suggestive of sap-head; but as no human head
could hold the sap—there being an ocean of it, figuratively-—
why, sea was substituted for head, in this instance, and hence
Sap-sea.
Mr. Sapsea never forgot the indignity thus cast upon him by
Sol, and therefore took occasion at all times to belittle his
traducer.
Sol Brobity, as we find him to-day, is a thin, spare gentle¬
man of sixty or thereabouts, with red whiskers on each side of
his face that have a tendency to grow pointing toward his
nose, as though either side were running a race to see which
could reach that point first, or as if they would like to embrace
each other at the earliest moment. His head is also covered
with hair of the same colour, except that the top is bald and
shines in the sun like a glass bottle. He was a bachelor, and,
though often bantered thereat, declared that he didn’t want
anything about him that he couldn’t understand; and, as he
could never understand a woman, he didn’t want a wife. He
had lived with his mother for sixty years, and he didn’t under¬
stand her yet; and, although there was a time when he
thought he could comprehend his sister, she threw him all
abroad again by marrying Sapsea, and since then he had given
up all attempts to study female character, concluding that all
women Vere so many living enigmas sent into the world to
puzzle the brains of men.
He, with his mother, lived in the High-street, she an old
lady of eighty-five at least, who doted on her son always, and
Sept. 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
325
who, to this day, called him Solly, the same as when she
rocked him in his cradle.
CLOISTERHAM.
The following is another quotation from the MB.:—
Walking briskly till he came to another street leading
toward the river, he [Jasper] turned into it. This street bore
anything but an aristocratic air in the appearance of its
dwellings, and was in every way decidedly dirty. The cross¬
ings were filthy; the sidewalks were dilapidated, like the
houses which they fronted; and it could hardly have been
supposed to have been inhabited by anything human, were it
not for an occasional smell of onions, or some other savory
vegetable which pow and then steamed up from the basements,
to indicate to the* passer-by that if they had forgotten how to
be clean, they still recognised the importance of having some¬
thing to eat.
Cloisterham could boast, it seemed, like its more pretentious
neighbour, the Great City, of having poverty in its midst; and
though, like its more pretentious neighbour, it tried to shut
its eyes to the fact, they would not stay shut, for now and then
some circumstance would present itself, which made the fact
decidedly convincing. About mid-way between the High-
street and the water was one house which commanded more
attention than any other, from its kingly tumble-down appear¬
ance, and, as this narrative could not well go on without an
introduction to one of its inmates, we will go in through the
doorway, which is seldom closed, and ascend a flight of stairs
that once boasted of a railing, but is now shorn of that useful
appendage, probably because at some remote period coals
were not plenty in that neighbourhood.
Ascending the stairs and gaining the landing, from some
three or four doors we will select the one in the darkest
corner, and enter. The room is occupied by three persons.
One of these persons is a man, apparently about thirty or
thirty-five years of age, with black hair and eyes, and eye¬
brows so thick and bushy that it was no wonder the eyes
beneath them were sunk far into the head, as though they
were being crowded by degrees entirely out of sight. He
possessed an athletic frame and high cheek-bones, and had a
slow, awkward motion in all his movements. It would be
difficult to determine his nationality were it not that his
speech indicated him to be an Englishman. His dress was
decidedly slouchy—nothing that he wore seemed to fit him.
Although there was a slight sinister expression on his features,
there was at the same time a pleasant devil-may-care look so
mixed with it that even a skilled physiognomist would have
been puzzled to decide the character of the man from reading
his features. He had been christened with the name of
Forbes ; but as he grew in years, his friends and more intimate
associates had seen fit, for some reason best known to them¬
selves, to address him as Fopperty, and he continued to hold
that cognomen to the present time. Speaking of his first name
naturally leads us to his last one, and that was Padler. So,
then, we will introduce to you, ladies and gentlemen, Fopperty
Padler, and proceed to the next one of the trio.
This was Mrs. Padler, mother of the aforesaid; and if ap¬
pearances did not deceive, she could not have been far from
sixty or Seventy—in fact, an old woman, and a very wicked
old woman, if all that the neighbours hinted were true. She
was short, thick-set, with stooping shoulders ; and Nature or
disease had caused one of her limbs to be shorter than the
other, so that, when she walked, she reminded one very
forcibly of the walking-beam of a steamer. Her face was of
a dirty white colour, and such hair as she had was of nearly
the same shade; and as she brushed it back, and made a very
small pug, which she fastened to the crown of her head, it
resembled more than anything else a very, very small ball of
yarn, after the cat has had it to play with for a few hours.
At the' time we introduce this good soul, she seems to be a
little out of temper, or a little into temper, which is, perhaps,
the most correct way to express being decidedly cross.
The cause of these unpleasant feelings would seem to have
sprung from something that the last of the trio had been
doing—a little child—a girl—who might have been ten years
old, and who looks so entirely unlike those by whom she is
surrounded, that it seems astonishing how she comes to be in
their company. Her habiliments, it is true, would show her
to be one of the world’s poor—one of those little waifs whom
nobody cares for, and who soon enough—God help them !—
learn to care for nobody. But there is a distinguishing cha¬
racteristic in the face of this child that stamps her of a nobler
nature than the average of this class of children. It is an
intelligent face, with large, full blue eyes, that wear a
thoughtful expression, though now the tears are standing in
them, for she is weeping.
Her beautiful brown hair falls in dishevelled masses over
her shoulders, as though it were kindly tryin g to shield from
vulgar gaze what her poor ragged dress could not cover. This
was Bessie Padler, who called the woman at her side grand¬
mother, but who, the neighbours slyly hinted among them¬
selves, was really no relative. That some hidden mystery
surrounded her they did not doubt. One thing they were
sure of—the old woman- did not hesitate to beat her, and she
had a miserable existence. But it could not be helped, that
any one could see, and there the matter ended.
ME. EETEE PECKCBAET.
In the twelfth chapter the reader is first introduced
to Mr. Peter Peckcraft, and then to Miss Keep, who is
emphatically an original. Thus begins the chapter:—
Had it not been that certain members of the human family
were from time immemorial gifted with a faculty of collecting
and preserving antiquities of divers kinds and species, it is
more than probable that a vast amount of information which
is now in possession of the present generation could never
have been obtained ; and where we now have tangible proofs
of some of the habits and customs of those who, centuries
ago, contributed toward the navigation of this Mammoth
Ship—the earth—we should only have conjecture. But
“ their works live after them.” When this Mammoth Ship
topples its old crew, one by one, into the Sea of Futurity, and
takes on its new crew of green hands, it does not lose sight of
the importance of retaining some of the old landmarks of
mental and physical produce, and they get dug out of their
depositories in which Captain Nature, in his far-seeing wis¬
dom, thought best to stow them until such time as searchers
after them shall release them from their hiding-places, and
reveal their existence to the world.
Now, it is a fact which none will dispute, that we are all more
or less tinctured with this passion for holding something of
so rare a nature that no one else can obtain its like, whether
it be a coin, a piece of furniture, dog, horse, or plant; and
although this passion may, as some will declare, arise from
selfishness or love of display, there is no doubt that our
Creator engrafted it into our natures that we might the better
assist him by retaining the superior productions of each
successive age, and so encourage the yet unborn to greater
perfection by comparison.
Whether Mr. Peter Peckcraft had, in the goodness of his
heart, an eye to the welfare of those yet unborn generations,
is not positively known, inasmuch as he never gave any proof
that he had the welfare of anybody but himself at heart.
Certain it is, however, that for a great many years he had
been a dealer in curiosities of an antique nature, and kept a
clerk ; though whether this clerk was a necessary or an orna¬
mental appendage, the customers of Mr. Peckcraft had never
been able to decide. They only knew he was a clerk because
Mr. Peckcraft, when he said “ My clerk,” pointed to a very
pale young man, who always occupied the same position on a
high stool before a high desk at the back of the store, and
who seldom spoke to the customers, but, when questioned on
any point, referred the questioner to the proprietor by point¬
ing with his pen to that personage.
# * * * * * *
Mr. Peckcraft, like a great many other gentlemen who live
bachelors, was very particular to rise at five o’clock the year
round, and prided himself very much on his ability to follow
this rule. His lodgings were in Silver-square, and he had
occupied them for many years, partly on account of his
strong dislike to a change of whatever he had been accus¬
tomed to, and partly because the lady with whom he lived
was a person who, like him, did not believe in the “Bolling
Stone ” business. This lady was known as Miss Keep, and a
very precise and prim maiden lady she was indeed.
If Miss Keep should be aroused at any time of the night,
and should be asked where the dust-brush was to be found,
she would tell you to step into the basement, and behind the
door you would see a row of hooks, and on the third hook
from the door you would find the brush. No matter what the
article, there was a place for it, and it could always be found
there, night or day, when not in use.
As we were saying, Mr. Peckcraft arose the year round at
five o’clock, and, in the recollection of Miss Keep, he had
never deviated from that habit except on one occasion. He
had been suffering the night before with a violent toothache,
and had recourse to laudanum to quiet the pain. The pain
326
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 15, 1873.
was quieted, and so was Mr. Peckcraft, for he did not waken
the next morning till nearly an hour after his usual time, and
when, on referring to his watch, he found that such was the
case, he very deliberately put himself back into bed again,
and remained there until five o’clock the next morning,
thereby nearly frightening Miss Keep out of her seven senses
until he had explained the cause to her through the keyhole,
just as the two servants were on the point of bursting in his
door by command of their mistress.
Miss Keep is rather tall and very slim. She has what was
probably intended for a blue eye, but the bluing material
must have got very low, and the consequence is that we can¬
not better describe its colour than by saying it was milky-
blue. She wears her hair pressed tight to her temples in the
form of a half-circle, and an artist with his brush could not
carry the curve with a more perfect line. Her chin protrudes
to about the same angle with her nose. Add to all this a
maiden lady with a great love for poetry, and you behold
Miss Keep as she is to-day.
CBITICAl COMMENTS.
The correspondent of the Springfield Daily Union
gives other lengthy extracts from the MSS., and con¬
cludes as follows:—
Eight here, a few minuti® may be very interesting. On
examining the manuscript, I found “traveler” spelled
uniformly with two 1’s, as is the universal practise in England,
and only the rare one here. Observe, too, the use of the word
“ coals ” for coal, the former being the customary English
form. Notice the peculiar employment of capital letters, in
precisely the form to be found in Dickens’s works, as when he
calls Mr. Grewgious an Angular Man. Kemarkable, also, is
the familiarity with the geography of London, which is
noticeable in some of the extracts I have made, and in many
passages not quoted. Notice the expression that the servant
“ had left directly she heard Eosa’s answer ”—a form of
speech common in England, but almost unheard of in America.
Then observe the sudden change from the past to the present
tense, especially in lively narration—a transition of which
Dickens was very fond, and notably so in his later works.
These and many other little matters which might be mentioned
are of slight consequence, perhaps, but it would be on just
these sands that a bungling fraud would have stranded.
Nevertheless, the fact remains that in the general resemblance
of the book to the previous literary work of its alleged author,
"in the aggregation of the thousand and one things which go
to form literary style, and in the shining through all of the
indefinable something called genius, must this remarkable
book rest its most remarkable claims upon public consideration.
I came to'Brattleborough expecting to find this decidedly
posthumous work a bubble which could be easily blown away.
After two days careful and somewhat critical examination, I
go away, I confess, a good deal puzzled. I reject in the first
place as an impossibility— as every one would do after
thoroughly investigating the matter—-the theory that this
manuscript book was written by the young man, Mr. A .
He says he has never read the first volume, and I care not
whether he has or no, being fully convinced that he is not
capable of writing so much as one page of the second volume.
This, of course, is no disparagement; for how many men are
capable of doing what Dickens left undone ?
I am driven, then, to accept one of the two conclusions :
either some man of genius is using this individual as a go-
between, in order to place an extraordinary work before the
public in an extraordinary way, or the book is, as it professes
to be, dictated by Dickens himself from the other wo^ld.
The one supposition is scarcely more astounding than the
other. If there is in Vermont a man, heretofore unheard of,
who is able to write as Dickens wrote, he surely has no cause
to resort to any such device as this. If, on the other hand,
Charles Dickens himself, “though dead, yet speaketh,” what
shall we next expect ? It is but fair to say that, with the
fullest opportunity for investigation, I found not the least
evidence on any band of fraud, while the name of the “ aman¬
uensis,” were I allowed to give it, would dispel any suggestion
of that kind from the minds of every citizen of this place
Who knows him.
Whatever may be the true state of the case, the critics are
to have more than one opportunity to judge. This, if promises
are fulfilled, is to be but the beginning, as the invisible
Dickens (who long ago forbade the use of the medium by any
spirit except'himself), has notified him that he shall require
his entire time, and has even given him the title of a new
story, to be begun as soon as the one now on hand is completed,
the title being, B The Life and Adventures of Bockley Nickle-
heep.”
CONDITIONS UNDUE WHICH THE WEITINGS AEE SAID TO BE
GIVEN. ■
The writer of the article says:—
At first the medium wrote only three times a week and only
three or four pages at a time, but he since came to write twice
a day, and twelve, fifteen, and sometimes twenty pages at a
sitting. The hand-writing is not his own, and shows some of
the peculiarities of Dickens’s hand, so far as there has been
opportunity for comparison. At the beginning of each sitting
it is almost as fine as a woman’s, but after a page or-two it
grows very gradually coarser and coarser, until the scrawl on
the last page is five or ten times as large as the hand at the
start; and the beginning and end of each sitting may be dis¬
tinctly seen through the whole twelve hundred pages by this
peculiarity. On the top of some of the pages are pencil marks
in various odd designs, memoranda, perhaps of some point to
be revised; and in one or two cases phonographic signs, of
which Mr. A. knows nothing. Sometimes the writing appears
to be so hurried that it is by no means easy to make it out.
The modus operandi of the sitting is very simple. Provided
with two sharpened lead pencils and an abundance of paper
tom into half sheets, Mr. A. goes into a room alone. The
usual hours of writing are six o’clock in the morning and half¬
past seven in the evening, hours when, at this time of the
year, it is light; but the evening sitting is frequently prolonged
till half-past eight, and the writing goes on equally well in
darkness or light; indeed, the sittings during the winter
months were wholly in the dark. Putting paper and pencils
where they can be conveniently reached, this amanuensis of
Dickens places his hands, palms downward, on the table, and
unconcernedly awaits results. Not quite unconcernedly, how¬
ever, for although it has become a matter of daily routine
with him, and long ago lost the flavour of novelty, he con¬
fesses that he never sits down there alone, as if invoking
the presence of the dead, without a certain feeling of
awe creeping over him. He sits—frequently smoking
at the time—sometimes one minute, three, five, ten, or
half an hour, but usually, if “ conditions ” are right, but a
moment or two. These conditions have reference principally
to the weather. On any clear, pleasant day, the machine
works without interruption; with him, as with the electric
wire, a storm makes trouble, and the worse the storm the more
the trouble, so that in any severe weather, no writing is at¬
tempted. After sitting at the table the requisite time, what¬
ever it may be, Mr. A., not gradually, but instantly, becomes
unconscious, and the writing goes on for half an hour, or an
hour, and one sitting was even prolonged to an hour and a
half. The only remembrance which he has of these trance
periods, is that of seeing Dickens sitting beside him, usually
with one hand held in meditative manner at the side of his
face—a sad, grave face. He utters no word, but sometimes
looks appealingly toward Mr. A., “ and oh, such eyes!” All
this, however, the medium remembers as one remembers a
dream when just awaking—real yet intangible. The sign by
which Mr. Dickens indicates that the sitting is at an end, is
the placing of his hand on the medium’s, and the first time that
Mr. A. felt this pressure, seemingly as cold and heavy as that
of the hand of Death itself, he screamed with fright, and
can hardly think of that awful chilling sensation at any time,
even now, without a shudder. This touch brings him to his
senses, and he usually requires then the assistance of some
person to release his hands from the table, to which they seem
to be magnetically attached. On coming to himself, he dis¬
covers on the floor the work of the sitting, much or little, as
the case maybe. The pages are strewn about the room, where
they appear to have been promiscuously thrown, and are with¬
out numbers, which are supplied by Mr. A. afterwards, the
sense determining the connection. Eor a short time after
arising from a sitting, Mr. A. suffers from a sharp pain in the
chest, but this soon goes off, and is in fact the only unpleasant
effect which he experiences. An extreme nervousness which
he felt before his mediumistic powers were developed is en¬
tirely removed, and he never was in more robust, physical
health than to-day.
Thebe are now two spiritual societies in Dunedin, New
Zealand, a new_one having been formed just before the last
mail left.
Sept. 15, 1873;
THE SPIEITUALIST.
327
SPIRITUALISM IS DALSTON.
Oit Thursday, August 28th, at a meeting of the Dalston
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, held at their rooms,
74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London. -Mr. A. E. Lovell
(president) occupied the chair. Mr. Charles Blackburn, Mrs.
and Miss Corner, and Miss Florence Cook, were among the
listeners present.
Mr. Hugh McLeod, M.D., then rose to deliver a lecture on
the “ Logic of Spiritualism.” He said that before he began
his lecture, he wished to announce that his clairvoyant had
resolved to take a public field of usefulness, although all her
sittings had hitherto been held in private. She was an excel¬
lent seeress—her spirits could often read sealed letters, and
sometimes, when conditions were good, she was an extra¬
ordinary test medium. She had resolved to adopt the name
of “ Sibyl ” because she was timid, and did not like to appear
before the public in her own name. He himself was a surgeon
and a doctor of medicine, and should be glad to do all the
good he could to patients. He then delivered his lecture,
which is published in another part of this number of The
Spiritualist.
Mr. Gr. B. Tapp said that taking the lecture broadly he
agreed with it, and could find little in it to discuss. It was,
however, a matter of great dispute whether Shakespeare ever
visited Scotland ; Halliwell and others had come to the con¬
clusion that he never did. Did Dr. McLeod get his informa¬
tion on this head from the spirits?
Dr. M'Leod said that he had had his information from
Shakespeare himself, who had told him that he had been to
Scotland; and in the preface to Macbeth in Knight’s Shake¬
speare, it was stated that the poet had visited Aberdeen.
Mr. Blyton, Mr. Tapp, and others asked Dr. M‘Leod how
it was that Mr. Burns would not publish any of the notices
of Dr. M‘Leod’s lectures which had been sent to him from
time to time.
Dr. M'Leod then went into details of some dissensions
between Mr. Burns and himself about the printing of some
reports and other matters, adding that Mr. Burns wished to
stop him from working in the cause of Spiritualism if he
could.
Mr. 0. Blackburn proposed a vote of thanks to Dr. M'Leod.
This was seconded by Mr. Stephens, and carried unanimously
with acclamation.
AN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTIC CONTENTION.
The Spiritualists of the State of New Jersey have been
holding a mad revel in the town of Vineland, a thriving place
of 10,000 inhabitants, under the pretence of a “ State Conven¬
tion of Spiritualism,” as they have denominated a gathering
of about three hundred long-haired men and short-haired
women, who have assembled to hold a kind of “ witches’
Sabbath.” The people of Vineland held, on 8th August, the
twelfth anniversary of the founding of their town. The
Spiritualists hearing that such an anniversary was to be held,
seized the occasion to hold their annual demonstration. The
Long Branch steamboat brought down to Sandy Hook about
200 of these people, who made connection for Vineland by the
Southern New Jersey Railroad. “ They were the queerist lot
of people I ever saw in my life,” says a reporter of the Nerv
York Herald, who accompanied the party, “ Yet I recognised
all the types of monomania that I have observed for the past
eight years as a journalist among those Spiritualist and
women’s rights advocates in all their conventions and
assemblages from Boston to St. Louis. A lady with short
hair and a face like a nutmeg-grater, stepped up to me on
the forward deck of the boat, and said, ‘ S-i-r, what in the
name of Gee-ho-vah do you think of our mov-e-ment ?’ ‘I
think, madam,’ said I, ‘that it passes a joke.’ ‘A joke I a
joke, sir! ’ said she, with a horrible twist of the mouth,
‘ have you no soul see-em-pathee? Have you no inner con¬
sciousness? Does not the Divine basis of your grovelling
nature soar to a higher and more sidereal sphere—to a
loftier existence? Will you not gather at the river with
us, and join the heavenly band, where all shall be joy and
bliss, and a serenity of unfleshly exuberance.’ No, ma’am,’
I said, * I haven’t got time.’ Think of being shut up with
these people on a narrow boat for an hour and a half—two
hundred of them! Another. lady, with short hair and
dressed in a man’s Sandusky linen duster and a man’s
yellow linen pants and a man’s tie, struck me on the arm
with her fan, the only article of woman’s apparel about her,
and said to me in a whisper—‘ Brother, do you not think that
we shall soon arrive at a state of perfection ? [ Is not this
day a glorious har-binger of our future s-t-a-te?” I was
compelled to answer that I did not know, and that I did not
care a cent if it was. When the Spiritualists got to Vine-
land they held an informal meeting, and the discourses that
were delivered bordered on sheer madness.—John o'Groat
Jownal.
SPIRITUALISM IN AUSTRALIA.
The much enduring credulity of Victorian Spiritualists
has been severely tried lately by spirits breaking down in
their performances in the presence of unbelievers. There is
nothing remarkable in this, but the unconscious admissions
made in accounting for it are amusing. I extract the fol¬
lowing from our Harbinger of Light for July :—
It is a well-known fact that spirits can only communicate through certain
magnetic or electric conditions, and unless these conditions exist, the
spirit is powerless to manifest itself to its friends in the body. In rare
cases the necessary conditions exist in the emanations of one person, but
as a rule it requires the blended emanations of several persons to make up
the necessary aura for the spirits to manifest through. Now, the odic
emanation, or aura, of various individuals will not blend except they are,
at least for the time being, on a similar plane of thought and idea; hence
no benefit is derived by sitting in circle unless all are united in one com¬
mon purpose; indeed, from the proximity of antagonistic spheres there is
less probability of success than there would be if the individuals composing
the circle sat alone.
I should mention that the antagonistic sphere which had
done most mischief was a detective officer, who had been
allowed to make one of a party of investigators invited
to test some phenomena at Castlemaine, which had often
repeated themselves in one favoured family, but unac¬
countably ceased on the visit of the policeman. A sympa¬
thetic inaction followed throughout the country, and the
liveliest circles are still suffering from the shock. Manifesta¬
tions of the new religion among ourselves are of the ordinary
meaningless kind. The footsteps of its angels are heavy with
lifted furniture, and spirit hands play tricks with bells and
accordions and fling about wash-tubs and legs of mutton, as
if the unseen world were peopled with the ghosts of clowns
cut off in the flower of their buffoonery, but permitted still
to inflict it on mortals ready to play pantaloon to them. Too
many of our grave and sober citizens are willing to accept
this humiliating part. They have lately opened a so-called
“ Lyceum ” for the education of the young, in which the re¬
ligious sentiment is starved on the dryest moral platitudfes,
and an incoherent delusion takes up ground which was open
for the foundations of belief.—Times, Sept. 4th.
St. John’s Association of Spiritualists.—A special
meeting of the members of this association was held on the
4th inst., when a revised code of rules was submitted to the
members and approved of. It was announced that Goswell
Hall, 86, Goswell-road, had been engaged by the committee,
and that free public Sunday evening services would be held
there. We understand that these services will commence on
the 21st inst., when Dr. Sexton will deliver an address. Mr.
Monck will occupy the platform on the following Sunday. The
Thursday evening meeting of the Association will be continued
at 7, Corporation-row, but it has not been decided what shape
they shall take.
Winter Lectures.—At the close of a meeting to wel¬
come Mrs. Tappan, reported in another column, a discussion
took place on the subject of public lectures on Spiritualism
during the coming winter. Dr. Sexton said that Spiritual
meetings were much better attended in the provinces than in
London, and people in the country were surprised when he
told them that the Cavendish Rooms would only hold about
200 people, and were seldom full. Mr. Ganney said that it
was always easier both to get halls for public purposes, and
to get large audiences in the country than in London,
because in the former case a few posters and an advertise¬
ment in the local paper made everybody aware of what;
was going on. Advertising in London was more expen¬
sive and gave less results, but a certain return was
always the result of a certain amount of advertising in
London, and could always be calculated upon. Dr. Sexton
said that one advantage of regular Sunday meetings was that
they soon became known, and they required no advertising.
We think that regular Sunday meetings at Dalston and
Brixton would soon become self-supporting. Spiritual meet¬
ings in London were formerly well-attended, and the way to
make them successful once more, is to place them under good
and popular management.
328
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept, 15, 1873.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
At the Liverpool Conference the following resolution
was passed unanimously :—
That this Conference invite its President, Mr. T. Everitt,
also Messrs. J. 0. Luxmore, A. E. Lovell, T. Blyton, A. C.
Swinton, D. H. Wilson, B. Cogman, of London; also Dr. J.
M. Gully, of Malvern; Messrs. Andrew Leighton, J. Chapman,
J. Shepherd, J. Lament, and T. Dimsdale, of Liverpool; Mr.
Charles Blackburn, of Manchester; Dr. G. B. Clark, Edin¬
burgh ; and Mr. J. Brown, of Glasgow, to form themselves
into an executive head, with power to add to their number,
to carry out the objects of the National Association.
Dr. Clark and Mr. Morse, who drew up the resolu¬
tion, in doing so acted upon the suggestion that a few
gentlemen in London, who were known to be willing
and able to give time to work for the good of Spiritual¬
ism, might meet and get through much of the prelimi¬
nary work with expedition, after which they could
greatly enlarge the Council, and submit their plans for
consideration. The names were well chosen, as they
include gentlemen of good business ability, with no
very violent theological or anti-theological views, and
altogether their actions would be likely to be generally
popular and well supported.
At a hurried first meeting of the Council, afterwards
held in Liverpool, between two Conference meetings at
which a great deal of work was done, the Council was
considerably enlarged. The following is the official
report:—
Islington Assembly Rooms, Liverpool, Aug. 7tli, 1873.
A meeting of the gentlemen present in Liverpool, who had
been invited by the conference to form a committee of manage¬
ment for the New National Association of Spiritualists, was held
here this evening—present, Messrs. Shepherd, Lamont, Dims¬
dale, and Chapman, Liverpool; Everitt, London ; Clark, Edin¬
burgh. The Secretary of the Conference reported that they
had not yet received all the accounts, but, as far as he was
aware, he thought the expenses would be defrayed by the sub¬
scriptions. It was resolved that the London members should
be requested to draw up the constitution and laws, and elect
the office-bearers. The following names were added to the
list proposed at the conference:—Messrs. S. C. Hall, N. F.
Dawe, J. T. Taylor, William Howitt, W. Tebb, E. D. Rogers,
J. T. Hoskins, M. Theobald, J. Harper, Mrs. Tebb, and Mrs.
Makdougall Gregory. Mr. Everitt, as president of the con¬
ference, was empowered to call a meeting in London as soon
as convenient, and, if possible, before the 1st October. The
proceedings terminated with a vote of thanks to the chairman.
G. B. Clark, Secretary pro tem.
The above includes one gentleman who cannot attend
to get through preliminary work, namely, Mr. Howitt,
who is on the Continent. Perhaps then it may be best
to form the full Council at once, and the following are
among the ladies and gentlemen whom it will probably
be unanimously agreed ought to be invited to take part
in the work: Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr. C. F. Yarley, Dr. S.
T. Speer, Mrs. Speer, Lady Caithness, Miss Douglas, Miss
Ponder, Mrs. Rudd, Miss Shorter, Mr. Algernon Joy, Mr.
Benjamin Coleman, Sir Charles Isham (Northampton),
Mr. Enmore Jones, Mr. R. Pearce, Mr. C. W. Pearce,
Mr. J. Wason (Liverpool), Mr. Gr. R. Hinde (Darling¬
ton), Mr. Thomas Grant (Maidstone), Mr. Bowman
(Glasgow), Mr. Aaron Franklin (Birmingham), Dr.
Hitchman (Liverpool), and Mr. Beattie (Bristol).
As it stands the Council is a good one, and if en¬
larged as suggested above, the following will be its
composition:—
Messrs. Wallace, Yarley, Luxmoore, Gully, Blackburn,
Wason, Coleman, Howitt, Enmore Jones, Lovell, Blyton,
Swinton, Wilson, Cogman, Joy, Sir Charles Isham, Messrs.
Leighton, Shepherd, Lamont, Chapman, Dimsdale, Dr. Clark,
Dr. Speer, Dr. Hitchman, Mesrss. Grant, Brown, Hinde, Bow¬
man, Harper, Franklin, Hall, Tebb, Dawe, Taylor, Rogers,
Beattie, R. Pearce, Hoskins, C. W. Pearce, Theobald, Lady
Caithness, Miss Douglas, Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Mrs,
Speer, Miss Ponder, Miss Shorter, Mrs. Rudd, and Mrs.
Tebb.
In drawing up the constitution of the Association, it
might be well to study the well-considered rules and
constitution of the British Association for the Advance¬
ment of Science, for it will have analagous work to do;
the constitution of an efficient learned society, say the
Royal Astronomical Society, might also be examined.
Most of the learned societies work well, all their mem¬
bers have due power of voting and expressing their
opinions by ballot, and the power of bringing any dis¬
puted points or real grievance before the whole body,
which then gives its votes under such a fair system,
that the minority cannot well complain of the injustice
of any decision. Therefore, much time and trouble
may be saved, by adopting to a large extent the rules
and regulations of an old established learned society.
Almost the only danger which at the present time
might interfere with the good working of the Associa¬
tion, is the introduction of theological differences, and
the sooner that a resolution is passed that the Associa¬
tion is formed for purely business purposes, and has
nothing to do with theological matters, the better.
Perhaps the Association had better begin with some
very simple easy work, rather than attempt too much
and fail. The encouragement of public lecturing is
much needed. If the Association gave <£1 Is. each
per Sunday evening for four halls in different parts
of London, leaving Spiritualists in each locality to
find lecturers, the benefit would be immense. Local
Spiritualists would get a hall for nothing, and an in¬
come from collections at the doors, leaving but a small
balance to be made up. Under these conditions regular
Sunday evening meetings would be established in Brix-
ton, Dalston, Clerkenwell, and Marylebone, at an As¬
sociation expenditure of .£200 a-year. Dissensions could
not very well arise in the Association in the matter of
hiring halls, since public buildings do not hold rabid
theological or anti-theological opinions. The Associa¬
tion might make grants to assist provincial societies.
Could not the Association begin its work by bringing
Spiritualists together at a soiree, say at the Cannon-
street Hotel, and by giving a public reception thereat
to M. Alexandre Aksakof, of St. Petersburg ?
If the ladies and gentlemen who are upon the
Council, or are likely to be placed upon it, would write
to Mr. T. Everitt, Hendon, N.W., making suggestions
to him, and stating what day, as near to the 1st of
October as possible, would best suit them to attend
the first London meeting of the Council, it would
doubtless aid him very much, and save him much
correspondence.
"We have much pleasure in calling attention to a letter
by Mr. Enmore Jones, in another column, announcing a series
of Spiritual meetings to be held under his management at
the Gower-street Assembly Rooms, and trust that he will be
well supported in the matter by all friends of Spiritualism.
Among- the best books giving elementary information on
Spiritualism are The Rise and Progress of Spiritualism in
England, by Benjamin Coleman (Allen, Ave Maria-lane, Is.);
Concerning Spiritualism, by Gerald Massey (Burns, South¬
ampton-row, W.C., Is.) ; Where are the Dead ? (Simpkin
Marshall and Co., Stationer’s-Hall-court;) and The Detate-
able Land, by the Hon. Robert Dale Owen (Triibner and Co).
The latter work is a standard text-book, and deeply interest¬
ing to general readers as well as to persons inquiring into
Spiritualism,
Sept. 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
329
MRS. CORA L. Y. TAPPAN.
On Friday, September 5th, a meeting, called together by
Mr. Burns, was held at his place of business, 15, Southampton-
row, Holborn, W.C., to welcome Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan, an
American trance medium. Mr. George Sexton, M.D., was
voted into the chair.
Mr. Thomas Shorter said that Spiritualists always desired
to welcome friends who visited them from distant places.
America was the home of freethought, it was the cradle of
modern Spiritualism, and to America England was indebted
for a great impulse to popular liberty, common rights, free
justice, popular suffrage, and other movements which had done
so much to improve modern society. Mrs. Tappan was a cele¬
brated medium; she came to England introduced by “Robert
Dale Owen, one of the foremost advocates of Spiritualism in
America, a man whose judgment could be relied upon, and
whose words were. free from exaggeration. Mrs. Tappan had
visited England before, some twenty years since ; she was then
Miss Cora Scott. He had much pleasure in moving “ That
this meeting extends a warm welcome to Mrs. Cora L. V.
Tappan, and rejoices in the fact that she is desirous of placing
her powers as an inspirational speaker at the service of
Spiritualism.”
This was seconded by the Rev. F. W. Monck.
Mr. Enmore Jones said that years ago he had much
enjoyed the inspirational descriptive poetry of Cora Scott;
for several years he had scarcely taken up an American news¬
paper, but he hoped that she had been going on of late as in her
early days ; he esteemed her for her work’s sake in years
gone by. He attended the meeting in consequence of seeing
the following introduction to English Spiritualists by Mr.
Dale Owen;—
Boston, United States oe Ajieeioa,
April 1873.
I beg to commend to the good offices of my friends in England gene¬
rally, and especially to all who take an interest in Spiritual studies, my
excellent friend, Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, of New York.
We have not, among the women of America, any more enlightened,
more judicious, or more eloquent exponent of the principles of what,
in modern phrase, is termed Spiritualism, than this lady; and I am sure
that those who have thought deeply on the subject will be much gratified
by making her acquaintance.
(Signed) Egbert Dale Owen.
For the reasons he had already mentioned, and in consequence
of the above introduction from Robert Dale Owen, he would
support the resolution.
Miss Hay said that she had recently heard Mrs. Tappan
speak twice in Boston, and was glad to welcome her to
England.
The resolution was passed with acclamation, and the chair¬
man expressed to Mrs. Tappan the hearty welcome accorded
to her by the meeting.
Mrs. Tappan, in reply, said she could hardly express her
feelings, first because she was ill, secondly because words
failed her; neither did she take the welcome personally, for
she had never written or spoken a word which had not been
inspired by spiritual beings. Spiritualism had no country,
nationality, or sect; it chose its mouthpieces wherever they
could be found, and had but one word to give to the world—
“ The Immortality of the Human Soul.” No creeds or theo¬
logies entered its inspired teachings, and it taught that all
were brothers and sisters in the great world of immortal love.
Mrs. Tappan was then entranced, and the controlling spirit
said:—“We too, thank you. The world of spirits is alive, and
anxious for just such utterances as those you have given to
this medium worker ; take care of your mediums, and there
will be no lack of proof of the spirits’ power, and of the im¬
mortality of the human soul. Spiritualism is the science of
sciences, and the solvent of all theologies ; study and investi¬
gation on your part are necessary, but above all, look within
yourselves for an intuitive response to the question of the
reality of immortal life. Unless your own intuitions are
opened, you cannot well understand our teachings. Spiritual
ideas must not be buried beneath worldly cares. Far above
is the temple of spiritual' science, broad as the universe, and
with its foundations in eternal truth. We thank you for en¬
couraging a voice which proclaims that there is no death, and
we shall hereafter address you again through an instrument
which we have feared from childhood.”
Mr. Andrew Leighton, of Liverpool, in commenting upon
one portion of Mrs. Tappan’s address, said that spiritual prin¬
ciples could be put in force in the business of daily life, and
that spirituality in its highest sense, was not necessarily
clouded in the minds of those who had to battle with wordly
cares. There was a great (Leal of true religion in a man
making himself satisfied with his position in the world, and
doing well the work which came nearest to hand. (Applause.)
After a few remarks from Messrs. Slater, Glendenning,
Ganney, Barber, Harper, and others, the meeting closed.
TESTIMONIAL TO JUDGE EDMONDS.
The following letter from Mr. Coleman, proposing
the presentation of a testimonial to Judge J. W. Ed¬
monds, of New York, reached us just before going to
press. Judge Edmonds has done such good work for
Spiritualism that his deeds deserve the recognition of
English Spiritualists; so this matter should be warmly
taken up. It may be hut the beginning of a series of
international compliments. The labours of Mr. Dale
Owen also deserve national recognition.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist S'
Sir,—I know of no man so deserving of the respect of
Spiritualists of all shades of religious opinions as Judge
Edmonds, of New York. His devotion to the cause, and the
sacrifices he has cheerfully made to uphold his convictions
for more than twenty years past, entitle him to all honour.
I beg, therefore, that you will permit me to appeal to the
Spiritualists of England to join me in presenting a suitable
testimonial (to be hereafter decided upon by a committee) to
Judge Edmonds, to mark the high appreciation in which we
hold his character. For this purpose I propose that a uni¬
form sum of 5s. each shall be subscribed and entrusted to me
to carry out (with the assistance of this committee) our
object. Whatever surplus there may be, I will undertake
shall be devoted to some special purpose in furtherance of the
cause of Spiritualism in England.
Those of your contemporaries who approve of this suggestion
will, perhaps, make it known through the columns of their
respective journals. It would save trouble if some one
known in his own neighbourhood would be good enough to
collect subscriptions and forward them to me with the names
of the subscribers. Benjamin Coleman.
1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood, S.E,
The statement in the Medium newspaper that only
twenty people were present at the first meeting of the Liver¬
pool Conference is not reliable. We printed the names of
about forty who were present, and the chief towns and chief
Spiritual societies in the United Kingdom were represented.
These misstatements tend to sacrifice the interests of Spiritual¬
ism to trade interests.
The Special Number oe “The Spiritualist.”—The
gentlemen who bought large quantities of the last number of
The Spiritualist for distribution were—Mr. Enmore Jones,
200 copies ; Sir Charles Isham, Bart., 100; Mr. T. Morris,
100 ; Mr. Me Isaack, 100; “ Fritz,” 100; Dr. Hitchman, 100;
Dr. Richardson, 50; Mr. M. Theobald, 50 ; Dr. S. T. Speer,
50; Mr. M. H. C., 50 ; Mr. T. Swinburne, 25 ; A Friend, 250;
and Mr. Clement Pine, 100. The last two quantities (350)
were posted from the office to leading newspapers and to
leading members of the British Association, the others were
distributed by the purchasers, the total given away being
1,325. Large numbers have also been sold in quantities of less
than a dozen, and copies of the number can now be had only
at full price.
The British Association.—The British Association,
for the Advancement of Science begins its sittings next
Wednesday at Bradford, Yorkshire, when Dr. Carpenter will
attend, and resign the presidency to his successor. The local
building selected for the Anthropological Department is the
Church Institute, consequently the clergy may have an
opportunity of discussing the subject of men and monkeys on
their own premises. Mr. Francis Galton, F.R.S., President of
the Psychological Committee of the Anthropological Institute,
and Dr. William Huggins, F.Rr.S., intend to be present at the
Bradford meeting, so also does Dr. Balfour Stewart, F.R.S.,
who wrote in Nature one of the fairest and most philosophical
articles on Spiritualism ever penned by an unbeliever; he
will be|the guest of Sir Titus Salt, Bart. Professor Tyndall
and Mr. C. F. Yarley are both in Switzerland, but will, prob¬
ably, return to attend the meeting ; indeed, rooms have been
taken at the Yictoria Hotel, Bradford, for Professor Tyndall..
Lodging accommodation for visitors to Bradford is limited
and expensive; for particulars on this head see the Engineer
| of last Friday.
330
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 15, 1873.
THE LOGIC OF THE SPIRIT.*
“ Time was—the brains out—the man would die,
And there an end: but now they rise again,
With twenty horrid murders on their crowns.”
Macbeth.
“ Tell me where is Fancy bred;
Qr in the heart, or in the head'?”
Milton.
OPINIONS OP THE ANCIENTS ABOUT THE HUMAN SOUL.
My friends, I am afraid that after all our trouble and
pains, and the labours and pains of millions of disem¬
bodied spirits, our Spiritualism, as yet, can only be
called a “ speculation,” and if so you, as 1\ enquirers,”
are still on the right side, at least the discreet side, of
this great speculation.
What is the soul, or spirit ? is a question, I think I
may be safe in asserting, which no man or woman has
succeeded in answering to the satisfaction of any party.
It is akin to the question, “What is God?” and per¬
haps, like that, cannot be answered, or does not admit
of an answer, But the speculation should be a plea¬
sure—“ a feast of reason ”—to the students of Logic,
and we will proceed, if you please, with the inquiry.
Of course we must look into the ancients, and see
what they have to say on this subject. They were per¬
plexed, we find, as we are, and expressed themselves
variously.
We are told, in Greece, the cradle both of arts and
errors, and in which the strength and weakness of the
human mind have been so strikingly displayed, men
reasoned as we ourselves do now upon the subject of
the human soul. We have it on the authority of
Yoltaire that the divine Anaxagoras—to whom an altar
was raised—taught that the sun was larger than Pelo¬
ponnesus ; that some snows were black; that the
heavens were composed of stone; and that the soul
was immortal and aerial. This Anaxagoras was a very
noble philosopher : he left his home, like another
Columbus, on voyages of discovery; he was, perhaps,
our first cosmopolitan, for his friends demanding why
he had so little regard for his home, that he left it and
his country, he pointed to heaven, and said that was his
country.
Diogenes, of Babylon, declared that the soul was a
portion of the very substance of God. Epicurus said
the soul had parts like the physical body; and it is
possible that he had, at this early time, seen the mate¬
rialisation of spirit forms, through some medium of
powers analogous to those of Florence Cook and others'.
Aristotle declared that the mind, or understanding of
men, was one and the same thing, or substance; and
Plato, the divine master of the divine Aristotle, and
Socrates, the divine master of both, pronounced the
soul corporeal and eternal.
The most distinguished fathers of the Christian
Church in the early ages held the latter opinion also,
and taught that the human soul, and angels, and even
God Himself, were corporeal, material, and immortal.
Descartes published a logical demonstration that the
soul was the same as thought, as matter is the same
thing as extension; and this, I presume, is the accepted
theory of most logical Spiritualists at the present mo¬
ment. The great logician Locke, after having (to his
own satisfaction, at least) combated and destroyed the
doctrine of “innate” ideas, renounces the belief that
man always thinJcs. He affects to have established,
* Lecture by Hugh. McLeod, M.D., delivered before the D&lston Associa¬
tion of Enquirers into Spiritualism, August 28th, 1878.
beyond dispute, the principle that all we know is
derived to us through the organs of physical sense.
Because of this reasoning he had to fly from England,
as the bigots let loose upon him the ignorant mob—
always at the call of rascal king or rascal priest—with
the cry, “ Locke denies the immortality of the soul!”
“ Locke is opposed to the Church !” &c., &c. But, I
ask, let any unprejudiced person read his great work,
the Human Understandingt carefully through, and they
will soon discover that he was a believer in the ‘pos¬
sibility, at least, of the soul’s immortality, for these
are, in effect, his own words: that there are parts of
matter imperishable and indivisable; that Almighty
God may, whenever He pleases, unite thought to one of
these particles and preserve it for ever. He does not
mean to say that God has actually done this; but he
says that it may be done. It belongs not to us, who
are only of yesterday, to set limits to the power of the
Creator—the Infinite Being—immutable and self-
existent.
The ancient Greeks distinguished three sorts of souls,
if I may be allowed the expression; Psyche, signifying
the sensitive soul—the soul of the senses; and hence we
read of Ion, the son of Aphrodite, and his passion for
Psyche, and that she loved him tenderly. Then
Pneuma, the breath ; though this word is the Latin for
spirit, or ghost, pneumon is also Latin for the lungs,
and when a consumptive has gone the way of “ all
flesh,” we usually write, in certifying his death, that
the immediate cause was pneumonia—meaning that
the subject died for want of breath, literally. It is
this pneuma which gives life and motion to the entire
structure. Then there is Nous, or intelligence, which
resides in the head. Here we have a true “ trinity,”
you will see, a very suggestive matter for orthodox
Christians.
St. Hilary says, there is nothing created which is
not corporeal; neither in heaven nor on the earth;
neither visible nor invisible; all are formed of “ele¬
ments;” and souls, whether they inhabit a body, or are
without a body, have always a corporeal substance.
Gassendi, in his objections to Descartes, says, “ It is
true that you know you think, but you who think know
not of what kind of substance you are: thus, though
the operation of thought is known to you, the principle
of your essence is hidden from you; and you do not
know what is the nature of that substance, one of the
operations of which is to think.” Now, up to the pre¬
sent time, August the 28th, 1873,1 very much question
if our best metaphysicians have got one step in advance
of this assertion of Gassendi.
And thus these men have talked and written con¬
cerning the nature and immortality of the human soul,
some affirming and others denying. But there was no
“ revelation ” in those days; and, indeed, as you have
read, wherever a medium was discovered, he or she
was not suffered to live, and the spirit world was then
much more reticent than now. Besides, it has long
been the opinion of many very advanced Spiritualists
that the spirit or spirit-life of the Spiritual world, the
world of causes, ebbs and flows, according to laws as
mysterious as its own nature; it is an influx or efflux,
and the last great manifestation of the former began,
we are told, in a New York suburb some twenty-six
years ago.
According to some spirit authors who came in with
that advent, we are to believe that spirit is of two kinds,
both, in one form or another, pervading all nature and
Sept. 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
331
space, viz., spirit particled and unparticled; alike in
essence and eternal. But its “ composition 1 may never
be known, as I have already said. I have, believe me,
searched all possible literary “ holes and corners ” for
information on this head, and I have come away
empty-handed.
Now, are there three souls or only one? Is it an
unity or trinity? Was this trinity the origin of the
doctrine of God’s Trinity ?—
1. Psyche—the spirit of the heart and senses.
2. Pneuma—spirit of breath and motion.
3. Noiis—spirit of brain or intelligence.
Do these act singly and independently, or unitedly
and harmoniously ?
These are the queries that are submitted for our re¬
flection. I do not propound them for answer within the
compass of an hour, or of an age.
“ The soul, secure in her existence, smiles
At the drawn dagger, and defies its point!
The stars shall fade away: the sun, himself,
Grow dim with age, and nature sink in years ;
But thou shalt flourish in immortal youth,
Unhurt amidst the war of elements,
The wreck of matter, and the crush of worlds.”
This is her nature—and it is God’s! But whence
came she, and where is she generated, and how ?
” 0 tell me where is Fancy bred—
Or in the heart, or in the head ?”
This Fancy is the animated spirit anyhow, though its
exact anatomy has not yet been described by any one.
So, here we are in the enquiry—what is the nature, and
what are the qualities of the human soul ?
Into what kind of crucible shall we put the soul for
analysis ? I’ll tell you what I am prepared to do, my
friends. Find me the crucible, fitted for such a vast
and delicate operation, and I will promise you a fair, if
not entirely satisfactory, result. We have already to
hand crucibles for all metals, earths, and their com¬
binations ; apparatus for the manufacture, separation,
and condensation of all kinds of liquids, gases, and
vapours. I can collect and show you pure oxygen, as
much like the spirit we are talking of, perhaps, as any¬
thing suggested: for oxygen is by far the most widely
diffused of all the elements. It constitutes one-fifth of
the atmosphere, by weight, eight-ninths of the ocean
and all other waters; one half the solid rocks of the
globe, and, indeed, of every solid substance we see
around us, and more than one half the bodies of all
living animals and plants. It is independent of tem¬
perature, and its activity never ceases, whether rusting
iron in the open air, or blazing in the furnace or oven.
But who ever heard of‘‘intelligent” oxygen ? No one;
therefore it is not spirit, for spirit, if not intelligence
itself, is intelligent. Oxygen does not, of itself, move
solid matter through matters equally solid, or invest
inert material with the power of speech and motion.
It does not appear in the forms of our dear friends
departed; it does not write on paper or slate, and with¬
out human aid; nor will it photograph itself on window-
panes, nor give tests of its personal identity. So we
seek elsewhere. It is a beautiful sight to see phos¬
phorus burning in pure oxygen, and mediums have told
me that this light is something like the light forms of
our spirits, or the spirits of highly progressed men and
women, for the “ visiting angels ” appear to my clair-
voyante above the brightness of the noon-day sun on
the clearest of days. But yet the spirit is not phos¬
phorus, Though, from what I now know; I am con¬
vinced that spirits make use of the preparations of this
substance, in a crude or sublimed state ; and, I think
it may be from some such preparations of our spiritual
chemists, that the spirits of the slain in the late Con¬
tinental war used to photograph those pictures we read
of on the panes of glass in Metz and the villages on the
left bank of the Rhine. But the spirit of man is not,
it would appear, a combination of any of the chemical
elements known to us, and I need hardly rehearse them
further. Electricity has been mentioned as a likely
body for the soul, but it is not so; it is neither elec¬
tricity nor magnetism, nor ether, nor ozone; if it were
the latter, I suppose Western England would be a great
haunt of spirits: but it is not so, the north, in this
respect, being more likely, for it was thither that Shake¬
speare journeyed in order to consult the “ witches.”
Hence his great tragedy of Macbeth.
THE SUBJECTIVE AND OBJECTIVE NATURE OE SPIRITUAL
PHENOMENA.
Some sceptics triumphantly declare that we Spiritul-
ists are all mistaken; for all the phenomena (say they)
are subjective: that we merely manifest to ourselves,
and that the visions of our best mediums are reflections
of themselves, their surroundings, and mortal incidents
—that the rare intellectual manifestations of special
mental lucidity, as in the case of A. J. Davis and others,
are all the results of a transference (somehow con¬
ducted, but they do not say how) from one brain to
another; and the likeness of the materialised spirits to
Miss Cook and other media of the same quality are now
being urged as a proof of this theory. I will allow
those who have seen the materialised forms of the
departed, in the presence of Miss Cook and others, to
defend this position ; all I have to say on the subject
goes to prove that these phenomena are both subjective
(inasmuch as there must be a medium) and objective,
inasmuch as the phenomena I have witnessed are as
much independent of the medium as the water in that
tumbler is of the rolling river Thames of its bed; both
pronounce themselves to me “ water,” though the one
stands still in a vessel of glass and the other rolls along
a bed of gravel. “ It is all electro-biology,” says another,
“and lean make your medium believe what I like, if you
will only permit me to be present when the “ spirit ”
entrances her. I could make her believe that this
tumbler of water is a glass of milk.” I said to an
electro-biologist, ‘‘Come to my house, and you shall see
my medium entranced by the spirit, and if you can do
as you say—make her believe that that glass of water is
a glass of milk, or anything else but what it is—>1 will
never more advocate the claims of Spiritualism.” But
my electro-biological friend never came up to try his
declaration. In fact, your cerebral transfer theory is
unmitigated humbug; and your platform electro-biolo¬
gical manifestations are sometimes, though not always,
a got up—and a badly got up—swindle. Why, true
mediums, such as the “ Sibyl ” whom I will introduce
to you this evening, see, at one time, countless myriads
of spirits—of various forms, of both sexes, of all sorts
of complexion—some as dusky and dark as a certain
theological personage, and others whiter than snow and
far above the brightness of the sun. She has seen
very high and advanced spirits several times, and de¬
clares it is impossible for her to convey to human beings
any notion whatever of their brightness or effulgence.
But it is not at all like sunlight or starlight, or any
other materialised light; nothing like the lime-light or,
332
THE 8PIBITTJALIST.
Sept. 15, 1873.
the magnesium light. It is a great pity that some of
our greatest men of science refuse to give attention to
Spiritualism, because of what they call the “ behaviour
of spirits.” Why does it never strike really clever
people that it may be the fault of the medium and not
the spirit ? This is what is the matter with Professor
Huxley, I understand; but did he not say to a certain
bishop, at Bristol, some time ago, that scientific men
should not be governed by the behaviour of animals—
by likes and dislikes. It is the old thing over again,
—“ The devil can cite scripture for his purpose.”
Then odyle has been mentioned—all ‘^manifestations”
are merely the result of the quantity and quality of
this subtle force ? Are they ? A shallow philosophy
has long endeavoured to condemn everything as super¬
stitious and unreal that was mysterious, that is,—that
was rare, or unusual, or coming in to us from the world
of causes out of the beaten track; but mystery is the
normal aspect of all the phenomena of being. We
seem nowhere able to penetrate far below the surface of
things. I am prepared, however, to say that the spirit
is not odyle—or od-force as it has been called. Beichen-
bach is the first authority on this subject. Many
believe that odyle (which is only another name for
aura, in my opinion) is all the spirit we shall ever find
here, or hereafter; and these think it useless to go
beyond Reichenbach, Gregory, and Ashburner. Cer¬
tainly odyle bears a strong resemblance to the spirit in
several ways. It is distinct from heat, electricity and
magnetism; and I surmise, and I think I am first to
say so, that this odyle is a principal element in the
materialising of spirit-forms. It is always present
when magnetic action is manifest, yet it is often
present when magnetism is absent. Odyle is the agent
exercised in healing the sick by spirit-power, I am
already prepared to affirm.
Man’s entire left side is in odylic opposition to his
right; and, of course, the right hand or foot to the left
hand and foot; but male and female are not qualitatively
different. And thus perfect health is the result, of
perfect odylic equilibrium. The light of odyle can be
concentrated by a lens into a focus, and it may be also,
I have reason to believe, condensed into a plastic
material for the clothing | of the bodies of spirits who
can then be seen by mortals. Thus, anyhow, “ ghosts ”
are, and have been, seen; and the lights seen over graves
in burial grounds are purely odylic, and not spiritual.
DE. M'lEOn’s DEFINITION OP SPIRIT.
I will now attempt to give a definition—or an attempt
at a definition of spirit, after a really laborious and
exhaustive study of the subject, and the nature of the
phenomena of spirit for many years. I must ask you,
however, to allow me to postulate from what I have
already adduced that spirit is a word which represents
or expresses the idea of that part of the human being
which is undying; which from the moment of its indi¬
viduation in the mortal form, becomes an immortal
personality, capable of sustaining itself in death, and
amid all mundane and supra-mundane changes. The
utility, or desirability of living for ever forms no part
of our present enquiry. Euclid, you know, asks you
to grant him one thing, or he cannot proceed, , and that
is his straight line, and that it may be drawn from any
one point to any other point, simply as a basis for his
operations; and I ask you to do no more for me, but
to admit this spirit, and the reasonableness of its dis¬
tinctiveness for all other matters in -what follows:—
if The real man is a spirit
2. Distinct from and independent of matter; but
3. All matter is the expression of spirit.
4. Without spirit matter would be inert; and without matter
spirit would be without the power of expression.
5. The highest type of spirit expression is man.
6. The attributes, and qualities, and powers of his spirit
are boundless ; incomprehensible, in an absolute sense ; pro¬
gressive and eternal.
7. He alone possesses reason, judgment, and memory. His
qualities—love, wisdom, knowledge, will. His powers singu¬
larly his own, unshared by and unlike all other expressions of
nature ; yet the expression of universal nature is to be found
in him!
8. The spirit of man can “ manifest,” as it is called, after
the change called death, to those still in the human world ;
and can take upon itself, in union with the laws of harmony,
to control the living human organisms of other men and
women ; and give, through such media, incontestible proof of
its identity, among other phenomena.
9. Now, no other power or force in nature, with which we
are familiar (or in art either), is capable of such manifesta¬
tions. None of the elements of chemistry, electricity, or
magnetism, or odyle, or of their combinations, so far as scien¬
tific research has extended up to the present moment.
These spirits of i£ departed ” men, women, and
children give proof of their undying nature in innu¬
merable ways, generally by—-
1. Showing themselves to clairvoyant (or clear-sighted) per¬
sons, independently of space or distance.
2. By clairvoyance, and by speaking as with the human
voice.
3. By giving writings through trance or normal mediums,
the character of the writing being, though not uniformly so,
the same as in the earth-life. Also by “direct” means (a
sample of which I present to you now), in secret and locked
cabinets, or under such conditions as no human being could
write.
4. By pronouncing the profoundest, and most learned, and
most scientific discourses in many languages, “ dead and
living,” through unlettered media. Also reading of sealed
letters.
5. By playing upon musical instruments, in the dark and
in the light; sometimes in the most artistic manner, and to
the surprise and satisfaction of the best judges, and without
human instrumentality.
6. Healing the sick without the exhibition of drugs, and at
any distance.
7. By photographing their likenesses, and without the aid
of a^mortal operator (whereby all suspicion of collusion and
imposture are impossible), on window panes, &c., &c.
8. By moving ponderous articles of furniture; carrying per¬
sons in the body from place to place; throwing of stones,
opening and shutting of doors, &c., without human aid, and
as oft in the daylight as dark.
9. By giving independent “ tests ” as to identity, which have
satisfied the most critical minds all over the world.
BELIEVERS IN SPIRITUALISM.
I present yon with, the following great names in tes¬
timony of the foregoing :—
In the Past:—The principal personages in Bible history;
also Zoroaster, Pythagoras, Confucius, Homer, Socrates, Plato,
Aristotle, Demosthenes, Epictetus, Galen, Cicero, Horace, Cato,
Virgil, Pliny, Plutarch, Roger Bacon, Geoffrey Chaucer, Edmund
Spencer, William Shakespeare, Lord Bacon, John Milton, Joseph
Addison, Sir Isaac Newton, Dr. Samuel Johnson, Rev. John
Wesley, Lord Byron, Sir W. Scott, Robert Burns, Thompson,
Beattie, and all the Churches in every age.
In the Present (some of whom are now living in the body):—
Robert Owen, Robert Dale Owen, W. M. Thackeray, Charles
Bell, Robert Chambers, Professor De Morgan, Lord Lindsay,
Dr. Elliotson, Dr. Wilkinson (Garth), Dr. Doherty, Mr. Varley,
Mr. Wallace, Professor Brittain, Professor Hare, Professor
Mapes, Mr. Crookes, and most of the distinguished men and
women in the world of letters on the Continent, and, in short,
in all countries; and in connexion with the principal news¬
papers of the United Kingdom.
The conditions of and for the exhibition of pheno¬
mena are very varied. In this room there is not an
atom of air, or an atom which moves in it that has not
Sept. 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
333
its effect upon us, and as these change and vary so do
we; your conditions change without any volition of
yours, and you change with each breath and pul¬
sation; and we must shape our reflections accord-
ingly. '
Look hack into your past lives, severally, and say,
how much of the old remains with the new! When
the laws of chemical combination, in their relation to
mental and bodily disorders, are understood by the
masses, as well as they are by the educated few, we
shall require no more “ singing pilgrims ” to chaunt
nonsense about “ original sin,” or .the shedding of
blood for the correction of error or the redemption of
men, “ hells of fire and brimstone,” or the curses of the
Gods.
THE DETERMINATION QE ENERGY.
Though all spirit, therefore, in its unparticled essence
is one, the moment it takes upon itself “ form ” it be¬
comes distinctive, assumes character, and is subject
to the laws and phenomena of change. These act and
re-act upon one another by chemical affinity and capil¬
lary attractions resulting in fresh character and new
forms ad infinitum. The unindividuated essence, God,
the great Father, “ in whom there is no variableness or
shadow of turning,” I suppose we must hold exempt
from the conditions and associations which affect us.
But as the stars in the sky, as the flowers of the
garden, or woodland, or forest and desert—as the
animal world, from the hissing serpent to the bounding
steed, differ and present an infinite variety of character,
quality, and form—so does man. Capable of the loftiest
aspirations—able to reach himself up, under proper
conditions, to within sight of the Divine source from
which he inherits his priceless immortality and divinity,
he is, nevertheless, while in this form of flesh, at least
“the creature of circumstances,” cradled in wealth
and glory, or picked up by our police from dunghill or
Cinder-heap!
When, therefore, after this night, my dear immortal
friends, you seek the truth either from halls of science,
or in the quiet of your seance rooms, please to remem¬
ber that all results depend, for their excellence or use¬
fulness, on the conditions you make and the associa¬
tions you form.
The partition which divides us from the Spirit-world
—the world of causes—which I may have the happi¬
ness to explain to you hereafter, is thin as air. You
are, indeed, in the Spirit-world now, and though you
may not see those gone before, my unseen audience far
outnumbers my hearers in the body.
I cannot say much more on this subject to-night, for
time will not permit me; but I will say that I do not
expect to have “carried the house with me” in all
I have advanced; for some persons see much further
and clearer than others. Some have telescopic .eyes,
others microscopic. Conviction of the truth of what
I have said may have reached some of you by spirit
impression, independent of any method of intellectual
labour. The man born blind sees neither sun, nor
moon, nor stars; but though he is blind, he still believes
in the seeing faculties of those around him. The great
difficulty in the way of promoting a belief in the
reasonableness of spirit existence consists in the in¬
ability of our disembodied spirit friends to manifest
themselves to the senses of all men and women alike.
It is well-known that our best mediums, for sundry
very proper reasons, charge a price for the privilege of
investigating the {i Logic of Spirit” through them; but
satisfaction cannot be guaranteed to all men and women
alike, at any price; therefore, the logic of spirit existence
must necessarily fall dead on the ears of some who hear
my words to-night. The half-informed and vain¬
glorious materialist pronounces spirit nothing but either
the effect of material conditions, and, therefore, still
matter, or imposture. A summary way of ending a
debate surely ! But ask your materialist to define you
matter—to give you the “ Logic of Matter ”—he is
obliged to tell you that he knows nothing of matter in an
absolute sense. That is precisely the fix we Spiritualists
are in; of spirit, in an absolute sense, we know nothing.
The astronomer who unfolds to us the harmony
of the stellar universe; who talks to us wondrously
of myriads of planets larger, much larger, and perhaps
of greater importance than our earth ; who dilates on
the laws of motion, of eclipses, and of comets, excites
the multitudes to awe, but never to denial of his state¬
ments—because their ignorance of the subject and edu¬
cational disabilities render it impossible for them either
to understand or receive proof, or evidence, in support
of his theories and mathematical demonstrations. Were
I to lay on this platform to-night the two greatest works
of human thought, viz. Newton's Principia and Euclid's
Elements, to how many persons present would their con¬
tents be a “ dead letter ?” Yet, perhaps, all of you believe
in the facts which gravitation and geometry demon¬
strate. Such facts as these should teach us to be well-
guarded in our expressions towards the revelations of
the new science of Spiritualism, the rudiments of which
we scarcely know at the present moment.
Mr. It. Pearce, Secretary to the St. John’s Association,
writes to us expressing bis pleasure at the formation of the
National Association.
The subscription of £1, announced in our last, as from
“ Miss Edmiston,” should have been “ from Mr. E. Edmi-
ston.’’
An excellent likeness of Mr. Gerald Massey, with long
biographical notice, was published in the Illustrated Review of
Sept. 5th last, price twopence. The office of the Illustrated
Review is in Fleet-street.
, Dr. Richardson, of Australia, now on a visit to
England, was one of the most active leading Spiritualists
in Melbourne. His lecture recently given in the Cavendish
Rooms displayed considerable ability, and was much above the
average quality. Can he not give more of his spare time to
the public advocacy .of Spiritualism in England ?
Spirituad Yision.—We offer a hint to the Spiritualists
in the following fact, which may have escaped their learned
consideration. A student of divinity at Bordeaux, it is said,
was accustomed to rise in the night time and to read and
write without the use of his eyes. The Archbishop of Bor¬
deaux, in order to test the young man, interposed an obstacle
between his eyes and the paper he was reading or writing,
but he read and wrote with the same facility and accuracy as
before.—Court Journal.
The Dalston Association.—Arrangements have been
made for the celebration of the third anniversary of the
establishment of the Dalston Association of Enquirers into
Spiritualism by a meeting of the members and friends, which
will take place this (Monday) evening. The proceedings will
consist of short addresses, vocal and instrumental music, reci¬
tations, and inspection of various objects of interest. Several
well-known Spiritualists have kindly volunteered their ser¬
vices, amongst them being the Misses Florence, Eliza, and
Kate Cook, the Misses Emily and Agnes Maltby, Miss
Georgiana Houghton, Mr. and Mrs. Bassett, Mr. Hy. and
Miss 1VI. A. Sparey, Mr. J. Briley Ortton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tred-
wen, and Mr. J. J. Morse. Mr. Henry W. Howell, mes¬
merist and phrenologist, will deliver an address upon mes¬
merism and clairvoyance before the members of the Associa¬
tion on Thursdy evening, 25th inst..
334
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 15, 1873,
|3oetrg.
“REVEALED TO BABES,”
One autumn eye, ■with rosy sunset gleaming,
O’er the sweet country came a merry sound.
Like joy bells, from a distant churchyard streaming,
Till lured by those sweet laughter notes I found
A group of children keeping merry play time,
CJnsaddened by that crowd of grassy waves,
There gaily sporting, as in fairest May-time,
Like heedless lambs among the mournful graves.
Then pausing by a sunburnt child—full sadly
I said to one I deemed a thoughtless boy,
“ Why do you play among the graves ?—So madly
Shout ’midst the dead ? This is no place for joy.”
“No place for joy!” he said, with looks of wonder;
“ I’m sure, good sir, I always think it be:
There are no dead these pretty hillocks under,
Those once laid here, in airy bands I see.
“ Look in the purple sundown brightly glowing,
Their shining robes are melting from our sight;
And nearer still, through yon dark cypress flowing,
I watch them in the moonstream every night.
“Yes! all around, and Jesus oft beside them,
Stands with calm eyes, ’neath spreading rays of light.
Could anything more cheery, sir, betide them ?
Sure, there’s no cause for grief at such a sight!”
Full oft upon my bed awake, half dreaming,
At night I ponder with suspended breath;
Striving to know apart the truth from seeming
As to the body’s fate in so called death.
And still upon that churchyard scene I ponder
With anxious musings through the quiet night,
Till waking with the early dawn, I wonder,
If after all, the little child was right.
R. A. COX.
^rrespontience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
THE SCHUMANN FESTIVAL IN BONN.
Sir,—It may appear somewhat an intrusion to introduce a
report of a musical festival into your paper, but in thinking
that music, in its higher mission, has close relations to
Spiritualistic influences, my attempt may be understood, the
more so, as Robert Schumann himself was profoundly attached
to its new revelations. The festival originated in the inten¬
tion by Schumann’s admirers to raise a fund for a monument
to adorn the grave of this how very popular composer. The
whole affair, consequently, was a real, pure piece of art devo¬
tion, and the three glorious concerts seemed to me so many
grand seances, the medium, Joseph Joachim, the chief con¬
ductor and intimate friend of the great composer, being
thoroughly inspired. He kept all in perfect harmony, and the
festival, from beginning to the end, was a chain of triumphs
of the genius of Schumann, whose wife, Clara Schumann, was
received by the rising of the whole audience, and waving hats
and handkerchiefs. The delightful symphonies and the truly
etherial composition to Moore’s “Paradise and Peri” (under
V. Wasielewsky’s conductorship), likewise the selection of
chamber music and songs, electrified the audience, and on
many faces the expression of “ receiving glimpses of a
brighter land” might have been traced. The exclamations
after each concert were quite unusual. Instead of “How nice
a concert ! ”—“ What a good petformance! ”— we heard,
“Such a wonderfully poetic composer!”—“What pure
heavenly ideas ! ” &c. I think such critical remarks stand far
above the ordinary newspaper style, and must gratify the
conductor more than any other mode of expression. In con¬
clusion, the most careful preparations and the devotion of
Joachim were, so to say, met half way from “the other side,”
so we enjoyed a treat which stood outside the control of human
skill—in fact, we had something not unlike a manifestation.
Cheistian Reimers.
Beme, Switzerland, August 26th, 1873.
FORTHCOMING SPIRITUALISTIC MEETINGS.
Sir,—There is a haziness in the public mind as to what
Spiritualism really is. That which many thousands of edu¬
cated persons believe when expressed in another phraseology,
is disbelieved when put in plain words, and the meaning of
those words made clear. There is nothing antagonistic to
science or the Christian religion in the principles developed
by and embodied in the word Spiritualism. “ That which is ”
cannot be at variance with either science or true religion.
On Wednesday, the 17th of September, at half-past seven
o’clock, the first of four weekly meetings will be held at
Gower-street Assembly Rooms (145), they being convenient
for those residing near the Metropolitan Railway stations.
The subject to be discussed at that meeting will be “ The
Phenomenal Phases of Spirit-power.” The Rev. P. Monck,
of Bristol, will lead off with a short speech or lecture, to be
followed by other speakers conversant with the subject.
Objections may be made. On the following Wednesday, the
24th, Dr. Sexton (recently an opponent to Spiritualism), will
give a short lecture, the subject “ Spirits.” Doubtless to
Christians and non-Christians knowledge will be given on
which we can base thought. J. Enmore Jones.
Enmore-park, Norwood.
A SEANCE AT LIVERPOOL.
Sir,—Knowing that you are collecting facts concerning
spirit intercourse, I send you an account of a most wonder¬
ful seance held at our house, 85, Islington, Liverpool, on
Friday evening, August the 8th. Our kind friends Mrs.
Everitt and Rev. F. Monck, both of them good mediums,
offered to give us a sitting, so we commenced in the usual
way with singing and prayer, after which the spirits chose
some appropriate portions of Scripture to be read. Our in¬
visible friends then commenced giving us a series of raps in
all parts of the room, and a conversation of some length was
carried on.
I must here say that our party numbered fifteen, all inti¬
mate friends. At the beginning of the seanee, Nippy, one of
Mrs. Everitt’s spirit friends, raised up the table-cloth from
beneath with his materialised hand, and each person present
felt his fingers distinctly through the cloth, in the light. We
then lowered the gas and sang again, when we had quite a
shower of lights, varying in size. We carried on a conversa¬
tion with the lights, which signalled answers in the usual way,
each spirit claiming some friend by the light passing towards
him. Three flashes were given quickly for “ Yes,” and one
for p No.” The lights were wonderful phenomena of them¬
selves. We next had cool breezes laden with perfumes.
Mrs. Everitt now became very deeply entranced, and the
spirit “ Nippy” came and talked a little in the direct spirit
voice. Afterwards, John Watt came and carried on an intel¬
ligent conversation for a full hour, repeatedly tapping the
ceiling and walls while speaking. He held a conversation of
some length with Dr. Hitchman and Mr. Monck, which was
very interesting. During the time John was talking to us
direct, an old friend of mine who had materialised herself
at the commencement of the seance, and who had been,
described clairvoyantly by Mrs. Everitt, kept patting my face,
and I carried on a conversation with her. John Watt now
said that as his medium had been so long in trance, he would
go, and let her come back to see what was going on. He
then bade us all good-night. Mrs. Everitt then came to her¬
self, saying she was quite refreshed by the long quiet sleep.
We commenced singing again, and Mr. Monck was lifted,
chair and all, into the air, after which his boots were pulled
off and thrown to the other end of the room. He then was
entranced by the spirit “ Sam,” who asked that an accordion
which Dr. Hitchman had brought should be tied tightly with
string, so that it could not be pulled open. It was accord¬
ingly tied with strong twine passed about eight Jfcimes round.
The spirit then played it quite melodiously on each of our
shoulders, the string remaining firmly bound on. it the whole
time. “ Sam” next asked for his medium to be bound to a
chair. Three of our circle bound him tightly and securely,
all of us examining the tying. We began to sing, and in
four seconds the medium was released, and among us; the
rope was found under the sofa, tied and knotted in such an
intricate way that it will take twenty minutes for an ordinary
mortal to undo it. Thus ended one of the most convincing
seances 1 ever witnessed; and I here publicly thank our kind
visitors, Mr. and Mrs. Everitt, and the Rev. F, Monck, for
the benefit of their mediumship, and the pleasure of their
company. The following is a list of the friends who com¬
posed our circle:—Dr. Hitchman, Rev. F. Monck (Bristol),
Mr. and Mrs. Everitt (London), Mr. and Mrs. Easson, Mr.
John Lament, Mrs. Butterfield (Darlington), Mrs. Shaw, Mr.
Chapman, Mr. and Miss Shepherd, Mr. Weightman, Mr.
Archibald Lament, and myself, Lucy Ann Lamont.
85, Islington, Liverpool.
Sept. 15, 1873.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
335
A. PROPHETIC DREAM.
Sib,—I observed in your paper of 15th June an account of
a singular dream about the Chester Cup. I remember a some¬
what similar circumstance in connection with the same race.
A Mr. B. dreamt that Beeswing would win the Cup in 1867,
some time before the names of the horses entered in the race
were known; indeed, before the time of receiving entries had
expired. Some of my friends accepted what I ridiculed as a
prophecy, and “ backed ” Squire Heathcote’s mare to win
with very long odds in their favour. Even when I discovered
that Beeswing was entered for the race, and she became a
favourite, I was equally sceptical of her chances. But she
did win, and easily too. William Allen.
62, St. James’s-road, N.
ROBERT SCHUMANN’S MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—In reading in The Spiritualist of July 15th the
article, “ Robert Schumann a Medium,” I feel the time I
spent in Dusseldorf with this great master vividly recalled to
my mind. Being now on my way with several others of his
nearer friends, to the festival to his honour and memory (the
erection of a monument being the object), I find naturally
my thoughts tending in that direction, and a few lines may
therefore be appropriate. I firmly believe, that fears of-a
sudden giving way of his mind had been entertained by his
most intimate friends long before the sad catastrophe ; and
when the exciting table moving and tipping touched his en¬
thusiastic mind, no doubt the derangement may have been
hastened, but not, as it appears from the article, so much
by the manifestations as by the cruel, merciless opposition
and sneers of the unbelievers—in short, the total cutting off
of sympathy. When A. von Humboldt spoke the word, con¬
demning Spiritualism, the host of professors, savans, &c.
thundered forth their indignation, and the innocent witnesses
of undeniable facts were branded and insulted. So poor
Schumann was left alone in the midst of wonders ; there was
no outlet for his overflowing heart to restore balance of mind.
•If he had been surrounded by friends, equally interested in
the cause, I very much doubt whether his shaken mind would
have bent at last under outspoken insanity. I was nearly
two years with him in Dusseldorf, and accompanied him in
his morning promenade almost daily. His wonderful dreamy
nature and inner life were characterised by constant silence.
Now and then he would stop and listen with almost childish
delight to the song of a nightingale, and searching among the
branches, exclaim, “ There is the little sweet artist 1 ”
When he was in the Asylum (near Bonn) no friend was per¬
mitted to see him, and consequently his servant had to walk
with him in early hours. I once met him on these lonely
promenades quite unawares, and retreated behind a tree, and
after a time casting a glance, a farewell to my beloved master,
saw him still standing turned towards me in the same posi¬
tion. He, the madman, recognised me—and I never forgot
that last sad moment, that last look. If I had known then of
Spiritualism, what I have learnt of late, I should have walked
up to him, spoken, and the blackest clouds of insanity might
have been dispelled, and I might have beheld once more the
poetical artist, the enthusiastic dreamer, ever ready to receive
and give glimpses of a brighter land. Not that I would be
understood to believe his insanity to be the result of a mistake
made by his medical advisers, the traces of bodily derange¬
ment being evident, but the signs of “ the terrible malady ”
my friend Yon Wasielewsky speaks of are to me now partly
explained as the signs of a “ terrible ignorance ” about Spirit¬
ualism at that time (and, alas, still) prevailing among all
classes of people. Christian Reimers.
Manchester, July 27,1873.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
Sib,—At the meeting of my council held here yesterday
(Thursday) evening, the following resolution was passed—viz.
“ That the warmest thanks of the Council be unanimously
accorded to Mr. William H. Harrison for the able manner in
which he represented the Association on the occasion of the
National Conference in Liverpool.”
In conveying the foregoing resolution to you, it affords me
much pleasure to see that at last it has been decided to esta¬
blish a “ representative ” National Association of Spiritualists,
—and many will with me undoubtedly wish it every success.
Thomas Bltton, Sec.
74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London,
Aug. 15,1873.
THE LIYERPOOL CONFERENCE.
(Concluded.)
The more important business of the Liverpool Conference
was published in No. 58 of The Spiritualist. At the con¬
cluding sittings, the chief subjects considered were the influ¬
ence of localities and of food upon mediumship. Mr. Morse,
trance medium, told how, in taking a short cut one afternoon
through a very low neighbourhood in Bethnal-green, some
low spirits tried hard to get control over him, and they made
him very ill for several days, which statement was confirmed
by Mr. Burns. A medium from Darlington told how he lived
for a time wholly upon vegetable food ; for a period he was
all the better for it, but then became so extremely sensitive
to spiritual influence that he began to eat pork, although he
did not like it, to regain the full power of doing his work in
the material world.
An answer to the question—“How are the spirits?” is
given by Judy :—“ They are rappier than ever 1 ”
Mrs. Andrews.—Miss Hay informs us that Mrs. An¬
drews, the celebrated American medium, is about thirty years
of age, and very good looking, but is utterly uneducated, and
has a strong aversion to learning anything. She was born in
Ireland, and emigrated to America in her younger days. Mrs.
Andrews is excessively jealous of other mediums, and argued
that even Miss Hay’s drawing mediumship was due in some
way to the psychological powers possessed by herself (Mrs.
Andrews). Miss Hay never heard that in the early stages of
the development of the powers of Mrs. Andrews, the first
spirit faces which came bore any resemblance to the face of
the medium. The great feature of Mrs. Andrews’s medium-
ship is that departed friends of the visitors make themselves
visible, to the extent sometimes of seven or eight at a single
seance. Mrs. Andrews is awake, and not entranced, while the
manifestations are going on.
Spiritualism in the Cannibal Islands.—Mr. Peebles
writes—“ The Fiji group of Pacific islands, numbering over
two hundred, sighted by Captain Cook, and discovered by the
navigator Tasman, has recently become somewhat famous
with Englishmen, because of its cotton-planting advantages.
The climate is tropical. Naviti Levu is the most populous of
the isles, and Thakombau, a native, six feet high, and kingly
in bearing, is the most influential of the chiefs. Levuka,
though having few natural advantages, is the principal com¬
mercial mart. Cotton, sugar, and coffee planters do well.
Cocoanuts are abundant, and some wool is exported. The
Ramie plant, or China grass, samples of which I remember to
have seen in New Orleans, grows finely in these islands. Can¬
nibalism was practised here till 1854. What Americans there
are here, were originally from the Southern States. White
men are in possession of three hundred and fifty thousand
acres of these cotton and coffee-growing lands. In a recent
copy of the Fiji Times, I find a laboured article under this
heading, Spiritualism in Fiji. The writer, after speaking of
the natives as ‘ low and depraved in the moral scale,’ assures
us that ‘ low and brutal ’ as they are, they ‘ believe in a future
state of existence, in apparitions and the efficacy of charms,’
their ‘ prophets profess to talk with the dead, and they cure
by striking the deceased part with the hand.’ This writer,
treating of Spiritualism among the European residents, says
there is a ‘ deep interest among the more thoughtful of our
citizens upon this important subject. . . . Those who believe
affirm that the phenomena throw new light upon the scrip¬
tures, as well as demonstrate immortality.’ There is a ‘ want
among us,’ he further says, ‘ of a good test medium.’ ”
IBYL, Seeress, Clairvoyante, and Test Medium, 53,
Great Ooram-street, Russell-square, W.O. Hours—12 till 6. Terms
—5s. each, person.
DR. HUGH MCLEOD acts in conjunction with SIBYL for the Treat¬
ment and Cure of Disease, at the above address. Terms, for consultation, 5s.
Visits, to any part of London, 10s.
MESMERISM AND OLAIRVOYANOE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDLER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—19, Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy-
square.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s
Conduit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings,
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
336
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sim., 15,. 1873.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands' of 'volumes and not a few periodicals.
The.London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual' phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. Gt. Atkinson, Esq., F.GKS., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
, Esq., O.E.; H. R. Pox Bourne, Esq.Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G-. Penton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D." D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.;; Robert,Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillieri Esq.; Mrs. 'J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice', Esq.; Isaac'L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
'Robert Quelch, Esq.y’C.E.'; Thomas Reed, Esq.; 0. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Yolckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans, Esq. *
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to jae invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Pox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
WOliam B. Gower, Esq. ;'»H. D. Jencken, Esq.,'Barrister-at-law ; J. H Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, rEsq., Soheitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., P.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for. two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this. Committee reported:—
“1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture,- the floor and -walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—.
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con-
rivance.
“2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact dr connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movementswof ten occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present/and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer'questions and spelliout'coherent communications. .
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously aVoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were'members ’ of the1 committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception,- and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’ . ,
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist Vr professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
■ sitters.' One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household, j
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that no.body shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circl'e.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five/or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. . Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
;just large enough to conveniently accommodate the'sitters. The removal
• of a hand from the table for a few. seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by , leayihg the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations. ■
3. Before the sitting begins, plaice': some'pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table,' to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; lit is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members-of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits'to'get hear.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The firht manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
• 7. When motions of the' table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk- to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell. the.table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means. “ No,” and two meani“.Doubtful,’’ and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer,'then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter yOu want, and spell us.out a message?-” I Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
systbm*lof‘'communication is Established.
8.-> After wards the., question should be put, “ Are we sitting in the right
order to. get’the'best‘manifestations?” Probably'-some members of the
circle will then b'E tbld^to change seats'with each 'other! and-the'signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is'the medium?”- When
spirits come asserting theinselves.to be.related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be.put to test' the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have’ all’ the virtues'and -alTthe failings of spirits
in the body.
. .9. A powerful.physical,mediugi,istjisjjally a person of.an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to' mesiheric influences.
The majority of media are ladies. ‘ -
;The'best manifestationsvareifobtained-whqnttbe medium and all,the
members .of the circle'(are. strongly bound together by the 'affeStiohs/and
are thoroughly c6mfQrtable'afidrhappy; the manifestations are born of "the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the'ldwer‘mental'infiumces'of earth.
Family circles, with no'strangers present, are usually the best.^ .
Possibly at the first bitting (ofi a circle, symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their' appeRrance. - •- - ■ ,
British national insurance corporation.
LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STERLING.
Head Ojffcei.-BRO WN STREET And MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
FIRE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates
Bonus Returns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Renewed Premiums;
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora^
tion as security for thaPoor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.O.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities.
W RUSSELL, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, &c.,
• 238, STAFFORD-STREET, WALSALL. The Spiritualist and
other,Spiritual Publications kept on sale. Bookbinding in all its branches
at London Prices. Machine Ruling with accuracy and despatch. Sta¬
tionery—Superfine Note, 6d. per quarter ream; ditto Envelopes, IJd. per
packet, 4s. 6d. per 1,000. Albums, scraps, ladies’ satchels, &c., in great
variety. Printing.—W. R. haying entered into partnership with Mr.
Cooper in the printing department, is prepared to execute orders at a few
hours’ notice. Taste and Style guaranteed. I Fifty Visiting cards (without
expense of plate) 2s.; per post 2s. 2d. Country Orders promptly attended to.
TO OWNERS OF HOUSE PROPERTY.
E. BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
11, PARK GROVE, SHEPHERD’S LANE, BRIXTON,
ESPECTFULLY solicits the patronage of Owners of
House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixton
Road, and near the Railway Station—offering special facilities for the
prompt letting of Houses of every description.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS. —Handsomely-printed Blue
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion, may be obtained in packets, each containing 400, price 2s. 6d. per
packet. They are especially useful for distribution at public meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, reading-rooms, clubs, and places of
public resort.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, London, E.O.
LUNACY LAW REFORM.
ALL PERSONS cognisant of cases of INCARCERATION,
under a false plea of Insanity, or. of MALTREATMENT OF
LUNATICS, or who are ready to co-operate in obtaining AMENDMENT
OF THE LUNACY LAWS, are earnestly requested to communicate with
MRS. LOUISA LOWE,
97, BURTON ROAD, BRIXTON.
The following Extract from, the “Act to.A,mend the Law relating to Luna¬
tics ” is a fair specimen of Lunacy Legislation :—
“ It shall be lawful for the Proprietor or Superintendent of any licensed
house with the previous assent in writing, of. two or more of.the Commis¬
sioners, or in the Case of a House licensed by Justices, of two or more of
the Visitors to entertain and keep in such house as a Boarder for such time as
may be specified in a«e«<, any person .who may have been within Five
Years immediately preceding the giving of such assent, a Patient in any
asylum, hospital, or licensed house, or under care as a Single Patient.”—ib
& 26 Viet., ch. iii., ‘sec. 18. , .
Crown Svo.'pp. 126, Cloth 2s. 6d.
HINTS for the “EVIDENCES of SPIRITUALISM.”
By M.P.
London: Triibner andCq., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULL WOOD’BARENTS, HOLBORN, W.Ci,, .
Respectfully announce that tbey execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application..
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Go,, at-;the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in'.the (Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and; St. George Hhe" MartywLohdcn, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Mari8r],ane, London, E;C. .v .vi
