Registered as a Newspaper.]
Oc #tb£st Jfftospapr ronmd^b' foiifj SpintM^Ixsnt m (&xmi ^nlahr.
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : it, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque, 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG : 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME : Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON :
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 248.—(VOL. X.—No. 21.) LONDON : DRIDAYj MAY 25j 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
Stmday Services in Spiritualism  241
Canon Gilbert’s Attacks upon Spiritualism 241
Immortality. By Epes Sargent. (Poetry.) 242
Spirit Messages in Languages Unknown to the Medium.
By the Late J. W. Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme
Court of New York 242
The Psychological Society of Great Britain:—A Death
Warning—The Criticising of a Psychological Paper-
Curious Psychological Phenomena 244
What Wong Ching Poo, the Heathen, said to the Theoso-
phists   245
The Fire Test in India. By Frederica Showers 246
Dr. Slade’s Offer to Professor Lankester 246
A Buddhist’s Opinions of the Spiritual States. By Baboo
Peary Chand Mittra     ... 246
Spiritualism in South Africa  247
Spirit Forms 247
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Form Mani¬
festations—New Facts in Relation to Form Manifesta¬
tions—The Human “Double”—Form Manifestations
in Newcastle—Miscellaneous Problems 247
Correspondence:—About a Salt of Iron—Vegetable Diet-
Healing Mediumship — Swedenborgianism versus
Spiritualism—Form Manifestations 249
A Seance with Mr. Fletcher. By Charles Carleton Massey 251
Spiritualism in Foreign Countries. By Emily Kislingbury
and 0. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci 252
Paragraphs:—The National Association of Spiritualists,
243; A Trance Address at Mrs. Weldon’s Meetings,
243 ; Canon Gilbert's Sermons on Spiritualism, 246;
A Mesmeric Theory of Consecration, 246; A New
Book by Mr. A. R. Wallace, 247 ; Gods and Forces,
251; A Disreputable Trick   251
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburh Street.
THE HEADING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one took from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, and also of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers have been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained through any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869,
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-A- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual-
is'.s in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
CaithnessHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy. Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. 0. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. JohnE. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood: Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the‘‘Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. 0.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London”; Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.RG.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I.. Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.O.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.: Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Cxley; Miss Kisling-
hury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
to the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Oorso. Naples: Briiish Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russoll-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should he addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C,
April, 1877-
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loushborough-hoad-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &o , apply
to—
H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
Just published, in crown 8vo, price 5s. cloth.
Mesmerism, spiritualism, &c., His¬
torically and Scientifically Considered. By William
B. Carpenter, O.B., M.D., LL.D., F.R.S.
London: LONGMANS & CO.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.l
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
Just published, price 7s. 6d.
THE RELIGION OF JESUS compared with
THE CHRISTIANITY OF TO-DAY. By Frederick
A. Binney.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Baal, East-street; Mr.
Elmer, St, James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-
road.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
tho instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the. rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. Tho peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : Colby and Rich. London Spirit¬
ualist Office,
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists
President.
HENRY D. JENOKSN, ESQ., M.R.I.
(Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and. Codification of
the Law of Nations.)'
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
COUNCIL.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts aflecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The Inst Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special stances with professional media, lectures, discus*
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have’the privilege of attending, the vublic seances ot
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. Ail the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines aro
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “for
ormation of circles and conduct of seances," and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary. . ■
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payablein advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
EASTLONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Thursdays at eight Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and stance, 5s. 6d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
Leigh spiritualists* association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
■OIRKBECK BANK—Established 1851.—
1 ^ 29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on tho minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may he had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
HATCHARD’S DUPLEX FUNERAL CARS
(Used open or closed), Silver-mounted, Violet or Oak Panels,
Plated Harness, &e.
Inventors, Patentees and Builders,
S. HATCHARD & CO.,
FUNERAL FURNISHERS, &C.
Chief Office:—
47, CRAWFORD ST., BRYANSTON SQ., W.
Funerals conducted in accordance with the views of Spirit¬
ualists. Coloured Palls supplied. Personal attendance at any
address on receipt of letter or telegram.
Publishing Office: 13, Red Lion-court, Fleet-street,
London, E.O.
THE AMATEUR WORLD.—A monthly
journal devoted to non-professional literature, drama,
music, sports, &c. Chas. L. Wellsden, Editor and Proprietor,
1, Castlodiao-roaJ, Anerley, S.E,
11
THE SPIBITUALIST,
May 25, 1877,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Colder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square.'West Brompton, S .W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place, W.
llogers, E. D., Kose-villa, Church-end, Finchley,N.W
Smith, Martin it., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason. James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armflcld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd.,New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Kiehmond Hill,
iilnney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Bev. Thos., 11, Belle vue-terrace, Southsea. Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.I)., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adeiphi, W.C.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd,’J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Beading.
Edmands, T. H., 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, B., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald,DesmondG., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd,North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., 4, Castledlne-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Bochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-strcet, Leeds.
Humphreys, II. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-strect, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell. Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mis., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Bev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Begent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Bichard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Beimers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Bogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Bose-villa. Church-end, Finchley, N.
Straw-bridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Kedcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge,Mrs. G. N., 84, Bedclifle-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald,- Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, B. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Bandolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W. ‘
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wflson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Poste Bestante, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin It. Smith, Esq., Hcathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W..
Auditors.
Mr. J. E. Andre. Mr. H. Cook.' Mr. Morell Theobald.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Antheime Fritz, President de 1’Union, 07, Bue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Bue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Bue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O'Sullivan,Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain B. F. Burton, F.B.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. B. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S., Bosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Bich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Bue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. B. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Bue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—S. Pride, Esq.,
8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane. Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Bue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H.E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spin-ter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid, Presi¬
dent—F.1 Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad Espirita Central de la Bepublica Mexicana President—
Senor Befugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OE SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1877.
President.—"William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
• Vice-President.—John Priest, Esq.
Secretary.—Mr. Samuel Pride, 8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane,
Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Auditors.—Mr. Charlton and Mr. Chatham.
Trustees.—Mr Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Chapman, and
James Wason, Esq.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. Ainsworth, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs. Nos¬
worthy, Mrs. Wharmby, Mr. Ainsworth, Mr. Casson, Mr.
Davies, Mr. Foden, Mr. Fowler. Mr. Jones, Mr. A. Lament,
Mr. J. Lamont, Mr. Norris, Mr. Richard Nosworthy, and
Mr. Wharmby.
HE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
January, 1877.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile do Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de TEmpereur Bussie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Eassim Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Bue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaaof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Plnneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Lake George, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Boi de Borne, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britien, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Biko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Bev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wm-zburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.”
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, "Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
11. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. II. Gledstanes;Esq., Merignac, Gironde, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq . 2. Rue de Bocroi. Paris.
Bov. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDENTI¬
CAL WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane. E.O.; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d, each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT ? The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
T> EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
JZVi logiquos, fondfe par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
lyrRS.. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctually. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 3 p.m.
aro discontinued, but Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &c.
Established seven years. Residence, 15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St Honord,
Paris.
MR. AND MRS. GEO. EVERETT, 22,
Woburn-place, Russell-square, W.O. Exhibitions of
“Everettism” every evening. Private exhibitions may be
arranged.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER, Clairvoyant and
Trance Medium, No. 14, Southampton-row. Seances
attended at residence if desired. At home 11 to 5.
iMURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (thirty years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at
his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hil), Kensington.
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Speaker,
• will deliver Orations and Poems to public or
private audiences in any part of the United Kingdom. For all
pariiculars address to him at Eagle House, 14, Sillwood-road,
Brighton.
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
Brighton. — apartments, pleasant
rooms, may be had, on moderate terms, at the house of
a Spiritualist, close to the sea, and near the Aquarium, Chain
Pier, Pavilion, &c. Address, “Spiritualist,” 18. Atlingworth-
street, Marine Parade.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance.
Manages,—Mbs. A. O. Burke
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for¬
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Hardison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, "W.Q
Volume Tej^. Kumber Twenty-ojme.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MAY 2Bth, 1877.
SUNDAY SERVICES IN SPIRITUALISM. |
The rate of progress of Spiritualism in the provinces has j j
been increased in several towns by means of regular Sunday j
services, and the question may well be raised why some j |
should not be started in London. The last which were j
carried on in the metropolis with any success were those at |
the Cleveland Hall, in which Mrs. Honywood took such am j j
active and creditable part; the admission was free, there were j;
collections at the doors, the moderate balance of expenses | j
was covered by subscriptions, and a variety of speakers | j
occupied the platform. The next attempt failed, partly j
because free admission was prohibited, and the English jv
public will not tolerate enforced payments for admission to | j
religious services ; another source of failure was that the j
same speaker was engaged night after night, till the listeners j
were wearied by the sameness ; a third source of failure was j
that normal speakers were shut out, and that the expenses j
were heavy because every meeting was carried on under the j
auspices of a paid speaker. The success of the Sunday |
services at Liverpool for so many years has been due to the {|
alternation of good normal with good trance addresses ; the j j
former being delivered free of charge considerably lightened | j
each expenses of the meetings. In some respects trance !
addresses are not equal in quality and interest to those |
delivered in the normal state by intelligent and cultured j
men and women; but trance addresses are sometimes j
superior in ideality. Several intelligent Spiritualists would j
give Sunday evening addresses if invited. Mr. D. H. |
Wilson, who is now on his way back to London from j |
Biarritz, once offered to deliver one; Dr. Maurice Davies, j
Mrs. Lowe, and others, might be invited to do the same; j J
sometimes Mr. Morse and Mr. Colville might be engaged to j |
give trance addresses. Collections at the doors would more j
than clear the expenses, because now London Spiritualists j
can accommodate a good audience on their own premises |
without going to the expense of hiring a hall. At present j j
metropolitan Spiritualists attend the church of Mr. Haweis j
more than any other, there being no Sunday discourses in j
connection with Spiritualism at all approaching his in j
quality ; still, we have all the materials among ourselves for !
good Sunday services : why should they not be used ? j
CANON GILBERT’S ATTACKS UPON SPIRITUALISM. I
On Whit-Sunday, Canon Gilbert continued his exaggerated j
and unfounded assertions about Spiritualism. He endorsed the I j
imposture theory of physical manifestations at seances, and !
added that an indispensable condition for forming a true j (
judgment on Spiritualism was an intimate knowledge of the j /
delusions which take place as to the supposed manifestations |
of spirits, which are simply the result of morbidity of brain j \
and nerve. He instanced as an undeniable psychological fact, |
that in madness people have the strangest delusions of j
hearing and seeing persons who have no existence but in j
the diseased brain of the sufferer. Apart from madness, I
when the brain is abnormally excited, either constitutionally !
or from over work, or from the influence of alcohol or nar- |
cotics, oftentimes the strangest delusions as to spirit mani- j
festations occur. He himself had known cases of persons !
who were fully convinced that they were visited and tor- j
mented by the evil one, and that spirits floated about their j
room ; as soon as the brain returned to a healthy tone, the !
visions ceased. He gave a number of instances in confirma- I
tion of this, and said he could entertain them for days with \ j
similar ones, taken from medical books and the experience |
of the Catholic Church. As these delusions occurred to per- j j
sons who were thoroughly good and honest, that none might j
be deceived, he gave the tests that an intelligent Catholic !
would use to ascertain whether the spirit communication |
was real or the delusion of an hysterical constitution, ! <
1st. It would have to be shown that the manifestations did not take plaoe
by trickery or legerdemain.
2nd. That there was no morbidity about the brain or nerves of the person,
which would account for delusions, and this would have to be attested by
doctors.
3rd. Witnesses, favourable and unfavourable, who could attest the manifes¬
tation, would be examined.
4th. That there should be some good reasons for the manifestations.
5th. That there should be nothing unworthy of God or the spirits in the
manifestations which take place.
6th. That the supposed favoured person should not speak of, much less
publish, without grave necessity the spirit manifestations.
7th. A crucial test would be that the persons advanced in goodness and
humility, in proportion to the spirit manifestations received.
These tests might extend over some months or more. In
this way for the one who was pronounced to have real spirit
manifestations, a score would be declared victims of delu¬
sion. But there was stricter scrutiny than this. When
persons began to have a reputation for spirit manifestations,
and the case was considered sufficiently important, a com¬
mission composed of clerics and laymen, including doctors
and experts, would examine the person with the utmost
scrutiny, by the tests already laid down, and here, also, for
each one declared to be favoured by God, numbers would be
pronounced visionaries. To show the caution which the
Catholic Church uses to discover true manifestations from
the spirit-world, the very rev. gentleman narrated how the
holy office examined one case for three years, and then did
not give a complete judgment. He went on to show that
caution still greater than this is sometimes used. For the
beatification of a saint four miracles were required, and two
for canonisation. These were examined into by the Congre¬
gation of Rites, a body of men composed of experts and
scientific persons, who for intelligence would compare to a
jury in this country composed of judges and barristers. The
miracles must be attested by eye-witnesses—not ear-witnesses.
From what they knew of God and the spirits as revealed in the
Bible, was it not contrary to that revelation that spirits
should be able to come at the beck and call of everybody, to
talk the ridiculous nonsense and the childish frivolities which
they are narrated to have uttered ? Would it not be a strong
argument against the providence of God, if, as Spiritualists
assert, lying spirits were allowed to appear who contradict
revelation, and try to lead people to their ruin ? What they
knew of the state of spirits and their punishments and
rewards in the next world, was utterly repugnant to the
view that immortal beings like the spirits would come and
play with them, pinch their legs, pull their beards and tickle
their chins, &c. Was it not subversive of all they knew of the
occupation of spirits that when persons were unwilling to pay
for a concert the spirits would attend and play any number of
instruments for them gratuitously, and even break the banjos
over their heads ?
Let Spiritualists give up their dark seances; let their
mediums and their favoured ones be put into the hands of
experts, favourable and adverse, and tested in the same way
that Catholics prove spirit manifestations. If trickery be dis¬
covered, let it be condemned without mercy. If self-
delusion exist, let them pity it and try to cure it. If there
be communication with the evil one, let them put peeple on
their guard; but when there are true manifestations, let
them glorify God for His mercy to man. This course is
sensible, manly, and Christian. But if Spiritualists go on
as they do, publishing every supposed spirit manifestation,
clinging to impostors (after their being detected in their
fraud), trying to persuade people that too great scrutiny and
want of sympathy destroy spirit manifestation, they could not
adopt a more successful mode of propagating trickery and
self-delusion and abnormally exciting the brains of their
readers. He warned the leaders of the movement that there
was a terrible responsibility on them, and that on the
authority of medical men thousands were now paying the
242
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 25, 1877.
penalty in madhouses of shattered nerves and brain
brought on by Spiritualism. He advised Spiritualists, for
guidance, to study Benedict XIV. on Canonisation, Father
Faber on Beatification, the decrees of Urban VIIL, Clement
XI., and the blue books of the Congregation of Rites.
IMMORTALITY.
BT EPES SARGENT.
[The following is an ode delivered a quarter of a century ago by Mr. Epes Sargent, the
well-known American author and Spiritualist, at the consecration of the Mount Hope
Cemetery, belonging to the Oity of Boston].
Not in this green retreat
How beautiful, while summer launches
Her odours and soft airs through swaying branches;—
Though wild flowers court her feet,
And though the wild birds capture
The listening sense with their melodious rapture—
Not here, not here, my friends,
Let us believe the loved one shall repose,
Or that life’s true receptacle descends
To the dark mould, where sods above it close,
And the immortal with the mortal blends !
Let not despair or sensual distrust
Confound this mouldering dust
With the true person—with the inner form,
Which gave the outward all it had of fair;—
Which is no kindred of the worm,
No warrant for despair!
Not here, my soul, not for one moment here,
Sinks the pure life-spring of one generous tear;
Of one heaven-aimed affection,
One tender recollection,
One deed of goodness in seclusion wrought,
One lesson or one thought!
As water rises to its fountain-head,
However low you lay its transient bed,
So must the spirit, from its earthward course,
Mount to the Deity, which is its source!
We give the infant, who to walk is learning,
His leading-strings; corks to the doubtful swimmer ;
So are these bodies, for our brief sojourning,
Helps to us here, while schooled in being’s primer.
For here, in God’s stupendous seminary,
What various lore the thoughtful eye engages I
Morning and night—the seasons as they vary—
Spread for our use illuminated pages.
If all were ours unearned, what need of action ?
If God no problem set for our unfolding,
Where were the joy, the power, the benefaction
Of toil, and faith, and prayer, our spirits molding ?
Where were the innocent, without temptation ?
Where, without freedom, were the self-denial ?
Where were the goal, the triumph, the salvation,
Without the doubt, the danger and the trial ?
And though to some the fairer lot be given,
Unstained, because untried, to enter heaven,
Oh, doubt not there is compensation ever
From Him, the just and unforgetting Giver!
If, then, the Saviour’s promise and example
Be an assurance ample,
Let us not say, however fair the breast
Of the green-hill side, where the graves are made—
“ Here the beloved ones rest!
“Here in this forest shade!”
Distant—and yet how near !
Where kindred spirits kindred joys pursue,
In duties ever dear,
Surprises ever new,
They range from sphere to sphere
Through all the fresh delights of God’s eternal year !
Nor are their human ties forgotten quite;
With the strong will to see friends left behind
Cometh a might,
Swifter than light,
And they are here, though viewless as the wind;
With privilege, at times, to interpose
Between us and our woes.
Since it is gain ineffable to die
Unto the mortal eye,
What doth it matter to the spirit freed
If the decaying husk feed flower or weed ?
Then for the living be the grounds out-laid,
The eager soil arrayed!
Remote from cities and from habitations,
Here, where the grateful trees and underwood
Convert corruption’s noxious emanations,
Through Nature’s wondrous alchemy, to good.
Not a Necropolis—
Rather a garden, this!
With sylvan alleys and enamelled banks,
And pines in plume-tost ranks.
Here let the roses bloom !
Here let the wild bee come,
I To find the ground
Heaped with such flowery wealth as bee ne’er found !
! But oh, high-building Vanity ! forbear
To rear upon this spot th’ o’ercostly pile!
Rather let living Want thy bounty share,
And trust thou unto watchful Nature’s smile
To keep the turf above thy ashes bright,
I In Spring’s first verdure dight.
Then shall this be a Mount of Hope indeed,
Where not one doubtful title we shall read.
! June 24th, 1852. ^
! SPIRIT MESSAGES IN LANGUAGES UNKNOWN TO THE
MEDIUM.*
| BY THE LATE J. W. EDMONDS, JUDGE OF THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.
! “ She was next developed to speak different languages. She knows no
i language but her own, and a little smattering of boarding-school French;
| yet she has spoken in nine or ten different tongues, sometimes for an hour
| at a time, with the ease and fluency of a native. It is not unfrequent
i that foreigners converse with their spirit-friends through her, in their own
| language. A recent instance occurred, where a Greek gentleman had
several interviews, and for several hours at a time carried on the conver¬
sation on his part in Greek, and received his answers sometimes in that
language, and sometimes in English. Yet until then she had never heard a
word of modern Greek spoken.”—Extract from Vol. two, 11 Spiritualism”
p. 45.
11 The foregoing is my account, in very general terms, of
my daughter’s mediumship. Let me here specify some of
the instances more particularly :—
“ One evening there came to my house a young girl from
one of the Eastern States. She had come to New York to
seek her fortune. Her education was that which can be
obtained at a common country school. She was a medium,
and was accompanied by the spirit of a Frenchman, who was
very troublesome to her. He could speak through her, but
only in French. For more than an hour a conversation
went on between my daughter and the spirit, speaking
through Miss Dowd. They both conducted the conversation
entirely in French, and both spoke with the rapidity and
fluency of native Frenchmen. Miss Dowd’s French was a
wretched 'patois of some of the Southern provinces of France,
while Laura’s was pure Parisian.
“ This occurred in my library, where some five or six
persons were present; and Miss Dowd is still living in this
city.
v On another occasion, some Polish gentlemen, entire
strangers to her, sought an interview with Laura, and during
it she several times spoke in their language words and sen¬
tences which she did not understand, but they did, and a
good deal of the conversation on their part was in Polish,
and they received answers, sometimes in English, and some¬
times in Polish. The English she understood, but the
other she did not, though they seemed to understand it
| perfectly.
“ This can be verified only by Laura’s statement, for no
I one was present but her and the two gentlemen, and they did
| not give their names.
“ The incident with the Greek gentleman was this :—One
| evening, when some twelve or fifteen persons were in my
| parlour, Mr. E. D. Green, an artist of this city, was shown
| in, accompanied by a gentleman whom he introduced as
| Mr. Evangelides, of Greece. He spoke broken English, but
| Greek fluently. Ere long a spirit spoke to him through
Laura in English, and said so many things to him, that he
identified him as a friend who had died at his house a few
years before, but of whom none of us had ever heard.
¥ Occasionally, through Laura, the spirit would speak a
word or a sentence in Greek, until Mr. E. inquired if he could
be understood if he spoke in Greek ? The residue of the con¬
versation for more than an hour was, on his part, entirely in
Greek, and on hers, sometimes in Greek, and sometimes in
English. At times, Laura would not understand what was
| the idea conveyed either by her or him. At other times she
j would understand him, though he spoke in Greek, and her-
I self when uttering Greek words.
| “He was sometimes very much affected, so much so as to
I attract the attention of the company, some of whom begged
j to know what it was that caused so much emotion. He de-
| dined to tell, but after the conversation ended he told us
| that he had never before witnessed any spirit manifestations,
j and that he had, during the conversation, tried experiments
) * Extracted from Speaking im Many Tongues, by Judge Edmonds, S. T, Munson:
1 > New York.
May 25, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
243
to test that which was so novel to him. These experiments
were in speaking of subjects which he knew Laura must be
ignorant of, and in frequently and suddenly changing the
topic from domestic to political affairs, from philosophy to
theology, and so on. In answer to our inquiries—for none of
us knew Greek—he assured us that his Greek must have
been understood, and her Greek was correct.
u He afterward had many other interviews, in which Greek
conversations occurred.
a At this interview, which I have described, there were
present Mr. Green, Mr. Evangelides, Mr. Allen, President of
a Boston bank, and two gentlemen whose names I forget,
but can easily ascertain, who were large railroad contractors
in one of the Western States, my daughter Laura, my niece,
Jennie Keyes, myself, and several others whom I do not
remember.
a My niece, of whom I have spoken, has often sung
Italian, improvising both words and tune, yet she is entirely
unacquainted with the language. Of this, I suppose, there
are a hundred instances.
“ One day, my daughter and niece came into my library,
and began a conversation with me in Spanish, one speaking
a part of a sentence, and the other the residue. They were
influenced, as I found, by the spirit of a person whom I had
known when in Central America, and reference was made to
many things which had occurred to me there, of which I
knew they were as ignorant as they were of Spanish.
To this only we three can testify.
II Laura has spoken to me in Indian, in the Chippewa and
Monomonie tongues. I knew the language, because I had
been two years in the Indian country.
III have thus enumerated Indian, Spanish, French, Greek,
and English, that she has spoken. I have also heard her in
Italian, Portuguese, Latin and Hungarian, and in some that
I did not know. The instances are too numerous for me to
recall the names of the persons present.
111 will now mention instances through others than her.
“ A man by the name of Finney, a carpenter, of very
limited education, living near Cleveland, Ohio, was once
giving me a communication, for he was a speaking medium.
The subject was self-knowledge, and while I was writing it
down, I spoke {sotto voce) Gnothi seauton. He paused,
repeated the Greek, and added, 1 Yes, know thyself.’
“ Mrs. Helen Leeds, of 45, Carver-street, Boston, a medium
of some note in those parts, has very often spoken Chinese.
She is of very limited education, and never heard a word of
that language spoken. This occurred so often with her in a
former stage of her mediumship, that I suppose I may say
that there are thousands who have witnessed it. I have myself
witnessed it at least a hundred times.
li In the early stages of my investigations I kept very full
minutes of all that occurred. From my records I make this
extract:—
“‘Nov. 3, 1852.
“ 1 There was a special meeting of the Circle of Hope last evening, to meet
some of our friends from Albany. Beside the members of the circle [the circle
consisted of Mr. Sweet and wife, Mr. Wood and wife, Mr. Ira Hutchinson,
Mr. Comes, and myself], there were present Mrs. Shepherd and Mrs. Haight
of Albany ; Mr. and Mrs. J. K. Mettler, of Hartford, Conn.; Mrs. J. B. Mettler,
of New York ; and Mrs. Heath, sister of Mrs. Ambler.
“1 Mr. Ambler was soon thrown into the mesmeric state.
“ ‘ After he came out of the trance-state, Mrs. Shepherd was affected, and
spoke in several languages. She occasionally spoke English. * * *
And she continued for an hour or two thus to speak in some foreign languages.
It seemed to us to be Italian, Spanish, and Portuguese.
“ ‘ Mrs. Mettler was thrown into a trance-state, and she was developed for
the first time in her life to speak in divers tongues. She spoke in German
and what seemed to be Indian.
“ ‘ And they two, i.e., Mrs. Shepherd and Mrs. Mettler, then for some time
conversed together in these foreign languages.
“ ‘ Occasionally they spoke in English, and sometimes in broken English.”
“ I have looked in my records, but do not find it, though
I very well remember the fact, that Mrs. Sweet, of this city,
another of our mediums, of very little education, has often
spoken French. I learn that she has also spoken Italian and
Hebrew.
et I have, a number of times, witnessed a cognate mani¬
festation, when the communication was through the rappings,
and was given in a foreign language, though the medium
knew only the English.
“ And I have heard Governor Tallmadge’s daughter, at my
house, speak in German, several persons being present.
(( To-day, at our Conference, I mentioned this subject, and 1
asked if any of those present could give me any further
information. The attendance was unusually small, there not
being over a hundred present, but I received the following
replies to my inquiry :—
P Dr. John F. Gray mentioned having had communica¬
tions through the rappings and table tippings in the Malay,
Hebrew, and Spanish languages. The communications were
spelled out, letter by letter, and written down. He obtained
translations of all these from persons versed in the different
languages. He has records of it, specifying where it
occurred, and who were present.
“ He mentioned one instance, where Professor Bush, who
is a Hebrew scholar, was present, and he called the Hebrew
alphabet, and wrote the communication down at the time,
and afterward translated it, no one present but himself being
acquainted with that alphabet.
u Dr. Abraham D. Wilson, another physician of high
standing, stated that the late Mr. Henry Inman, the artist,
told him that when his daughter was developed as a medium,
she repeatedly spoke Spanish, of which she had no know¬
ledge.
“ Mr. David Bryson stated that at a recent circle, where
Mrs. Tucker was the medium, and Mr. and Mrs. Daniel G.
Taylor and others were present, the medium spoke fluently
an unknown tongue, and conversed with a Dane, who was
present, in the Danish language.
“ Mr. Taylor was at the Conference, and confirmed Mr.
Bryson’s account.
“ Mrs. Richardson relates a recent incident of a woman
named Greenleaf, who spoke French. And Mrs. French, the
medium, well known here, and at Pittsburgh, stated that
through her the spirits had spoken nine different languages.
“ She relates a recent instance, where Mr. Henry C. Yail
being present, she was addressed by an Italian female, and
led by her to a part of the town where some fourteen Italians
were huddled together in one room, in a great state of
destitution and sickness, and where Italian was spoken
through her to them with entire ease. And she mentioned
an occasion at Washington, where in the presence of
Governor Tallmadge and Mr. Giddings, M.C., from Ohio,
she spoke French fluently.
“ All these are cases where the persons speaking knew
only one language, the English.
“ This is the gathering of one afternoon only. I can
form no idea of the extent of the evidence that might be
gathered by a more extended inquiry.
“ But is it not enough for all, except those who would not
believe, though one arose from the dead ? ”
The National Association of Spiritualists.—On Tuesday next,
at 6.30 p.m., the annual general meeting of the members of the National
Association of Spiritualists will be held at 38, Great Russell-street,
London. The report for the past year will be presented with the state¬
ment of income and expenditure. The new candidates for the council
will be elected, and the auditors chosen for the ensuing year.
A Trance Address at Mrs. Weldon’s Meetings.—Mr. J. William
Fletcher, the American trance medium, made his first appearance as a
public speaker in London at the Langham Hall last Monday. He was
introduced to the audience by Mrs. Weldon, who handed him the sub¬
ject for the evening, “ The Religious Element in Spiritualism.” Mr.
Fletcher said that human nature, in the effort to express itself, evolved
the fundamental religion of humanity; the savage saw the smile of
God in the sunshine, and his anger in the storm—heard the voice of
the Great Spirit in the whispering breezes and in the singing of the
birds, and embodied his religion in the mysterious forces in nature.
Among primitive races souls bound in Egyptian darkness did service
which they could not understand to an unknown deity, and were
happy if they could but cast their bodies under the feet of the fiery
steed on which their leader sat, and in submission to the religious
idea were willing to drag their wounded bodies through life. These
things were but illustrations of the endeavours of the religious ele«
ment in man to assert itself. Indeed, said the speaker, religion follows
only in the footsteps of civilisation; we all make-a god about as
large as we are ourselves,” give him the same attributes, and wor¬
ship our own creation. “An honest man is the noblest work of
God,” it had been said; he might add that an “honest god was the
noblest work of man.” He spoke feelingly of Mrs. Weldon’s
Orphanage, and said that “ Suffer little children to come unto Me,”
had been heard by one noble spirit in the body, who had followed
in the footsteps of the Master. Finally, he stated that Spiritualism
was only another name for Humanitarianism, since it recognised the
good in all, and taught that every good deed and noble act brought
with it a reward, born of heaven, which would endure for ever and for
ever.
244
THE SPIRITUALIST,
May 25, 1877,
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GEEAT BRITAIN.
On Thursday evening, last week, Mr. Serjeant Cox occupied the chair
at the Annual General Meeting of the Psychological Society, held at 11,
Chandos-street, Cavendish-square, London.
The Hon. Secretary and Treasurer read his annual report, showing a
flourishing condition, of the society’s funds and material progress dur¬
ing the past year.
On the motion of the President, seconded by Mr. Stainton-Moses,
the report was read and adopted.
Prof Plumptre moved, and Captain Kelso seconded, the re-election
as President of Mr. Serjeant Cox, and the motion was carried unani¬
mously amid cheering.
Mr. Munton moved and Mr. Stainton-Moses seconded that Lord
Borthwick be elected as Vice-President in the room of Sir J. Heron Max¬
well, Bart., resigned. The motion was carried with cheers.
Mr. Coffin moved, and Mr. Balliston seconded, the re-election of
Mr. Crookes and Mr. Stainton-Moses as Vice-Presidents, and the
motion was carried unanimously. The following members of the Council,
retiring by rotation, were unanimously re-elected: Mr. Clayden, Mr.
Dunlop, Mr. Myers, Mr. Stainton-Moses, Mr. Percival, Prof. Plumtre,
and Mr. Tagore.
The President moved, and Mr. Stainton-Moses seconded, the re-elec¬
tion of Mr. Munton as hon. secretary and treasurer, and the motion was
carried with acclamation.
Mr. Stainton-Moses moved, and Prof. Plumtre seconded, the following
resolution, “ That it be referred to the council to consider the feasibility
of publishing the communications of psychological phenomena made to
the society ? ” The motion, after some discussion, was carried nem con.
The Hon. Secretary announced that the society would dine together
at the close of the season, at the ,cInns of Court Hotel,’’ on the 22nd
June.
At the close of the business of the General Annual Meeting, the
ordinary fortnightly meeting of the members and friends of the society
began, as follows
A DEATH WARNING.
Mr. Gordon stated that he wished to narrate an occurrence which had
taken place among persons known to him, and that he had no doubt as
to the authenticity of the facts. Some years ago two sisters living in
Scotland were married, and lived within a few miles of each other; one
had been married to a gentleman of considerable property who farmed
his own land, and the other to a minister of the Church of Scotland.
One morning, in harvest-time, Mrs. A  appeared at breakfast
in a state of mental disturbance, and told her husband that she wished
he would lend her one of his horses, as she desired to go to see her
sister. This being inconvenient in the middle of harvest-time, he
replied that he could not spare one, and asked why she wished to go.
She then said that she had dreamt she was in church listening to her
brother-in-law preaching; she heard him divide his sermon into
“firstly” and “secondly,” and at last he came to “ thirdlyat that
moment her father—who was dead—entered the church, and beckoned
to the preacher to follow him ; he then followed the figure out of the
church. Upon this her husband lent her a horse, and when she arrived
at the .house of her sister she found the blinds all down, and the servant
said—“ How could you possibly have heard the awful news so soon ?”
“ What news ?” The servant replied—“ Don’t you know that master is
lying dead upstairs ?” He had been found in his study stone dead ; he
had been writing his sermon, and after getting through two-thirds of it
he stopped when he reached p thirdly.” These facts were well known to
all the relatives of the deceased clergyman.
THE CRITICISING OF A PSYCHOLOGICAL PAPER.
Mr. Gordon opened the discussion upon the communication read for
its author by Mr. Massey at the previous meeting, and which was
published in the last number of The Spiritualist. He said that he took
up a hostile position towards the paper, which consisted of a lengthy
and confused account, written by an American gentleman of some
position. The most wonderful thing recorded was that he drew a
portrait of his grandmother, which was a fine and delicate specimen of
art, although at the time he knew nothing of drawifig, yet, after stating
such a remarkable fact, he said—“ But this is immaterial.” Then the
author went on to relate morbid experiences, and to tell a rigmarole
about his having forgotten the name of a salt of iron; doubtless, the
author had never heard the name of the salt. The paper was full of
rhapsodies about death, glory, and immortality; and the author had
actually said that he could light the gas with the tips of his fingers, by
means of electricity generated in his body by rubbing his shoes upon a
dry carpet; he (Mr. Gordon) felt that it was only necessary to leave this
assertion to be dealt with by the common sense of the audience, for their
decision whether it was true. Among other fanciful things, the author
had said that he felt melancholy because he had read a letter written
by an unhappy man. The fact that the author said that he could hear
voices which were audible to nobody but himself proved that he was in
an astounding state. In his paper the writer had further said that the
“voices were like his own,” whereas the published report made him
say that the “voices seemed to reproduce his own thoughts.” So the
words of the writer had been altered before publication. The author
had also given some alleged strange experiences by Judge Edmonds,
which did not appear to be well authenticated.
CURIOUS PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA.
Mr. F. K. Munton said that Mr. Gordon had approached the subject
altogether from an opposition point of view, and ten years ago when he
i (Mr. Munton) knew little or nothing about psychology, he might to some
extent have endorsed Mr. Gordon’s remarks. He admitted that there
.was much common-place matter in the paper which had better have
been left out, but at the same time there were facts in it which could
not be got over in Mr, Gordon’s free and easy way, and altogether con¬
i siderable credit was due to the writer. It was a pity that the author
: had introduced so inany small matters in company with others which
If were well worthy the consideration of the society. That the writer
} | should have seen in vision the door- bell of his house covered with crape
I while he was a great distance off and before the event occurred was re-
| markable, because it was not a common thing in New York that a bell
I should be so covered. And this account fitted in with many other
i warnings of death given by abnormal means. He (Mr. Munton) knew
i of a case of a young woman at a boarding-school at Brighton who
| woke up and told her companion that her mother—who lived in a
distant place—was dying, and it afterwards turned out that her mother
! ] did die at that particular moment. When the impression was proved
to be true, the girl was so impressed that she went out of her mind. As
to what the author of the paper had said about voices, he knew of a case
of a woman who heard voices inaudible to anybody else, and about
January 1st, 1870, a voice said to her—“ Go to Norwood ! Go to Nor¬
wood ! Go to Norwood !” She mentally asked, “Why?” and the reply
was—“ You had better go to Norwood.” Within three weeks one of her
children died, and the first thing her husband said was that the child
had better be buried at Norwood. They had no family grave there,
neither was there anything particular to suggest Norwood as the locality
for the burial. Some years ago he (Mr. Munton) was staying with a
lady, and while there received a letter from a gentleman whose hand¬
writing only was known to the lady in question, who was a clair¬
voyant. When the letter came, she said—“ Before you open it I want
to tell you something.” She was in the habit of getting messages by
writing with a pencil on a slate, and she wrote—“ Mr. A. B. will
propose to accompany you to Switzerland this week.” He (Mr. Munton)
said that this was most unlikely, but she replied that there was nothing
else in the letter. It was a fact that it was a short letter to the following
effect: —“ If you think of going to Switzerland next week, and have
no companion, I shall be glad to go with you. Let me know what your
intentions are.” Seeing was believing, and one case coming under a
person’s own observation went further than many relations of such
things. He did not say whether there was or was not any supernatural
power in what he had just stated, for he did not know; he was quite
ignorant as to the causes, but he pledged himself to the facts. A friend
of his who heard voices, once entered a train a few miles from London,
and sat near the door; a voice said, “ Quickly to the other side 1
Quickly to the other side! ’’ He was disinclined to heed the warning,
but in a moment the voice came again, and he moved from his place ; at
that instant the door of the carriage swung open, and was smashed to
atoms by a bridge, and the broken glass and debris were thrown over
the place where he had been sitting. The author of the paper seemed
to have been similarly preserved from injury from a falling roof. Thus
many of the statements made in the paper were supported by parallel
examples.
Mr. Massey said that Mr. Gordon had undertaken the easy task of
turning into ridicule unfamiliar facts, of which he seemed to have just
heard for the first time ; his utterances displayed remarkable inexperi¬
ence, he might almost say ignorance. True, there was some confusion
in the paper, but that was exceeded by the critical remarks made by
Mr. Gordon, who had read the communication so carelessly as to
inform the audience that the author had ascribed the Kansas journey
to Judge Edmonds, although all the way through the long narrative
the writer had used the words “me,” “my,” and “I,” and had merely
remarked at the end that something of a similar kind once occurred to
Judge Edmonds. He did not think that the example he had just
stated illustrated a careful way of treating papers sent in by gentlemen
to the Psychological Society. Mr. Gordon had further asserted that
the author had never heard the name of a particular chemical substance,
whereas the writer had said that he had actually given the name to a
chemist, but had forgotten it himself after the lapse of years ; the
author further stated that the chemist afterwards discovered the salt
because of the name given to him. Here was another example of Mr.
Gordon’s want of knowledge of the contents of the paper he had criti¬
cised. Further, Mr. Gordon had displayed an extraordinary lack of
information by altogether declining to discuss the question whether gas
could be lit by electricity produced by the friction of the feet against
a carpet, in a very dry atmosphere ; yet if there was one fact which
was perfectly well known, it was that electricity could be produced and
employed to light gas under such conditions. A friend of his (Mr.
Massey’s) had often lit gas under those conditions, and it was a mere
physical fact known to everybody who knew anything about electricity
or the dryness of the atmosphere in some parts of America. He did
not think that Mr. Gordon should make such a paper a subject of jest,
more especially should he not joke about the convulsive movements of
sensitives. He ought rather to have been thankful to the gentleman
for having unreservedly told them of the effects upon him of too much
mesmerism. That too much mesmerism should have resulted in con¬
vulsive movements was a most interesting and valuable physical,
physiological and psychological fact, which ought not to have been
laughed at. As to the author having heard voices which were inaudible
to anybody else, Mr. Gordon seemed never to have heard of the ques¬
tion whether human beings did not possess a second set of senses or
faculties, and if his position were to be taken for granted what was the
use of the Psychological Society, and why were they present that night ?
The object of the society was to inquire into these things. Mr. Gordon
had stated that the meaning of the author had been altered in the
printed report, and it was altogether unjustifiable that by any abuse of
discretionary power, a single word tending to change the meaning of
the author, should have been altered by him or by anybody to whom
he had entrusted the manuscript.
Mr. Gordon—I shall be prepared to prove that in the printed report
there is a deliberate perversion of the truth.
Mr. Massey continued that Mr. Gordon would be called upon to
prove what he had stated, and to show that there was something
May 25, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
245
beyond error or indiscretion. He hoped that he (Mr. Massey) had said
nothing personally discourteous to Mr. Gordon, for if he had he should
be glad to apologise to the most ample extent, but he was of opinion
that Mr. Gordon had not treated the paper in a fair manner, or in a
way in which papers ought to be treated by that Society; he thought
that such treatment of papers would prevent people from sending the
Society any more experiences. (Hear, hear.)
The Chairman said that he had examined the paper with the eye of
a lawyer, and found in it a great absence of evidence such as could be
received as conclusive by other persons, and there was much evidence
that the experiences narrated were nothing more than mental impres¬
sions. He had many questions which he should have liked to put to
the author, and he wished he were present to be cross-examined.
Mr. Massey rose and stated that the author was present, and was
quite ready to answer the questions.
The Chairman replied that the time of the meeting was up ; it was
too late that evening, but he should like to put some questions at the
next meeting.
Mr. Munton suggested that the paper should be taken to have been
read by the author, who at the next meeting should be invited to reply
to the remarks of the various speakers.
The author of the paper said that he would try to attend.
Mr. Gordon remarked that Mr. Massey had made an ill-advised
attack upon him, prompted by a lady friend at his side, but that he
should not have ventured to have questioned his accuracy upon a point
of fact. To prove his words, the first variation between the printed
report and the manuscript occurred on page three, where the author
said that a person who appeared to him in vision mentioned a “form ”
of iron; in the printed report this had been altered to “ salt ” of iron.
The second alteration further on was that the word “ reproduced ” had
been inserted, and it was not in the original manuscript.
Mr. Harrison said that he had altered the expression i( form of iron ”
to “ salt of iron,” and felt exceedingly proud of having done so. Mr.
Gordon’s charge was based on want of knowledge of elementary
chemistry, just as another charge he had made that evening had been
founded upon a want of knowledge of electricity. It was a common
thing in some parts of America, where the atmosphere was dry, to light
gas by electricity in the way mentioned, and his friend Mr. Cromwell
Varley, the electrician, had often done so. Besides, if Mr. Gordon had
understood the principles of construction of the common electrical
machine, he must have seen that all the necessary conditions were
present for obtaining the results, although he might never have heard
of the familiar fact before. The author had used the expression
“form” of iron, although the context clearly showed that he was not
alluding to metallic iron in any form, but to one of the numerous
coloured salts of that metal, and every chemist knew that the phrase
“ salt ’’ was a proper and strictly scientific one to use. The Society
and the author ought to be pleased that a. palpable error which had
been passed by them unnoticed had been prevented from creeping into
print simply because the manuscript had been properly edited, Mr.
Gordon had given certain metaphysical reasons which he (Mr.
Harrison) had been unable to follow, to show that some great change
had been made in the author’s meaning by the introduction of the
word “ reproduce.” He (Mr. Harrison) had not the manuscript before
him to ascertain what the grievance was, but at all events it was quite
certain that Mr. Gordon’s expression “deliberate perversion of the
truth ” could not be substantiated.
The proceedings then closed.
WHAT WONG CUING FOO, THE HEATHEN, SAID TO THE
THEOSOPHISTS.
(From “ The New York World,” April 30M, 1877.)
Wong Chtng Foo, the newly - arrived Buddhist, who purposes
lecturing in New York on the manners and religion of his country,
made his first appearance in this city last evening at a reception given
in his honour by Mme. Blavatsky.
Mr. Wong Ching Foo, in flowing Oriental robes, did much of the
talking. For a long time conversation was general, and he chatted
vivaciously with one and another in fluent English, spoken almost
without a foreign accent, but at length Colonel Olcott suggested to
him that he should explain to the company what he proposed doing in
New York, and the reporters drew their pencils.
Colonel Olcott began by saying that Mr. Wong Ching Foo did not
want people to think that he had any idea of tearing down Christianity
(a statement which seemed to be disappointing to several of the guests),
but that, as a Chinese gentleman and scholar, he wished to let Ameri¬
cans know that the principles of true Christianity, which were excellent
principles, were all contained in Buddhism, and were believed and
practised by the Chinese. The Chinese were not living without ideas
of a future life, and he (Wong Ching Foo) was fully prepared to
debate the question whether the heathen would be damned.
Colonel Olcott’s speech was too deliberate to suit the animated little
heathen gentleman, and he took up the discourse himself. He said
that the Chinese people were not slow in appreciating the doubtful
benefits of the presence among them of Christian missionaries, although
they appreciated the kindly spirit of the American people so well that
they had under discussion in China the project of establishing a
Buddhist monastery here for the enlightenment of ignorant Christians.
They—and he especially, since he felt aggrieved and injured by the
“ misimpressions ” that Americans have of the Chinese—wanted it un¬
derstood that the Creator did not forget his children and doom them
by hundreds of millions to everlasting death for not believing in a man
of whom they never heard. But He had given to every nation a re¬
ligion by which they could be saved if they would. There was nothing
new in Christianity. The Chinese had had the same religion for thou¬
sands of years, but it was pure Christ doctrine, not what the mission¬
aries taught. “The missionaries,” he said, “ are not content with
teaching their ideas, but try to break down our religion, and say that
it is an invention of the devil.”
Mme. Blavatsky had been listening quietly, but this was too much
for her, and she turned aside her head with a loud “ Psh,” and it was
minutes before she recovered her equanimity.
* They fail,” continued Mr. Wong Ching Foo, “ in every instance in
which they engage in argument with our literary people. And they
teach that good works are of no good. Why, if I had a child I would
never consent to have him learn so dangerous a doctrine; I would
make him wait until he grew up before learning it. The next point I
want to make is that the idea that the heathen are damned without
regard to their works, is foolish and childish ; it is all nonsense,
for God will not hold a man responsible for what he never
heard of. I want the Christians to hear me that they may know
the good and bad points of the missionaries; certainly they need
not be afraid of listening to me. And the Christians know
almost nothing about China; why, they think that China is a hot
country where they have no ice, and they think that we oppress our
women and treat them as subordinates. If they misjudge us so grossly
on matters like these, what can they know of our religion when it
takes a bright scholar twenty-five years to know enough Buddhism to
make him happy, and fifteen years to master Confucianism? How
are the missionaries going to bring back clear ideas after living in China
two or three years ? ”
After considerable more argument of this kind, the company began
asking questions.
“ Do the Chinese worship idols ? ” asked one reporter. “ I have
been in a Joss-house where they seemed to be doing so.”
“ I am glad you asked that,” said Wong Ching Foo. “They do not
worship idols any more than the Christians do ; the Christian will pray
in front of a crucifix, for the sight of it fixes his mind on the sufferings
of Christ.”
“ But the Christian images have a semblance of humanity, and the
Buddhist images are so terribly ugly,” urged the reporter. “ They
are not even human, for they have ever so many heads and arms.”
“Aha ! mon ami,” said a French artist, lighting a cigarette, “ beauty
is a matter of taste. The grotesque is not always ugly, but the images
in Christian churches——
And while he shrugged his shoulders Mme. Blavatsky spoke em¬
phatically and disrespectfully of Madonnas in general.
“ Our many-headed and many-armed images are symbolical of the
power and wisdom of God, who sees everywhere, and whose hand is
everywhere,” explained Wong Ching Foo. “But we also are taught
to pray in front of images of men. I was instructed to kneel before an
image of Confucius and pray to God that he would make me as good
and wise as that man.”
“Do you worship more than one God ?’’ asked an ex-clergyman.”
“ No. I defy you to find a Chinaman who will tell you there are
more gods than one.”
“ Do you pray directly to him or through a mediator ? ” asked a
Spiritualist editor.
“We need no mediators to pray to our father,” was the reply. “ We
pray directly to him.”
“ In any set form of words ? ” asked Mme. Marquette.
“No. Meditation is prayer,” answered Wong Ching Foo.
“Are the Ten Commandments of Moses in your religion ? ” asked the
ex-clergyman.
“They are a partial copy of the rules of our religion,” said the
heathen. “ They correspond, so far as they go, very nearly with our
laws.”
“ And do you have the golden rule ? ”
“ Buddha puts it in this form,” was the reply :—“ ‘ The hat that
hurts thine own head, force it not upon the head of thy neighbour ; ’
and Confucius taught 550 years before Christ:—‘Whatsoever thou
wouldst not have thy neighbour do to thee, even that do thou not unto
thy neighbour.’ ”
“ Are you allowed more than one wife,” asked the artist.
“ No, neither by religion nor by the civil law; but a man may
have many concubines if he does not make it a public scandal.”
A number of similar questions was asked and similarly answered
by Wong Ching Foo, who explained that while the Mosaic law forbade
the bearing of false witness against one’s neighbours, leaving it to be
inferred that one might bear false witness to serve one’s neighbour,
Buddha forbade lying under any pretext, thus going farther than
Moses.
The conversation then drifted into different channels, while the
evening was finished over chocolate and cigarettes.
Wong Ching Foo will lecture here once or twice, although no
steps have yet been taken toward the proposed controversy with a
Baptist preacher on the subject of the damnation of the heathen.
The second of a series of three subscription seances with Mr. J. Wm.
Fletcher, clairvoyant trance test medium, was held at the Rooms of
the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, on Wednesday
evening last week, when the following subjects were chosen by the
members and discoursed upon :—1. The different religions of the world
considered from the standpoint of spirits; 2. By what process do spirits
recognise the faculty of mediumship, and what constitutes mediumship?
3. The process of control of mediums by spirits ; 4. Can an incarnated
spirit issue from the body of a medium, materialise, and act inde¬
pendently of the body of the medium ? The third and concluding
seance of the series will take place on Wednesday evening next, at eight
o’clock.
246
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 25, 1877,
THE FIRE TEST IN INDIA.
BY FREDERICA SHOWERS.
The following passage occurs in a letter received recently
from my brother, who is in the great trigonometrical
survey of India. As the publication of it may be interesting
to your readers, I copy it out for The Spiritualist:—
|| Graham, who is one of my assistants, was telling me of
a most extraordinary circumstance witnessed by him during
the Hoolie festival, and Sheik Omar, another assistant, told
me the same thing, viz., that he had seen a Bhil walk
barefooted through the fire, and that a Chuprassie of his had
done it likewise. I felt very incredulous, and asked whether
he could manage to let me witness a ceremony of the sort, so ,
we consulted his vaquil, who promised to do his best for
us, but added that it was extremely improbable, as such an
occurrence could only take place during the Hoolie festival.
However, I promised a small sum of money, and that settled
the matter.
“ Well, a Poojari or Bhil had a hole dug, four feet long
and eighteen inches deep ; this was half filled with charcoal
and lit up. An incantation was then pronounced, and a
fowl killed, after which a naked sword was passed six times
over the fire. A Bhil then approached the hole, and deli¬
berately walked over the coals, which were bright and free
from ashes. He took slow and measured steps, and, on
examining the soles of his feet there was not the slightest
trace of a burn. Thinking there might possibly be some
trickery, I asked a Chuprassie (a Peon) whether he could do
the same thing, upon which he stepped forward without the
slightest hesitation, and walked over the fire, pressing down
each foot—on which he brought the whole weight of his body
to bear—firmly, three or four times. I may add that the
men held a drawn sword in their right hands while they
went through the ceremony.
“ By the way, the Bhil walked over the fire twice, and on
each occasion I carefully examined the soles of his feet, on
which there was not the least trace of a blister. How what
do you think of this ? Is it like Spiritualism ?
“ Sheik Omar tells me that three of his Klassies have
done the same thing, and the strangest part of the matter is
that the charm only holds good for four or five minutes, but
the priest can bring about the same result whenever he
pleases, by sacrificing a fowl and uttering an incantation.
These Bhils are a most extraordinary race, and go about
armed with bows and arrows, which they can shoot, with
almost unerring aim, right through a bear or tiger.”
DR. SLADE’S OFFER TO PROFESSOR LANKESTER.
1 o the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sir,—I send you a copy of a letter which I addressed to
Professor Lankester on the 7th inst.
Ho reply having been received from him, I send you the
enclosed, and you may use it as you think proper.
J. Simmons.
May 19th, 1877.
Professor E. R. Lankester.
Dear Sir,—Dr. Slade having in some measure recovered
from his very severe illness, and his engagement to St. Peters¬
burg having been postponed (by desire of his friends there)
till the autumn, desires me to make the following offer:—
He is willing to return to London for the express and sole
purpose of satisfying you that the slate-writing occurring in
his presence is in no way produced by any trickery of his.
For this purpose he will come to your house unaccompanied
by any one, and will sit with you at your own table, using
your own slate and pencil; or if you prefer to come to his
room it will suit him as well.
In the event of any arrangement being agreed upon,
Slade would prefer that the matter should be kept strictly
private.
As he never can guarantee results, you shall give him as
many as six trials, and more if it shall be deemed advisable.
And you shall be put to no charge or expense whatever.
You on your part shall undertake that during the period of
the sittings, and for one week afterwards, you will neither
take nor cause to be taken, nor countenance legal proceed¬
ings against him or me.
That if in the end you are satisfied that the slate writing
is produced otherwise than by trickery, you shall abstain
| altogether from further proceedings against us, and suffer
| us to remain in England, if we choose to do so, unmolested
| by you. *
! If, on the other hand, you are not so satisfied, you shall
| be at liberty to proceed against us, after the expiration of one
I week from the conclusion of the six or more experiments, if
| we are still in England. You will observe that Slade is
| willing to go to you without witnesses of his own, and to
| trust entirely to your honour and good faith.
| Conscious of his own innocence, he has no malice against
j you for the past. He believes that you were very naturally
| deceived by appearances which to one who had not previously
j verified the phenomena under more satisfactory conditions,
I may well have seemed suspicious.
| Should we not hear from you within ten days from this date,
i Slade will conclude that you have declined his offer,
j I have the honour to be, sir, your obedient servant,
J J. Simmons.
II 37, Spui-sferaat, The Hague, May 7th, 1877.
I A BUDDHIST’S OPINIONS OF THE SPIRITUAL STATES.*
j BY BABOO PEARY CHAND MITTRA.
j Have Spirits Forms?—My experience tells me not. A
j spirit is an essence or power. The very idea of form implies
j materialism.” The spirits can assume forms for a time,
i but form is not their permanent state. The more material
j is our soul, the more material is our conception of spirits,
j The real progress of a spirit is its progressive freedom from
I the materialism in which it is enveloped in flesh, and it is
j doubtful whether it can be entirely free from it after death,
j Hell consists in slow progress and heaven in rapid progress,
j due to deeds during the earthly career.
I Have Spirits Location?—Every spirit creates a sphere of
j its own, but it is in no way confined to it. Every spirit
| over-rides time and space, inasmuch as it transcends finitude,
j but while it is unfettered and has no horizon, its progress in
j will, love, and wisdom is endless, though it can never reach
II the purity of the Great Spirit. True spirituality is not a
j state of locality but an internal state devoid of the nervous
I system, and consisting purely of the soul-power in full
>j subjectivity.
II Modus Operandi.—For the attainment of the soul state
jj the Aryas recommend yoge—Viz., inhalation, retention and
j exhalation of air for the nirvana or extinction of the natural
11 life and freeing the mind from all desire, except the one of
jj contemplating internally the great power. Mesmerism is a
I powerful means and answers the purpose of yoge. It is
curative of disease and evokes the soul-force.
i Calcutta, April 24th.
j j Canon Gilbert’s Sermons on Spiritualism. — Dr. Gilbert an-
j nounced last Sunday that he would continue his sermons on Spiritualism
S.j next Sunday week, but, as the time when the clergy take their annual
jj holidays is drawing near, and as he does not think he could compress
I all he has to say on Spiritualism into fewer than four or live lectures,
If he has determined not to deliver any further discourses on the subject
[j till towards the end of the autumn.
j A Mesmeric Theory op Consecration.—The following remarkable
j passage occurs at page 201 of Speech in Season, by the Rev. H. R.
Haweis, incumbent of St. James’s, Westmoreland-streeb, Marylebone,
j relative to the consecration of the elements in the Eucharist:—“ Suppose
the elements, the bread and wine, are really mesmerised by the officiating
priest; suppose something very like a mesmeric chain is really formed
by the faithful at the Lord’s Supper. In the early days the harmonious
circle of believers was really formed, and startling sensations and
phenomena were common at the time of reception. One thing at least
j is certain—that the early recipients formed that kind of circle now said
to be so favourable to the operations and the phenomena of animal
j magnetism. . . The priest is first directed to take the flagon into his hand,
| to lay his hand on all the bread, and upon every vessel in which there is
any wine to be consecrated, using at the same time a means of conse¬
crating his mesmerism in the prayer of consecration. The whole
directions in the rubric might have been written by an experienced
mesmerist in London or Paris yesterday. . . Now, if true, is all this the
j degradation of worship 1 Do we deny the power of the Holy Spirit in
the heart? Nay. .. When you think oi the sacraments, and remember
j that you may receive a kindling of your own devotion by the sympa¬
thetic devotional force of the consecrating priest, or the earnest
harmony of the kneeling people, remember that he who is thus blessed
through his brethren is none the less blessed by God, and brought
j thereby into the directest communion with Him. When the rational
doctrine of sympathetic correspondence prevails, the power of the
j sacraments will revive in our church without the aid of transubstan-
tiation.”
I * A communicatioa to Mr. Alexander Oalder, President of the Nationa Association of
Spiritualists.
May 25, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
247
SPIRITUALISM IN SOUTH AFRICA. j
On Tuesday last week, a meeting was held at 8, Upper Bedford-place, I)
London, convened by Mrs. Burke, to welcome to this country Mr. T. It
Berks Hutchinson, one of the most active workers in the cause of j(
Spiritualism in Cape Colony. About forty Spiritualists were present. u
After some words of welcome on behalf of the meeting from Mrs. it
Burke to Mr. and Mrs. Hutchinson, I)
Mr. Hutchinson, at the request of the meeting, proceeded to give j)
information about Spiritualism in South Africa. He said that he had j |
been “ educated up ” to Spiritualism by means of psychological studies ; | j
about fifteen years ago he witnessed mesmeric experiments in the j
United States and in Canada, and saw more phenomena of the same \\
kind in Cape Town. He had governed the senses of mesmeric sensi- j (
tives, and had seen practically that mesmerism accounted for some of |)
the miracles recorded in the Bible. A book written in 1857 by the j
Rev. J. Page Hopps, and containing something about Spiritualism, so ! j
impressed him that he formed circles to obtain the phenomena, but had |
no results for several years. Afterwards the book Where are the j
Dead? reached him; he studied it with the intensest pleasure, and j
he intuitively saw that it was true, even to the record of a lady now |
in their presence having been carried through the air from Highbury |
to Lamb’s Conduit-street, just as Philip had been carried through the !}
air to Azotus. Whenever an American vessel reached Cape Town he [
inquired whether any Spiritualists were on board, and discovered one I
or two in that way. Once an American lady of position, who had just j(
come down from the diamond fields, went into a trance, and this | >
interested him ; afterwards he read works on Spiritualism by scientific i /
men, and he saw that if the facts were not true, human testimony was j (
utterly worthless. An article in The Fortnightly Review by Mr. A. R. ||
Wallace moved him extremely, and was the means of bringing him j(
into contention with one of the local papers ; he reprinted much of the j(
article in a pamphlet. He thought the new truth to be such a great i >
one that everybody would be delighted directly they were told of it it
(laughter), but he soon found out his mistake, and had to pursue his j (
course amid many discouragements ; even the few in Cape Town who i /
knew the facts were afraid to speak out. He built a hall partly for | (
Spiritualistic purposes ; it would hold from 550 to 600 persons. He j(
heard spirit raps for the first time on the 4th of October, 1875, and |)
afterwards the more powerful phenomena were developed. He had j
presented thirty-six volumes on Spiritualism to the Grey Library in j!
Cape Town, and had left behind him in the colony men well able to I /
<;hold their own” in Spiritualism, and who would not be put down by j(
anybody. At the Diamond Fields, about 700 miles from Cape Town, i j
circles had been started, so a nucleus was at work there, and 700 miles | /
further on, at Bloemfontein, a friend of his who came out to Africa
from Wolverhampton, was an active advocate of Spiritualism; he had j
started circles in the Free State. In Natal Spiritualism had taken j j
root, and Mr. Harrison could give some information relating to that ! j
district. Some years ago Mr. Attorney Buchanan had worked with j (
what he called a psychograph, consisting of two sticks moving on a i)
pivot, and through two mediums obtained answers to questions in a j (
way which he could not understand. At Port Elizabeth, on the west j j
coast, about 500 miles from Cape Town, private circles had been estab- j j
lished, also in Grahamstown. At French Hook the clergy of the j(
Dutch Reformed Church had biologised their flocks into the belief that | [
the spiritual manifestations were produced by the devil. !)
SPIRIT FORMS.
The close of the consideration of the subject of “ Form Manifesta- !(
tions,” which has already extended over two evenings, will take place K
next Monday, at 38, Great Russell-street, London, at 7.30 p.m. Mr. !j
Thomas Shorter, for many years editor of I'he Spiritual Magazine, jj
will open the proceedings with a short paper. Members and friends j (
of the National Association of Spiritualists, and of allied societies, are |;
invited to be present; other Spiritualists can doubtless obtain ad- |(
mission on application to the secretary. These meetings now |(
equal, if they do not exceed, in interest the Gower-street conferences of j j
some years ago, and they are characterised by intelligence and harmony, j j
Dr. Carter Blake is progressing favourably, but slowly. He left i (
his bed for a few hours for the first time on Tuesday last. | j
Next Tuesday evening at eight o’clock, Mr. C. C. Massey will !(
deliver a short address on some subject connected with Spiritualism, |[
to the Marylebone Society of Inquirers into Spiritualism, Quebec Hall, \)
25, Great Quebec-street, W. All Spiritualists are invited to attend. |j
Mr. Colville has been giving a series of five lectures in Newcastle- \\
on-Tyne, before good audiences, and has been engaged to return to \
that town in July; he has also delivered addresses at Windy Nook jj
and Stockton-on-Tees. To-day he will lecture in Gateshead and on
Sunday next at Chester-le-street. |(
A New Book by Mr. A. R. Wallace.—Mr. Alfred Russell ||
Wallace, the celebrated naturalist, and one of the members of the i(
British National Association of Spiritualists, has just produced au jj
elaborate work, in two volumes, published by Macmillan, on The j j
Geographical Distribution of Animals, which is reviewed at length in j(
The Times, of the 21st inst. The Times says:—“By all to whom
reading is more than merely pastime, if they have patience to follow jj
Mr. Wallace’s sober statements of facts, the work will be found to be j(
literally a romance of real life,” and it concludes a review occupying jj
two columns, with these words, “altogether it is a wonderful and jj
fascinating story.” Mr. Wallace wrote one of the best articles in de- is
fence of Spiritualism in The Fortnightly Review, some time since ; and j j
it was Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace who, with Dr. Wyld, Mr. Massey, jj
and others, gave evidence recently before the police magistrates, as to I j
the undoubted reality of Dr, Slade’s mediumship.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
On Monday night, last week, at the ordinary fortnightly meeting of
the members and friends of the National Association of Spiritualists,
held at 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C., there was a large
attendance. Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E., presided, and the
adjourned discussion upon “ Form Manifestations ” was opened by the
Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, MA. Among the listeners present were Dr.
George Wyld, Mr. Edward Maitland (author of England and Islam),
Professor Blackie, F.R.S.E., Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Manchester,
Miss Blackburn, Mr. G. C. Joad, Signor Enrico Rondi, Mrs. Burton-
Burton, Mr. Algernon Joy, M.IntC.E., Mr. T. Berks Hutchinson, of
Cape Town, Mrs. Hutchinson, Mr. Fredk. Collingwood, Miss Colling-
wood, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. H. Cook,
Miss Cook, Mr. J. C. Eno, Mr. Deane, Miss F. J. Theobald, Mrs.
.Maltby, Miss Maltby, Mrs. Hallock, Mr. Thomas Shorter, Miss
Shorter, Miss Kislingbury, Mr. and Mrs. Stack, Mr. R. Linton, Mr. J.
W. Fletcher, Mr. W. H. Coffin, Mr, Potts, Mr. T. H. Edmands, and
Mr. Pearson.
The Chairman remarked that, before the proceedings commenced, he
wished to correct an error in the report of his remarks printed in the
last number of The Spiritualist, in which the sentence that he (the
Chairman) thought matter to be “the” mode of will of the Creator,
should have been “ a ” mode of will of the Creator.
Mr. Stainton-Moses said he also wished to correct a small error, lest
it might be quoted. He did not intend to say that a piece of spirit-
drapery had changed after it came into his possession, but that it
changed while he was cutting it, and not afterwards.
form manifestations.
Mr. Stainton-Moses then read his opening paper on Form Manifesta¬
tions which we published in full last week.
A communication on the same subject by Mr. Benjamin Coleman was
then read by Mr. W. H. Harrison; Mr. Coleman’s paper was also
printed in The Spiritualist last week. The reader of the paper expressed
his regret that Mr. Coleman’s health did not permit him to be present,
for Mr. Coleman had been one of the firmest and most fearless advocates
of Spiritualism since its facts first became known in this country, and
had always been a good friend to mediums, more especially in times of
difficulty and danger.
After the papers were read the Chairman said that the ideas expressed
by Mr. Livermore about the influence of electricity upon the manifesta¬
tions, he believed to be altogether erroneous; he (the Chairman) made
this statement as an electrician. Frictional electricity was merely a
surface phenomenon, and he had never been able to trace any connection
between electricity and the manifestations of modern Spiritualism.
Mr. G. C. Joad asked whether it was a fact that gas could be lit by
an electrical spark from the finger, in a dry atmosphere, under the con¬
ditions mentioned by Mr. Livermore.
The Chairman—Yes. It is a common thing in America.
Mr. Parkinson Ashton agreed with Mr. Stainton-Moses that the time
had nearly arrived when cabinets should be abolished. Three or four
years ago he went with Mr. Adshead to one of Bastian and Taylor’s
seances, and he believed that the honesty of those mediums had never
been impugned. A face came to the aperture of the cabinet, and was
stated by Mr. Adshead to be that of the late Mr. Guppy, and as he (Mr.
Ashton) had never seen Mr. Guppy, he took particular notice of the
features. On the following evening at a Spiritualistic soiree at the
Cavendish Rooms, he, for the first time, saw a portrait of Mr. Guppy,
and distinctly recognised it from the features he had seen on the previous
evening at the seance.
NEW FACTS IN RELATION TO FORM MANIFESTATIONS.
Mr. Charles Blackburn stated that form manifestations had under his
guidance been developed to a certain point with a private medium. The
medium, after being put into the cabinet was brought out by a spirit,
after which, the spirit vanished, and some of the witnesses of the mani¬
festation were present' at that meeting. The medium was Miss Kate
Selina Cook. The witnesses were Signor Rondi, Mrs. Pearce, Mr. T.
Blyton, and others, then present; his (Mr. Blackburn’s) daughter had
kissed the spirit in the presence of the medium, whose hands she was
holding at the time. The medium was not entranced, but in a per¬
fectly conscious condition. On one occasion a spirit was imperfectly
materialised, and said that she was not strong enough to come out of
the cabinet. She was then assisted out by the medium putting her
arm round her waist. This second form resembled the medium in
features, but had smaller eyes, mouth, and chin. He (Mr. Blackburn)
had not permitted scientific men or sightseers to attend this circle, for
he wished to try the experiment of letting the spirits have their own way
with the same sitters, so that they might develop new manifestations as
fast as possible without impediment. (Hear, hear.) In time they
would see what would come of it. He maintained that when the
medium was awakened by the spirit and brought forth, it completely
nullified any theory of its being the “double” or the spirit of the
medium, but substantiated a perfectly separate identity. The form
which came when the medium was in a conscious state, appeared to be
different from that presented when the medium was in a trance state ;
it was more ethereal and less substantial, and requested with its own
voice not to be touched or interfered with. One night the form said,
“I shall be more solidified when my medium is conscious, after we
have had more stances? Up to that time they had had but four such
sittings.
Signor Rondi remarked that he had had the privilege of witnessing
the phenomena which took place in the presence of the medium just
mentioned. He had locked the door of the room, and had surrounded
the medium with simple curtains, which were used as a cabinet. He
had then seated himself close to the curtains, which in one instance
had been opened four or five seconds afterwards by the materialised
248
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 25, 1877.
spirit. The time required for materialisation was sometimes but a few ! (i
seconds, and at other times as much as a quarter of an hour. On one i > j
occasion the medium came outside the curtains and stood by the mantel- |) j
piece, then the spirit showed herself at the opening of the curtains; K|
while the spirit was there he asked the medium to move the things on j) I
the mantelpiece with her hands ; and she did so. There was a resem- j) i
blance between the medium and the materialised form, but the features J \ j
of the latter were usually smaller. Once he asked the spirit why her j; |
eyes were so small, and she replied that they would be larger in [a k |
moment; she re-entered the cabinet, and in a few seconds came out K|
with two beautiful eyes. He had seen the medium and the spirit out- i) i
side the cabinet at the same time, with sufficient light to distinguish |) i
both. In Rome he had witnessed remarkable manifestations. Signor K'j
T was one of the best mediums he had ever met; in fact, John j;i
King, who controls him, said to him that he (Signor T ) was one of /
the best mediums in the world. He afterwards obtained manifestations K
in the open street. On one occasion he was present at a seance, when j) j
three of his friends were instantaneously transported from where they I <j i
were to the Piazza di Spagnia, half-a-mile off. He then went with a j,(
friend to the spot, by the direction of the spirit, and there found the j; ]
three friends who had been taken away. Once, in his own studio (where i (j
a sitting used to be held every Saturday with the medium and another i \ |
friend), in less than five minutes from entering the room, John King i;
made his appearance with his lantern, and walked about the room with i( |
the medium, whilst he (Signor Rondi) was holding the other sitter. He ;(j
(Signor Rondi) requested the spirit to come nearer to him, so that he |) j
could see him better. The spirit came quite close to the table, and with j (j
the lantern showed himself and the medium at the same time ; the face i) j
of the spirit was as white as a piece of paper, and not pleasant to look j) i
upon. Pie requested the spirit to make some movement, whereupon !(|
they both kissed each other. On another occasion John King appeared V
and spoke to him while he was holding the medium in his own private i) |
room, with nobody else present.
Dr; Wyld had always felt with reference to spiritual phenomena that, n
as “ we were spirits,” phenomena occurring in the presence of mediums i)
or sensitives might be caused by the spirits of those present, and with- j < |
out the intervention of departed spirits. The fact of a materialisation ivj
occurring in the presence of a medium, and both medium and materiali- i) I
sation being at one and the same time visible, did not prove that a ju
foreign spirit was present; it might only illustrate the well established j) i
fact of the “ double.” Further, although the materialisation in many jJ j
respects might be unlike the medium, viz., taller, stouter, or even of a i\ I
different age and apparent sex, this did not demonstrate the presence of |) |
a foreign spirit, because spirit might be able to personate or create out I (I
of the surrounding elements the portrait of any person thought of or j
desired, just as a spirit in the flesh could paint, draw, model, or enact |>|.
any desired personality. If a chemical union of oxygen and hydrogen i ([
of a certain temperature existed in the form of ice, at another tempera- ]) |
ture in the form of water, and at another temperature in the form of j; j
invisible steam, we had a wonderful illustration of the creative power of j (j
a certain force, which rendered it easy to conceive how a spiritual intel- J \
ligent force could from the elements of the air, viz., from hydrogen, j) j
oxygen, nitrogen, and carbon, create, dissolve, and recreate human in
forms in all varieties, and with a rapidity almost equal to that of thought. ! (
He did not deny that the spirits of the departed from time to time ;) j
operated in our midst; the fact of the reality of ghosts was evidence K
that they did so, but still he believed that the majority of spiritual I j |
phenomena were created by the spirits of the living persons present, j) j
He added that Mr. Everett had told him that at the moment the spirits i (j
were producing the manifestations he (Mr. Everett) partially lost con- i) j
sciousness; it was possible that Mr. Everett’s intelligence was used in |) I
producing the phenomena, without his being aware of it in his normal |j I
state.
Mr. Blackburn remarked that Miss Cook must have had intelligence
when she asked the spirit if she should assist her, in the way he had
already stated.
Dr. Wyld did not think that the presence of two forms necessarily
proved that two individualities were present.
Mr. Shorter wished to know what so instantaneously entranced Mr.
Everett.
Dr. Wyld replied that Mr. Everett at the moment was in a passive
state—in a state of expectancy; the phenomena then occurred.
Mr. Ashton—How about the recognising of Mr. Guppy ?
Dr. Wyld wished to know whether Mr. Bastian knew Mr. Guppy, or
whether any person in the room knew him ; if so, the power about the
medium might have made something bearing a resemblance to Mr.
Guppy. ' ill
Mr. Stainton-Moses said that he had proved by experiment that the j j |
spirit of the medium could do things which were frequently done by what i (I
were supposed to be the spirits of the departed. He had proved this in ;) j
his own room, when nobody was present but himself. On the other |)i
hand there was a vast number of cases in which, no doubt, the results K j
were produced by some external agency, and he thought it was yet a tv
problem to be solved what that agency was. !)!
Mr. Blackburn wanted to know how it could be the spirit of the i (j
medium when the materialised form sometimes knew more than the i v i
medium. |) j
Mr. Stainton-Moses thought Mr. Blackburn’s argument to be eon- j j |
elusive. - I)!
Dr. Wyld was of opinion that it was not so, because in the spiritual i) i
state human beings had more means of obtaining knowledge than in j(i
their normal state, as proved in the case of Andrew Jackson Davis. H I
Mr. Stainton-Moses said that in the manifestations in which what |) j
appeared to be the doubles of the mediums made their appearance, gj
there was usually little intelligence; the whole thing was more of a ijj
phenomenal character. His own spirit, when in his body, was truthful, j) j
but according to the theory of some, especially Mr. Serjeant Cox, when ; ;
freed from the body it became one of the most deliberate liars that ever
lived. (Laughter.)
Dr. Wyld thought that even that could be accounted for as the result
of the action of surrounding influences.
THE HUMAN “ DOUBLE.”
Mr. Algernon Joy stated that the previous speakers had taken the
existence of the double for granted, but if a form like that of the
medium were seen in another place, it did not follow that it was
animated by the spirit of the sensitive. Might not the form be pro¬
duced by an independent spirit, and the medium have nothing to do
with it? Some years ago he was walking some few miles from Cardiff
at half-past four o’clock in the afternoon, when he was “set upon” by
two colliers ; he was working out a problem at the time, and not think¬
ing of somebody in London who was well-known to him, yet that person
wrote to him two days later, and asked what he was doing at half-past
four o’clock of the afternoon he was attacked. The writer said, “ You
came up behind me; I recognised your step and I turned round ; I saw?
you, and you put your hand to my shoulder, and said, • Go home, old
fellow, you will get a letter from me in the morning and know all about
it.’ ” Yet at that time, near Cardiff, he was thinking of something
else. Why should words come out of the mouth of the double which
he had nothing to do with, and never had in his own mind ? He was
not rendered insensible by the onslaught of the men, and was perfectly
conscious from first to last. He knew what his thoughts were at the
time. He thought to himself, “ What do these scoundrels want ? Do
they want to rob me ? If so, they can have all I have, as they are two
to one.” When they ran away his first thought was to run after them,
and he tried to do so, but found himself too weak, so concluded that the
best thing he could do was to go home again.
Mr. Stack—How did the double disappear ?
Mr. Joy—It vanished. In the case of the observer the senses of
hearing, feeling and sight had been appealed to.
The Chairman said that Mr. Thomas Everitt held the theory that every
living being led a double life, and he had heard him give cogent examples
in support of his theory. Once his (the Chairman’s) wife broke the con¬
ditions at a spirit circle, and looked through the curtains of the cabinet
in order to expose what she supposed to be imposture. She saw the
medium reclining in a trance, and a form bending over him, apparently
mesmerising him.
POEM MANIFESTATIONS IN NEWCASTLE.
Miss Kislingbury then read the following communication from Mr. J.
T. Rhodes, of Newcastle:—“ Having been exceedingly interestedin the
discussion on “ Form Manifestations,” reported in the last number of
The Spiritualist, I should like to offer a few remarks thereon, as I have
attended so many of both Miss Fairlamb’s and Miss Wood’s seances
during the last year or two. Some of them were held under strict test
conditions, others not. Mr. W. H. Coffin referred to cases of “ lifeless
faces resembling masks ” being shown, and that brings to my mind a
seance of Miss Wood’s. It was the first time that I, and many others at
that seance, saw a well-defined masculine face protrude through the
division of the curtains of the cabinet; it looked not] much unlike Miss
Wood’s face with a beard on (but false beards as a rule are clumsy
things); it did not speak; but answered our questions by nodding or
shaking the head. I asked permission of the owner of the face to go
and examine it, and was refused. Now, as Miss Wood went into that
cabinet under no test conditions, I went away from the seance a little
annoyed. Not long after, a few days or more, Miss Fairlamb was the
medium, and the first form manifestation that morning was the identical
face just referred to, protruding through the curtains, so that I and my
next neighbour involuntarily exclaimed, “Ah! Geordie, is that
you?” “Aye,” was the reply in broad Scotch. Now here was an
advance from the last, because the face was more flexible, not so
mask-like, and it spoke to us; as a further test we asked the face
to move the eyes, or open the mouth, all of which was readily complied
| i with. The face in no way resembled Miss Fairlamb’s, and was
; I identical with the previous one seen at Miss Wood’s seance, so that all
|! doubts as to Miss Wood’s integrity vanished. But then, after all, was
) i this a transfiguration ? I cannot say, positively, but this I know, that a
11 few days afterwards Miss Fairlamb was securely bound to a chair, and
) | carried into the cabinet, and we had not long to wait before this identical
face showed itself again, with white drapery extending from the face
down to the ground, as shown between the division of the dark green
curtains of the cabinet; besides this, a leg, bare from above tbe knee,
was thrust out, belonging evidently to the visible face, and with the toes
played upon a stringed dulcimer just outside the cabinet. I may remark
en passant, that the reason we put this dulcimer outside the cabinet was
because it was suggested that on the last occasion the medium might
have played upon it with her foot, but if it were outside the cabinet she
could not do it; so it was argued. The result I have stated. I should
like also to make a few observations on the paragraph about Newcastle
seances in last week’s Spiritualist, which contains but the barest recital
of facts. It was suggested at first that we should put the medium, Miss
Fairlamb, into a sack, and secure her thoroughly. Every preparation
was made to that effect, but we unanimously decided afterwards to take
what came on its own merits. The light was not good, it is true, but the
first form that came out was a slender figure, known at once to those
who, like myself, had seen her before, as “ Minnie.” When near me I
addressed her, and she gave me her hand; it was not so warm as mine,
but felt partially lifeless, and it felt more like a glove blown out than
the hand of Miss Fairlamb, which I have grasped hundreds of times.
Her arm, I observed, was bare up to the shoulder, and the form seemed
to have but one covering of drapery round her figure. I could not see
her face. Now for the second form, that of “ Cissy,” a small figure,
just the height of an ordinary chair. Her hand was enveloped in drapery,
and felt harder than Minnie’s ; her face was round, firm, and dark—
very dark beside the drapery—but in the light we had I could not be
249
May 25, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
positive to the colour, any more than that it was dark; she then passed
on to some of the other observers. The next form that came out was
evidently masculine, with a bearded face, drapery extending over the
shoulders to the hips, the legs apparently, to my observation,
being encased in tights. Advancing towards me, he gave a short
thrust with his foot at my hand. I remarked to my next neighbour
that it did not feel so solid as one would expect from the manner of the
thrust. I suppose the “ form % must have heard this statement,
because, after a short retirement into the cabinet, it came out again, and
I, as well as others, had good reason to change our opinion as to its
muscular power. Now comes the question, “Was this form that of the
medium?” I say, “No,” because if the medium had been dressed as
this figure was, she must have appeared very much smaller; a small
man in female attire looks much bigger than usual, and a small-made young
woman, without her thick winter cloak and dress, would look very much
smaller than usual; not larger, certainly. Even granting that the two
larger forms were the medium transfigured altogether, what about the
little black girl ? I have seen the medium and Cissy both together on
various occasions, and so have scores of other persons. Perhaps some
other more frequent observers have seen the larger forms at the same
time as that of the medium; some have told me such to be the case;
but here at this stance we have three distinctly different forms, totally
unlike the medium; and I, myself, after what I have seen, can come to
no other conclusion than that they are separate and distinct from the
medium.
MISCELLANEOUS PROBLEMS.
Dr. Wyld remarked that once at a seance he had noted the height of
the medium, as compared with a mark on the wall. The spirit which
afterwards came out was said by some of the ladies present to be
gigantic; yet he was the same height as the medium. The illusion was
caused by the thin drapery about him causing him to look taller than
when covered with clothes of a more bulky nature.
Mr. Joy said that once at a seance with the Eddy Brothers, at
Vermont, he made a remark at the time that one figure which came
Out must be about six feet eight inches high. His neighbour agreed
with the estimate, which included the head-dress. The spirit passed
without difficulty under a stove pipe which ran horizontally under the
platform, and he found afterwards, by measuring the height of the
stove-pipe from the floor, that it was five feet ten inches.
Dr. Wyld—Hear, hear.
Mr. Joy continued, that he once measured Miss Showers and one of
the spirit-forms which appeared in her presence, and he made sure that
her heels were upon the ground at the time of measurement. The form,
however, was fully five inches taller than Miss Showers.
Mr. Harrison said that once he was strongly inclined to the opinion
that the materialised forms were animated by the spirit of the entranced
medium, but prolonged experience, gained by attendance at a great
number of seances, had made him now attach little weight to that hypo¬
thesis. He thought that the chief intelligence at work was an indepen¬
dent individuality, which possibly acted in one or both of two ways,
namely—it might act by driving the spirit of the medium out of the
body by will-power, and compelling that spirit to do certain things, as
in the case which their president once witnessed at Blackheath, when a
black man mesmerised a woman on a public platform, and ordered her
spirit to go home and to touch some of the people in the house. In the
trance she said that she had done so. A committee was appointed by
the audience; it went to the house, and found some of the people in
great consternation, one or two of them having, as they said, “ been
touched by a ghost.” In this case there was a sleeping medium, an
individuality which, if seen, would have been the double in appearance
of that medium, and they had a third intelligence at the root of the
whole matter. Another explanation of certain form manifestations
might be that spirits were divorced from material conditions, and, like
ourselves, could, only act upon the plane of matter by the use of a
healthy living human organism. They consequently had to drive an
individual out of his own body by will-power, and to take possession of
that body, somewhat as a hermit crab took possession of a shell by the
ejection of the rightful owner. The spirit, clothed in a body which did
not belong to him, displayed many of the characteristics appertaining to
that body when manifesting on the plane of matter. If this latter
theory were the true one, the difficulties in the way of ascertaining the
amount of independent individuality in any “form” appeared to be almost
insurmountable. Mr. Williams, the medium, held the conviction that
two or three spirits calling themselves “ John King” produced the
manifestations through his mediumship at different times. If this were
so, each “ John King ” knew what had been done and said by his pre¬
decessor, and doubtless found the information in the brain of the
medium.
Mr. Edward Maitland asked if spirits who had never been incarnated
manifested visibly.
The Chairman said he did not know, but that if any spirit told him
so he should not believe it.
Mr. Stainton-Moses said that he thought that there were two classes
of spirits—one disembodied, and others unembodied. Some appeared
to be elementaries, and some to live upon a higher plane of progression
than ours.
Mr. Thomas Shorter moved the adjournment of the debate. This was
seconded by Mr. Parkinson Ashton, and carried unanimously.
It was then resolved to change the hour of meeting from 8 p.m. to
7.30.
Several votes of thanks were passed, and the proceedings closed.
Mr. James Burns, of the Progressive Library, will deliver a lecture
on the “ Progressive Study of Spiritualism,” at the Booms of the Dalston
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, on Thursday evening next,
the chair to be taken at 8.15 p.m. Admission free.
(Eomsponuence.
[Qraxt freedom is oiven to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal audits readers. Unsolicited communications cannot he returned ;
copies should he kept hy the writers.']
ABOUT A SALT OF IRON.
Sir,—In connection with some stateinents on page 223 of The
Spiritualist of May 11th, in that portion of the report of the meeting
of the Psychological Society, which speaks of drawing and clair-
audience, I wish to call attention to the following :—
On Sunday morning I was reading the dream or vision of the
narrator, where he says, “ I was startled by the apparition of an old
man, of a foreign look and air, who said to me, ‘ Take ,’ mentioning
the name of a salt of iron, ‘sprinkle it over some oakum, and wear it
on your breast and throat,’ ” &c. And further on the writer states his
inability to procure the salt of iron in question, as he had completely
forgotten the name of it. He says also that if he only knew the way
of invoking that good old shade to appear again, he should be glad
indeed.
I had read only a few lines of this subject matter—certainly not the
half of it—when a voice said to me distinctly, “ I am he—the old
shade to whom the brother alludes. I will tell you what it is. Make
it as I direct you, and inform him that you have done so when you
have verified my statement.” I accordingly prepared some, and have
it ready for the writer of the article, if he pleases to call at my
residence, when I shall be happy to give him all the information I can
about the matter. Probably the old shade alluded to may have some¬
thing further to say to him. I have a spirit photograph of the person,
whose voice was on this occasion as distinct as the sound of the church
bells that were, then ringing. This photograph he can also see, and
perhaps recognise as the person he saw in his dream or vision.
Having, then, acted in obedience to my invisible speaker, by making
the article in question as he directed me, and by this letter bringing it
to the notice of the writer of the article, I trust the anticipated benefit
from the use of this powder may be fully and speedily realised.
Beyond this I do not hold myself responsible for anything connected
therewith. Thos. Slater.
19, Leamington-road-villas, Westbourne-park, W.
VEGETABLE DIET.
Sir,—Your article under the above heading moves me to suggest to
such of your readers as may be willing to join in it an experiment which
I have long had in contemplation, and which is likely to be more
steadily and conscientiously carried out by several persons under a
mutual obligation than by a single weak and unconfirmed will. There
is both evidence and presumption that a sparing and exclusively vege¬
table diet, combined with abstinence from alcoholic stimulants and
perhaps from tobacco, is conducive to the development of medial
powers, or, rather, to increased susceptibility to spiritual impressions.
The experiment entered upon simultaneously, and persevered in for a
given period by a number of persons who should carefully observe and
record the effects upon their general health, temperament, and spiritual
faculties, could hardly fail to provide us with some interesting and
important results. The persons so agreeing would probably comprise
very diverse constitutions of mind and body, and the report of each
should be accompanied with a short description of his or her habits,
health, and condition. Preconceived opinions as to the effect Of the
proposed regimen should not be allowed to colour the observation of it.
All should either agree beforehand upon the amount, as well as the
quality of food, so to be taken, or should specify these particulars
exactly in making their report. Who will join me in this experiment
for, say, one month ? Names and addresses sent through you, sir (if
you will receive them), to me as below will put us in communication
with one another, and then we can arrange our dietary programme.
Corpus Vile. \
London, 21st May.  
Sir,— In perusing The Spiritualist (to-day’s issue) what was my
surprise at seeing the following words in your interesting article on
vegetarianism : —“Mr. Colville, the trance medium, has been influenced
by his spirits to subsist entirely on vegetable food, and very little of
that.” This statement is erroneous, as my spirit guides in an address
on “The Proper Diet for Man ” agreed entirely with your own view
that certain persons require animal food in small quantities in man’s
present condition, as the result of hereditary transmission, and so on.
Speaking of vegetarianism they said, “There are many persons who can
live entirely on the produce of the earth, provided fruits and farinaceous
substances be taken in liberal quantities.” At the close of the address
a gentleman present asked the following question, “Does your medium
require animal food, or should he abstain entirely from it ?” The
answer was as follows:—“We desire our medium to partake of no
animal food, and of no food at all in large quantities for some few hours
previous to delivering an address. As to his usual mode of life, he
requires a considerable quantity of food, and if he partakes freely of
fruits and farinacse he can subsist on these things alone and continue in
sound health, and in condition favourable to our control. As to the
matter of total abstinence from animal food we leave it to his own
discretion; his judgment in the matter will usually be pretty correct.”
This is the united opinion of my guides on the subject.
I very rarely partake of animal food, and am an associate but not
a member of the Vegetarian Society; I am rather a hearty eater,
especially of bread, fruit and vegetables.
My spirit guides communicated to me last night the following
message :—“ Write to Mr. Harrison and tell him our views on vege¬
tarianism.” 1 did not understand the purport of it then, but now, of
course, it is clear.
250
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 25, 1877.
You say you will be glad to print with great brevity the personal
experiences of those who have tried to do without animal food. I
therefore proceed to relate my experiences as briefly as I can. When
a child I partook of animal food regularly, though it was rarely I had
any great relish for it; often I felt a positive repulsion. When old
enough to first express my opinion on the diet question I was in the
habit of eating meat or fish (sometimes both) regularly every day, and
I cannot say that I enjoyed the amount of health and strength which I
possess at present. I suddenly felt a strong inclination to abandon
almost entirely the use of animal food, and to subsist on bread, fruit,
vegetables and such things; the effect produced on me was this—I felt
a great increase of bodily and mental power, and some curious sensa¬
tions closely resembling hysteria, to which I had been for years pain¬
fully subject, almost entirely disappeared ; whereas when I ate animal
food I would have one of these disagreeable occurrences nearly every
day, and sometimes for weeks together. Now it is quite an event if
one takes place, and then only under extremely trying circumstances.
I find I require a considerable amount of food in order to keep in high
health, and perhaps about once a month I may feel disposed to partake
of a small quantity of meat, never fish. My own personal experience
of vegetarianism has been a great improvement in health, increased
bodily strength and mental vigour, with rapid development in inspira¬
tional speaking. Of course those who have work to perform of a
different order than mine may require different food, and of course
constitutions are not alike. I simply relate my own experiences of
flesh-diet versus vegetarianism. W. J. Colville.
32, Newgate-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne, May 18th.
Sir,—I will avail myself of your invitation to state, <£ with great
brevity,” my personal experience of the results of trying vegetable diet
for six months.
I do not know whether I may properly call it a “ purely ” vegetable
diet, inasmuch as I indulge in eggs, butter, and milk, nor have I taken
to straining the air I breathe, as you suggest. By-the-by, that enters
the lungs, not the stomach. Also, I do not escape those wonderful para¬
sites of which you speak that live between the teeth. But all that is
called flesh,” the product and the outcome of the disgusting, debasing,
and brutalising slaughterhouse, is what I have rejected, and, although
six months is not long, still I think it is long enough to find out the
effect of the change.
After having been a meat-eater for over sixty years, I stopped short,
and ate none for more than six months. What is my testimony ? Good,
nothing but good; no sense of “weakness,” but I am stronger,
healthier, and happier. To every Spiritualist, and to every one desirous
of qualifying for the higher life, and seeking the best conditions, I
earnestly recommend the abstaining from flesh as well as from all in¬
toxicating drink. I am now so confirmed as to the advantages of vege¬
table food physically as well as mentally, that I would not go back to
the old mixed diet on any account; it would be to me a punishment to
do so. W. N. Armfield.
Eden Villa, Cairn’s-road, New Wandsworth, May 20, 1877.
Sir,—The question of vegetarianism having been raised in your
columns, I write to point out that information on this subject may be
found in the monthly organ of its votaries, The Dietetic Reformer,
published by F. Pitman, Paternoster-row, London. From its pages I
learn that the Vegetarian Society was established in 1847, and that its
present secretary is Mr. R. Bailey Walker, Massie-street, Cheadle,
Manchester, who publishes plenty of pamphlets on the subject. The
same journal also states that Mr. R. N. Sheldrick, 93, Avondale-square,
London, S.JE., wishes to establish a Vegetarian Institute in the
metropolis. The cover of The Dietetic Reformer is ornamented with
pictures of carrots, parsnips, turnips, cucumbers, and other delicacies.
  K.
Sir,—You invite brief testimony as to vegetarianism ; here is mine.
It is about six months since I tasted meat. My health and appetite
were always good before the change, and they are good now. I would
recommend everybody to give vegetarianism a trial—everyone, at least,
who is not an invalid: I do not care to come between the patient and
his doctor. You give instances of people who were unable to get
through the “ rough labour of this world ” without a flesh-meat diet.
I seem to have learned that for all sorts of work, one may find in
vegetable food sufficient, and more than sufficient, to nourish the body;
and as for the mind, I am sure it is the gainer.
This is a right field for Spiritualists, since we talk so much of spirit
acting by or through conditions ; besides, it appears that not one of us
is able to say where body ends and spirit begins; blood seems to merge
into “nerve fluid,” and when we have reached even that we hardly
know what we are talking about. This is why some Spiritualists
(myself for one) think the state of the body may merit a little extra
attention.
The rule is cleanliness within and without. In all things simplicity.
Begin with the healthy infant; assume that as your physiological
standard, and do not tamper with it; meddle as little as possible with
Nature, save in the way of purification. Never import into the
system that which may convey disease wholesale. Hence, four things
come to be held in abomination by us, viz., vaccination, flesh-eating,
intoxicants, and tobacco. Samuel Pride.
8, Grampian-road, Liverpool.
Sir,—When thirty years of age, I lived at Edinburgh for ten months
on a diet almost entirely free from animal food. I had an egg, bread
and butter, and preserves, and tea or coffee at eight a.m. About two p.m.
I lunched on fruit and bread, or similar food; and at six or seven p.m.
I had again tea, with an egg, bread and butter, and preserves.
This was an imperfect diet; I should have taken a bunch of vegetables.
During these ten months I studied hard about eight hours a day, and
took strong exercise, about four hours a day, at cricket or otherwise.
My health was perfect, and my powers of endurance greater than when
I Jived on a full animal diet.
I think most strong constitutions could be perfectly maintained in this
country on a diet almost entirely free from flesh food. The Scotch
peasantry are the finest I have seen in any country, and until the last
thirty or forty years their diet consisted almost entirely of skimmed milk
and oatmeal and potatoes, and a little dripping.
Many feeble constitutions seem to demand a full animal diet, but I
believe good constitutions could be well maintained on oatmeal, potatoes,
fruit, and tea, with abundance of good milk.
I should mention that, while living on the above unstimulating diet,
I felt a strong desire for a tumbler of whisky-toddy just before going to
bed. This desire I generally gratified. In the sharp air of the North
spirits are easily digested. George^Wyld, M.D.
12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, London.
healing mediumship.
Sir,—There was a notice in The Spiritualist of March 30th last,
recording a cure by Mr. Hawkins, of 11, Mount Pleasant, East-road,
City-road.
It led me to apply to him, and, having proved his healing power, I
feel it due to him to give publicity to the following statement, especially
as 1 believe he intends to devote much of his time in future to healing.
In the autumn of last year my daughter’s health failed completely.
A severe cold, followed by a cough that lasted through the winter, had
so reduced her strength as to render it necessary, according to medical
opinion, that she should take a long and complete rest at the sea-side.
Professional duties prevented the adoption of this measure, and I
applied to Mr. Hawkins. My daughter felt relief after the first visit,
and the treatment has been continued ever since with great benefit, her
health being now so far restored that she can do without it.
In consequence of a remark in the notice alluded to, I wish to add
that the “ refusal to accept remuneration ” must be understood to be
applicable only to Mr. Cain himself and to personal friends of the
healer, for it is obvious that without substantial acknowledgment of
his very valuable help, Mr. Hawkins could not give away his time and
strength.
I am not authorised to say this, but I think the notice is likely to
mislead, and may place an excellent and kind worker in difficulty.
Elizabeth K. Beeby.
Croydon, May 21st, 1877.
SWEDE NBORGIANISM VCTSUS SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—I lately received from the Rev. Mr. Gorman a Swedenborgian
pamphlet against Spiritualism, entitled, The Word of God and Spirit
Manifestations; shewing that the Scriptures condemn open intercourse
with spirits as injurious to man's progress in regeneration. By the
late Rev. J. H. Smithson, of Manchester. 1856. Reprinted in 1875.
He appears to have been a very learned man; and if we accept his
premises, his conclusions are irresistible. I enclose herewith a copy of
a letter which I have addressed to Mr. Gorman. A. Joy.
Dear Sir,—I received from you some time since a copy of The Word
of God and Spiritualist Manifestations, for which I failed to thank you
at the time, because I wished to do something more, and had not at
that moment the time to do so.
No doubt the pamphlet in question is calculated to influence some
persons in the desired direction ; those, for instance, who are not yet
Spiritualists, and who know nothing about Spiritualism. I may observe
that the two terms are practically commensurate ; for, just as Harriet
Martineau tells us in her memoirs that none but Necessarians under¬
stand the doctrine of Necessarianism, so I have invariably found that
none but Spiritualists understand Spiritualism, or know what it con¬
sists in, and what it teaches. The late Mr. Smithson seems to have
been no exception to the rule.
Even twenty-one years ago, when he wrote his pamphlet, the funda¬
mental principles of Spiritualism, which indeed are unchangeable, were
something very different from what he must have imagined them to be
if he ever meant it to be read by any one who knew anything about
the subject, which may perhaps, however, reasonably be doubted.
The Spiritualist knows that in Spiritualism he possesses the only key
to the Word of God. So that, if you succeed in proving to him that
“ the Scriptures condemn intercourse with spirits as injurious to man’s
progress in regeneration,” he will tell you that it follows as an inevit¬
able corollary that the Scriptures “ you refer to are not the unadul¬
terated Word of God.”
(In quoting from the title page, I have advisedly omitted the word
“ open ” before “intercourse,” as it seems to imply that the Scriptures
allow some non-open kind of intercourse, which, I take it, was not the
author’s meaning. But, if it was, it will not affect ray argument.)
The Spiritualist knows from personal and practical experience, and
from “ rational considerations ’ ’ founded on the teachings of Spiritual¬
ism, that it conduces eminently to man’s progress in regeneration.
He also knows that he possesses in Spiritualism not only the key to the
“Bible,” as well as to all the bibles, but a reason for believing that the
miraculous events recorded in the Bible are not a mere tissue of human
invention, a reason which the non-Spiritualist has not got, and without
which his belief, if not a hollow sham, is at least devoid of any solid or
rational foundation. The Swedenborgian is no better off in this respect
than any other anti-Spiritualist, for, except through Spiritualism, he
has no rational grounds for believing in Swedenborg any more than in
the Bible.
True, there are some Spiritualists who admit that if it were possible
to prove to them that Spiritualism, as they understand it, is condemned
by the Bible, they would at once renounce Spiritualism. Such are
May 25, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
251
Messrs. William Howitt, S. 0. Hall, and F. R. Young; and they are, I
think, bound to read, and, if they can, to answer Mr. Smithson. But
they are very few, their Spiritualism is generally rather peculiar and
illogical, and their mode of dealing with the Bible still more so.
I am afraid you have no chance even with them. Certainly you have
none with the vast majority of Spiritualists, who accept the Bible as an
authority because, and so far as, it is endorsed by Spiritualism, and
who do not believe in the infallibility of any mediumistic teachings.
For such, you must admit, it would be a mere waste of time to read
Mr. Smithson’s pamphlet; but I thank you none the less cordially for
having taken the trouble to send it me. A. Joy.
To the Rev. T. M. Gorman.
May 17th, 1877. -——
FORM MANIFESTATIONS.
Sir,—Pardon me if I venture to suggest that in our judgment (I write
for the Count de Bullet and myself), and from the point of view of our
marvellous and fast-accumulating facts, our learned and able and
devoted fellow-labourer and fellow-student, Mr. Stainton-Moses, to
whom we all pay, as well as owe, an equal debt of gratitude and of
admiration, is going a little too fast and far in the programme he lays
down of rules recommended for the mode of holding materialisation
stances—or seances for what you prefer to call “form manifestations.”
He recommends that cabinets be abolished; that the forms appearing
be touched and handled; and that experimental observations be made
on the medium in reference to his temperature, pulse, and so on.
I humbly submit that it is not for us to lay down laws, and conditions,
and methods to the good and gracious spirits who, in fulfilment of the
supreme will of God, and under the guidance of higher while still sub¬
ordinate spirits, are carrying out this grand work of the re-revelation of
Christianity.
If we here should adopt those rules, we should simply get nothing;
while, on the other hand, what beautiful and glorious marvels we do
get by leaving the managing spirit to work in his own way. There may
be other mediums with whom the cabinet may be dispensed with; it is
not so with Firman. And yet the spirit sometimes voluntarily opens the
curtain which constitutes the cabinet, and shows him seated asleep, with
several spirit forms visible at the same time. We have several times
seen two—several times three—and once recently (just before my arrival
from California) four, as I have already written you. They sometimes
volunteer to touch us; if we venture, however gently, to approach a
hand to touch them, they shrink back and vanish. I have seen them come
close up to the Count’s face, and, inclining forward their heads, touch his
forehead with theirs. When this was recently done by one of them
(Nathalie), first to him, and then to the Countess, and when I begged
her to do the same to me, she would not; and yet immediately after¬
wards came my own mother, and twice did it to me,—nay, further, on
my earnest unspoken entreaty, touched my lips with hers, and then laid
her hand on the top of my head. Yet on former occasions, when she
was standing near to me, and I slowly advanced my hand to take hold
of one end of her drapery, she shrank instantly back. Possibly when
Nathalie refused to me what ..she had accorded to the others, it was
because she knew that my mother was about to follow for me. Possibly
I presented conditions which made it impossible or difficult to her, while
it was less so in regard to my own mother. The Count and Countess
are both mesmeric or mediumistic; I am not a bit. The Count asked
a short time ago whether he might not some day go into the cabinet.
John King answered that he might. To me the reply to the
same inquiry was a quick and strong “ No.” In former times
he has been in the cabinet with Firman, holding both his hands,
and been at the same time touched by two spirits, the one
on one side and the other on the other. He has also seen them in the
cabinet gradually form out of white cloud, and then again dissolve. It
is evident that black darkness and seclusion from our presence or atmo¬
sphere (at least from mine) are conditions necessary to the delicate
process of their forming; though, when once formed, they can come
out and then face the light, and sometimes volunteer to touch us in our
fleshly mortality.
It is evident that “John King” is much more nearly on our plane
than the spirits to whom, with his strong fluidic force, he acts as a
“medium.” He said of himself to-day, “I am but a poor man; yes,
I will add a poor miserable man ”—and he emphasised the word man.
He can with freedom touch and grasp us till the bones of our hands
ache, and allows us often to touch his hand and drapery as he is parading
his light before our eyes. He, too, can speak copiously and strongly,
while the others cannot, excepting the very rare occasions which I have
elsewhere recorded, when there were but a few words in tones distinct
but only whispered. I have asked him if we could not dispense with
the cabinet, since they could have the same condition of perfect dark¬
ness, for the operation of forming, in the room as behind the curtain.
He at once answered, “No.”
Let us be glad and grateful for what we do get, for what we have
got, and for the splendid things we are getting, and take them with
the conditions accompanying them, rather than undertake, in the
Tyndallic or Carpenterian fashion, to prescribe and impose our own—
and we must do so if we want to get them at all. It is easy for us to
superadd “test conditions” of such a character as not to interfere with
the delicate and mysterious operations which the spirits perform in
producing them. And then the evidence becomes just as conclusive as
though we were to change the methods chosen and prescribed by our
spirit friends, who know far more than we do about it all.
Of course I do not mean to object to anything which the controlling
spirits, when consulted, should approve. But depend upon it a
sweeping decree to abolish all cabinets, and to manipulate and experi¬
mentalise upon the spirit forms and the entranced mediums calls for a
little further reflection before it is made absolute.
J. L. O’Sullivan.
Paris, May 22nd, 1877.
j A SEANCE WITH MR. FLETCHER.
( i BY CHARLES CARLETON MASSEY.
(| Six gentlemen and two ladies were present at an interesting trance
(i stance for test communications at 38, Great Russell-street, on Friday
| i last, the 18th May, Mr. J. W. Fletcher being the new medium. The
j | “ control ” was effected very shortly after the circle had been formed,
(| and a long and somewhat discursive conversation between those present
) | and what purported to be a spirit, once belonging to a country of which
I the language is no longer known (and respecting which no further in-
11 formation could be elicited), ensued. We were told that the spirit had
| i figured in history, that he would give his name at some other time, and
j j that we should have “very little confidence ” in him when we heard it.
j! In answer to questions, opinions, not very definite or positive, were
) i delivered, upon several speculative subjects, such as the evolution of
(i spirit and reincarnation (in which belief was expressed). During this
11 control the communications were in the natural voice of the medium.
) | The inevitable “ Indian ” next took possession, evincing, as is commonly
(| the case, a proper ignorance of the simplest grammatical forms, together
j I with an occasional familiarity with more difficult idioms, which seemed
) | not quite so proper. But given the complete ignorance of the medium
(| of the antecedents and belongings of the persons present, the “ tests ”
11 afforded to one or two of us were certainly rather striking. The first
) | two spirits announced, however, were not recognised. They gave the
u names, by spelling, of Powell and Furgerson (sec), the latter assenting
) | to the suggestion that he was “ with the Davenports ; ” the former was
) | described as “ coming round, as if he knows you all—a long time feeble
| before death—kind of Spiritualist and medium—working for people and
11 for mediums ”—formerly and still. Next were described the father and
I j mother (deceased) of a young lady present, and a long whispered com-
(| munication resulted in her expressing satisfaction with the proofs given.
II An “ artist ” followed, who gave the best test of the evening, for he
| i described (through the “ control ”) a physical affliction from which a
(j lady related to a gentleman in the circle was suffering. For reasons
11 which will be apparent I do not go with greater detail into this
(1 communication. It was, however, admitted to be, so far as already
(I ascertained facts were concerned, in all respects accurate, comprising
11 circumstances relating to past medical or surgical treatment. I was
(| subsequently informed, however, by the gentleman to whom the com-
i munication (some of it whispered) was made, that the principal fact
| j was not wholly unknown outside his family—a circumstance
i I think it right to mention. Mrs. Parker received an accurate
i description of her stepmother, said to be present, and two communica-
(| tions, of which one was and the other was not entirely convincing to
(| her. Mr. Peterson was visited by Dr. Slade’s “Allie”—of whose
j i portrait, as verbally sketched for us, we could, of course, form no
)j opinion. Minor incidents I omit, merely adding that I believe the
(I general impression of the company to have been decidedly favourable to
11 Mr. Fletcher’s mediumship, which I hope further to investigate in
| j private.
(| Upon the question of ‘ ‘ identity,” the spelling of the name “ Furgerson ”
11 is material. If it had been simply the phonetic spelling of the medium
(j or of the “control” it would amount to nothing, but the letters were
(I said to be seen, and it is, therefore, worth remarking that of all the
11 modes of spelling this name the above is so uncommon, to say the least,
(| that I have found no instance of it in the London Directory. This
(! appears to make against the identity.
| Mr. J. J. Morse will deliver a trance address at Birmingham
next Sunday at the Templar Hall, Lady wood-road, in the evening, at
6.30. On Monday he will give a chamber lecture. On Sunday,
June 3rd, he will speak at Newcastle - on - Tyne, and on Sunday,
June 10th, in London. Sunday, June 17th, Liverpool.
| Gods and Forces.—The Keltic and Germanic tribes who embraced
Christianity, received it on a low level of civilisation ; their gods were
i not an abstract expression of natural laws, or of moral attributes: they
were real beings, wonder workers, who brought pestilence, guided the
] shock of war, or blessed the cattle with increase. Loose thinkers of our
I own times class causes which they cannot understand under the general
| head of forces, to escape the necessity of definition; it is the homage of
ignorance to that belief in law which science has rendered popular.—
] Pearson's History of England during the Early and Middle Ages.
A Disreputable Trick.—The following is extracted from The Banner
of Light:—“ Whilst in New York a few weeks ago, Mrs. Wilson, of 471,
j Sixth Avenue, the well-known, excellent materialising medium, told me
j that on a late occasion the Rev. Mr. Hepworth, Irving Bishop, and a
number of persons who she understood belonged to the Young Men’s
i Christian Association, attended a materialising seance at her room, and
! seemed satisfied with the genuineness of the manifestations. The next
day a Mr. , accompanied by another person, called to see her, and
| proposed that she should go to a hall they would provide, free of expense
| to her, and do what she had done the evening before, and when all was
| gone through with, get up and simply say to the audience, ‘ Gentlemen
j and ladies, all that you have witnessed I have done myself.’ She was not
to be required to make any further explanation or confession whatever.
For this performance on her part they promised to pay her a large sum
of money that had been made up for the purpose, and to prove they were
prepared to perform what they proposed, counted out on a table before
her nine hundred dollars in bills, and then, after the manner of their
I father, the devil, when he sought to tempt Jesus to betray the truth, said
j to her, ‘All this will we give thee, for it is delivered to us for that
i purpose, and to whomsoever we will we give it.’ As I looked around the
i scantily furnished apartment, I felt that, under the circumstances, Jesus
himself had not resisted a greater temptation than had this humble
i disciple.—Thomas R, Hazard, (Yaucluse, R.I., March 1st, 1877).” ,
252
THE SPIRITUALIST,
May 25, 1877
SPIRITUALISM IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
BY EMILY” KISLINGBUKY AND 0. CARTER BLAKE, DOC. SCI.
The Revue Spirite has for some time past begun to explore
other ground than that occupied by the followers of Allan
Kardec, and the expositors of his doctrines, and the May
number contains so large and pleasing a variety of articles,
that justice could only be done to some of them by giving
them entire. All readers of French would find it worth
their while to procure a copy for themselves.
From time to time accounts have appeared of peculiar
physical manifestations, especially of the class known as
apports, or transfer of objects from one place to another.
At Omet in the department of Haute-Garonne, there has been
such an amount of stone-throwing as to render the daughter
of M. J. Yimeney, in whose house the manifestations
occurred, exceeding ill. The stones were taken out of parts
of the house itself, and thrown whizzing through the air in
different directions; crockery was transported in disorderly
fashion, and whistling noises were continually heard.
In order to put a stop to these unpleasant occurrences, a
seance was held, and the authors of the disturbances evoked
by means of writing and trance mediums. They avowed
their object to be simply to make known their existence, and
promised to yield to the desire of the circle that they should
discontinue to manifest in so noisy a manner. A con¬
siderable effect is said to have been produced in the neigh¬
bourhood on those who, hitherto, disbelieved in the existence
of spiritual forces.
An unusual amount of veneration has been shown towards
a Spiritist in Spain, who has lately departed this life, M.
Palety of Villava. He had been remarkable for his kind¬
ness to the poor, especially to those who came to him as
vice-consul, to have their passports vised. Instead of
rigorously exacting three francs in payment, he more often
gave the burdened peasant traveller two francs from his own
purse. When Palet’s widow applied to the priest for the
purchase of ground for his burial, the ecclesiastic refused to
take any money, because the people, he said, looked upon
Palet as a saint, and their opinion must be respected for the
space of seven years. If during that time, any manifesta¬
tions took place in connection with his remains, he would
be canonised a Spiritualist saint! The cure of a country
district, whom Palet had impressed with Spiritualist ideas,
came to offer his services free of cost on the day of burial.
A little pamphlet has been published in the French
language, consisting of a correspondence between a Spirit¬
ualist and an orthodox Roman Catholic. Miss Anna Black¬
well’s prize essay has also been issued in French in an
admirable translation.
During a late visit of M. Leymarie to Brussels various
matters relating to the Spiritualist movement in Belgium
were discussed. It was suggested that the Fediratio?i Beige,
which is formed on the model of the British Rational
Association of Spiritualists, should have a central bureau,
with a reading-room and library, in the city of Brussels, and
that all the local societies should contribute towards the ex¬
penses. It was also considered desirable to enlarge and
improve the Moniteur, the new official organ of the Federa¬
tion, which is working well with the Messager, the older
Belgian journal.
Fortnightly meetings for discussion and reading papers
are now held at Liege on Sunday evenings. The meetings
have a semi-religious character, and are largely attended by
Spiritualist families.
Two Spiritualist baptisms have lately taken place at
Ostend. The children had each one godfather and one
godmother. In one instance the mother, being clairvoyant,
saw her own parents and other spirit relatives present at the
ceremony.
M. Du Potet, President of the Mesmeric Society in Paris,
has sent the following letter to M. Jules Simon, Minister
for Hotne Affairs, and President of the Ministerial Coun¬
cil :—
Sib,—Your well-known interest in all that concerns man’s welfare and
progress encourages me to ask your sanction to the holding of meetings
for the study of animal magnetism, at 89, Boulevard des Capucines. My
object is to discuss the remarkable phenomena due to an agency dis¬
covered by Mesmer. I have some qualifications for this work; I have
published thirty-two volumes; I am eighty-four years of age, and,
feeling that my end is not far on, I owe it to the public to inform them
J|| of what I have found useful to science and humanity, in my unceasing
i i j researches during sixty years, and to tell them what is real and what is
i | i doubtful in occult matters. This is the task I have set myself, and which
I j j I appeal to you to help me to perform. I have every confidence in your
I j I enlightened judgment and superior intelligence to understand that I shall
I | make good use of the opportunities which you may allow me, and I
111 sincerely hope that you will grant the favour of enabling me to resume
111 the teaching of those transcendent truths already published in my works,
| | and which I am confident will some day be a great gain to science.
In the belief that it is your ardent desire to aid in the progress of that
! | science to which my life has been devoted, I offer you the humble
! j assurances of my highest esteem.—Your obedient servant,
j 11 (Signed) Babon Du Potet.
i j i 90, Sue du Bac, Paris.
| j M. Riko has been giving a lecture at the Hague, in the
-j j course of which he favoured the audience with a minute
j j description of Dr. Slade’s mediumship. He read a letter
| | from a physician at the Hague, whose testimony to the
j reality of the manifestations was most complete and satis-
| factory. M. Riko concluded his lecture with some forcible
| | remarks on the moral uses of Spiritualism.
| A serial in the Dutch language, entitled On the Confines
| | of Two Worlds is appearing monthly, edited by Madame
I j Yan Calcar. The writer gives a history of her life and
1 education, and shows how her intellectual difficulties were
j j solved in the light of Spiritualism.
||| The Count de Torres Solanot writes to the Criteria
I I Espiritista concerning the International Congress of Spirit-
j ] ualists, which it is proposed to hold in Paris in 1878, during
| | the time that the Great Exhibition is open. The Count
| I goes on to say that the attention of the world will then be
j I called to Spiritualism in its practical works, its history, its
| | progress, and its present aspects. Spiritualists of all coun-
| | tries are asked to co-operate, if the political circumstances
| | of Europe should allow of their free action. It is suggested
| j that a kiosque be opened in the Champ de Mars for the sale
| I of Spiritualist literature, and as a meeting-place for all
| | Spiritualists visiting the Exhibition.
Dr. Huelbes Temprado contributes an article on the reli-
| j gious aspect of Spiritualism, and Pezzani a second paper on
y] Universalism, in which he applies the philosophy of Hegel
|| to the phenomena of Spiritualism.
The April number of the Criterio is chiefly devoted to
discourses and some really beautiful poetry by Senor Antonio
Hurtado on the commemoration of the nineteenth anniversary
of the revelation of Spiritualism, and the eighth year of the
| disincarnation of Allan Kardec. In addition is a good
| supply of paragraphs containing all the latest news from
| English and French periodicals.
The Ilustracion Espirita of Mexico for March and April
j has articles on (l the Creative Principle according to Spirit¬
ualism and Science,” by S. Santiago Sierra ; on the u History
of Dogma,” by S. Juan Cordero; and on Sin in Spirit-
| ualism,” commenting on the lack of love and harmony
! which exists in religious sects and among some professors of
| Spiritualism.
The news from England begins as follows :—c< This is
what has taken place in Old England. Incompetent
tribunals, composed of stupid magistrates wedded to their
Bibles, have acted as instruments of persecution.”
A very clear account is given of the story of James
Ay mar, a remarkable Spanish clairvoyant in 1602.
The Ley de Amor (Yucatan, Mexico) continues to be
| issued fortnightly, and its articles are well written, but are
chiefly of a polemical order.
The society of Lerida has issued a work called Rome and
I the Gospel, portions of which have been translated by M. J.
j B. Constant, of Madrid, and sent to the office of the Revue
Spirite. An extract, supposed to have emanated from the
| spirit Lamennais, is printed in that journal; other portions
| are so aggressive that they could not be published in France.
Psychic Studies is, as usual, full of good things for the
| Germans, but does not offer much that is new to the English
reader. There is a short notice of Dr. Max Perty’s new
book on Modern Spiritual Manifestations, which is an im-
| portant work.
A special session of the Council of the Dalston Association of
Inquirers into Spiritualism was summoned for yesterday (Thursday)
evening to consider removal to new premises. The Association has
tenanted the rooms in Navarino-road, Dalston, since its establishment
in 1870, and the removal is now necessitated in consequence of the
! property being required for railway extension purposes.
May 25, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iii
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
aalism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist news¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published, to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “ Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,'also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spirituahsm. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, hut
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritnal-
sm to be diabolical.- He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This hook professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not he taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rale, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supcmaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ;Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo.,
500 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
Inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.: or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. od.; cheap edition,
7s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 0s
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d. "
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s 0d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS ; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. ed.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. ed.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.-
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. OONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevier. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Bev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS, by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record oi Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. ed.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By 0. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. 6d..
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gamed the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. Cd.) 4s.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vois.i 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DU VIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. ,,111,
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . ,
The Thinker. „ V. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis .
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . ’.
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . . . •
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health , . . . .
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures .....
s. d.
. 15 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 G
. 7 6
. 7 0
. 3 6
.70
.50
. 7 6
. 2 0
. 3 6
. 3 6
. 7 0
. 3 6
. 7 0
. 2 6
. 3 6
. 7 0
. 0 0
. 7 G
. i 6
. 6 0
. 5 0
. 2 6
. 3 (1
. 7 0
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
S d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The SriitiTUALisT Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .50
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .50
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.Ay Trm. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 3
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M. A . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind'; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . .20
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation or the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . . 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Pam, B. A. . . ,36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . , 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale ..... 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.AS.
Special edition for Schools . i o
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
i Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRI
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E*
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard,
ed.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman oi Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox, Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “ There is in it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” ed.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. 6d.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young ed.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d,
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrieally through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, . SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam, is. 6d.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D, Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM by Dr. R T.
Hallock. 2s.
iv
The great question of the da a.
How: to. Prevent Premature Death from Disease, or
Prevention of the Propagation of Infectious Diseases. Startling
but True.
How long are we to he left in sanitary matters at the fnercy
of the ignorant and careless? The Times states that l00,000.
cases annually of illness from typhoid fever alone may he set
down as preventable. Upwards of 500,000 persons have died
of this preventable disease since the death of PJEtlNCE
ALBERT TBE G-REAT AND GOOD. Under the Mosaic
law the nations were in a higher position in sanitary matters
than the world to-day, while their appliances w6re 'rude in
comparison to ours,
INQUESTS. — A STARTLING ARRAY OF
PREVENTABLE DEATH.—Why shohM Fever, that' vile
slayer of millions of the human race, not bp as much and more
hunted up, and its career stopped, as the* solitary wretch who
causes his fellow a violent death? 'The^mtirderer, as he is
called, is quickly made example of by the ..law. Fevers are
almost universally acknowledged to be.preventable diseases;
how is it that they are allowed to level their thousands every
year, .and millions to suffer almost without protest ? The most
ordinary .observer must be struck with the huge blunder.
WHO’S TO BLAME ? For the means Of preventing prema¬
ture death from disease read a large illustrated sheet given
with each bottle of END’S FRUIT SALT,; ;th.e information is
invaluable. The Fruit Salt (one of nature’s own products)
keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself One of the most
valuable means of keeping the blood free* from fevers and
blood poisons, liver complaints, &c.,' ever discovered. As a
means of preserving and restoring health "it is unequalled; and
it is, moreover, a pleasant, refreshing, and invigorating
beverage. After a patient and careful observation of its effects
when used, I have no hesitation' in'stating that, if its GREAT
VALUE in keeping the body healthy was universally known,
not a household in the, land .would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.
ETSFO’S FRUIT SALT.—A gentleman writes
“ In cases of bilious headaches, followed by severe
attacks of fever, END’S FRUIT SALT has acted like a charm
when all other treatment failed. The day is not far distant
when the neglect of its use in all fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered criminal.”—See
Stomach and its Trials, 10th edition, post free 14 stamps.
What every TRAVELLING TRUNK and
Household in the world ought to
contain—a bottle.of ENO:s.FRUlT SALT.
Without such a simple precaution the jeopardy of life is
immensely increased.
As a HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING,' COOLING, and
INVIGORATING BEVERAGE,’ or as a GENTLE LAXA¬
TIVE and TONIC in the VARIOUS FORMS of INDIGES¬
TION, use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
(PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE FRUIT).
It is the best preventive and cure for all Functional Derange¬
ments of the Liver, Temporary Congestion arieing from Alco¬
holic Beverages, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions,
Impure Blood, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverishness
or Feverish Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Con- •
stipation, Vomiting,-Sea, Sickness, Thirst, &c., ’.apd to remove
the effects of Errors of Ealing and .Drinking;' also’Gouty .or i
Rheumatic Poisons from the Blood, the neglect of which often
results in Apoplexy,'Heart Disease, and Sudden Death.
Notwithstanding its medicinal value, the FRUIT SALT
must be looked upon as essential as breathing fresh air, or as
a simple and safe beverage under all circumstances, and may
be taken as a sparkling and refreshing draught in the same
way as lemonade, soda water, potass water, &c., only it is much
cheaper and better in every sense of the term, to an unlimited
extent. Being a genuine product of nature, it is a true or natural
way of' restoring or preserving health.
To Europeans who propose visiting or: residing'in HOT
CLIMATES,. I.consider the FRUIT SALT to be.an indispens¬
able necessary, for by its use the system is relieved of poisonous
matter, the result of- eating to nearly the same extent, and of
too rich food, as they do in a colder country,'while so .much
heat-making food is not required in the warmer climate. By
keeping the system clear, the Fruit Salt takes away the
groundwork of malarious diseases, and all liver ■ complaints,
and neutralises poisonous matter. Out of a large number of
Testimonials we select the following:—
A M.D. (EDINB.) and MR.C.S., L A.C., London, writes:—
“ I am much pleased with your Fruit Salt, having tried it on
myself. Your theory and remarks are most reasonable.
Having nearly died of Typhoid, when studying-at College,
being tde only one cut of sixteen who recovered, I mean to go
in well for purifying the blood. Though I am sixty-three, I
have not the least doubt it will be very serviceable to me.”
A Gentleman writes:—“ Ifeel quite certain, if your FRUIT
SALT was known in INDIA and the COLONIES, that the
sale would not be limited to thousands of bottles per annum,
but MANY MILLIONS; India'alone"would use more than
all England.’, • •
“Your Fruit, Salt is, beyond ..all. praise, I .wish you would
sell it here; it would make its own way by its own merit.”—
T. A. Somerb y, Couneillor-at-law; 20; Old State House, Boston,
U.S.A.
A lady writes“ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to
act_ properly, for at’ least' three months before I commenced
taking it; the little food I c’ould take generally punished me or
returned. My life was one of great suffering, so that I must
have succumbed’before Idng. To me arid-’Our'family :it has
been a great earthly blessing. , I feel I .cannot say foe much
for it. The least .1 can do is to do my best to make the Fruit
Salt known to other sufferers.* .1 am getting tetter rapidly, ;
and expect to totally recover, after spending hundreds of
pounds and travelling about for twelve'years;”.
Messrs. Gibson and Son, Chemists, of Hexham, say : “ Since
we introduced your Fruit Salt at Hixbam a few -months ago,
wo have sold upwards of 1,000 bottles, and R. giyes general '
satisfaction, as customers who get it almost alwajsrecommend
it to their friends. We have had numerous instances of its
great efBcacy in the cure of bilious headaches,-indigestion, or
stomach complaints, &c.”
“ 14, Rue dela Paix, Paris, Jan. 16,1877.
“ A gentleman called in yesterday. He is a cfh,stant
sufferer from Chronic Dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of
Mineral Waters. I recommended him fogiveyour Salt a trial'
whichhe.-did, and received great b-neflt. He says be never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried your Salt,
and for the future, shall never be without it in the house.
“ M. BERAL.” 4
Sold by all Chemists, price 2s. 9d. and 4s. Cd.
Sole Agent for Pan's—PHARMACIE DE BERAL, 14, RUE
DE LA PAIX.
ME S pfETTUALIS^ru
(§§= . gggygig i gapp
; S|gp!$UALISM : - i 'wp:
New Works onffill tPhenoinena,- Philosdjfffflffimd
PfiesHhi ‘'Position.!
BY ^AI.-A. ' (GXON.) ”■ '
, I have been frequently asked to publish a book on Spirit¬
ualism. The facilities .which I *have enjoyed for' personal
investigation,''; my' acquaintance with the literature* of the
|subject 'anid "with prominent workers in it, and the attention
'that lJUaye^paid totheinyestigation of its various phases, have
.seemed to many.-to -fit me for-such a duty.
: It is easier asked'fhfin "done. A book on Spiritualism,-if it
did blit sketch" the'sflbje.ct, should be very'.voluminous; and,
when written, it would-be'found to^omit more than it dis¬
cussed or recorded. I cannot write’.such a book ; nor do I
think.it .desirable that any such attempt should be made in the
present .state .of. our knowledge.
J But " I do think it very important that' any person who has
special facilities for observation should use them,-and-record
their results" as best he can.' In this belief, I have kept careful
records of what I haye seen, and from time to time have pub¬
lished Essays and Reviews on the published opinions of others.'
I have also printed a number of chapters of Personal Research
in the Phenomena and .Philosophy’ of Spiritualism, and have
selected, from a mass that have been automatically written out,
certain Spirit-teachings: ‘'v
I propose to cpllecij and. complete these works.
First, I wish' to print a volume’of Essays and Reviews.-
It will contain,' in addition to a number of Reviews of works -
of standard ■ American authors—Olcott, Sargent,. Tuttle,
Crowell, and. others—and a long Essay on the Transcorporeal
Action of Spirit, which'have already appeared, much'original'
matter not yet .published;' A special feature of the book will-,
be the introduction'to general readers of the besJ books on
Modern Spiritualism.,;.. « , . ,  ,
The volume will be published at 10s if sufficient names are
enrolled as subscribers to show .that, such'a book is wanted,
I and will pay expenses. I decline pecuniary risk.' *
I propose hereafter (but not how) ,16-issue tWp other yvorks,
—one “Spirit Teachings,” dealing'with the religious aspect •
of the question; the other, “ Researches in the' Phenomena
and Philosophy of SpiRiTuALisM;”:dea.lihgiwith the whole
subject in its experimental phases,-..and with the.theory and
philosophy of it. 'These ,will come in due time if they find
a place.
i Fd'Ethe present I put forward, only f1 EsgAYS and Reviews.”, '■
; The fojlowiug friends have kindly formed themselves into a
committee with a view of carrying out business arrangements. ’1
THhse'’to<wh6se name * is preflxfed will receive names; of
’ Subscribers,-and Mr.* .Percival,'‘a the,Treasurer, will, receive :
subscriptions,as.-,they.become due. '
; Detailspf publication will be given, when it becomes clear •
that the book’Will meet a demand. ' Unless a sufficient'humber ’
of copies—about ,500—be subscribed for I shall consider that
it is not wise to print. ' ' •
. I respectfully beg that no business letters may be sent to
me, as my time is already overtaxed.
1 “M.A. (OXON.).”
Names of Committee..
*Mrs: Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-sq., W.
Mrs. Fitz-gerald, 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde Park, W.
■"Mrs. Tebb, *7, Alberfyroad, Regent’s Park, N.W.
*S. T; Speer,- Esq.1,13, Alexandra-rbad, N.W.
fO. ,0. Massey,,Esq.,’ 96, Pbrtlandrplace, W. fy.
T. Shorter, Esq ,.23,’ Prince of Wales’-rbad, N.W..
fB. 'Cblemahy Esq.;' 1,: Bernard-villas,'Ceht'ral-hill, Upper
Norwood.
F. W. Percival, Esq., 15, Conduit-street, Bond-street, * W.,
Treasurer, to whom all Names are to be sent in,
together with all subscriptions when payable.
Subscribers who do not wish their names to be published,
should inform Mr. Percival to that effect.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no. results be obtained
on' the first occasion, try again with other Bittern One or '
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to.be found in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with-all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually , of no Importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but hot always, considerably delays the
manifestations..   ....
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils ■
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes-'
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage, in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent, being. Let him toll the table that
three tilts or raps mean' liYes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is 'under¬
stood. - If three signals - be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly,;will you signal every
■time I come to the letter you want; and spell us out a mes¬
sage?” Should three-signals be given,-set. to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put; ‘.‘Are.we sitting in the
right order-to get-the best manifestations L”. Probably some
members of the. circle will then be told to* change seats with
each other, and the. signals will afterwards‘be strengthened.
Next' ask “Who'is the medium?!’ When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and ail the failings of humanity.
May 25, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST ; FUND. <
ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION FOR 1877 AND 1878.
d.
Le Comte de Bullet    ' 60 0 0
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq    ' 20 0" 0
' Martin R. Smith, ESq.   !!..n7...v!'.,..f. ip. 0 ,0
Alexander Tod, Esq,     15 0 ' 0
Charles Blackburn, Esq 10 O' O,
Alexander Oalder, Esq   To • O' ,0:
N, F. Da we, Esq     RU O.'i 0
G. 0. Joad, Esq.....  Iff ' Cf ‘O;
The Hon. A. Aksakof   10 0 0
J..M. Gully, Esq., M.D  10 *0 -0,
Sir Charles Isham, Bart  10 0 O'
M. R. I   10 0 0’
James Mylne, Esq   10 0 0
X.   ......7      10 0 0
B....'..'..;..:.....  ,w.  6 6o
: O.T.        5 5 0
George Sutherland; Esq.....  5 5 0
T. E. Partridge, Esq    5 0- 0
' Thomas Grant, Esq     5 0 0
TheUountess of, Caithness...  5 0 0
Mr. and klrs. Cranstoun      5 0 0
A Friend ..’..C.......:......  5 0 0
B.. ..r..-;.'....-..'.'.;.v.'.‘..'.7.L:;.......  s o o
Mrs. E. Dixon t.'.'.ii.l.f......  2 2 0
The Rev. W. Whifear     2 2 0
- Dr.-Baikie........     2 2 0
Miss Whitear    2 2 0
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., M.R.1  2 2 0
Mrs. Lowe       220
• S.J. H.   2 2 0
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S. .....v.,,   2 2 0
Ennesfallen. •.  .- 2; 2 0
W. C. Pickersgill, Esq......    ; 2 0 0
- W.  .'.•.;V.W..f..........'..2 0 0
G.Y.          . 2 0 0
S. T. Speer, Esq.; M.D...   2 0 0
W. M. Buchanan, Esq.; M.D.   2 0 0
• A.Wacher, Esq.  .'   2 0 0
Colonel Clcoyt,.  2 0 0
The Baroness Von Vay   1 10 0
• GebrgeLeeT'Etq.     110
G. R, Tapp,.Esq....  110
Mrs’. Maltby.;.*...;-.;..I......  110
B. W. Pycpck,'Esq. ?......  110
Mrs. Noswbrthy I...........  110
’ C.^T. Hook; Esq  1 1 0
Major Menars    110
A. Glendinning, Esq  110
T. P. Barkas, Esq., E.G.S    1 10
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq., M.S.Tel.E.   1 1 0
Mrs. Hennings          110
Dr. George Wyld       110
Miss Allen     110
W P. Adshead, Esq....;    110
John Mould, Esq       1 10
J.P. Turner, Esq. I......:..........: 1 1 0
J.T. Dodd, Esq. ..;...;...      ;. 110
Mrs. Jeffreys   ' : 1 .1.0
J. C. Eno ‘.U.....-.....:................... 110
Miss.Douglas .'.v;.....7..;.........!..  1 0 0
John Scott, Esq....'......    1 0 0
J. C. Ferguson; Esq.   ....I 100
A: O. Swinton, Esq. ’ 10 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory   ;  10 0
Mrs. Tyndall      10 0
Lieut.-CoL Jacoby .' ...J...  10 0
John Chapman, Esq      10 0
G. F. Green, Esq .7  0 10 6
Mrs. E. K. Beeby   0 10 6
R. Catling  0 10 6
E. R      0 10 6
J. Hare, Esq  0 10 0
M. J. Walhouse, Esq..,.   0 10 0
A Friend   0 10 0
A Friend ;...... i    0 10 0
T. H          0 10 0
Miss Pearce  7 0 5 0
j. t. m.   o 5 o
Subscriptions to this Fund should be remitted to W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
The food that we live on. in-
structive, astonishing, true. A POEM of five hundred
lines. Composed and designed by Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Including some Vegetarian Society fly-sheets. Price Is. Sold
for the benefit of the society, and obtainable of Sir Charles
Isham, Lamport Hall, Northampton.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
. PEAR’S TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin,
i Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pear’s, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
By Royal Letters Patent
“ KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR, ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
- It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
I grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambrip. It , is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of "the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emgllient. •
Sold by .Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale' and Retail by Field and Co., 267, High Holhorn,
London, W.C); or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloahe-square, S.W.
Printed for the Proprietor . by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn.
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O,
