AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[KEGISTEEED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
NO. 88.—(Vol. IY.—No. 18.)
LONDON: MAY 1, 1874.
Published Weekly; Price Threepence
Contents.
Spirit Forms: —Physical Characteristics of the Spirit Forms—Mental
Characteristics of the Spirit Forms—Spirit Identity ia connection
with Full Form Manifestations; Sensations of the Medium during
the /Seance*—The Drapery on the Forms—A Provisional Hypothesis
to cover the facts—Recognisable Spirit Faces
Foreign Notes     ...
Madame Aksakof’s Psychological Experiences
Recovery of Property through a Spirit Message
Spiritualist Soiree at Liverpool  
Direct Spirit Writing 
The End of the Earth Life of Judge Edmonds:—Outline of his Career
—His Work in Spiritualism—Mediumship of Judge Edmonds—His
last Illness       210
The National Association   ... 211
Experiences in Spiritualism ...     ... 212
Correspondence:—To the Rev. Charles Yoysey, 213; Mrs. Tappan’s
Lecture Committee, 214; A Haunted Room, 214; Psychic Force,
214; Spirit Identity...  '      215
Spirit Poetry   ... ... 216
Paragraph—Miss Lottie Fowler’s Mediumship ...   216
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London; Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1873.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.
Mr. John Davidson, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. Q-. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. R. Casson.
Mr. D. Gay.
Mr. T. B. Griffin.
Mr. Riece.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Oasson.
Mrs.’Gay.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. John Lamont.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
Mr. Bretherton. | Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
East London spiritual meetinos. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing to
become affiliated, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. Thomas Blyton, 12, High-street, Bow, London, E., of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.)
President,—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Council.
Mrs. 0. A. Blyton,
Mr. George Blyton,
Mrs. Amelia Comer,
Mrs. Theresa Wood,
A. M. Greene, Hon. Secretary.
Mr. T. Blyton.
Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
A DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on hear¬
ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, andiu ■
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might! s
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 15th September, 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter careful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modem Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations (vide Rule IX). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordi¬
nary *ea?ice held on theflrstThursdayeveningin each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on the first Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Rooms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelope
should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
THE DALSTON ASSOCIATION, 74, Navarmo-road,
Dalston, E.—MR. THOS. EVERITT will deliver a LECTURE on
THURSDAY EVENING, 30th instant, at the ROOMS of the DALSTON
SPIRITUAL ASSOCIATION, subject: An answer to “ What is the use of
Spiritualism ?” being extracts from a number of papers given by spirits by
direct writing upon various subjects.
MR. E. DAWSON ROGERS will LECTURE before the Association
upon “Mesmerism,” on the LAST THURSDAY EVENING in MAY.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy 8vo.,
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel swedenborg- : his life and
WRITINGS. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the
Doctrines and the other-world Experiences of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav-
ings, by O. H. Jeens—I. Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May
1, 1874.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A MEETING- of tlie active members and Mends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Association are
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro fern., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when.other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
BichAbd Fitton, Secretary pro tern.
THE ST, JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—'Mix. E. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, 1 Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Banger,
Mr. "Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
YERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
info England the subject attracted attention in 'Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assocciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Rooms, 30, Parkfield-street, Islington.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISTS.—Sunday Evening Sertioes are Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o’clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
R. Pearce, Hon. Sec.
ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
THE following are tlie Speakers at Goswell Hall on
Sunday Evenings up to the end of May:—
April 19—Mr. R. Harper, “ Reasons for being a Spiritualist,”
„ 26—Miss Keeves.
May lo} Mes’ Bullook-
„ 17—Miss Keeves.
„ 24—Rev. F. R. Young, of Swindon.
, Whit Sunday—“ The Day of Pentecost and its Spiritual Phenomena.”
Dr. Sexton in the Chair.
R. Pearce.
NEWCASTLE SOCIETY
FOR
PROMOTING ENQUIRY INTO MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
OLD FREEMASON’S HALL
(WEIR’S COURT),
NEWGATE STREET, NE W0ASTLE-ON-TYNE.
President.—Mr. Armstrong.
Treasurer.—Mr. John Miller. Secretary.—Mr. F. Pickup.
Seances are held for Members and Friends on Sunday Evenings, doors
open at 6.30, to commence at 7; and oh Tuesday and Thursday evenings,
doors open at 7.30, to commence at 8.
On no account will anyone be admitted after the time announced for
commencing the meetings, except on special occasions, when permission
must be obtained from the sitters who form the circle at the time of
application.
Tickets of Admission may It had of the Committee.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRIT DALISM.
Presidents.
Mr. F. Cowper. | Mr. O. Hunt.
Treasurer.—Mr. Whitley. -
Librarian.—Mr. Maynard, 103, Lisson-grove.
Secretary.
Mr. C. White, 4, Gray-street, Manchester-square, W.
The Membership Subscription is Is. per Quarter, which admits to full
fellowship, including use of books from the Progressive Library. Seances
are held weekly, to afford members an opportunity of becoming acquainted
with the Phenomena. Members are assisted in the formation of new
circles. A public meeting is held every Wednesday evening at the
Hall of Progress, 90, Ohurch-street, Paddington, at 8 o’clock.
ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly ; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
A. M. GREENE, Hon. Secretary.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
Z’rawam'.—Herbert N. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane.
Offices.—64, BERNERS STREET.
Hon. Sec.—Mbs. Lowe (Louisa).
Mrs. cora l. y. tappan’s inspirational
DISCOURSES.
The Committee, encouraged by the support given to their former Course,
have much pleasure in announcing that they have made arrangements for
the delivery of a further Course of SIX LECTORES, extending from the
5th of April to the 17th of May, to be held at Cleveland Hall, as hereto¬
fore, at 7 p.m., on Sunday Evenings.
Tickets for the Reserved Benches will be 12s. each for the Course, and
for the Chairs 6s. each for the Course. Applications for Tickets to be made
to Mrs. Honywood, 52, Warwick-square, S.W., enclosing Post-office Orders.
The Committee hope that some friends of the movement will feel dis¬
posed to assist, by forwarding small donations at the same time.
Single Tickets of Admission, or Tickets for the Course, can be purchased
at the doors.
A large portion of the Hall is reserved for the Free Admission of In¬
quirers and the General Public.
Price 2s. 6<L
Glimpses of a brighter land.—
Showing the harmony of things spiritual with things material.
“The tone of the book is exceedingly pure and good.”—Christian Spiri¬
tualist.
*** A. list of spiritual and mesmeric works on application.
London; Bailliereand Co., King William-street, Strand,
EVERY THURSDAY MORNING
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS,”
A Weekly Record of Spiritualism, Scientific and Ethical.
And contains articles by Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton, “ Fritz,"
Rev. Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes, Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, and other
general information.
16 PAGES—ONE PENNY.
F. Pitman, 20, Patemoster-row, London, E.C., and can he ordered of any
bookseller.
CHILDISH FANCIES.
Twenty short pieces in various keys for the pianoforte, composed by
CHARLTON TEMPLEMAN SPEER (iEts. 13).
Dedicated to Mrs. Denis, Fairbrook House, Rathfamham, Dublin.
PRICE THREE SHILLINGS.
London: Published by R. Limpus, at the College of Organists, 41, Queen-
square, Bloomsbury.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
TO OWNERS O "* HOUSE PROPERTY.
E. BIRD, L ^SE AGENT,
11, PARK GROVE, SHEPl ’S LANE, BRIXTON,
ESPECTFULLY solicits \ patronage of Owners of
House Property, the situation of ais Offices—opposite the Brixton
R
Road, and near the Railway Station—offering special facilities for the
prompt letting of Houses of every description.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
YOtUJVIE FOUR. JHUJVIBEF^ EIQHTEEJM.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MAY 1st, 1874
Spmtalxsi
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTSThree shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Oorrespondbnok.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning: All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions’:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of “ The Spiritualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be infoi'med of such impediments and iiTegulari-
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
Hhe Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Oo., 614, North Fifth-street.
• Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F.'W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. 0. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Htll.—Mr. 0. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road,
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Oastlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thomfeldt, Main-ttreet.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist maybe had by post direct from the London publisher.
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny,
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is lOs., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
TjlEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
SPIRIT FORMS.
During the past two or three years the “full form”
manifestations have been developing in England with
considerable rapidity; these important phenomena have
been closely watched by us from the first, to the extent
of attendance at probably more than a hundred seances
in all, with different mediums, in whose presence spirit
forms are obtained. A useful purpose may therefore
be served by occasionally summing up what is known,
what is not known, and what it is desirable to know
upon this subject.
PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS OF THE SPIRIT FORMS.
Before the manifestation was obtained in England,
it was naturally thought that the advent of spirit forms
would settle several vexed questions hanging over the
subject of spirit identity, but the first result in this re¬
spect was disappointment. "When we first saw by the
artificial light produced by the spirits, Mr. Williams’s
Katie King, she had the features of the medium, spiri¬
tualised in expression, and paler in colour; when his
John King was afterwards seen, he had a large black
beard, it was true, but on closely examining his features,
as we have several times done in a good light, they were
distinctly, to a large extent, the features of Mr.
Williams. When Miss Cook’s Katie was first seen, she
also had features to a large exteut the duplicate of
those of the medium. Mr. Allsop, who has seen much
of Mr. Herne’s Katie and John King in a good light,
testifies also to their features being like those of the
medium. Yet the media themselves were not released
from the test conditions imposed, and exhibited in the
trance by spirits, as they have been frequently held or
seen in one place by responsible witnesses, while their
duplicate forms, dressed in white drapery, were seen at
the same time a few feet distant. Once we sat close by
the side of Mr. Williams at a public circle, and had
tight hold of his hand and arm, while the massive form
of John King, robed in white drapery, was floating high
up over the centre of the table; his features were
clearly seen by everybody present; they were duplicates
of those of Mr. Williams, but paler; his eyes and lips
could be seen moving as he talked; the bottom of his
bust was inclined towards Mr. Williams, on a level, and
a little in front of the natural position of Mr. Williams’s
head. Mr. Williams, who was held by both hands all
through the seance, was not visible on this occasion at
the same time as John King, the light produced by the
spirits illuminating the bust only. Whenever partial
forms, such as busts and spirit hands or arms have been
produced, we have never seen the end of them next to
the medium, the cabinet door, or darkness, or a curtain
always cutting off the view. Others may have had
different experience. In the days of early develop¬
ment Miss Cook was not entranced when the manifes¬
tations were going on, and she used to complain ner¬
vously, from the dark room used as a cabinet, of the un-
206
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 1, 1874.
pleasantness of being shut up alone with a “ creature ”
who was going about with head and arms, but no body
or legs. One night recently, while Miss Cook was en¬
tranced at Mr. Luxmoore’s house, and Katie could only
show her head and shoulders, she said that if we could
then see her legs they would be found to merge into
those of the medium. The effect of entraneement of
the medium seems chiefly to be to secure passivity, and
to strengthen the manifestations; Miss Cook has seen
the materialised full form of Katie only once or twice
in her life, and then only for a few seconds, though she
often sees her clairvoyantly. Mr. Williams has never
seen the materialised full form of John King at all.
The materialised forms when felt, are to all intents
and purposes just like ordinary huinan beings. We
have never seen an orthodox shadow ghost, or part of
a shadow ghost, and believe such to be myths so far as
normal vision is concerned. A year or more before
spirit faces began regularly to show themselves in
England, considerable sensation was created by a re¬
port in The Spiritualist of Mr. Harrison having felt the
head of Mr. Herne’s Katie; he felt it all over, and
passed his fingers over her teeth and tongue; these
were wet, breath was coming out of the mouth, and
the teeth could bite; in short, it was just like a human
head, though placed where a human head could by no
possibility be.
As all these things gradually became known, the
question of spirit identity was left in as great a fog as
ever. These spirits, while materialised, know little or
nothing more than the medium, nor do they show more
information than a mesmeric sensitive could gain by
thought-reading or clairvoyant powers. Are they the
spirits of the mediums unconsciously acting a part in a
dream, and temporarily clothed afresh with matter ?
Apparently not, for they are clear headed and sprightly
enough; moreover, when the spirit is partly ma¬
terialised and the medium wide awake, the two will
argue or quarrel, or sympathise with each other, and
sometimes go to the extent of playfully slapping one
another, so that both the material bodies are governed
at the same time by intelligence. We have never heard a
“ voice ” or “ full form” medium, and the attendant spirit
speak at the same time, Sometimes they will speak in
very quick succession, and enthusiastic witnesses have
remarked,—“ There! did you hear them speaking to¬
gether ?” But after attending some hundreds of voice
seances we never have heard them speaking together.
The spirits say that they draw their power to speak
chiefly from the lungs of the medium, and partly from the
lungs of some of the sitters in the circle; we have known
the voices of sitters at a circle to be partially weakened
by the seance, though they have said little or nothing
during the sitting; in one instance a clerical gentle¬
man present could only speak in a whisper for two or
three days afterwards. Some years ago at Mrs. Mary
Marshall’s celebrated seances at 13, Bristol-gardens,
Paddington, we frequently heard John King, and the
spirit calling himself Roger Bacon speaking at the same
time, but not at the same time as the medium; whether
both these spirits were simultaneously drawing voice
power from her, or whether one was drawing power
from Mr. Marshall, or some other medium present,
we do not know.
The spirit forms themselves, and their various parts,
differ considerably in dimensions at different sittings
with the same mediums, and when the faces alone in¬
stead of the full forms were shown, these variations
were far more marked, perhaps because the spirits could
concentrate more power upon a smaller surface. To
disarm premature criticisms of casual witnesses at bad
seances, and to avoid the charge of exaggerating, we
used to publish that the heads were merely duplicates
of that of the medium. The consequence was that one
evening at Miss Cook’s, when the correspondent of the
Daily Telegraph and two celebrated photographers
were present, and Katie came up with a bony cada¬
verous looking head, half as big again as the head of
Miss Cook, though bearing points of resemblance to it,
the observers were startled, and said that it was not
fair to the medium to publish that there was great
similarity in the features. At other seances also, on no
better foundation than one evening’s experience, the
opposite fault would be found, and complaints made
that statements were published that there was any dif¬
ference at all. The self-confidence of many of the wit¬
nesses, and their perfect satisfaction that what they
saw in one visit, and the inferences which they drew
in addition, settled the whole question, and outweighed
altogether the knowledge and the opinions of those who
had had. months of experience was remarkable, and
was as interesting a study almost as the spirit forms
themselves. The more intelligent and reliable the
witness, the less hasty were the conclusions, and the
less self-confident was the individual. Some had the
profound conviction that if they saw such and such a
test and published it (which they were perfectly ready
to do if they could get it), then everybody would be¬
lieve. There was never a more fatal error. These full
form manifestations would never be accepted by the public
on the testimony of any one man, and many of those who
candidly and modestly enough expressed the opinion
that their verdict would settle everything, were gene¬
rally those whose fiat would exercise little or no in¬
fluence at all. "Without knowing it, the sitters at
seances are often passing through as severe a series of
moral tests as the medium.
MENTAL CHABACTEBISTICS OF THE SFIBIT FOBMS.
Seeing that these material forms gave little evidence
of the personal identity of departed spirits, the next
question was, “ What are their mental characteristics ?”
Nearly as much those of the mediums as the physical
features, and there are those who have' expressed the
opinion that the lower mental characteristics of the
medium, such as love of flattery, egotism, and so on, are
chiefly duplicated in the forms. Although much may
be cited in favour of this view, we think that the facts
are due chiefly to the flattery and deference frequently
expressed by the sitters present; we have sometimes
heard high and good teachings given through these
forms, when the tone of the circle has been such as to
demand the same, though sometimes the utterances have
been lower than the average level or desires of the
circles. Taking the physical manifestations all the way
through, their mental and moral character is decidedly
much lower than the average character of spirit mes¬
sages given through trance and clairvoyant mediums.
SFIBIT IDENTITY IN CONNECTION WITH FOLD FOBM
MANIFESTATION S.
We do not know that any of these voice spirits—any
of the John Kings, John Watts, Jack Todds, Peters,
Florences, or Katies have satisfactorily proved their
identity; perhaps nobody has taken sufficient pains to
search out old documents to verify their statements.
The answers they give when questioned on the point of
May 1, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
207
identity are much those which the medium might give
when speculating as to who or what the spirit might be.
We have some reason to suppose that although at the
various seances with the same medium, the spirit face
or form is physically nearly the same, the intelligence
governing the form is sometimes an entirely different one.
After the recent outrage at Miss Cook’s, the medium
was very ill for several weeks; bad spirits sometimes
controlled her; one of them spoke roughly, demanded
brandy, said what circle he habitually frequented, and
made her get out of bed and sleep on the cold floor one
cold night. The touch of her mother, or of some other
member of the family, would sometimes drive off< these
influences, and she would wake with a haggard look, as
if from an uneasy dream. A few full-form seances were
held during the first week or two afterwards, at which
the Katie form appeared, but at later seances the intel¬
ligence governing what was to all appearance the same
form, said that she knew nothing about the previous
seances, and that another spirit had been personating
her. If the intelligence behind these forms changes
often, it explains why Mr. Williams’s John King some¬
times shows accurate knowledge of events which once
took place at Mrs. Marshall’s seances, but usually knows
nothing about them. It will account for Mrs. Perrin’s
John King once being able at Mrs. Berry’s, when we
were present, to describe in minute detail to Mr. Peebles
a boisterous seance Mr. Peebles had had years ago
with a John King in America. It will account,
also, for these voice spirits saying and doing good things
at one time and bad ones at another. The interests
and thoughts of the mediums and these spirits are very
closely allied, and we know that if the medium firmly
resolves to do wrong, the spirits will not only help them,
but adopt subterfuges to attempt to screen them from
the consequences of their misdeeds. Sometimes, again,
they will strongly warn the medium against doing
wrong; if the medium persist, it may be that the
higher spirit is then obliged to go, and a lower one, but
with the same physical voice and external characteristics,
takes its place.
SENSATIONS OF THE MEDIUM DURING THE SEANCES.
Mr. Williams is in a dead trance all through the
seances, and remembers nothing when he wakes up.
It is usually the same with Miss Cook, but sometimes
she has a dreamy recollection of having seen the sitters
in the circle. Katie says that this is because she
(Katie) not only uses matter from the body of the
medium, but some of the thoughts and brain of the
medium in manifesting, and that if she does not put
these back properly. Miss Cook, on waking, finds some
of Katie’s recollections feebly mingling with her own.
The day after the outrage at the circle, Mr. Charles
Blackburn called on Miss Cook, and asked her what
were her first sensations on coming to afterwards, and
he thoughtfully wrote down and sent us her replies.
She said she felt as if her brain were on fire, and it
was this pain which caused her to give the succession
of shrieks ; then she thought, “ I hope they have not
hurt my Katie!” This would seem to have been reflex
mental action, originating in a thought of Katie’s, “ I
hope that they have not hurt my medium.”
As it is absolutely certain, and scientifically demon¬
strated, that in these physical manifestations there are
two living forms, one inside and one outside the cabinet,
it is plain that if a person breaks faith and seizes one
of them, the two must amalgamate, for it is not cone
ceivable that a human being should be created by the
act, and a Katie King brought down or up to live per¬
manently in this world. Therefore, it is also not con¬
ceivable that those two forms could be violently and
unexpectedly brought together, without killing or
seriously injuring the medium. The spirits say that,
when fully formed, they are of full weight, half of their
weight being taken from members of the circle, and
that the medium is half weight, a point which Mr.
Crookes might do much good by determining by experi¬
ment. If the statement be reliable, it would seem
more natural that the half weight should fly to the
seized full weight than the reverse, but Katie asserts
that she would have melted away from the legs up¬
wards, and the medium been found dead in the cabinet.
Whether this is reliable, or whether the deep convic¬
tion of the medium governed the utterance of the
spirit, we have no means of knowing. Mr. Dunphy
and Mr. Bielfield, who were quietly sitting where they
could see the back of the form when it was seized,
agree in stating that it appeared to begin to go about
the legs, but the moment was an exciting one, so that
perhaps the observation should for the present be con¬
sidered to establish a point of possibility rather than of
actuality.
THE DRAPERY ON THE FORMS.
Where does the white drapery come from ? In the
case of Miss Cook’s Katie it is always as white as
snow, and the dress varies in shape nearly every even¬
ing. It feels material enough. Once she cut a piece
off, which she said she had materialised so that it would
keep. Miss Douglas took it to Messrs. Howell and
James’s, and asked them to match it; they said that they
could not, and that they believed it to be of Chinese
manufacture. Spirits can carry solid things from
place to place hundreds of miles apart, as Baron Kirkup
has proved over and over again. All the attempts of
those who have had experience with different mediums
to pierce the mystery of the source whence the drapery
comes, are conflicting in the results, and we are unable
to give an approximately satisfactory answer or specu¬
lation on the point. We can give evidence that in the
case of the Davenport Brothers, Mr. Williams, Miss
Cook, and Mr. Herne, the spirits have the power either
of duplicating the dress proper of the medium, or of
not doing so, as they please.
A PROVISIONAL HYPOTHESIS TO COVER THE FACTS.
Our general hypothesis of the whole matter is
that the manifestations are not produced by the tem¬
porarily (wholly or partially) freed spirit of the medium,
but by an independent spirit, who by the mesmeric
exercise of will power, and by other methods unknown,
can subdue and get control of much of the brain and
body and clothes of the medium, and come out and show
itself limited in thought, and word, and deed, by these
elements which it has again abnormally borrowed from
the material world. A strong bond of self-interest
unites the spirit and the medium; they appear to
share each other’s spiritual, mental, and physical
pleasures, just as in a lesser degree the fact has been
noticed in mesmerism, that the sensitive and the
mesmeriser often experience each other’s sensations.
Perhaps an earth-bound spirit may thus live a par¬
tial earth-life over again, through a medium in sym¬
pathy with its tastes and pleasures, and sometimes pos¬
sibly both medium and spirit may be raised or degraded
together, by the example or teachings of the mortals
around.
20'S
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 1> 1874.
If the spirit most in harmony with the medium,
naturally finds it easier and happier work to control
him than do spirits less in harmony, it explains why
so little in the way of information about the de¬
parted friends of the sitters is obtained through mani¬
festations of this class. The controlling spirit,
if it be not one endowed with a high sense of
moral responsibility, may sometimes have a selfish
interest in not permitting other spirits to communi¬
cate, for unfortunately the fact is indisputable that a
proportion of the spirits who produce powerful
physical manifestations, are not angels.
RECOGNISABLE SPIRIT PACES.
In America there are now many mediums to whom
Spiritualists go regularly for the purpose of seeing the
materialised faces of their departed friends, now in the
spirit world. This phase began once through Miss
Cook’s mediumship, but was checked for a time for
various reasons. The faces were essentially difierent
in kind from those of the voice spirits who so con¬
stantly attend mediums. They were shown by other
spirits with the permission and aid of the said voice
spirits. While they appeared the medium was not en¬
tranced, but awake, and Katie said that if she went to
sleep while these strange faces were appearing, the
members of the circle were instantly to wake her up
and get her out of the cabinet, for she would be in
danger of getting under the control of spirits who had
bad motives. The faces themselves, while undeveloped,
were chalky looking, and surrounded with white
drapery; sometimes they were dripping wet. By giving
them good conditions,-by singing and otherwise, the
life would come into their eyes, and mobility into their
features. Thus one night, a gentleman of considerable
influence in Wales, a friend of Mr. Luxmoore, saw
his father’s face in a strong light at one of Miss Cook’s
Seances, and on another occasion Mrs. Cook’s servant,
Mary, saw her grandmother, who appeared, moreover,
with spectacles, and in a white cap.
These recognisable face manifestations have yet to
be developed in England, in the face, of course, of the
usual impediments of suspicion, distrust, and outrage,
such as have delayed the development of all the other
phenomena of Spiritualism,, now firmly established. It
is of very little use for mortals or immortals to try to
unveil truth rapidly to people who are not themselves
sufficiently true or advanced to receive the same.
FOREIGN NOTES.
The Revue Spirite for April contains an account of
remarkable cures performed by M. Leopold Boens, a
healing medium at Carnieres, in Belgium. Eleven
cases are dated and signed, with the names and ad¬
dresses of the friends of those benefitted. Paralysis,
blindness, fevers, consumption, wounds, and madness,
form the category of maladies, and are in many in¬
stances said to have yielded to a single laying-on of
hands.
A young blacksmith, named Gustave Fabre, is said
to be displaying extraordinary powers as an artist. He
was born in humble, and, indeed, unfortunate circum-
stances, and his early life was one of great privation.
While he was in search of work as a mechanic at
Marseilles, M. Barneand, a sculptor and healing medium,
received Fabre into his studio, where, under the sup¬
posed influence of the spirit Raphael, his rough work¬
man’s hand was guided in the execution of heads, limbs,
figures, and, finally, complete compositions.
According to the doctrine of the spiritists, this
medium is supposed to be the reincarnation of the
great Italian artist and worker in metal, Benvenuto
Cellini,
Spirit photography seems to progress in Paris, under
the mediumship of M. Buguet. Nine cases are given
this month in which persons have testified to correct
likenesses of their departed friends and relatives.
We have received the last new work of the Baroness
Adelma von Yay—Studies from the Spirit World
(Studien ube die Geisterweli)—from which we hope
shortly to give our readers a few extracts; also the
new edition of Gregor Constantine Wittig’s translation
into German of A. Jackson Davis’s first volume of the
Great Harmonia, The Physician. The volume opens
with a long preface by the translator, in which is em¬
bodied an account of the life and writings of Dr.
Christian Gottfried Nees von Esenbeek, the author of
numerous rationalistic works on religion, mesmerism,
and the science of life; he was also an active social
reformer in the town of Breslau, and it was at his re¬
quest that Dr. Wittig first undertook the translation of
Davis’s works.
MADAME AKSAKOFS PSYCHOLOGICAL
EXPERIENCES.
M. Aksakof says of Madame Aksakof’s experiences
recently published in this journal:—
“ That which appears to me most difficult of expla¬
nation in the whole narrative, is the meaning of the
roll of parchment, the threat, and the prophecy, in
conjunction with the demand of the kiss on the hand.
Herr Professor Perty takes for granted that Sengireef
had become clairvoyant, and was about to reveal the
future to his sister-in-law j but it is difficult to suppose
that at such a solemn moment his prophetic powers
should have been exercised in favour of a person with
whom he was not in sympathy. Besides, the prophecy
must either have been favourable or unfavourable; if
favourable, it could not have been used as a threat;
if unfavourable, it would have been strange to ask for a
kiss on the hand for his communication. If, moreover,
one can believe the spirits themselves, they all agree in
the assertion that the future is no more known to them
than to mortals; and for this reason we find through¬
out the whole annals of Spiritualism scarcely any re¬
cords of prophecy in the strict sense of the word; even
well developed clairvoyance shows a tendency to avoid
speaking of future events. That in this case Sengi-
reef’s clairvoyant power was inconsiderable, and that
he was incapable of predicting even the immediate
future, is proved by the fact that he did not know
beforehand that his hand would not be kissed, or that
the prophetic contents of the parchment would remain
unknown.
“ When again reading over casually Professor Perty’s
article with my wife, and again considering the diffi¬
culties of the parchment episode, a simple and rational
solution presented itself suddenly to my mind. One fact
is indisputable: that Sengireef appeared in the gar¬
ment which had been put upon him when he was laid
in the coffin. Now it is the custom with us in Russia
to lay in the hand of the dead, before nailing up the
coffin, a certificate of absolution, that is, a sheet of
paper rolled together. It is now quite clear that the
May 1, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
209
seemingly mysterious scroll, is none other than the
rolled up absolution paper which was placed in Sengi-
reef’s right hand as an indispensable part of the
burial equipments. My wife was astonished at. the
simplicity of this explanation. It had never occurred
to her. The appearance of Sengireef at the moment
of his death would be accounted for by his desire
for reconciliation—a motive often alleged as the cause
of this kind of apparition and other communications
from beyond the grave. But his obstinate character
and his self-love did not allow him to act in a less
haughty manner than to offer his own hand to be kissed
—to demand the kiss of peace which he ought to have
tendered. When he found that he could not obtain it
he betrayed his anger by throwing down the scroll on
the table, and adding as a threat,<e Well then, here is
what awaits you,” by which he simply meant, “Here
is what awaits you—this same scroll—death !” A per¬
fectly human action, and quite consistent with his char¬
acter. When he saw after that that instead of attain¬
ing to a reconciliation with the person in question, he
only terrified her, and that she availed herself of
prayer in her fear, it is very natural to suppose that he
gradually yielded to her influence (for we must not for¬
get that the whole event occupied three hours), and,
by an easily imagined psychological reaction, was
brought to a consciousness of the injustice of his mode of
proceeding. In order to show, then, that his intentions
were good, he turned to the holy image and began
to repeat the prayer which my wife had in her
thoughts, and wished to hear spoken aloud.”
RECOVERY OF PROPERTY THROUGH A SPIRIT
MESSAGE.,
In a recent number of The Spiritualist we published
an account of a remarkable test through Mr. Charles
Foster at San Francisco, by which information was im¬
parted resulting in the recovery of property. We find
the following in the Banner of Light of April 4th, and
publish it as an important sequel to the previous nar¬
rative :
In the Banner of Feb. 7th, you copy an article from the
San Francisco Chronicle, giving an account of a seance Mr.
de Long had with Charles Foster, in which D. A. Vineyard
(Mrs. de Long’s father) claims to have left certain lands in
the. hands of Mr. Madden 'which have been, till now, with¬
held from the family. The report went the newspaper rounds,
it set people to thinking that “judgment lay beyond the
grave,” and that the dead were mindful of the misdoings of
even respectable sinners. But lo ! another version of the
matter is put in circulation by Mr. Madden and his friends.
You and others are calling upon Mr. Foster to give the true
version of the story. Mr. Foster, unfortunately, Is on the
ocean, and may not hear the call for facts. I have seen Mr.
de Long, and heard him state the facts in the case. They are
these, in substance: Mr. B—— invited Mrs. de Long to
visit Mr. Foster. She declined on the ground of “ lack of
faith.” At the solicitation of Mr. B , Mrs. de Long
wrote some questions to be given to Mr. Foster. Mr. B 
presented them without knowing to whom they were ad¬
dressed. Mr. Foster took them in his hand, and remarked:
“ I'll not answer these questions, for two reasons ; first, the
writer is not present; second, they are addressed to a living
person.” True.
Some days later, Mr. de Long joined a party in a visit to
Mr. Foster. During the sitting, Mr. Foster asked, “ Do any
of you know Ida ? I have an important message for her of a
business nature.” Mr. de Long replied, “ Ida is the name of
my wife.”
Subsequently Mr. and Mrs. de Long went for the message.
Mrs. de Long’s father, Col. Vineyard, came and told his
daughter the particulars of a certain undivided tract of land
that belonged to him—now to his heirs. “ Who holds the
deed?” Mr. de Long asked. “Mr. Madden,” was the reply.
Col. Vineyard gave Mrs. de Long directions in the matter.
She faithfully followed the advice of her father, and sent for
Mr. Madden to come and see her. She told him of the inter¬
view with her father. Mr. Madden denied squarely the
whole story. When pressed with queries in regard to the
land in question, he remarked, “\If the deed, mas in my name,
and your father in fact oroned half the land, it is outlamed''1
This seemed a tacit admission of Mr. Vineyard’s claim. The
widow (Mrs. Vineyard) was informed of the matter. She
produced old letters and tax receipts, which bore strong
testimony against Mr. Madden. So when hard pushed with
testimony from both worlds, he deeded to Mrs. Vineyard the
land that belonged to her dead and alive husband.
The question now comes up—“ Why did not Col. V. take
the deed in his own name?” The reasons are good, but they
are not important to the public. Another question, “ Why is
ex-Minister de Long silent when the thinking public demand
the truth ?” I do not know why he does not give interview¬
ers the benefit of his interesting experience. One thing is
positive; in private he is frank in his avowal of angel aid in
the matter. The coterie where I heard the story was at the
house of Mr. and Mrs. E. G. Baker, of this city. The small
audience was composed of persons of various creeds. All of
one accord declared that Mr. de Long had good cause for be¬
lieving in Spiritualism. What he does believe I do not
know. He made his statement and left us to decide for our¬
selves. H. F. M. Brown.
Virginia City, Nev., March 8,1874.
SPIRITUALIST SOIREE AT LIVERPOOL.
A soiree and concert under the auspices of the Liverpool
Psychological Society was held at the Islington Assembly
Boom, Liverpool, on Friday evening last. Soon after the
doors were opened numerous friends began to assemble.
Among the visitors present were Mr. J. Wason, president of
the society; Mr. and Mrs. Cassons, Mr. J. Lamont, Mr. and
Mrs. A. Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman, Mr. and Mrs. E. J. Bowen,
Mr. J. J. Morse, Miss K. Clark, Mr. and Miss Shepherd, Mr. and
Mrs. J. Dinsdale, Mr. J. Davidson, Mr. Wharmby, and upwards
of two hundred persons besides, the majority of whom were
Spiritualists. The subjoined programme was gone through,
and the efforts of the various ladies and gentlemen afforded
great pleasure to the audience, judging by the applause they
bestowed.
Mr. J. Wason delivered a brief address, and his remarks
were listened to with great pleasure by all present. Mr. J. J.
Morse, under spirit control, delivered an address which was re¬
ceived with much applause, and dancing brought an enjoyable
and in every way a successful evening to a pleasant termi¬
nation.
PbOGBAMMH.—Pianoforte solo, fantasia on Scotch airs, Mr. Bowen;
song, “Norah, the pride of Kildare,” Miss Hilton; song, “Will-o’-the-
wisp,” Mr. Owen; song, “ Buy a broom,” Miss Wilson ; song, “ The
gipsy prince,” Mr. Meredith; concertina solo, bugle and kettle-drum imi¬
tation, Mr. B.Ashort; recitation, “The little vulgar boy,” Miss K. Clark;
song, “The reaper and the flowers," Mr. Owen; address, Mr. John Lamont;
pianoforte solo, fantasia on “Jenny Jones,” Mr. Bowen; song, “When
there’s love at home,” Miss Wilson; song,'“ The sea,” Mr. Meredith; song,
“Kiss me, mother, ereldie,” Miss Hilton; address, Mr. J. J. Morse; “Auld
lang syne.”  
DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING.
Mr. James Wason, solicitor of Liverpool, has kindly for¬
warded us a photograph of a piece of direct writing given in
Greek characters, through the mediumship of Mrs. H. D.
Jencken (Kate Fox) a few weeks ago, at Brighton, while all
the members of the circle were holding each others hands.
The translation of the message is—
“Who believes in Me shall live.”
Some witnesses well-known throughout Wales were present,
but we have no authority to give their names. Mr. Wason
somewhat sarcastically says of two of the spectators,—“ They
are for Spiritualism when in her silver slippers and walking
abroad with applause, but not when in rags and tatters.”
Last Tuesday night Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan lectured at
the Milton Hall, Kentish-town, on “ The Spiritual World and
its Inhabitants.” The address, and more especially the in¬
spirational poem at its close, were excellent. Mr. J. Thornton
Hoskins presided, and among the listeners were Mr. J. 0.
Luxmoore, Mrs. Tebb, Mrs. White, Mr. T, Shorter, and Miss
Shorter.
210
THE SPIRITUALIST. May 1, 1874*
THE END OF THE' EARTH-LIFE OF JUDGE
EDMONDS.
Judge Edmonds, one of the oldest leaders of Spiritual¬
ism in America, and one who has m%de the heaviest
sacrifices for the good of the cause in the days of its
greatest unpopularity, departed this life on the fifth of
April. The circumstance that English Spiritualists,
through the instrumentality of Mr. Coleman, were not
too late in sending a public mark of recognition from
this country, to such an esteemed and faithful worker,
must send a glow of satisfaction through the breasts
of all the readers of these lines, however saddened those
who knew Judge Edmonds by his writings, must feel
at his removal from the scene of his earthly labours.
The following outline of the life of Judge Edmonds is
from the New York Sun:—
OUTLINE OE HIS CAEEEB.
Judge John Worth Edmonds was a month more than
seventy-five years old when, on Sunday afternoon, April 5th,
he died at his residence in Irving-place, New York. He was
born in Hudson, N. Y., and in 1816 graduated at Union Col¬
lege. Four years later he began to practice law in his native
city, where he soon gained local distinction. In 1831 he sat
in the Assembly for Columbia county, and in the next year
he was sent to the State Senate, where, during four years, he
held a leading position, and identified himself outspokenly
with several schemes of working men for their betterment.
Upon leaving the Legislature in 1836 he was sent on a Federal
mission among the Indians, living with them two years, and
learning several of their languages. Coming East again, he
settled down to his profession in this city, and lived here until
his death. His next public position, after leaving the Indians,
was that of State Prison Inspector, in which he secured note
by infusing reformation into his work. He changed the
system of discipline in the prisons, mitigated the severe cor¬
poral punishments that had long been in vogue, and secured
the passage of advanced laws on the subject. His agitation
of the abuses of prison management was one of the main
reformatory topics of that time. In 1845 he was made a
Circuit Judge, subsequently a Judge of the Supreme Court,
and in 1852 he took his seat on the bench of the Court of
Appeals, retiring to private practice and rather opulent leisure
in 1853. Old lawyers speak of him on the bench as sound,
ready, and courageous, and in private life he was reputed
honourable, intellectually cultivated, and amiable.
HIS WORK IN SPIRITUALISM.
During the last twenty-three years Judge Edmonds was a
believer and advocate of Spiritualism, attaining note equalled
only by Andrew Jackson Davis as a champion and expositor
of that faith in this country. He was converted in 1851, and
being a Supreme Court Judge and a man of considerable
fame, his acceptance of the new and unpopular faith brought
upon him much criticism and derision. In the early months
of that year he was out of health and greatly depressed in
spirit. He spent his leisure with an almost monomaniac per¬
sistency in reading on the subjects of death and future exist¬
ence. In that frame of mind he saw those first forms of Spiri¬
tualism known as “the Rochester knockings,” and resolved to
give them a thorough investigation. For four months he
regularly devoted two evenings of every week in experiment¬
ing with the phenomena, keeping elaborate record of
all he witnessed, and reading everything that pro¬
fessed either to prove or disprove the honesty of the mani¬
festations. He travelled from place to place to meet mediums,
and studied the current topic in all the crude phases in which
it had then been developed. He held out against belief until,
in his opinion, he had deduced conclusive, proofs that the
spirits of the dead really did communicate with the living in
the way of rappings and table tippings. In his investigations
he associated with himself several scientific gentlemen, some
of whom were and some were not converted. Once convinced
in his own mind of the truth of Spiritualism, he was not the
man to flinch from a public avowal of his belief. He was at
once assailed with general ridicule, and was even called upon
to resign his office as Judge. For a year he was roundly
abused, and in 1853 he published a book in which he recounted
what he had seen, defended the new belief, and to meet the
assertion that his views were not in accord with his oath of
office, aimed to harmonise Spiritualism with the Bible doc¬
trines of God and revelation.
THE MEDIUMSHIP OF JUDGE EDMONDS.
Judge Edmonds, soon after his acceptance of Spiritualism,
became a medium. He said that while reading in bed he was
touched all over his body with spirit-hands, and was sur¬
rounded with rappings. A little later he was impressed with
the notion that he must go to a certain man, personally un¬
known to him, and receive a spiritual communication of a
higher order than he had so far experienced. He went, and
received what he firmly believed to be a message from a dead
friend. It was said, and the assertion was to the last uncontra¬
dicted by Judge Edmonds, that in the last year of his judicial
sitting, his decisions were largely influenced by the inter¬
course which he believed he had with the spirits of the dead
jurists. He often averred that while delivering an opinion
from the bench he plainly saw the forms of these ghostly ad¬
visers around him. His powers of mediumship were first
brought out at a seance to which five mediums were drawn, as
they said, without preconcert or intention, but simply by
obeying impressions brought to bear upon them by spirits.
He went to Central America in 1852, and the circle of which
he had been a member professed that they were miraculously
kept advised of the events of his voyage simultaneously with
their occurrence, and afterwards he verified the accuracy of
the reports by comparison with his diary. Among the things
of which he was accustomed to tell as proofs of the soundness
of his belief, alleging them to be occurrences of his first year
of mediumship, was the spiritually-conveyed information of
a grandson’s illness in Canada ; an announcement of the
death of his friend, Isaac C. Hopper, before he received the
news in an ordinary way ; the foretelling of the destruction of
the steamer Henry Clay ; and frequent warnings against per¬
fidious associates and coming evils. His daughter also became
a speaking medium, delivering messages in languages of which
she professed to have no knowledge.
Early in his spiritualistic experience Judge Edmonds
believed that he had intercourse with many of the distin¬
guished dead. He counted Henry Clay and Fenimore
Cooper among his new friends, and was encouraged by them
in frequent messages to bear up against public censure.
Elias Hicks told him to “ be not afraid,” and William Penn
said, “ Thy mission is an arduous one, and it is thy duty to
fulfil it truthfully and faithfully.” Believing himself thus
encouraged, he devoted much time to self-development as a
medium, and became firmly established in an unshaken faith.
He wrote letters to the newspapers in exposition and defence
of Spiritualism, and the standing of the writer secured them
a wider and more serious reading than the subject could have
commanded in ordinary hands. In these early years of his
assiduous investigation, he formed a close alliance with Dr.
George T. Dexter, at whose residence most of the circles were
held. At first the meetings were held twice a week, but
later the judge received what purported to be communications
with spirits at all hours and in all places. Swedenborg and
Bacon occupied much of the time of the circles with a series of
articles written through the mediumship of Dr. Dexter, which
were subsequently published in a large volume. Further
along in his unswerving adherence to the faith, Judge
Edmonds became a forcible public speaker and profuse writer
on Spiritualism, and his experience as a medium was enlivened
by communications from other distinguished men in the other
world. General Scott described his reception by the spirits ;
and Martin Yan Buren, in whose law office the Judge had
once been a clerk, appeared at his bedside the very night
after death.
“ My father had died thirty-six years before,” the judge
said, in telling of his vision, “and he and Mr. Yan Buren
had been friends in life. When I saw their spirits, my father
was standing in the middle of the room, on my left. He had
an alert, cheerful look, and was easy and unconstrained in his
attitude. Mr. Yan Buren stood against the wall on my
right, near me, and six or eight paces from my father. He bad
a puzzled look, as if he did not comprehend his condition.
He recognised me and my father. He knew that my father
was dead, and that I was not, and that he, too, was dead. I
did not observe what first took place between them. My at¬
tention was first particularly attracted by Mr. Van Buren’s
saying, ‘ I don’t understand this. I know I am dead, but I
am the same I ever was. I am on the earth yet. There are
my family, my home, my country ; and the matters that in¬
terested me in life just as near me as ever, yet removed from
me 1 Gan this be the death I have thought of so long, and this
May 1, 1874
THE SPIRITUALIST.
211
to be my life after death for ever? ’ This thought'seemed to
goad him into action. He had felt a strong but undefined
attraction toward his right hand, and he turned in that
direction, and bending over, began with great activity, as it
were, to pull up weeds that grew in his path, and thus
worked his way slowly away from me.”
At the time Judge Edmonds published a long description of
Van Buren’s spiritual progress in eternity. Another notable
experience which he. professed was an interview with Lincoln
and Wilkes Booth, in which their experiences in “ the summer
land ” were described with minuteness, and they expressed
themselves as thoroughly reconciled. A series of dissertations
on political economy by George Washington was a feature of
his mediumship in 1854, and very lately Judge Beckham,
through him, described the Ville du Havre disaster.
HIS LAST ILLNESS.
Judge Edmond’s wife and brother died many years ago, and
with them he conceived that he had companionship up to his
death. He said that they often sat and talked with him, and
he described their looks and recited their words to his friends
with minuteness. His wife especially he believed to be con¬
stantly with him, and during his fatal 'sickness—a culmina¬
tion of a very painful chronic disease—he talked much of her
faithful ministrations and consolation. He said that his bed
was surrounded with spirit-forms, and that, upon joining
them, by reason of entering their sphere in an already
advanced state of spiritual development, he would at once be
able to send back such proofs of the truth of Spiritualism as
could not be doubted. His faith did not waver to the end.
Although giving so much of his time to Spiritualism, Judge
Edmonds did not neglect his large law practice until the in¬
firmities of age compelled it. His partnership with William
H. Fields was maintained until his death, and his advice was
often sought in the gravest cases. Although his belief cost
him his place on the judicial bench—his renomination in
1853 being defeated by a threat to legislate him out of ofiice
if elected—he never lost social and business respect. He was
the first President of the Union League Club, and was among
the first and most active advocates of the emancipation of the
slaves in the early stages of the rebellion. He retained the
friendship of many influential men who differed with his re¬
ligious views.  
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
The latest news of public interest in connection with
the British National Association of Spiritualists is that
Mr. Martin B,. Smith has entered his name for the
munificent subscription of £100 this year towards its
funds, and this, of course, is most valuable aid to the
Association in its early days. Mr. Algernon Joy, one
of the honorary secretaries, wrote and asked Mr. Martin
Smith’s permission to publish his letter on the subject,
and in the course of his reply, dated April 27th, Mr.
Smith said, “ If you think that the publication of my
letter will do dny good to the cause, and open other
people’s purse-strings, it is very much at your service.
If Spiritualists really wish our Association to take the
place it should, in virtue of the dignity and truth of the
objects it is designed to promote, they must provide it
with funds. ... I think that the programme with
which we started is too ambitious, considering the very
small amount of support we at present receive.”
We have received the following letter from Mr.
Joy:—
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
BBITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OE SPIBITTJALISTS.
Sib,—Thinking that Mr. Smith’s example might be of great
benefit to this Association, I have applied for and obtained his
permission to publish his letter, enclosed herewith.
Algebnon Jot, Hon. Sec.
25, James-street, Buokingham-gate, S.W.
April 27th, 1874.
The following is Mr. Martin Smith’s letter :—
Heathlands, Wimbledon, April 25,1874.
Deae Sir,— I have read an appeal in the Spiritualist
newspaper from Mr. Pearce in aid of our new National
Association.
It is very certain that the Association must be powerless
for good unless it is in possession of some considerable and
definite income. The subscriptions of our members must be
for some years to come wholly inadequate to meet its require¬
ments, and it behoves all those who have the interest of Spiri¬
tualism at heart to foster our institution in the days of its
infancy.
I have much faith in the truth and importance of Spiri¬
tualism—such personal experience of the peace of mind and
consequent happiness which its teachings are able to bestow,
that I look forward with earnest faith and hope to the day
when these blessings will, in this country, be gratefully
accepted by millions who now reject them with an idle laugh.
When this day arrives our Association will need no excep¬
tional liberality; but that such is required at the present
time needs but little demonstration.
Holding these hopes and convictions, it is my desire, as
well as my duty, to do what I can to further the progress and
success of the Association; and I will, with the greatest
pleasure, subscribe £100 to its funds in four annual payments
of £25 each.
I hope that many others will appreciate the importance of
placing the Association out of the reach of pecuniary anxiety,
which must cripple its energies, limit its aims, and materially
impair its usefulness.
I enclose you a cheque for the first instalment of £25, and
remain, very truly yours, Mabtin R. Smith.
Algernon Joy, Esq., Hon. Sec. British National Association
of Spiritualists.
A copy of one of the latest lists of the members of
the Council is appended; the names of Mrs. L. Mak-
dougall Gregory, Mrs. Boss Church, Mr. Martin Smith,
and several other ladies and gentlemen will have to be
included in the next list. It will be seen that the
Council is now a very strong one—strong enough even
by itself to do a great deal of good for the benefit of
Spiritualism :—
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Caims-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thomham-grove, Stratford, E.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutchesontown, Glasgow.
Oalder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Clark, G. B., 5, Blackwood-crescent, Newington, Edinburgh.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-s luare, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dinsdale, Joseph, 15, Caird-street, West Derby-road, Liverpool.
Davies, Rev. O. Maurice, D.D., 44, Netherwood-road, West Hensington-
park, W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, .Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road, North.
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A.S., 4, Gray’s-inn-square,-W.C.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Hill-side, Streatham, SW.
Harper, Robert, 5, South-street, Finsbury, E.O.
Hoskins, J. Thornton, M.A., F.R.S.L., Reform Club, S.W., and 5, Con-
naught-square, W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-building, E.C.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., 25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lewis, Charles Mansel, J.P., United University Club, S.W., and Stradey,
Llanelly, Carmarthenshire.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., United University Club, S.W.
Pearce, O. W., F.S.S, 14, Bumley-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29, Dalyell-road, Stockwell, SW.
Sexton, George, M.D., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-road,
S.E.
Shepherd, J., Everton-cresoent, Liverpool.
Snelling, G. F., 24, Sylvan-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Speer, Stanhope, T., M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-road, Finchley-
road, NW.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. O., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, NW.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, NW.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
SW., and 3, Attenberg-terrace, Clapham Junction, SW.
Honorary Treasurer.
N. Fabyan Dawe, Esq., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq., MI.O.E., 25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, SW
(Home Correspondence.)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
S (Home and Foreign Correspondence.)
212
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Mat 1, 1874.
Assistant Secretary.
Thomas Blyton, 12, High-street, Bow, E.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-da-Camp
General de S.I.M. 1’Empereur de Eussie, Nieder Walluf on the Bhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Peath.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
The Hon. Alexander Aksakof, Bussian Imperial Councillor, Nevsky
Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Bobert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
J. Biko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Sirs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hummonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Eev. J. Tyerman, Editor of the Progressive Spiritualist, Melbourne,
Australia.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Bue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
Joseph Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Bail way, Bengal.
O. Constant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Bussell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(The names of the President, Vice-Presidents, Affiliated Local and
Provincial Societies, &c., will be given in a future issue.)
EXPERIENCES IN SPIRITUALISM.
No. 1.
BY THE LATE J. W. EDMONDS, JUDGE OE THE SUPBEME
COUET, NEW YOBK.
It is now about two years since I was urged, most affection¬
ately, yet most earnestly, for the sake of my fellow-men, to
speak out fearlessly what I had discovered. I have now
lying by me a long article which I then prepared on the sub¬
ject, but which I then shrunk from publishing. It was no
easy task for me to peril, at one fell swoop, all that during a
life, extending to half a century, I had been struggling to
attain, namely, the good opinion of my fellow-men. I had
not aimed at wealth, but my reputation was, as it were, the
very breath of my nostrils, and I could not but pause ere I
jeoparded it. After a year’s hesitancy, however, I at length
spoke out, for the sake of others, not for my own, and I at
least have not forgotten “ the hue and cry ” that was raised
at my presumption. But I was buoyed up and sustained, and,
indeed, impelled by the conviction—whether well founded or
not, let others judge—that by my self-sacrifiee I might do
good to my fellow-man, and assist him to advance in goodness
and knowledge, both in this world and in the world to come.
Having said thus much, that all may judge for themselves
how far I was governed by a spirit of fanaticism which ought
to detract from the weight of my testimony, I happily dis¬
miss, for good and all, every personal consideration, and pro¬
ceed with my narrative.
For the first four or five months of my investigations my
chief inquiry was, Is this a reality, or an imposture or delu¬
sion ? And here I pause to remark on one feature of the
evidence which ought not to be overlooked, and that is, that
much of it is so purely personal in its character, that it is
nearly, if not quite impossible to convey an adequate idea of
its force to others. For instance : if my person is touched
inaudibly by an unseen power, no mortal being but myself
can, in the very nature of things, have any evidence but my
saying so. And though it may be to me most satisfactory, so
that I can say beyond all peradventure “I know,” yet it is
impracticable for me to convey to any other one the same
strength of evidence that is accorded to me. So it must be,,
when my most secret thoughts are read. It is impossible that
the evidence can be presented to any other one with the same
overwhelming force that it Is to me,- for the simple reason,
that no one but myself can know positively what my thought
was.
So, too, much of the evidence is appreciatory, and not
tangible. What Imean by this is, that it is evidence addressed
to the mind only, and not to the senses. For instance, when
the spirits detail to us their daily life in the spheres, or pro¬
claim to us the doctrine of Progression, we cannot have the
same evidence of those matters that we can of a house or tree,
which we can see and touch, and thus, by the aid of our
senses, ascertain the reality. We can only reason upon it;
we can only test it by all the laws of nature and all her mani¬
festations around us, and then determine for ourselves what
judgment to form, whether we will be governed by the con¬
clusions of our judgment, or by a blind faith (as unlike true
belief founded on our reason, as the stupor induced by
laudanum is unlike a natural slumber).
Hence it is that it is so important that each one should in¬
vestigate for himself, and not depend upon what others tell
him. Pinning their faith upon the sleeve of others has for
ages been the curse of mankind.
These considerations I was aware of during my investiga¬
tions, and they .caused me to receive with great caution the
relations I obtained from others, and so they ought to ad¬
monish others to receive my statements with equal caution.
For I beg it to be borne in mind, that I am not so much
seeking to convince others, as I am aiming to induce them
also to investigate for themselves, as I have. But—
One cause of folly, one especial cause
Is this. Few know what wisdom is, though well
Defined in God’s own words, and printed large
On heaven and earth in charaeters of light,
And sounded in the ear hy every wind.
My first interview was with the rappings, and three things
struck me as remarkable. One was, that under the circum¬
stances, it was beyond all cavil that the sounds were not pro¬
duced by the instrumentality of any person present. Another
was, that my mental questions were answered, when I knew
that no person present could know what they were, or even
that I was asking any; and a third was, that I was directed
to correct a mistake I had made in my written memorandum
of what was occurring, when I knew that no one present was
aware that I had made a mistake, or what it was.
It cannot be necessary that I pause here or elsewhere to
detail the circumstances which cause me to say one thing was
established “ beyond cavil,” and as to other things that “ I
know.” I was at the time a disbeliever ; I had all my wits
about me, and was on the sharp look out for deception. And
all who will thoroughly investigate this matter will over and
over again be placed in the situation I was, where they will
be compelled to say “ I know,” in defiance of all preconceived
opinions, and of all the arguments in the world from those
who do not and cannot know. It is useless for a man to
argue to me that the sun does not shine, when I know it does.
There are thousands who have gone into this matter—and of
clear and intelligent minds too—who have realised as I have,
the truth of this proposition in regard to various phases of
the phenomenon. It was but a few days ago that a vigorous
mind wrote to me, “ It will not do for the world to tell me
that I am deceived, when from the oft-repeated evidence of
my senses, and the deductions of my reason I know I know.”
At my next interview, several things occurred to attract my
attention. None of my questions were asked orally, some
were written, and some merely framed in my mind, yet all
were answered correctly. Once I began writing a question
which I had thought, and it wasjansweied when I had written
only two words of it. Again was 1 told to correct a mistake
in my minutes—for I was a novice, and did not do the busi¬
ness as well as I might—and we were told of what was
occurring in the adjoining parlour with a person who had
entered the room since we had left it, and which, on throwing
open the folding doors, we found to be correct.
My next interview was where a party of eight or ten were
assembled, and where I knew only one of them. The first
thing that struck me was, that no communication could for
more than half an hour be obtained, though all were anxious
for it, and particularly the medium, who was reproached with
being the cause of the interruption. At length, however, the
rappings were heard, and the first thing was to direct a lady
who was there merely as a spectator, who had never witnessed
anything of the kind, and who sat by herself in a corner of
the room, to come to the table around which the party were
sitting. She was reluctant to do so, yet finally consented,
and received what purported to be a communication from a
child she - had lost, and which she said was in all respects ac¬
curate, even as to the cause of death, which was an unusual
one, namely, swallowing a peach pip. One gentleman asked
mental questions, to which he received answers which he said
were correct; one asked aloud several personal questions on
matters known only to himself, and received, what he said,
were correct answers; and I asked mental questions and ob¬
tained answers, th'e truth of which I could not then tell,
though afterwards I ascertained. Then came the first physical
manifestations I ever was present at, and they came in the
shape of heavy poundings, as with a fist on the panel of a
door, at some distance from the medium, and where she
could not reach. We were sitting in the basement, and the
poundings were answered from the cellar underneath, and
from the second or third storey overhead. Of course I could
not tell who made them, nor could I inquire very closely
without being in danger of giving offence, but I confess I
suspected an imposition, and I was provoked at it, That is,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
213
Mat 1, 1874.
I thought it done, not by the medium, who was a young, in
nocent girl of some fifteen, but by some one to deceive us
My journal of that day’s proceedings looks as if my suspicions
were known, for it contains this entry:
“ I returned home to bed about twelve. About two or
three o’clock, as I should judge, I was awakened and
heard knockings faintly and hurriedly on the floor in
one corner of my room. I listened and fairly persuaded
myself it was mice. The moment I had come to this con¬
clusion the rappings ceased in that corner, and were heard in
an opposite corner, near the head of my bed. This time they
were slow and distinct. I again persuaded myself it was the
mice, and again the rappings changed to another part of the
floor, and so on in different parts of the room, until I fell
asleep.”
My next interview presented to me a new feature. A
gentleman and his wife were present, and he incidentally
mentioned a faculty which she possessed of telling the
character and mood of mind of a person upon whom she
might fix her attention, though not knowing who the person
was, and she did so by holding in her hand or binding on her
forehead some writing in which that person’s thoughts were
expressed. I uttered a wish to witness that, and was gratified.
I took out of my pocket and handed to her so that she did not
see the writing, a memorandum of my own, in which I had
recorded the thoughts of another person. I supposed it
would be my own character that would be given, but instead
of that, she gave me a very graphic and perfect delineation of
the character and mood of mind of the person whose thoughts
I had thus committed to paper, and that, when it was most
manifest she could not have known what was on the paper.
I remark, in this connection, that this lady is one of the
persons mentioned in my address to the public, and I have
frequently since that time witnessed the same thing. I have
among my records the delineations of the character of some
of our eminent men, which would perhaps startle even them.
I was once desirous of inviting a relative to live with me, but
I knew nothing of that person’s character, having seen the
person only once, and that at the early age of nine years.
A residence with me of over two years has only demonstrated
to me how perfect was the delineation, even to the most
delicate touches of character and feeling.
My [next interview was marked by these features : I had
received an anonymous letter—no unusual thing, by the way,
even at the present time—in which I was threatened with the
exposure of some imputed official delinquency. I supposed
the purpose was to extort money from me, but at this inter¬
view I made some inquiries about it, and was told, among
other things, that it was of no consequence. I paid no atten¬
tion to it, and it was not many days before I ascertained that
it was indeed of no moment, for I received another in the
same handwriting, which showed me the writer had given up
all hopes of getting money out of me, and consoled himself
for the disappointment by saying to me—
“ That your face is the title-page to a tragedy, and that
nature made you a villain, is Public Opinion.”
Another feature was, that now for the first time in this
connection I saw a clairvoyant, and our interview, which
lasted nearly three hours, was conducted partly through him
and partly through the rappings. And now, too, for the first
time, I witnessed some of the more elevated teachings of this
matter, so much of which I have since received. I do not
record them here, for I have not the space, and it will suffice
to say that they were such as no pure Christian could take
exception to.
My next manifestation was when I was alone by myself,
and it, like the previous private incident, seemed to come for
the express purpose of reaching an impression of collusion
that was lurking in my mind. It came when I was awake
and in full possession of my senses, when I was not thinking
of this subject (for I was reading one of Scott’s novels), when
my lamp was burning so that I could see everything around
me, and when I knew that no other person was present.
I give it in the words of my journal, as I recorded it at the
time :—
“ Monday, February 17th, 1851.
” To-night, after I had gone to bed, and while I lay
reading, according to my usual custom, I felt a touching on
my left thigh, which I at first thought was the twitching of
the muscles which all will at times experience. It continued,
however, so long, and with such regularity of intervals, that
I began to think it could not be from that cause. I accordingly
put my hand down by the side of and upon my thigh, and the
touching ceased. The moment I withdrew my hand it was
renewed. This 1 did several times, and always with the same
result. I then altered the position of my hand. Formerly
I had laid it flat upon the spot touched, so as completely to
cover it, but now I laid it so that the edge of my hand touched
my thigh and my fingers extended off laterally. The touchings
on my thigh were renewed, and not only that, but there was
a feeling on the top of my hand and across my fingers, as if
that which touched my thigh had passed across my hand and
touched each finger as it passed. It seemed like a stream-of
electricity passing across and touching my hand, and then
touching my thigh with a spot about as large as my little
finger. I placed my hand in that position and took it away
again several times, and uniformly with the same result.
I removed all clothes from my person, but with the same
result.
“ This continued for twenty or twenty-five minutes, during
which time 1 resorted to various expedients to test the reality
of what I felt. I determined to ascertain whether it was
intelligent. I asked a question aloud. While I was asking,
the touching ceased, and when my question was put, my
thigh was twice touched with distinct intervals. I repeated
the question mentally with the same result, only the answer
was given by three touches passing across my hand to my
thigh. I asked other questions, but no attention was paid
to them.
“ These touchings were on the outer side of my left thigh.
After continuing some time, they ceased at that spot, and
made their appearance on the front of my thigh more faintly,
and touching a spot about the size of a penny. They con¬
tinued there only a few minutes, when I was touched sharply
twice on my right foot at two different places, as if by the
point of a nail in the hands of a child or some feeble person.
' ‘ After that there came a stream of touchings from my left
big toe, all the way up my leg to the upper part of the thigh.
They were very numerous, and so rapid as to form almost a
stream, yet each touch was quite distinct.
“ This stream ran up and down my leg several times in a
perfectly straight line, and then ceased.
” The touchings then appeared at my left side, near my
loins, very gently and at intervals, until I fell asleep.
” During the first part of this, I sat up in my bed, and took
my lamp in my hand and held it close to my thigh, so that
I could see it very distinctly, and conducted some considerable
part of the inquiry with the lamp thus held.”
“ February 23rd.
“ Last night, between twelve and one, I again experienced
these touchings. They were confined to the side of my thigh.
They were less distinct, and more gentle, and continued a less
time, but were accompanied by a soft breeze gently fanning
my forehead.”
At my next interview nothing particular occurred beyond
what I have already mentioned, except these things : one was,
that at one time the rappings were as if by five or six persons
at once, and with different sounds, some strong and vigorous,
and some faint, as if by children ; and the other was, that at
our request the rappings changed from the floor to the table,
as we pointed out the spot.
The next interview had this peculiar feature. An old
gentleman came into the room unexpectedly to us all, and
laid upon the table a piece of paper, so folded as to conceal
. the writing, and asked an answer. He got one, and said it
was ,'correct, and that it related to an incident which had
occurred sixty-eight years ago, and before any of the rest of
those present were born, and which was known only to him.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers,]
TO THE BET. CHARLES YOYSEY.
Kevebend Sib,—I have read a quotation in the Spiri¬
tualist, April 24, of a sermon preached by you, in which
some remarks were made on Spiritualism, to which I venture
to call your attention. As one Who has the pleasure of an
acquaintance with the lady through whose mediumship the
manifestations of Florence Maple occur, I must protest
against any supposition of “monstrous and wicked fraud.”
The facts and phenomena upon which Spiritualism rests, have
been before the world for many years. They occur in all
countries; their universality and independence of each other
are as striking as the progressive character of their develop¬
ment. It is not only in London that the marvels that astonish
214
THE SPIHITUALIST.
you occur, but in America, Australia, wherever indeed investi¬
gators devote sufficient earnestness to the subject. Notwith¬
standing, it is condemned on a priori grounds as absurd and
impossible, by the masses without inquiry. Now, we know
that all real knowledge must be based on observation ; that
the inductive method beginning from the facts of observation,
has supplanted the metaphysical method, which began with
the facts of consciousness. While, therefore, the opposition to,
or neglect of the subject by the great mass of exact obseryers
called scientific men is to be regretted, it is only a recurrence
of what history assures us. The discovery of the spiritual
phenomena was not made in the laboratories of the savans,
but in the cottage of the peasant; a message to humanity, it
came to a child, so simply that its very simplicity and mean¬
ness is a charge against it. I would remind you, however,
that there have been scientists who form a noble exception to
your remarks; and a reference to the many hundreds of
volumes forming the literature of Spiritualism, will convince
you that Professor Hare, of Havard University, Professor de
Morgan, Baron Eeichenbach, A. R. Wallace, 0. F. Yarley,
F.R.S., Lord Lindsay, Camille Flammarion, Professor
Boutlerow, of St. Petersburgh, Serjeant Cox, W. Crookes,
F.R.S., and others, have noted the phenomena, pro¬
nounced them real, and with few exceptions have
approved our deductions. None have accepted Spiritualism
without personal investigation and direct evidence. None
who denounce or ridicule it have devoted to its study lengthy,
patient, earnest investigation. Its study is admittedly sur¬
rounded by difficulty, owing to our imperfect knowledge of
the requisite conditions, and our knowledge already acquired
is entirely empirical, or that gained by experience. To
investigate properly, it is necessary to lay aside preconception
and prejudice, to confess ignorance, and to come as little
children. How many of the learned can do this 1 It is
freighted with such momentous results to the popular ideas of
religion, of philosophy, and of science, that those only who
love truth fot its own sake, and who are prepared to follow
wherever she may lead, are attracted towards it. The surest
method, then, of ascertaining if the report of these marvels be
correct or not, if twenty-five or thirty millions of your fellow
beings are deluded, or wilful impostors, is not to invoke the
aid of those already pledged to the support of existing
systems and institutions, but to devote a few years to the
dispassionate study of the history, the phenomena, and the
philosophy of modern Spiritualism. The reward is certain,
for if the communion between the two worlds is proved real,
the momentous question is solved ; if, on the other hand, you
or any other can demonstrate that this new cultus is a vain
delusion, and can explain other sources of the omnipresent
phenomena on which rests the harmonial philosophy, to any
such there awaits a sure and glorious immortality.—I am,
Rev. Sir, yours sincerely, W. LindesAY RichABDSON.
1, Norwood-place, London, W.
MBS. TAPPAN’S IiECTUBE COMMITTEE.
Snt,—You have more than once declined to publish letters
from me which dealt with the malpractices of a certain editor,
where such malpractices chiefly affected yourself. But in an
article last week, headed, “ History of Mrs. Tappan’s meetings,”
he makes statements which affect so many different people,
and which, if true, would reflect such discredit on Spiritualism
and Spiritualists generally, that, as he always refuses to pub¬
lish anything that he finds inconvenient, you cannot refuse to
print these remarks and the letter I addressed to the said
editor last week, of which I enclose a copy:—
To the Editor of the .
Sir,—Under the heading “Ecclesiastical Intelligence,” you say that
“ the only -way by which the public can judge of this matter is to again state
the facts.” No doubt the public can only judge by knowing the facts, but
the very point at issue is—what are “ the facts ? ” You say one thing, I say
another. Let the public hear both sides, if you really have any regard for
truth, or any wish that your readers should judge for themselves.
If you will undertake to publish what I write—provided I confine myself
rigidly to the point at issue, and do not occupy more of your space than
half the amount taken up by yourself—I am ready to go into details; to do
which without such undertaking would be a useless waste of time.
20th April, 1874. ALGERNON JOY.
Of by far the greater part of the statements contained in
the “ historical ” article I have no direct personal knowledge,
but among the remainder I have coanted no less than seven¬
teen, which I know to be utterly false, and most of which I
can prove the author to have known to be false at the time
when he wrote them. There is no need to occupy your valu¬
able space with the details, as the fact that he neither pub¬
lished nor acknowledged the enclosed letter is quite evidence
May 1, 1874.
enough of his bad faith in the matter. But I here declare
again that I will send him my statement at once if he will
undertake to publish it. Algernon Joy.
25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W.,
26th April, 1874.
Sib,—A sentence in the article I referred to last week, has
made me look carefully through what I have written at dif¬
ferent times on the subject in question, and I find that I made a
misstatement in saying that our committee had not “had any
dealings with the manager” of the previous course of
lectures. (See my “ written statement ” in your last number.)
I had forgotten that one of the committee had received a list
of probable subscribers from the said manager. The com¬
mittee were not consulted on the subject, the list was not
submitted to them, and I am told that only two additional
subscribers were obtained from that list. This is how I came
to forget what was really not an act of the committee, though
of course the manager referred to had no means of knowing
that, and of course we accept the responsibility of the act in
question. No doubt the obligation which we thereby incurred
scarcely amounted to making it, morally speaking, compul¬
sory on us to pay his debts without consulting the sub¬
scribers (as he contends, or else why does he abuse the
committee 1) But the fact remains that I thoughtlessly made
a misstatement, by which I did him some slight injustice, and
which I therefore regret. Algebnon Joy.
28th April, 1874.  
A HAUNTED BOOM.
Sib,—At N Park, a house in Derbyshire, we used often
to stay with relations of ours, the “red room ” upon several
occasions was devoted to our use, and cheerful enough it used
to look in its crimson hangings and bright furniture, yet to
enter there was for me to feel strangely depressed and dis¬
quieted, and at night no child was ever more terrified at the
dark than I in that particular room. Had I been asked “ Of
what are you afraid ? ” I would have answered, “ I cannot
tell, nevertheless I am terribly frightened, and there is no
use in trying not to be, as I have done so over and over again ;
there is something in the atmosphere of this room which has
a horrible effect upon me, let the summer’s sweet air steal up
from the garden 'below, or the wintry wind sweep through it,
it is all the same.” Yet I had never seen, heard, or felt any¬
thing there then to alarm me, but there came a night when
this was no longer the case, for when attempting to draw back
the curtain, instead of the soft damask, my fingers clasped
what felt to them a hard, unresisting hand. “ Quick, strike
a light,” I cried, “ some one is in the room ; ” but before the
match was struck I had unlocked the door, holding it open,
and only kept back from calling aloud for assistancejby my
great reluctance to alarm a whole house full of people which
our hospitable friends had gathered round them. The light
my husband held revealed no robber ; the room was searched,
but nothing found. Where had the hand vanished to ? and
why had it thus come to— EnnesfAllen ?
PSYCHIC EOBCE.
Sib,—I believe that Serjeant Cox means by psychic force
that unseen potent element, which is possessed by all persons
to some extent, but which, in the case of the psychic or
medium, is projected beyond the extremities of the material
structure, and, even when undirected by intelligence, has fre¬
quently been known to attract to the psychic books, chairs,
and other articles of furniture. It is a faculty, which is God-
given, occasionally inherited, and always susceptible of de¬
velopment, like a genius for music, public speaking, organisa¬
tion, or any other talent. At ordinary physical seances the
manifestations may, according to Mr. Serjeant Gox, be directed,
either consciously by some one of the visitors, or unconsciously
by the psychic himself, whose brain, as it were, cerebrates or
pictures to itself the various personages, whom, by thought¬
reading, it (i.e,, the brain) knows what each sitter is thinking of,
and assigns to them appropriate speeches and actions. Ac¬
cording to this supposition, the psychic, while in a condition
of deep trance, is doing, while sitting in his chair, the very
same thing that we are doing in bur bed every night of our
lives, i.e., playing many parts, assuming various characters,
and improving many dialogues ; the essential difference being
that whilst in sleep the connection between the will and the
brain is temporarily severed, in trance, the mind, of which
the will is the chief attribute, is working powerfully, the ex¬
pression of the features often glows with fine emotion,
and, in short, such intellectual feats are accom*
May 1, 1874.
THE SPIEITUALIST.
215
plished as are utterly beyond the range of the
psychic’s power, when, aroused from trance, he returns to
his normal condition. Now, there may be something in this
theory of unconscious cerebration. Dr. Carpenter and the
learned Serjeant, though at loggerheads on the general ques¬
tion of psychism, have yet indirectly made important contri¬
butions to spiritual science by their searching investigations
into the hitherto but partially explored regions of mental
philosophy. But the principal objection to the cerebration
theory, in its bearings on Spiritualism, is that many compe¬
tent authorities are assured that the brain, being simply
matter, can have no impression except what it receives from
mind, either that of a human being or a supramundane
operator, who may respectively speak, write, “rap oat,” and,
by means of brain waves, or mental vibrations, impress their
thoughts ; that there are no such things as involuntary actions,
because such feeble actions as are wrongly so described are,
like respiration, circulation of the blood, and other physical
functions, the result of vibrations of volition so small as to
be almost imperceptible ; and that, consequently, all the
manifestations at spirit seances, are the outcome of the volun¬
tary action, either of some one present or of a mind embodied
in some more etherealised form. The true lessons, I think, to
be drawn from all this conflict of evidence as to the cause of
the phenomena, are that every man and woman should
honestly admit the facts as already proven ; that they should
set aside irritating ecclesiastical figments respecting diabolic
agency, and other worn-out absurdities; and that they should,
if possible, separate the scientific, or fact-observing, aspect of
the question from its social, philosophical, and religious
issues. These latter are, of course, more important; and,
perhaps, it is neither possible nor, if possible, desirable to
prevent drawing certain obvious conclusions. But, neverthe¬
less, surely it is our bounden duty, for the next few years,
mainly to confine our attention to an analysis of phenomena,
to test their reality by regular household sittings; by varied
experiments tried under various conditions ; by taking notes
of all that has transpired at each seance; by submitting
such notes for the confirmation of those present at the
circle; by chasing from the mind all preconceived no¬
tions respecting the spiritual states of the departed; by
making a special’ study of Spiritualist text-books, and
of Biblical spiritist phenomena, e.g., apparitions, writings
on the wall, phosphorescent lights, levitations of Christ,
Philip, and so forth; by comparing these facts with those
which are from time to time recounted in the newspapers,
and by ever bearing in mind that the unity of truth
pre-supposes and fixes the unity of causes. Just as the growth
of plants and trees in Kensington-gardens is referable to the
same causes that produced the herbage in the vale of Hermon
nineteen centuries ago, so whatever law will explain the
so-called miracles of the Christian, pre-Christian, and Origen,
Jerome, Augustinian eras, will adequately solve the mysteries
of the nineteenth century, and so gradually clear away the
mists that have for ages lurked over the whole region of the
unseen. Ghosts, as they are called, will soon cease to be
supernatural. The Greek word miracle, by the way, ought to
be invariable translated power, or gift; as, indeed, it is so
translated when the writer of the Gospel speaks of Christ as
saying that “ power,” or as we should say, psychic force,
“ had gone out of him.” James Thornton Hoskins.
Reform Club, Pall Mall, S.W.
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
Sir,—Will you kindly insert the following letter in your
paper ? Frederika Showers.
To the Editor of “ The Medium."
Sir,—With reference to a paragraph that appears in to¬
day’s Medum, requesting an explanation of an alleged mis¬
statement on the part of the spirit calling herself “ Florence
Maple,” I beg to inform you that six months previously to
the publication of the account referred to, I had also made
inquiries, and had discovered that there was no such street as
the one indicated in the town of Inverness. One or two
members of the Dalston Society also made efforts to ascertain
the truth, but with the same unsatisfactory results ; however,
our more intimate acquaintance with the controlling intelli¬
gences prevented our expressing any virtuous indignation at
the failure, and I, at any rate, was forced to be content with
the subsequent explanation, that Inverness was a “ large
county,'’ and that the name of Blackburn-street might have
been “ changed.” My almost exceptional experience of Spiri¬
tualism has proved that all the statements made by these
strange beings are not to be relied upon, and that, for reasons
totally incomprehensible, they give no satisfactory proofs of
identity. I have stated this frequently and unreservedly at
circles in London, and I mention it once again for the infor¬
mation of comparatively inexperienced and too credulous
Spiritualists.
Time alone can unravel the mystery that surrounds these
manifestations, and bur duty meanwhile is—not to rush to
hasty conclusions, in conformance with our own preconceived
notions—but to watch and observe quietly. Above all, it
ought to be the first and most imperative consideration with
genuine Spiritualists, to take care that, by the dissemination
of implied doubts, they do not effectually deter all honourable
and intelligent media from entering the movement. After
what roe have seen and heard, and, I may even add, expe¬
rienced, I do not wonder that ladies and gentlemen decline to
run the risk of sullying their honourable names by permitting
their addresses, &c., to be published in verification of their
statements. On the occasion to which your correspondent
refers, and on all other occasions that have been reported,
my daughter was present as a guest—not as a medium. It
was out of pure kindness and good nature that she consented
to sit for the manifestations—which were no pleasure to her—
for she was utterly unconscious all the - time—and I think,
therefore, that it would only have been an act of common cour¬
tesy if my permission had been obtained, as was done in other
instances, before any person proceeded to publish his own
hasty deductions and conclusions. I am certain, however,
that this was only an oversight on the part of the gentleman
in question, and that nobody would feel greater repugnance
than himself to the infliction of any annoyance whatever on
a lady.
The slightest reflection ought to convince anybody that the
medium herself would have found little difficulty in furnishing
an address that could have been verified, and that she would
not have been stupid enough to adhere to one that had pre¬
viously been supposed to be incorrect, at least, if not false.
Most unfortunately for us, there is no lack of departed spirits
among our own immediate relatives and friends, any one of
whom might have been introduced with perfect safety on the
occasion.
So far as Florence is concerned, she has invariably adhered
to one statement since her first appearance among us, and, on
my questioning her again to-day, she indignantly repeated
that she did live in Blackburn-street, but that having fre¬
quently told people, at Mrs. Gregory’s and elsewhere, that the
subject was painful to her, she would not allow it to be
pursued. I thank you much for the insertion of the para¬
graph in question, as, hut for your casual notice, the matter
might have been commented On without ever coming to my
knowledge, or receiving even this imperfect explanation. If
anything more is said, however, I shall treat the matter as
completely beneath my notice. When people become a little
more spiritual, and sit for manifestations themselves, they
will soon discover how contradictory and bewildering are the
statements of the spirits. Frederika Showers.
[The editor of the Medium, we find, in a tone of superiority, published the
following offensive remarks about Miss Showers :—“ We do not write in a
spirit of condemnation, but on behalf of calm and kindly inquiry.” When
a lady and her daughter visited London to see what they could of
Spiritualism, and not to give seances, although they kindly yielded to eome
pressing requests, they ought to have been safe from comments of this
kind, especially as it is a well known fact that nothing satisfactory in the
way of proof of identity can be obtained, from any of the spirits who are
giving materialisation phenomena through any medium in this country.
—Ed.]
Sir,—I waa present at a seance on Thursday last, when a
spirit expressed himself through our medium, who was en¬
tranced, to the following effect:—
His name was William Gibbs, and he had kept an hotel or
boarding house at San Francisco, called the Columbia House
Hotel. He had a partner called Henry Hersey—Ursey—or
Hearsey, an Englishman, who like himself had been a sailor.
He was anxious to communicate with the friends of Hersey,
who he believed lived at Ramsgate, and to inform them that
Hersey had been accidentally drowned at San Francisco,
partly, he much regretted to say, through carelessness on his
part. This must have occurred some years ago, as he explained
his want of detailed information respecting his partner, by
the fact that San Francisco at the time was a rough place,
where no one inquired very particularly into his friend’s ante¬
cedents.
He was most anxious to convey this intelligence to the
friends of Hersey, and seemed much gratified at our assurance
that we would endeavour to do so.
216
THE SPIRITUALIST.   May 1, 1874.
If any of your readers at Ramsgate would kindly make in¬
quiries as to whether such a name is still known there, and if
successful communicate with me, they would much oblige,
yours very faithfully, MARTIN R. Smith.
Heathlands, Wimbledon, April 27,1874.
SPIRIT POETRY.
The following inspirational lines, given through the trance
mediumship of Mr. T. L. Harris, are quoted from A Lyric of
the Golden Age.* They refer to the drowning of the poet
Shelley, and his birth into the after life:—
“ Feed him with jonquils and anemones,
With jasmines, myrtles, roses, where he lies;
Let all your kisses melt upon his mouth,
Balm-winds fresh breathing from the tropic South;
Myrrh, cassia, nutmeg trees of Ceylon, lave
Him in your odours ; fan him as ye wave
O golden palms ; and thou, wild tamarind tree,
Droop thy long sprays, caress him balmily;
Ye crimson cactus-flowers, that nimble bees
Vainly explore, oppress not his mild eyes ;
0 sleep-diflusing poppies, rain not down
Your heavy juice ; nor, sable cypress, frown
' On him reposing ; silver lime-flowers, pour
Faint, starlike incense-drops from your full store;
Sweet pansies, pillow him; thy pipe, 0 Pan,
Blow with a mellow strain, thy syrinx blow ;
Our darling is delivered from his woe,
Freed from the hate of love-regardless man.
Our darling is not dead, he lieth here,
Where the blind groping earth-worm finds him not.
As water-lilies mourn the fading year,
Fond hearts deplore him on the earth. No spot
Defiles the crystal pureness of his fame.
The efflorescence of his being blooms
On earth, blooms splendidly. Like May he came,
Sowing rich beauty over dens and tombs
And rocky peaks and solitudes. He sped
Like a clear streamlet o’er its jagged bed,
That by no torture can be hushed asleep,
But pours in music hastening to the deep.
Peace, peace, bewail him not with garlands sere,
Ye Autumn Months, his is no funeral bier.
No pale dissolving Eidolon is he
Of that which was but never more shall be;—
Shelley the Spirit lives eternally.”
So sang in Heaven a golden-tressed maiden,
Above a sleeping Spirit newly born
From mother earth and the salt sea forlorn.
No dark-eyed houri of some Persian Aidenn,
But a sweet "English girl, with mild blue eyes;
No gentler being walks in Paradise.
Impalpable but visible, the soul
Of every flower obeyed her song’s control;
In million fairy forms through heart and brain
• They flowed, and slowly banished every pain
From his deep-dreaming mind. He woke at last.
Let his own verse rehearse three days he passed
Translated by swift death to heaven divine ;—
The thought being his, the thought’s word-clothing mine.
“ I rose most like a purple dragon-fly
From the dull sheath, who leaves his floating corse
Adrift upon the waters, then dilates
For the first time his breast with upper air,
And feels his gauze-like filaments of wings,
And sees the unknown isRd lilies bloom
O’er the dim depths that were his former world.
” We had gone forth, my friend and I, beguiled
By summer air and sunshine and low tones
Of music from the crisped and crested sea.
A white flaw struck our barque and she went down.
A gurgling, bubbling sound was in my ears.
White-armed I dipt with sinewy stroke the waves,
Sank, rose again and sank, and rose and saw
Returning smiles of sunshine on the sea,
Then left my languid form upon the deep,
Borne by its tides and rocking to their swell.”
* Published by Jehu Thomson, 39, John-street, Glasgow.
Last Sunday evening Mr. Algernon Joy presided at the
Spiritual services at the Clevelend Hall.
During the past week Miss Florence Cook, Miss Katie
Cook, Mr. Charles Blackburn, and Mr. C. E. Williams, the
medium, have been in Paris. Mr. Williams will return on or
about Wednesday next.
The latest news which has reached this country of the
whereabouts of Mr. Foster, the test medium, is that he has
reached Honolulu, on his way to Australia. There is some
probability that he will visit England again.
The Rev. F. R. Young, editor of the Christian Spiri¬
tualist, is a trance medium, and in the number of his journal
published this morning, he gives an interesting spirit message
communicated through his mediumship.
One of the latest acts of Judge Edmonds was to write to
the editor of the Banner of Light, expressing his apprecia¬
tion of the value of the recent experimental researches in
Spiritualism, published by Mr. Crookes. We shall quote
Judge Edmonds’ remarks on the point in our next.
Miss Lottie Fowler’s Mediumship. — Miss Lottie
Fowler is now in London, at 9, Somerset-place, Portman-
square, W., where she is giving private seances, chiefly by
previous appointment. She will give no more public seances,
and is not open to receive engagements for Sundays. For
two or three days during the early part of this week she gave
a few seances in Brighton. As the records in this journal
have demonstrated, Miss Fowler is an exquisitely sensitive
clairvoyant medium, likely to give satisfaction to inquirers
who are sufficiently experienced to furnish those conditions
which are known to favour good manifestations.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist.
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
• SELLER, STATIONER, AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39, Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, Supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
TO. ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 69 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4£d. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS. —Handsomely-printed Blue
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion, may be obtained in packets, each containing 400, price 2s. 6d. per
packet. They are especially useful for distribution at public meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, reading-rooms, clubs, and places
public resort.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-ehurchyard, London, E.O.
OOO :REWAEr)-—MA-SKELYNE & C00KE-
OF THE FALSENESS OF THEIR PRETENSIONS.
By ALGERNON JOY, M.I.O.E. (IOTA).
London: J. Bums, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.
Price One Penny.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE.
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
EJ. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
9 Spiritualism in the North, that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c., &c. Sub-
Ecribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms, cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to MR. BARKAS),
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
May 1, 1874.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANT®, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Revealing Startling Facts
to the public, can be consulted on either .Medical or Business Affairs con¬
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 12 to 5 (Sundays excepted.)
Terms, One Guinea. Address, 9, Somerset-street, Portman-square,
London, W.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in "Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bernard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) attends PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Campdeh-hill, Kensington.
R. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush,
W. Please write..
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
"YMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “ An
IdyU of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co,, Paternoster-row.
WORK BY THE SAME AUTHOR.
An elegant little volume, bound in blue and gold, carmine edges,
Price 4s. 6d.
LYRICS AND BUCOLICS. The Eclogues of Yirgil,
a selection from the Odes of Horace, and the Legend of the Sibyll.
“Mr. Noyes’ qualifications are of no mean order. In the first place, he
has the essential one of thoroughly entering into and appreciating the true
spirit of his master, and even where, as we have said, he exceeds what
we conceive to be the limits of a translation, we attribute it rather to his
being carried away by his own muse than to his misunderstanding his
author’s. ' And here we have a second and no less important qualifi¬
cation for success. Mr. Noyes has a genuine poetic vein of his own, and
his lines have almost always the ring of true metal.”— Standard,
April 1th, 1868.
“There is a certain freedom and swing in these translations, which not
only more resembles the brisk spirit and ringing tone of the original, but
is truly refreshing after the stiff rendering which had been generally made
of Horace’s choicest composition.’"—London Review, Feb. 15th, 1868.
“The Translations from Horace are spirited and musical. His light
Epicureanism and gay Stoicism are happily hit off.”—Daily News,
March Zd, 1868.
“Mr. Noyes’ Version of Virgil’s Pastorals may fairly take its place by the
side of Mr. Gonnington’s translation of the iEneid. The lovers of such
poetry have here as pleasant a bouquet as can well be set before them,”—
Speculator March 7th, 1868.
TO THE READERS OF “ THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
ot Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.”) Printed and published
by T. Scott, 1, Warwiek-court, Holborn. Price One Penny.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82, St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for,on delivery.
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &e., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingslaud.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbing'er of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
Aaron franklin, preserver of birds and
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE. Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-sklns, stags’-heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. Aaron Franklin, 100, Suf¬
folk street, Birmingham.
A WIDOW LADY seeks a Comfortable Home in a
Gentleman’s Family, where she could render her services valuable
in any Position of Trust; she is an Experienced Housekeeper, and has
been Companion to a Lady. References exchanged. Address H., care of
T. Blyton, 11, Aye Maria Lane, London, E.O.
Lately published,
"HAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Menta*
Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. I. The MECHANISM of MAN
By EDWARD W. COX, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s, 6d.
Contents.
chap.
1. Introduction.
2. What am I?
3. The Mari.
4. How we* Grow.
5. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
’ works.
29. Of the Will.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
31. Soul—Spirit—Anima.
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. TheNaturaland the Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery.
45. Conclusions.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and charming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and no
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Herald.
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I ?”—Leicester Mercury
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflectiv readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest.—South Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equaUed by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
London: Longman and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just published,
The second volume of “what am i ?”
A Popular Introduction to Psychology and Mental Philosophy. By
EDWARD W. COX, Sergeant-at-Law. Price 10s. 6d.
This Volume completes the work. It treats of the Mechanism of Man in
action. The following are the
Contents :—
CHAP.
Preface.
1. Introductory.
2. OfthelntelligentMotive Forces.
3. The Conditions of Existence.
4. The Mechanism in Health.
5. Of Sleep.
6. Of Dreams.
7. Of some of the Phenomena of
Sleep and Dreams
8. Of Delirium.
9. Of Insanity.
10. Of Natural Somnambulism.
11. Of Artificial Somnambulism. I.
The Condition.
12. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
II. Clairvoyance.
13. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
III. The Mental Phenomena.
14. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IV. Catalepsy.
15. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
V. Insensibility and Uncon¬
sciousness.
CHAP.
16. Of Artificial Somnambulism
VT. History.
17. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VII. Healing Power.
18. Of Artificial Somnambulism
VIII. Supersensuous Percep
tion.
19. Of Artificial Somnambulism
IX. Thought Reading.
20. Of Trance.
21. Of Unconscious Cerebration.
22. Of Psychic Force.
23. Of Psychic Force. I. The
Proofs.
24. Of Psychic Force. II. Its Phy¬
siology.
25. Of Psychic Force. IIL The
Directing Inteligence.
26. Other Psychic Phenomena. I
Communicated.
27. Other Psychic Phenomena. II
Experiments.
28. The Summing Up
29. The Conclusions.
VOL. I. MAY BE HAD, PRICE 8s. 6d.
London: Longman & Co., Paternoster-row.
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Weekly Journal. Edited by J. TyermAN.
Price Threepence. Tojbe had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 1, 1874.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. .The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.Q-.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Pox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. ,J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; C. Bussell Eoberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
INQUIRERS into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters, One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption fpr one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the medium ? ” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STEELING.
Bead Ojfices.-BROWN STEEET AND MAESDEN STEEET, MANCHESTEB
FIEE.
Insurances AGAINST Loss or Damage ry Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates
Bonus Beturns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Benewed Premiums:
FIDELITY GUABANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officiate.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STEEET, LONDON, E.O.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities
NSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lecturer, or what¬
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram¬
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—1 Humanity; its Nature and its Needs ’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!”—South Wales Press.
“He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.’’'—Spiritualist.
“ The address quite riveted the attention of the audience.”—Eastbourne
Chronicle.
“ He spoke for nearly an hour-and-a-half. Not a hitch occurred. The
address was more or less argumentative throughout, in parts it was really
eloquent.”—Brighton Guardian.
MB. J. J. MOBSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
All letters should be addressed to his private residence, Warwick Cottage,
Old Ford, Bow, E.
THE ALLEGED IDENTIFICATION OF THE
ENGLISH NATION WITH THE “LOST HOUSE OF ISBAEL.”
By A. L. Lewis, Honorary Secretary, London Anthropological Society.
Being a Paper read before the British Association for the Advancement of
Science (Brighton Meeting), and before the London Anthropological
Society, with the Discussions thereon. Beprinted from Anthropologia,
No. 2 (by permission of the Councilof the London Anthropological Society).
With the addition of an Append on the alleged Scriptural Evidence. The
whole showing that Englishmen are not Israelites.
London: Published by the Author, at 4, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.6. 1874.
Price Sixpence.
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PEACTICAL BOOKBINDEE, STATIONEB, BOOKSELLEB, LETTEB-
PBESS, COPPEB-PLATE, AND LITHOGEAPHIC PEINTEB,
ENGBAVEB, &0.
14, HIGH-STBEET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Spiritualist Newspaper.
A CIRCLE is in Process of Formation: Sitters of Re¬
fined, Intellectual, Harmonious Natures are required: present
Members Ladies and Gentlemen of good standing. Manifestations of a
high order are promised by the Guardian Spirits for regular, faithful
attendance. Each Applicant will be submitted to the Spirit Guardians for
approval, and it is hoped offence will not be taken upon rejection. Address
by letter, with stamped envelope for reply, to O. W., 41, Bemard-street,
Bussell-square. Applicants may call, if preferable.
PHOTOGRAPHIC COPIES OF THE ILLUMINATED
ADDBESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of N.ew York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
Printed for, the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and .St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W
Alien, Aye Maria-lane London, E.O.
