A RECORD OF THE PROQI^E^^ OF THE ^CIEJ^CE AND ETHICS Of gPII^ITUAE^M,
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 63.—(Vol. m.—No. 24.) LONDON: NOVEMBER 1, 1873.
Published on the 1st and 15th of every
Month; Price Fourpence.
WEEKLY PUBLICATION OF “THE
SPIRITUALIST.”
The Weekly Publication of The Spiritualist
will begin on Friday, Noyember 14th, and its
price will be reduced to Threepence.
(Eontents.
National Organisation of Spiritualists
Psychological Revelations and Physics
Other World Order  
The Mystery of Edwin Drood ...
Weekly Publication of the Spiritualist
National Association of Spiritualists
Spiritualism in Finsbury 
The Testimonial to Judge Edmonds
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten ...
Mr. Morse’s Anniversary Soiree
Meeting at Gower Street ... ...
A Noisy Meeting at Bristol
Spirit Forms...   -  
Poetry:—“ The Touch of a Vanished Hand’
Correspondence—Spiritualism in Vancouver's Island
The First Instance of a “Tipping" Table ...  
Paragraphs—Winter Spiritual Meetings, 378; Judge Edmonds,
M. Aksakof, 377; Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiri¬
tualism, 177; Spiritual Anthropology, 177; Chinese Praying for
Wind, 382; The Psychological Power of the Eye, 382; Miss
Fowler’s Mediumship  ...   
Answers to Correspondents  
376;
870
371
373
375
376
376
377
378
378
378
379
380
381
382
382
382
383
382
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
w
HERE ARE
EXPLAINED.
THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London: Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISTS.—Sunday Evening Services are Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o’clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Rooms, 80, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
R. PeAROe, Hon. See.
Lately published,
WHAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Mental
Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. L The MECHANISM of MAN.
By EDWARD W. COX, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s. 6d.
Contents.
chap.
1. Introduction.
2. What,am I?
3. The Man.
4. How we Grow.
5. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind.
The Reflective Faculties:
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the Will.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
31. Soul—Spirit—Anima.
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. The Natural and the Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery.
45. Conclusions.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and charming book..—Standard.
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and not
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Herald.
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I ?”—Leicester Mercury.
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflective readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest.—South Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
London: Longman and Co., Paternoster-row.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bemard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRV, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Dalston association of enquirers into
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 8s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
THOMAS BLYTON, Secretary and Treasurer.
370
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 1, 1873.
Cfre Spxntalxst
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence!.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.O. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions':—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 4s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or in'egulanty in the supply of '■'■The Spiritualist'1'1 in
London or in theprovinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E. C., should always he informed of such impediments and irregulam-
ties, and copies can then he ordered of him hy post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado,—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street,
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
Or The Spiritualist maybe had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny;
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 12s. 6d., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums lesd than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
NATIONAL ORGANISATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The London members of the Council of the National
Association of Spiritualists met for the first time at
Lawson’s Rooms, Gower-street, a fortnight ago, and
some of the Liverpool members, with their accustomed
energy, made it their business to attend, and were in
London for that special purpose. A committee was
appointed to draw up njles and a constitution for sub¬
mission to the Council for consideration and revision.
A gentleman in the City kindly placed his offices at
the disposal of the committee for the purpose of holding
their evening meetings, and at those meetings a great
deal of work was done, or carefully considered, a
business-like set of rules and constitution having been
drawn up and unanimously agreed to, which rules are
now in the hands of the printer.
Of the ladies and gentlemen invited by resolutions
passed at previous meetings to take office on the
Council, very nearly all have expressed their wil¬
lingness to act. The principle suggested at Liver¬
pool as to the gradual formation of the Council has
been acted upon—that is to say, a few earnest workers
only were invited to take part at first, as the hardest
part of the business of drganising could be performed
more expeditiously by a few than by many. The idea
was that from time to time the Council could enlarge
itself, and that, as the whole project gradually developed
and assumed shape and form, more and more friends
should be. asked to join in the work. The plan has
hitherto answered well, and, so far as we are able to
gather the general opinion of the members, another
enlargement of the Council will shortly take place, and a
president, ten or twelve vice-presidents, honorary secre¬
tary, assistant secretary, solicitor, treasurer, and other
officers be appointed. A general understanding pre¬
vails that the Association will not interfere at all with
theological matters, but is formed for purely business
purposes; and we are glad to hear that at the meetings
already held it was a point of honour on the part of
members holding opposite religious views not to attempt
to introduce or to gain any advantages on behalf of
their individual theological opinions. Moreover, there
is a desire that there shall be a very large Council—
far too large to represent any clique or party. Two
very important officers will be the president and the
honorary secretary; from the nature of their functions
it is necessary that they should be generally popular,
and not strong partisans; consequently, some care
should be taken in their election. Hitherto the work
of organising has progressed very favourably, and as
there is already a good Council, which means to carry
on its work, and is recognised by all the chief Spiritual
societies in most of the large towns of the kingdom, it
can do much to benefit-Spiritualism as it stands at pre¬
sent ; but, as many other good men are known to be
ready and willing to work on the Council when it is
still further enlarged, the aspect of the Association is
such as to warrant strong public confidence, so far as
can be seen at present.
At no distant date, the Association will very probably
be wielding very great powers, so intending members
should carefully examine the system of voting, which
will regulate the annual election of members of
the controlling body, to see that they shall have
the power of giving their votes without difficulty.
Perhaps it might best be done by the issue of voting
papers—one to every member.
The minimum annual subscription will probably be
very low, that nobody need be shut out, and when it is
seen that a properly organised body is formed, controlled
by an honourable and intelligent Council fairly elected
by the popular vote, it is to be hoped that the volun¬
teered maximum annual subscriptions will be very high,
especially when it is seen that the Council will ad¬
minister the funds with rigid economy,' and publish
regular balance sheets. There is much speculation
afloat as to the first work which the Association may
undertake, and two courses will lie before it. One idea
is that a National Association should get up gigantic
meetings in the centre of London, and make a general
sensation to begin with, thus skyrocketting away large
sums of money which it might or might not be able to
afford, but which, in either case, would raise prolonged
public speculation as to how long the Association would
be likely to exist. It is a bad thing to hamper a young
society with debt; the Anthropological Institute is one
example of this, though it is now rapidly clearing off
liabilities incurred in years gone by. Our opinion is,
that at the outset, the National Association of Spiri¬
tualists should have as one part of its constitution a
standing rule that it shall never get into debt. Suppose,
for instance, that some such rule as this were passed,
would it not tend to inspire confidence ?—
“ That this Association shall incur no liabilities until it has
sufficient paid-up subscriptions in hand to liquidate the same.
That not more than two-thirds of the capital in hand shall be
expended over the general business of the Association, and
that one-half of the remainder shall be set aside as a reserve
fund to be drawn upon only on exceptional occasions, the other
half to be set aside as a building fund.” .
On the one hand, some such rule as this might neces-
Nov. 1, 1878.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
371
sitate that the Association should begin with quiet,
unostentatious work. On the other hand it would tend
to increase the higher annual subscriptions, because
those who wish to aid Spiritualism to a reasonable ex¬
tent with capital, would know that it Was contributed to a
steady-going organisation, and not to one which might
run into debt, and incur liabilities which the richer
members might be asked to liquidate. The Association
should keep in a position of safety and permanence, and
on the principles just suggested, it can never fail for
want of funds, even if the sum total of its subscriptions
amount to but £10 a year. The plan would not only
strengthen the confidence of the public, but the mem¬
bers of the council would feel that whatever happened,
the Association was not going to die in a hurry. Perhaps
the best plan would be for the Association to “/eel its way,”
and begin by doing little things, until it gets into ex¬
perienced working order, but there should be no mistake
about those little things being done efficiently.
At first, in promoting Spiritualism, attention should
be turned to London, which for some time past has been
behind Liverpool in establishing permanent Sunday
meetings all the year round, and in remunerating the
speakers. If the Dalston Society, and the Brixton
Spiritualists were offered a hall by the National Asso¬
ciation rent free on Sunday evenings, no doubt, in
response, local energy would find speakers. It has been
ascertained that the chief hall in Brixton can, if taken
regularly, be had one evening per week for «£40 a year,
and it may be assumed that in the less expensive neigh¬
bourhood of Dalston a hall may be had somewhere on
the same terms; total, £80 a year, or say £50 for six
months. As the work is not likely to begin before
January, and as many Spiritualists leave town in July and
August, six months would be a long enough engagement
at first. If Mr. Cogman, who gives very good trance lec¬
tures, would undertake to carry on his present work at the
East-end for a year, if £20 over and above his present
receipts were offered him by the Association he would
probably do it; the quiet, respectable little establish¬
ment he has fitted^ up there is a very good one for the
neighbourhood, and ought to be publicly supported to a
moderate extent. This would increase the suggested
expenditure of £50 to £70. Kilburn and Marylebone
Spiritualists have not done anything very flourishing
as yet, being unaided by the richer Spiritualists, but
have worked steadily, and if they were offered moderate
assistance, they would probably undertake to hold a per¬
manent series of Sunday evening meetings. The St. John’s
Association has a small debt which ought to be cleared
off by public aid; but its present work is probably
nearly self-supporting. On adding up all these items,
and allowing a very large margin, it will be seen that
a judicious expenditure of less than £150 will establish
steady Sunday evening services in several widely-sepa¬
rated parts of London. The grants should be gradually
lowered and withdrawn as each locality finds itself
competent to bear its own expenses.
Experience has proved that the most efficacious
method of proselytising in Spiritualism is the establish¬
ment of Sunday services, and that no discussions should
be allowed except on week-days, as discussions have
been found to provoke annoyance and disturbance.
This is the general experience in the provinces, and the
Liverpool Society has found the stopping of Sunday
discussions to promote peace and quietness.
On considering all these points, it will be seen that a
National Association can, by means of an exceedingly low
outlay, do much good, even if its income should amount
but to the microscopic sum of £150 a year. Its real
income will, in all probability, be a very high one.
PSYCHOLOGICAL REVELATIONS AND PHYSICS.
The power of clairvoyants to see scenes hundreds of
miles away, and the faculty conferred upon trance
mediums of revealing truths relating to the life here¬
after, naturally raise hopes of the noblest description in
the breasts of novices in Spiritualism. Here, think
they, is a key, which, when properly applied, will give
to man a true and an unquestionable religion; here is
a power whereby we shall be enabled to establish com¬
munication with residents in other planets; here is the
lever whereby the secrets of the life hereafter may be
brought from the regions of hazy speculation into the
bright sunlight of scientific truth—that is to say, into
clear and definite knowledge. With prolonged experi¬
ence these natural anticipations are damped. The dis¬
covery is made that hard work must be applied to this,
just the same as to any other subject, before the fruit
can be reaped, and a very good law this is, however dis¬
appointing it may at first sight appear to be. The
novice soon becomes aware that a proportion of clair¬
voyant revelations are unreliable, and that trance re-s
velations are coloured more or less, quite unconsciously,
by the mind of the medium, or at least by the organs
of expression of that mind. Hence, by hard work, and
much research, these sources of error have, hereafter,
to be eliminated.
Mrs. Tappan’s trance lecture on “ Spiritualism and
Science,” delivered at Westbourne Hall, last week,
furnished several illustrations of the truth of these re¬
marks. The good quality of her inspirational addresses,
the extreme beauty of some of the poems given through
her mediumship, and the large proportion of spiritual
truth contained in her utterances are unquestionable,
but when these powers are bent to deal with physics,
they come down from things spiritual to things tem¬
poral, into a region where their reliability as regards
material things can be accurately estimated. On this
occasion her utterances formed no exception to the
general rule, for, as in the case of revelations about
physical things given through all the trance mediums
we have ever met as yet, truth and error, reliability
and unreliability were intimately blended. Therefore,
the following critical remarks do not apply in spirit
more to the. utterances of Mrs. Tappan in particular,
thau to trance media in general.
In her lecture, Mrs. Tappan narrated how the great
clairvoyant, Andrew Jackson Davis, revealed the exist¬
ence of the eighth planet, Neptune, before it was dis¬
covered by astronomers. The American spiritual
periodicals often assert the same thing, but what is the
value of the statement?
In March, 1846, Andrew Jackson Davis said, in the
trance state, that there was an eighth planet; three
months later Leverrier mathematically demonstrated its
existence, and gave information where to find it; three
months later still, in September, 1846, it was first seen.
But what was the value of the utterance of Andrew
Jackson Davis? Long before he made it, it was a
matter of great contention whether an eighth planet,
existed or not, and it was just as easy for him to say
that there was an eighth planet as that there was not
one. Mr. Morse, in the trance state, might now say
that the defendant is the real Tichborne, but what
372
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 1, 1873.
would be the value of the utterance ? If the assertion
proved to be true, it could never be considered more
than a common-place guess; but, if substantiated by
evidence, his statement would be a different matter.
The trance mediumship of Andrew Jackson Davis re¬
vealed nothing whatever about the controverted subject;
but three months later Leverrier’s mathematics told the
world where to find the planet.
Davis further asserted that the eighth planet had £ the
density of water. Taking the density of the earth as
100, that of water is ISiL and that of Neptune 17. But
the seer made the density of Neptuue 14|; he was,
therefore, in error in the proportion of 14J to 17. He
said also that the eighth planet has six. satellites ; as
yet only one satellite has been seen by telescopic aid.
Mrs. Tappan stated, as the American spiritual
periodicals have also recently asserted in many articles,
that Davis further announced the existence .of a ninth
planet, which ninth planet is the one discovered a few
months ago by astronomers. But the truth is that
there are about a hundred little planets between Mars
and Jupiter, and that a great many of these planets
have been discovered since Davis’s revelations in 1846.
In the little observatory on the north bank of the
Thames, near Twickenham, Mr. Hind has spent many
years searching after new planets, and has discovered
several of these small ones. Which of these is the
ninth planet ?—for the planet just discovered is one of
the little ones—and no ninth great planet has yet been
discovered by man. Any trance medium anywhere
may say there is a ninth planet, and so may anybody
without going into the trance; but what is the value
of the assertion, now or hereafter, without information
where to find the orb ? Although the mediumship of
Andrew Jackson Davis has been of great value and
interest, it has proved unreliable when dealing with
physics.
Here are the names of most of the minor planets
discovered since 1846 :—
Hebe, Iris, Flora, Metis, Hygeia, Parthenope, Victoria,
Egeria, Irene, Eunomia, Psycbe, Thetis, Melpomene, Fortuna,
Masilia, Lutetia, Calliope, Thalia, Themis, Phocea, Proserpine,
Enterpe, Bellona, Amphitrite, Urania, Euphrosyne, Pomona,
Polyhymnia, Circe, Leucothea, Atalanta, Fides, Leda, Lastitia,
Harmonia, Daphne, Isis, Ariadne, Nysa, Eugenia, Hestia,
Aglaia, Doris, Pales, Virginia, Nemausa, Europa, Calypso,
Alexandra, Pandora, Melete, Mnemosyne, Concordia, Olympia,
Echo, Danae, Erato, Ausonia, Angelina, Maximiliana, Maia,
Asia, Leto, Hesperia, Panopea, Niobe, Feronia, Clytie, Galatea,
Eurydice, Freia.Friga, Diana, Eurynome, Sappho, Terpsichore,
Alcmene, Beatrix, Clio, lo, Semele, Sylvia, Thisbe, Julia, iEgina,
Arethusa, iEgle, Clotno, lanthe.
There have been, moreover, five or ten other planets
discovered since 1846, including the one of which Mrs.
Tappan spoke. Which is Andrew Jackson Davis’s
ninth” planet?—for they are all so very much alike
that, as the Wiltshire nurse said of the twins :—“ One’s
so much like both, I can’t tell t’other from which.”
Mrs. Tappan, quoting a prophecy by Davis, that man
would hereafter navigate the air in commodious ships,
added that the balloon, altered and improved, would
bring about the result. It would be -wrong and dog¬
matic to deny this; still the balance of evidence is
powerfully against the fulfilment of the prophecy. If
ever man navigates the air, it will probably be on the
same principle that birds navigate it—and their prin¬
ciple of navigation is utterly opposed to the principle
of the balloon. A balloon is lighter than air, therefore
rises in the atmosphere. A bird is heavier than air,
and sinks unless aided by the mechanical powers of its
body; hence it moves in the air on different principles
to that of the balloon. Balloons hitherto have not been
navigable because of their necessarily large size, so that
the wind, acting upon such an extended surface, carries
the balloon at its mercy. A vulture, after luxuriously
gorging itself beneath the burning sun with putrid animal
matter, will stretch out its long neck and gory beak, and
take a run along the ground, whereby the air becomes more
condensed under its breast. This artificially-produced
pressure tends to force the bird upwards; then it begins
to flap its wings, and up it goes, but keeps its elevation
only at the expense of muscular exertion. If a thin
inclined plane, say a sheet of zinc a yard square, placed
at an angle of forty-five degrees to the horizon, were
made to run very rapidly along the ground in the direc¬
tion of its uppermost edge, the increased pressure of
the air underneath would tend to make it rise. On the
same principle, perhaps, ships to navigate the air may
hereafter be formed, but to keep up prolonged flight,
machinery of excessively light weight and great power
is necessary, so the solution of the problem does not
appear to be hopeful. Still, the Royal Aeronautical
Society is probably of the unanimous opinion that this
principle of navigating the air is infinitely more likely
to be successful than the principle of the balloon.
Mr. Morse asked Mrs. Tappan, whether there was
any connection between the phenomenon of the mirage
and the materialisation of spirits and the disappearance
of solid objects, occasionally occurring at seances. Mrs.
Tappan replied that the two descriptions of phenomena
were connected, and that the mirage was caused by a
“ spiritual substance whereby light was refracted.” The
fact is the mirage is a physical phenomenon due to
well-known causes, and is not connected with any phe¬
nomena seen at seances. The bending of the rays of
light in passing through vast layers of air of varying
density above the hot sand, causes distant objects to
appear to be in a place where they are not, and produces
certain other phenomena of colour all due to well-known
optical laws, and producible at will on a small scale, by
experiment. Professor Everett, of Belfast College, has
made many an artificial mirage by means of layers of
different liquids in a glass vessel, whisky and water—
which in one sense is a spiritual substance—forming one
of the layers. He substituted layers of liquid for layers
of air in the experiment, because the latter could not
possibly be obtained artificially of sufficiently large size.
A long time ago, Mr. Morse, while in the trance
state, was questioned about the sun, and gave plenty of
information opposed to facts which physical science
proves to be true. It appears to be an illegitimate
thing to question departed spirits about material pro¬
blems which we ought to solve for ourselves; it would
be a bad thing if spirits returned to earth to relieve
men from the trouble of using their own brains, or to
teach inquirers how to make money. Probably also,
owing to the difficulty of communicating as well as to
moral causes, they usually have not the power if they
have the will. At all events the Koons family in
America, and nearly all persons who have trusted to
spirit guidance in commercial matters, have been
brought to commercial ruin.
One of the spiritual laws of this wonderful universe
seems to be that if men give their time, their energies,
and the best of their abilities to the unveiling of the
secrets of nature, they shall receive the reward their
honest industry deserves; consequently it would be a
hardship to^ them, if- media could outstrip them in the
Nov. 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
O'? o
0/0
revealing of truth, by simply going to sleep, and per¬
mitting other intelligent beings to use their material
organism. This may be one reason why neither trance
nor clairvoyance has yet made one single addition to
human knowledge of physics, of any practical value.
But dogma, authority, and blind faith in the incompre¬
hensible, have, at the present time, hidden the bright
light of spiritual truth from the masses of the people.
Hence, in the latter case there is no injustice in the
teachers of heaven stepping in to relieve some of the
miseries caused by the deviation from the path of truth
of many of the spiritual teachers of earth, who are now
in large numbers, seeking the loaves and fishes of this
world, more than the spiritual truths of God.
OTHER WORLD ORDER.
BY WILLIAM WHITE, ATJTHOB, OE THE “LIFE OE
SWEDENBOBG.”
Says my friend, “ What I want to know is, how God
disposes of thieves, murderers, adulterers, liars, and
such like ? ”
It looks a hard question, but like many difficult ques¬
tions, perhaps its difficulty consists in its presentation
in mass. Taken in detail it may not prove unanswer¬
able.
First, let us observe, that the most disagreeable, de¬
graded, and disorderly specimens of human nature
are fragments of human nature. There is nothing
in the worst man living that is not in the best man
living. The propensities of the worst are included in
the best, but in the best are held in subordination by
superior forces or faculties. In the worst, on the con¬
trary, superior forces are either absent, or latent, or
inadequate. Deprive the best of his superior faculties,
and his animal and selfish propensities would lead him
into any and every offence for which circumstance pro¬
vides opportunity. On the other hand, confer on the
worst the superior faculties of the best, and his animal
and selfish propensities would be reduced to order, and
receive just such indulgence as is wholesome and con¬
sistent with social welfare.
“ Then,” says my friend, “ I suppose you mean to
say that in the other world |bad people will develope
superior faculties wherewith to control their lower
ones ? ”
No ! I do not mean to say so. Without reference
to unknown possibilities, and taking men and women as
we know them, my contention is that by government
and organisation, their several imperfections may be
made good, and their excesses restrained by the perfec¬
tions of others; and that service may be assigned to
every man and woman, perfectly adjusted to his or her
special character, in which service the nature of each
shall have full scope and satisfaction, the universal ac¬
tivity being blent into the harmonious unity of hu¬
manity, otherwise the Grand Man.
Let me repeat, for the accomplishment of so much,
I assume no radical change in human nature, but that
men and women preserve the individuality hereafter
which they have inherited and made their own here.
I require only that they be organised in the human
form ; and so organised, it seems to me, there is func¬
tion, use, and happiness for every conceivable type of
character, even for what we, in our arrogance may de¬
signate as despicable.
And, at the risk of offence by iteration, I would once
more enforce the importance of the conception of com¬
munities and universal humanity as human forms.
Indeed, deprived of this conception, I should feel as if
the ground were taken from under me. And let me
say, it will not avail to dismiss the conception as a
Swedenborgian whimsey. No one has made more of
the conception than Swedenborg; yet it was no dis¬
covery of his,^whilst it is highly instructive to see how
the truth is revived continually, and re-stated more or
less adequately. For example, Mr. Herbert Spencer
has been testifying, in the Contemporary Review,* as to
its importance for whoever would have a right under¬
standing of Sociology. “ Figures of speech,” he re¬
marks, “ very often mislead, by conveying the notion
of complete likeness where only distant analogy exists.
It is thus with the phrases ‘ body politic,’ ‘ political
organisation,’ and others which tacitly liken a society
to a living creature; they are assumed to be phases
having a certain convenience but expressing no fact—
tending rather to foster a fiction. And yet metaphors
are here more than metaphors in the ordinary sense.
They are devices of speech hit upon to suggest a truth
at first dimly perceived, but which grows clearer the
more carefully the evidence is examined. That there
is a real analogy between an individual organism and
a social organism becomes undeniable when certain
necessities determining structure are seen to govern
them in common.” He then proceeds to show how, as
protoplasm is simple, so savagery is simple; and that,
as protoplasm becomes organism, it is—as Milne-
Edwards demonstrates, by “ the physiological division
of labour ”—even so savagery advances to civilisation
as “ different groups of members devote themselves to
different industries for which they acquire special
aptitudes, and surround themselves with special facili¬
ties ”—that, in a word, society is an evolution from the
individual, is the faculties of the individual distributed
and specially developed, or, in Swedenborg’s phrase,
reconstituted as .grander man. With all his wide
reading, the probability is that Swedenborg is unknown
to Mr. Spencer, and it is, therefore, the more gratifying
to have the doctrine of the humanity of society fortified
with his authority.
But to return. If we see and admit that what we
call a bad man is a fraction of human nature out of
subordination, we are prepared to see and admit that if
brought into subordination he will cease to be a bad
man—mark, I do not say a heavenly. For as there is
no propensity in any creature which in itself is evil or
mischievous, but useful when under proper regimen, so
we may reasonably argue that even the worst man,
who may be described as little else than a couple of
lusts, may be turned to excellent account if only he is
rightly placed and controlled in communal man as
similar lusts are placed and controlled in the brain of
the best man. In fine, what I assert is, that for
& thieves, murderers, adnlterers, liars and such like ”
nothing is requisite save government to convert their
offensiveness to usefulness—government not arbitrary
but reasonable, vigorous and inflexible, but ordered by
a consummate acquaintance with the nature of its
subjects.
Let us take a case. A thief commits murder, is
hanged, and is ushered into the other world. He is
received there, says Swedenborg, by such angels as
have a gift for the discovery of character. “ They look
into his face, and extend their examination over his
whole body, beginning with the fingers of each hand.
* August, 1873. The Study of Sociology, p, 327.
374
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 1, 1873.
I was surprised at this, and the reason was thus ex¬
plained to me—
“ Every volition and thought of man is inscribed on
his brain; for volition and thought have their begin¬
nings in the brain, whence they are conveyed to the
bodily members wherein they terminate. Whatever,
therefore, is in the mind is in the brain, and from
the brain in the body, according to the order of its
parts. Thus a man writes his life in his physique,
and thus the angels discover his autobiography in his
structure.”
Some may smile at the matter-of-fact recital, but
what, I ask, can be more reasonable and credible, if we
admit the reality of existence hereafter ? The thief is
thus estimated and understood, and the verdict may be,
“ Here we have a creature whose ruling forces are
acquisitive and destructive/’ what is to be done with
him? Why, what does the best man do with Ms
acquisitive and destructive propensities ? does he at¬
tempt to crush or annihilate them ? Surely not. He
subordinates them to his higher faculties, beneficent
and conservative. Then let the same be done with
this homicidal thief, this fraction of humanity. Let
him go to his place in the acquisitive and destructive
faculties of the Grand .Man, but which in the Grand
Man, as in the best man, are kept in harness, withheld
from all excess, and bound to the implicit service of
supreme benevolence.
“ It is well that you have another world for such
romance,” observes a reader, “ For my part, I prefer
to argue from present experience of human nature.”
Is not that precisely what I am doing ? To revert
to Swedenborg, he shows us how in this world the
lower faculties of human nature are subjected to social
welfare, and in that respect the future life is merely
the perfection of the present- To the inquiry why the
Divine Providence permits the wicked to acquire riches
and honour, he replies—
“ The fact is, they can be as useful as the good, yea
more useful, for they see themselves in their work, and
according 1o the heat of their lust, so is their activity.
The Lord rules the wicked who are dignitaries by their
passion for fame, and excites them thereby to serve the
Church, their nation, city, or community, for the Lord’s
Kingdom is a kingdom of uses, and where there are
only a few who are ready to be useful for the sake of
usefulness, He causes self-seekers to be advanced to
offices of eminence, wherein they gratify their propensi¬
ties in the public service.
“ Suppose there was an infernal kingdom on earth
(there is not) in which self-love, which is the devil, had
perfect sway, would not every member do his duty with
greater vigour than in any other kingdom ? All would
have in their mouths the public good, and in their
hearts nothing but their own good.
“ Inquire everywhere, and see how many at this day
are governed by aught else than the loves of self and
the world. You will scarcely find fifty in a thousand
who are moved by the love of God, and of these fifty
only a few who care for distinction. Since, then, there
are so few who are ruled by the love of God, and so
many by the love of self, and since infernal love is
more productive of uses than heavenly love, why should
any one confirm himself against Divine Providence be¬
cause the wicked are in greater opulence and eminence
than the good ? 1
“ To me,” rejoins the reader, “ such discourse is the
very ecstasy of cynicism. Are the majority of us indeed
self-seeking devils, whose rage God uses to drive His
mill ? ”
Graphic is the observation, but unfair as graphic.
What we have to deal with is facts, and if the facts are
so, it is idle to get Byronic over them. It seems to me
that if creatures are satisfied with their life, and have
full play for all their faculties, the goodness and wisdom
of their Creator is vindicated in them. If devils drive
God’s mill, and are delighted in driving it, what more
can we ask ? “ It is manifest,” says sagacious Bishop
Butler, “ that nothing can be of consequence to man¬
kind, or any creature, but happiness.” It is a common
fallacy to ascribe apathy or misery to those who do not
share our enjoyments. The student is a mystery to the
athlete, and the ascetic to the voluptuary; and it is only
by a mental wrench that an enthusiastic soul can be
brought to confess that the pleasures of a mole are
probably every whit as intense as those of a skylark.
Yet whilst arguing from the order of this world to that
of the other, we have again to repeat that the order here
is rough and provisional, and mingled with disorder, is
a modified anarchy. The prime condition of true
order is beyond us, namely, an accurate knowledge of
materials. We do not know what each man is, nor
what he is fit for—few of us, indeed, know ourselves,
and much less others; and without such knowledge
what sort of social organisation is possible ? Then, too,
we lack the condition of permanence. If the right
man did get into the right place, the appointment
would be transitory. An Oliver Cromwell may reclaim
a nation for a season, but Cromwell dies, and the
nation returns to wallow in the mire with a gusto
begotten of abstinence. Then, too, there is lacking
the power, as well as the discrimination, to inflict the
pains and penalties requisite to maintain and enforce
right order—and, heretical as it may seem, I question
whether even the Kingdom of Heaven could hold
together without pains and penalties. It is only under
the stimulus of hunger and cold that the populations
of the temperate zone are held to that labour which
confers civilisation, and it needs little argument to
prove that, if good warmth and shelter could be had
gratis, the mass of Europeans would glide through
idleness and self-indulgence’ to destruction. But in
these respects—of consummate knowledge, permanence,
and discipline—the other world may be expected to
exhibit perfection. By the nature of the case, the order
of this world is bound to be, and to remain, of a rough
and ready description. It is our duty to pray and to
strive that God’s will be done as in heaven, and His
will is fulfilled in the prayer and the strife.. This world
is a place of birth, and not of abode—of experiment,
and not of fruition; and the neglect, disappointment,
and injustice we experience are preparatives for the
omnipotent equity of the life to come—an equity
enforced not so much from without as from within,
even as by the influence which transforms and conveys
the contents of the stomach to brain or skin, eye or
ear, heart or hand. As Swedenborg testifies, “ The
Lord compels no one, nor urges any against his will,
as a man drives an ox with a whip; but He draws him
that is willing, and afterwards leads him continually,
and with such gentleness that it seems as if he moved
of himself.”
And again, “ The operation of the Divine Providence
in saving man commences with his birth, continues to
his death, and is prosecuted to eternity. The Lord sees
what man is, foresees what he desires to be, conse-
THE SPIKITUALIST.
375
Nov. 1, 1873.
quently what he will he, and therefore provides places
for the wicked in hell and for the good in heaven.
Unless He did so, neither heaven nor hell could subsist
—they would lapse into chaos.”
I wonder whether I have made myself understood.
My thesis is, that men and women only require to he
organised in the human form to he useful and happy;
and that all types of character have place and scope in
that form, however vicious or insignificant, inasmuch
as no man or woman, however vicious or insignificant,
is anything hut a fragment of humanity, and is only
offensive, or mischievous, or miserable because out of
place, unemployed, and masterless.
Says my friend, “ I understand you perfectly, and
consider your doctrine exceedingly dangerous. It seems
to me that you give a license to all iniquity. We may
do as we like, and all will come right whether our lot
he hell or heaven.”
It is obvious that I am not understood, hut I must
reserve explanation for another occasion.
THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD.
The Banner of Light, of September 20th, announces that
the name of the medium through whom The Mystery of Edwin
Brood is in course of completion, is James. The Boston Post
of September 11th, 1873, says of him :—
In regard to the “ medium ” who is exciting such general
interest, the descriptions of his character, that have been floating
about through the papers, seem somewhat unjust to those who
have known bim here. He certainly has exhibited none of
the shrewd, sharp qualities of the adventurer, but has simply
appeared a hard-working, commonplace person, who would
never excite remark or attention, were it not for the peculiar
circumstances which have brought him so prominently before
the world. Ever since coming to Brattleboro’ he has been
engaged as foreman in the printing office of the Vermont
Beoord and Farmer, and Mr. Cobleigh, the editor, speaks in
the highest terms of his fidelity, his attention to business, and
his peculiar fitness for the place. During all the time in
which he has been engaged in this other work, he has still
attended to his duties in the office until a short time since. He
was a regular attendant at the Episcopal Church, and entirely
sceptical regarding Spiritualism and spiritual manifestations,
and no one was more surprised than he when it was discovered
that he possessed remarkable mediumistic powers. A little time
after coming to this village, he moved into a house which was
owned and partially occupied by a widow lady, well known in
town as one of the prominent Spiritualists in this portion of
the State. Circles were frequently held in her parlours, and
about a year ago Mr. James was induced to attend one of
them. The manifestations were more wonderful than usual,
and the new power was traced to him. He was compara¬
tively a stranger to nearly all present, and yet he wrote the
most astonishing communications to several in the circle,
signing them with names of persons dead years before he ever
came to Brattleboro’. After this he became a constant at¬
tendant at the seances, and it was at one of these that he
received a message asking him to sit alone in his room on a
certain evening, which was named, the message being signed
Charles Dickens.
A few weeks since, Mr. James quietly left town, and for
awhile another mystery was added to that which was already
most mysterious. “ Cleared out,” said the triumphant scep¬
tics ; “ cheated us all he could, and left.” But both mystery
and triumph were of short duration. It was soon announced
by the initiated and interested, that, in place of running
away in disgrace, Mr. James had gone to a neighbouring
town in order to finish his work, which is very near comple¬
tion, in quiet. During the latter part of his stay in Brattle-
boro’, he was subjected to such constant interruption and
annoyance that he was almost entirely unable to work ; and
this mysterious power by which he seems controlled bade him
go away, and signified the place where he was to go. The book
is nearly finished now—so, at least, those say who profess to
know about it; and after its completion, nothing remains to
do but prepare it for press and find a publisher. * * Those
who know the medium all agree that he could not do this
work unaided, even if he were ever so close a student of
Dickens. In the first place, he has not the power, and if he
had, he has not the education sufficient for the purpose.
Whatever it is, it surely must come from a power outside him¬
self. Even those who are the most sceptical are acknowledg¬
ing that.”
Charles Dickens, in the first part of Edwin Brood, makes
that magnificent egotist, Sapsea, write the following epitaph
over his late wife, Ethelinda:—
“ ETHELINDA,
Reverential Wife of
MR. THOMAB SAPSEA,
Auctioneer, Valuer, Estate Agent, &c.,
oe THIS CITY.
Whose Knowledge of the World,
Though somewhat extensive,
Never brought him acquainted with
A SPIRIT
More capable of
LOOKING UP TO HIM.
Stranger, Pause
And ask thyself the Question,
CANST THOU DO LIKEWISE ?
If Not,
WITH A BLUSH RETIRE.”
In the professed new portion of Edwin Brood, as given
through the hand of the medium, Mr. Sapsea tries his hand
at writing his own epitaph in advance, as follows :—
“HERE LIES
HON. THOMAS SAPSEA,
The possessor, while living, of
An Enlarged Mind,
Which comprehended all things
At a Glance.
Notwithstanding that Nature had bestowed
Upon him
GIFTS
Which few persons are allowed to possess,
He was not unmindful of the
Ignorance of his fellow-men, and
Strove to impress them at all times
With the
Powerful Mental Resources
Of his Nature.
The Almighty will appreciate the entrance
To Heaven of such
A Mind,
In that it will be so much easier to
Govern the Planetary System
Than before.
STRANGER,
PRAY THAT ONE SUCH MIND MAY EXIST
DURING EACH SUCCESSIVE AGE,”
The latest news to hand about this remarkable book, is con¬
tained in the following statement, published in the Banner of
Light, of October 4th last:—
The book will contain forty-three chapters (embracing that
portion of it which was written prior to the decease of the
great author), making one complete volume of about six
hundred pages, in handsome cloth binding, and will be issued
from the well-known press of Clark W. Bryan and Co., Spring-
field, which is a sufficient guarantee of the superior excellence
of its typography. -
Colby and Rich will offer the volume for sale—price two
dollars per copy, postage free—at their Bookstore, No. 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, on or about the 15th of October.
Winter Spiritual Meetings.—Mr. Enmore Jones has
sent us the following on a post-card :—“ Spiritual Institute of
England. Commenced 17th September, 1873. J. Enmore
Jones, Esq., President, Enmore-park, S.E. ; Henry Bielfeld,
Esq., Hon. Secretary, Euston-road. Public meetings will be
held in all the metropolitan postal districts. For those meet¬
ings, fifteen of the gentlemen who co-operate have consented
to officiate as speakers. The Spiritualist Institute of England
has been created by Christian Spiritualists, but denominational
theological tenets are rigorously excluded. The Institute is tp
spread correct information on a subject at present puzzling
the minds of many persons.
376
THE SPIRITUALIST.
"WEEKLY PUBLICATION OP “ THE SPIRITUALIST.”
' The next number of TJie Spiritualist will be issued
on Priday, November 14th, which will be one day
earlier than usual. It will afterwards be issued weekly,
coming out regularly every Priday.
The price will be reduced to Threepence.
Liberal subscriptions in aid of this step have already
been guaranteed by many friends of Spiritualism, and
a list will be published in our next.
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP SPIRITUALISTS.
In pursuance of the resolution agreed to at the recent Con¬
ference held at Liverpool, to form a National Association of
Spiritualists, a general meeting of those gentlemen who had
been invited to act upon the Council was held at 145, Gower-
street, London, W.C., on Monday evening, the 20th October,
under the presidency of Mr. Thos. Everitt. The attendance
was encouraging, and the Liverpool Spiritualists were well
represented.
In opening the business, Mr. Everitt read the following
address:—
“ Dear Friends,—I have to thank you for the ready
response you have given to the circular inviting you to act
upon this Council, and to congratulate you upon the success
which has attended our efforts and upon the unanimous counte-
ance of Spiritualists all over the country given to this Associa¬
tion. At the Conference at Liverpool this Association was
felt to be a national want. All the great towns and principal
spiritual societies of the kingdom were represented by deputa¬
tion or otherwise on that occasion ; moreover, many of the
letters read at the Conference, from well-known workers in
Spiritualism, were in favour of national united action.
Let us, as the executive of the National Association, ever bear
in mind that theological differences have hitherto prevented
permanent organisation among Spiritualists both in America
and England, and the unanimous opinion expressed at the
Liverpool Conference was that the Council should, as far as
practicable, be constituted of influential Spiritualists, who
wish to work together, and who can yield personal desires,
whenever it is necessary to do so, for the general good of the
cause. Common sense teaches us that this idea is right in prin¬
ciple, and let us strive to act up to a principle which is un¬
doubtedly right, thereby also meeting the wants of the general
body of Spiritualists in this country.
Persons of orthodox and unorthodox views should be pretty
evenly balanced on the Council, which should as much as
possible confine itself to business work, and not interfere with
theological questions.
The President should, I think, be a gentleman with no great
bias either way, and the vice-presidents should as much as
possible fairly represent different phases of religious opinion
among Spiritualists.
We shall also have to appoint an honorary secretary. I
think the feeling will be unanimous that Mr. T. Blyton should
be requested to act as assistant secretary. He is well up in
this kind of work, he has rendered me valuable help, and
everybody knows what important and disinterested aid he has
given to the Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spirit¬
ualism.
These are merely suggestions ; they are made in no dicta¬
torial spirit, but because it was necessary that something defi¬
nite should be prepared for your consideration this evening.
In this work I have been aided by Mr. T. Blyton, who will
submit for your consideration a code of laws as abasis, from which
you will, wehope,forma wiseconstitution. Imay also statethat
the Conference at Liverpool thought it would be for the good of
the movement that the head-quarters of the Association should
be in London, and the desire was expressed that London
Spiritualists should co-operate heartily in this matter with
their brethren in the provinces. I was requested, as president
of the Conference and as a London Spiritualist, to call to¬
gether in the metropolis those friends who had been invited
by vote to act upon the Council, and was asked to make known
to you the unanimous opinion of British Spiritualists as ex¬
pressed through their many representatives at the National
Conference, that a general organisation should be formed at
the present time. Shoulder to shoulder we are strong; dis¬
united we are weak ; banded together in one common cause
we are powerful.
Uov. 1, 1873.
I have now performed the duty which devolved upon me,
and have done so to the best of my ability, after giving
much time and attention to the matter, being alive to
the necessity of having a national organisation. From
private letters received, and from many other sources of in¬
formation, I am fully aware of the public interest felt in
our undertaking, and know full well that our work is
of a jvery responsible character. Having executed the
pleasant task which devolved upon me, henceforth your
officers will take the management, and I hope that we, as a
body, shall so conduct all our transactions as to command
the respect, not only of Spiritualists, but of the nation at
large, whereby we shall be able to exert an influence for good
over both the public an the press, to an extent never before
witnessed in connection with Spiritualism, and impossible in
the absence of united action.
As we have much business before us this evening—more,
perhaps, than we can get through at one sitting—I respectfully
suggest that all discussions shall be brief and to the point.” ^
The secretary pro tem, Mr. Thos. Blyton, announced that
the following persons had already accepted the invitation to
assist in forming a Council, viz.: Mr. Thos. Everitt, Mr. J.
M. Gully, M.D., Messrs. A. C. Swinton, A. Leigh, J. Dims-
dale, Dr. G. B. Clark, Messrs. J. Shepherd, N. F. Dawe, M.
Theobald, T. Harper, E. D. Rogers, J. Lament, J. Thornton
Hoskins (of the Reform Club), John Chapman, Mr. Stanhope
Templeman Speer, M.D., Mrs. Speer, Messrs. J. Lament, C. W.
Pearce, and Mr. Robert Theobald, M.D. Replies from other
friends were expected. The meeting resolved itself into a
committee to discuss the constitution and regulations for the
government of the Association. Upon the motion that the
name of the Association be the “ National Spiritualists’ Asso¬
ciation,” an animated discussion arose. It was contended that
whilst English Spiritualists/residing in the United Kingdom,
would know the Association ito be an English one, residents in
foreign countries would be misled by the title into supposing
the Association to be indigenous to the country in which they
resided. Eventually it was agreed to adopt the title, National
Association of Spiritualists; it being understood that upon
the constitution being brought up for final settlement, the
word “ British ” would be proposed to be substituted for
“ National.”'
The next three sections, referring to the objects or the
Association, classes of members, the number and composition
of the council, and the names of the officers, were provi¬
sionally agreed to. The “ object ” of the association was to
assist in the development and promulgation of Spiritualism.
A definition of Spiritualism was asked for by one of the com¬
mittee, which led to a discussion, ultimating in the unanimous
conclusion that it was beyond the power of the association,
as an Association to do more towards the definition than to
state the fact of demonstrable open communion between the
inhabitants of the spiritual and natural worlds.
The number of the members of the Council was not deter¬
mined. Thirty was mentioned, but the words, “ With power
to add to their number,” were |inserted with a view to the
maturing a suggestion for the judicious enlargement of the
same without impairing its executive efficiency. The com¬
mittee then adjourned to Thursday, 23rd inst.
On that evening there was a full attendance of the com¬
mittee, and the remainder of the regulations provisionally
agreed to. It was ordered that they should be printed, and
placed in the hands of the committee a few days before its
next meeting, when they will be settled provisionally, and
their adoption recommended to the'Council.
The election of officers was deferred, the committee being
generally of opinion that they would best serve the interests
of the association by simply recommending to the full Council
the names of suitable gentlemen from whom the Council
would make a selection.
Dr. Hugh McLeod’s recent lecture to the St. John’s
Association gave great satisfaction to the members, so he will
shortly be invited to deliver another to them.
Judge Edmonds.—The Religio-Philosophical Journal
(Chicago), of October 18th, says of the English testimonial to
Judge Edmonds, which Mr. Coleman is getting up:—” We are
always glad to know that prominent Spiritualists are being
appreciated. No one stands higher in the estimation of the
people than Judge Edmonds of New York, He is one of the
pioneer labourers, and is universally esteemed. The following,
which we clip from the London Spiritualist, should strike a
responsive chord in the hearts of the people of this country. ”,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
S77
Nov. 1, 1873.
SPIRITUALISM IN FINSBURY.
Last Thursday night there was a discussion at South-place
Chapel, Finsbury, E.C., on the subject of Spiritualism. Mr.
H. K. Moor occupied the chair.
The Rev. Guy Bryan opened the proceedings by reading a
paper consisting chiefly of speculations as to the nature of
the Deity, which ideas, he asserted, were entertained by
Spiritualists.
Mr. Owen said that he had been a Spiritualist for thirty-
nine years, and in 1852 had had seances with Miss Kate Fox
in New York. Once he was at a seance where Professor Mapes,
the American agricultural chemist, held a conversation with
some men of his, who had been killed a short time previously
by a gunpowder explosion. Once the spirits, without his
own volition, had moved his hand to knock down Professor
Anderson on his own platform. (Laughter.)
Mr. Moncure D. Conway saivd that he had heard all Mr.
Bryan’s theories before. His heaven was only the old ortho¬
dox heaven with the hell-fire taken out of it, and everything
left in a nice, easy, sugar-candy condition. But was it true ?
Mr. Bryan had not gone into the question of the reasonable¬
ness of spirits returning to interfere in the affairs of this
world, and there was nothing anywhere in nature analagous
to the rapping on tables by immaterial beings. He had an
a priori difficulty in accepting Mr. Bryan’s views. Once he
was called by the audience to go upon the platform to tie one
of the Davenport Brothers, which he did very securely, but
was not allowed to examine the tying of the other ‘ ‘ brother,”
which was done by somebody else from the audience, who
professed not to know the brothers, but who he thought was a
confederate. As they did not examine each others tying, it
vitiated everything which took place. He believed that the
performance was essentially fraud and humbug from begin¬
ning to end. He had paid much attention to Spiritualism,
and tried to deal with it in a scientific spirit; he regretted
that scientific men had not applied themselves to the subject.
Men'of science were a little too indifferent to what was passing
among the vast masses of people around them. He had tried
since 1853, and had not been able to hear good intelligent
raps, and had never seen anything. Forster, who was said to
be a very good medium, passed two evenings at his house, and
tried to do something wonderful, but did not. He had spent
many delightful evenings with Andrew Jackson Davis ; he
was a very pleasing, intelligent man, but he never saw any¬
thing supernatural about him. He could not see the slightest
ground for belief in Spiritualism, and he said this after
twenty years experience in following up the subject.
Mr. Stephens quoted the verdict of the Dialectical Society,
and of various scientific men who had inquired into Spiri¬
tualism, and he opposed their experience to that of Mr. Conway.
He added that once he was 120 miles from home; spirit raps
told him to return at once, or he would never see his child
again alive; he delayed for two days, and when he returned
the child was dead.
Mr. Emden admitted the reality of the phenomena, but
argued that they did not originate with spirits.
Mr. T. Shorter stated his experiences, and said a great deal
about spirit photographs.
Mr. George Dixon wanted to know whether spirit photo¬
graphy was a fraud, and whether tricksters had ever been
exposed.
Mr. Stephens said that for a time it was supposed to be
imposture, but when persons recognised the portraits of their
deceased friends, it proved all the pictures not to be due to
trickery. (“ Oh 1”)
Mr. E. Moor did not believe that the phenomena originated
with spirits.
Mr. Thomson had a a lingering grudge against the whole
subject, and believed the estimated fourteen millions of
Spiritualists in America to be all fools.
Mr. Clark once went with his father to a seance in
Southampton-row. A medium there, an American lady,
told him that his father was dead, that he had set a house on
fire, and was otherwise an unpleasant character. He told the
medium to ask his father, who sat by his left hand side,
whether her statements were true. (Laughter.)
Mr. Shorter said that inquirers should not go to paid
mediums at all, for they had plenty of mediums in their own
families; they should form circles at home.
Ultimately, on the motion of Mr. Grant, and after a
division, the debate was adjourned for a fortnight.
As there are some thinking men connected with South-
place Chapel, the place of the ministrations of the late Mr.
J. W. Fox, perhaps it might be well if a few representative
Spiritualists would take the trouble to attend the next meet¬
ing, to help to give information on the subject, and to throw'
a little more life into the debate.
Mrs. Tappan will shortly lecture at Stratford on
Spiritualism.
Mr. Morse will give an inspirational address to-morrow
at the Assembly Rooms, Islington, Liverpool.
Letters on the subject of the National Association may
be addressed to Mr. T. Everitt, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill,
Hendon, N.W.
Sir Henry Holland, Bart., M.D., President of the
Royal Institution, died last Monday, in the eighty-sixth year
of his age, directly after his return from a tour in Russia.
Mr. C. F. Yarlet, F.R.S., who is in Geneva, expressed
himself to us before he left London, as greatly in favour of a
national organisation of Spiritualists at the present time, and
it is very probable that he will work on the National Associa¬
tion, after its prospectus and constitution are fully before the
public for consideration.
Attempts have been made by Mr. Burns, the spiri¬
tual bookseller, to sow dissension and prevent united action
among Spiritualists, by publishing statements that a National
Association of Spiritualists would oppose him in his business,
thus expressing his idea of what the national feeling is about
himself. But the rumours have no foundation. The National
Association, so far as we know, has not the slightest idea of
opening a bookshop, or of interfering with any trade interests.
We believe that English Spiritualists, as an organised and
efficient body, are incapable of injuring any private individual.
M. Aksaeop.—M. Alexandre Aksakof, of St. Peters-
burgh, leaves England to-morrow for Paris. Facilities have
been given him during his stay for witnessing the manifesta¬
tions which occur in the presence of private media, and we
hope that before long he will receive some national recognition
from English Spiritualists because of the work he has done on
the Continent. The temporary absence of organisation de¬
prives English and London Spiritualists of the power of con¬
certed action on short notice. Last night M. Aksakof was at
a seance at Mr. Everitt’s.
Dalston Association oe Inquirers into Spiritual¬
ism.—The rooms of this Association were crowded last Thurs¬
day evening, when a special seance with Mr. James J. Morse,
trance-medium, was held. Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, the pre¬
sident, occupied the chair. At the close of the opening
hymn, the medium rose and delivered a most beautiful invo¬
cation, followed by a discourse upon the “ Psychology of
Idolatry.” Mr. J. C. Luxmoore expressed his pleasure at the
intelligent discourses which he had heard, and which would
be food for'after-thought. Among those present were Mrs.
and two Miss Corner’s, Misses Florence E. and Kate Cook,
Mrs. Cresswell, Mrs. George and Mrs. Thomas Blyton, the
two Miss Eagles, Messrs. Wilks, Tredwen, Greene, Gittins,
Cattley, Oxley (from Manchester), Tapp, and Hartley.
Spiritual Anthropology.—At a recent meeting of the
Liverpool Anthropological Society, Dr. William Hitchman
concluded a speech on the “ Spiritual Nature of Man ” in the
following terms :—“ As science, thus tested, is expanding our
knowledge of true spiritual phenomena, we find that man’s
aspirations on earth for the beautiful and the good are really
born of heaven itself. Its fruits, when duly appreciated,
therefore, cannot but be of the nature of practical righteous¬
ness and more godly lives, springing from a conviction of
religion in the heart—a demonstrative truth of modern
Spiritualism which no enemy of its progress can triumphantly
assault. Onward ever is its motto — humanity upraised
throughout the world from an existing vortex of vice, crime,
drunkenness, disease, and death; the Slough of Despond
transformed into a haven of peace ; since man now learns,
from the positive experimental testimony I have here placed
before you (and that, too, by an intelligence from that bourne
whence, it is said, no traveller returns), that he is himself the
creator of his own spiritual sphere, whether for weal or for
woe. And England, thus adorned with a new jewel in her
crown, and graced with a rising generation of minds,
brilliantly illuminated with a purer science, her children clad
in garments of a more angelic and blessed light, shall point
to the gorgeous horizon that now binds our view, as to the
advent of a Paradise Regained, whilst already she ushers in
the dawn of a glorious day, when, prizing Spiritualism as her
noblest wealth and best protection, Albion, dear Albion, shall
teach aUegiance to the voice of God, and her subjects shall
obey.”
378
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 1, 1873.
THE TESTIMONIAL TO JUDGE EDMONDS.
The following letter contains more information about
the proposed graceful little testimonial to Judge Ed¬
monds, of New York. If the friends who desire to aid
in the work would write to him, after seeing this
notice, it would save him the trouble of much letter¬
writing :—
To the Editor of the “ Spiritualist.”
SlE,—Be good enough to allow me to intimate to your
readers that the following gentlemen, whose names comprise
most of the oldest converts to Spiritualism in England, will
sign the address which it is intended to present to the Hon.
Judge Edmonds, of New York, on behalf of the Spiritualists
generally of the United Kingdom. The address, which will
be written on parchment, and handsomely illuminated and
framed, will be accompanied by a copy of each of the best
books on Spiritualism which have been written and published
in this country, uniformly bound; and also an album, con¬
taining the photographic likenesses of every contributor to
the testimonial, for which purpose I beg to be favoured,
without delay, with their respective photographs.
Benjamin Coleman.
1, Bernard Villas, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Oct. 25th, 1873.
NAMES OF THE COMMITTEE.
William Howitt.
William M. Wilkinson.
Samuel Carter Hall.
Thomas Shorter.
Andrew Leighton.
Henry Bielfield.
William White.
Thomas Slater.
Thomas J. Allman.
James Manby Gully, M.D.
William Tebb.
John Enmore Jones.
James Wason.
Henry A. Fawcett, R.N.
Charles Blackburn.
Samuel Chinneiy.
A. B. Tietkens.
Benjamin Coleman.
MRS. EMMA HARDINGE BRITTEN.
The Banner of Light (Boston, U. S.), of October 4th, con¬
tains the following notice of Mrs. Britten, who is so well
known to English Spiritualists. The assertions in the notice,
regarded from an orthodox physiological point of view, are
extraordinary enough :—
“ Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten and husband have been
giving lately, on. Tuesday evenings, at their home, 155, West
Brookline-street, Boston, demonstrations to private assemblies
of invited guests and friends of the remarkable power of this
new system, the discovery of Dr. Elizabeth J. French, of
Philadelphia, which claims, by the use of the galvanic battery,
to find on the brain a complete chart of the organs of the
body, and to be able to discover disease without resorting to
physical examination or questioning in regard to symptoms.
Mrs. Britten has been a pupil of Dr. French, and evinces the
greatest aptitude in the following out of the system. On
numerous occasions persons entire strangers to the operator
have been astonished to a great degree by the revelations of
their physical and nervo-vital conditions made by her.
The mode of operations is as follows :—The subject is
seated beside a table, on which is arranged the battery, and
one of the poles is placed between his (or her) palms, Mrs.
Britten retaining the other. The forehead and hair of the
patient being slightly moistened, also the fingers of the
manipulator, Mrs. Britten presses with her unoccupied hand
lightly on the forehead of the subject, and inquires concerning
the exact sensation which follows her touch, and from the
description of the feelings superinduced upon each brain
organ by the electric current under these circumstances—
whether it be one of dull heaviness, soreness, sharp, quick
pain, or only that of the magnetic shock—the operator is able
to locate the seat of the disease, and to trace its ramifications
in the system. The patient is then taken into a private room,
and listens to the result of the operation as stated by Mrs.
Britten. In all cases thus far the person so examined has
been perfectly astonished to find his (or her) symptoms so
accurately described, and has borne willing testimony to that
effect to the company on returning to their presence. As
a cure or relief for disease, Mrs. Britten uses the French
system of electricity, and also the electric vapour baths. She
uses no medicines, claiming that drugs engender disease in
the system. The treatment is simple, and although she has
been practising but a short time on this new plan, she has
effected some astonishing cures. Persons affected with disease
in any of its varied forms will find in the system practised by
Dr. and Mrs. Britten an agreeable form of relief.”
MR. MORSE’S ANNIYERSARY SOIREE.
Last Wednesday the anniversary soiree of Mr. J. J. Morse,
trance medium, was held at the Cavendish Booms, Mortimer-
street, Eegent-street, London. Mr. Morse being very popular,
and the meeting being convened by Mr. and Mrs. Maltby,
there was a large attendance. Refreshments were served from
6.30 to 7.30 p.m., and at 8 o’clock the proceedings began,
Mr. James Burns said that it was the desire of the spirit
guides of Mr. Morse that he should preside on the occasion, but
as information had reached him that his occupancy of the chair
would be objectionable to some of the persons present, he rose
for the purpose of saying that he intended to retire.
This announcement was followed by a blank silence for
about a minute, when
Mr. Thomas Shorter said that it was exceedingly desirable
that at friendly meetings of that kind, a chairman should be
elected about whom they could all agree. So, without intend¬
ing any disrespect to the speaker who had just stated that he
would not occupy the chair, he would propose that Mr. Robert
Cooper, of Eastbourne, should preside.
A gentleman rose and seconded this.
■Somebody rose and moved an amendment that Mr. Burns
be invited to occupy the chair, which was also seconded.
Votes were then taken by the raising of hands, and Mr.
Shorter declared Mr. Cooper invited to act.
A speaker said, “ No. I think the majority is the other
way.”
Mr. Shorter then asked those in favour of Mr. Burns to raise
their hands again, after which he declared Mr. Burns invited
to preside.
Mr. Burns then rose and accepted the divided invitation.
All this scarcely occupied a minute. The great majority of
those present did not vote at all. The show of hands was
pretty equal on both sides, and there was no time to count,
but, we think, that the majority was in favour of Mr. Burns,
as Mr. Shorter finally decided.
The Chairman then made a few general remarks, after
which the Misses Maltby played‘an overture, “ Semiramide,”
with good effect; this was followed by a song by Miss Clark,
who has a good voice and sang excellently, but was rather
nervous.
Mr. Enmore Jones, who was invited to address the meeting
in the absence of Mr. Monck, said that the proceedings began
in a storm which was followed by a calm. He had been to
one or two of Mr. Morse’s seances, but in the matter of their
teachings Mr. Morse’s spirit guides, and his (Mr. Jones’s)
spirit guides, did not quite hit it. (Laughter.) But Mr.
Morse meant right, and he (Mr. Jones) meant right, and the
spirits meant right. His principal reason for attending that
meeting was that he heard that Mr. Morse had become a
teetotaller, upon which account he desired to speak well of
him. Mediums were much thrust into society, and had in
some cases been induced to drink for the purpose of strength¬
ening the manifestations. Some of them had fallen into the
mire in consequence.* He wished to see dark seances abol¬
ished. They were a blight to the cause. (No, no.) Since
1855 he had had experience on the subject, and he had a right
to utter his opinion. (Hear, hear.) He simply stated his
experience. He had seen all the manifestations he cared for
in the light, and Spiritualists ought to be children of the light.
Let the drummers of the army of Spiritualism march in the
front with their physical phenomena, and their work would
afterwards induce people to listen to addresses on subjects
such as were considered by their friend Morse. (Applause.)
Mdme. Schneegans then sang, “ She wandered down the
mountain side.” The song was given with her usual pro¬
fessional ability.
Mr. Thomas Shorter said that meetings like the present
tended to bring people together, to soften asperities, and to
make them feel more kindly one to another. Mr. Morse was
one of the most active and useful workers in the cause of
Spiritualism, and was acknowledged to be the best of the
English trance speakers. He did not quite agree with all
that his friend Mr. Jones said about dark seances, and thought
it was no more desirable to interfere with the opinion of
* It is a fact that stimulants taken in moderation by a physical medium
before a seance begins, usually if not always strengthen the manifestations,
but it is a practice which never should be adopted.—Ed.
Nov. 1, 1873.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
379
others on such subjects, than it was to interfere with their
household arrangements. He had recently been at a dark
seance where fruits, flowers, and all kinds of things, had been
brought at request, and a wreath placed on his own head ; a
spirit form was also seen, and it frightened some of the
ladies ; it was a pretty considerable manifestation of psychic
force. He was at a seance with Serjeant Cox about a week
before, and full particulars of what occurred would be printed
in the next number of the Spiritual Magazine.
Miss B. Maltby then sang “ Wild Flower,” and was loudly
applauded.
Mrs. Maltby then presented a' testimonial to Mr. Morse in
the shape of a purse containing the proceeds of the meeting,
£14.
Mr. J. J. Morse, in returning thanks, said that his feelings
overpowered him. A fiasco had occurred at the beginning of
the meeting which he was sorry for, but he had only done
what his spirit friends desired him to do. His spirit friends
desired either Mr. Peebles or Mr. Burns to preside at that
meeting, and Mr.-Peebles would have presided but he was
then on the Atlantic on his way home to America. Six
months after he (Mr. Morse) became a Spiritualist, he called
at 15, Southampton-row, where he met Mr. Peebles, who in¬
terceded on his behalf with Mr. Burns to give him employ¬
ment. He was a medium, undeveloped at the time, and unfit
to.take care of himself or anybody else; Mr. Burns gave him
employment, put the bread of life into his lips, and made him
a living man again, and he had often thought what might
have happened had Mr. Burns not done so. Although he was
pleased to see him on the platform, he was not unmindful of
his other friends, to whom also he tendered his thanks. He
wished to return thanks for the mark of appreciation which
had just been handed to him, and to his friends, Mr. and Mrs.
Maltby, who alone had anything to do with getting up the
soiree ; and thanks also to his spirit friends. He loved those
two spirits who usually controlled him, better than he loved
any friends on earth; they were good and true; they had
beautified him internally as well as externally. (Laughter.)
They never spoke to him with authority, but reasoned kindly
with him, and their advice was always based on reason,
morality and justice. He had addressed 174 meetings during
the past twelve months, and had travelled some thousands of
miles. He had to leave London on Saturday [to-day], and
was engaged up to next Christmas.
After an overture by the Misses Maltby, and a song by
Mdme. Soheenegans, Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan said that they
were assembled to do honour to a medium, and she would
give some advice to the friends of mediums. They should
sustain, support, and sympathise with mediums in the work
given them to do by the angel world; mediums were not
made of different flesh and blood from other mortals ; many
of them were feeble, had poor health, or were struggling with
poverty. In regard to what had been said about dark seances,
flowers held their dark seances in the ground, before they ex¬
hibited their faces to man. (Applause.) There was no more
danger in darkness than in the light, and some manifestations
positively could not be] given in the light; still, she did not
say that every form of mind should be invited to dark seances.
If some of the media were weak, as stated, and had fallen
into drinking habits, it was well to remember that somebody
first tempted them ; moreover, England was steeped in intem¬
perance ; every block of houses contained one house for the
sale of intoxicating liquors, and it was the duty of somebody
to remove temptation from the weak. Spiritualists should
leave off worshipping great names, and worship only truth ;
meetings like the present should be, not the exception, but
the rule, so that observers should say—“ Behold how these
brothers and sisters love one another.” The speaker then
turned to Mr. Morse, and uttered a short poem about him and
his work.
Colonel Greg then gave a selection on the pianoforte.
Mr. Morse then passed into the trance state, and his con¬
trolling spirit, Tien, returned thanks to Mrs. Maltby, for the
great pains she had taken in arranging and getting up the
soiree. He would like to say a few words about the chairman.
Had not the ministrations of the spirits been forwarded by
the assistance of the chairman, and carried on under his care
and guidance ? Surely such things ought to be remembered,
even by disembodied souls, they therefore returned to impress
the matter on the mind of their medium.
Another spirit, calling himself the “Strolling Player,”
then controlled the medium, and, after making a few comical
remarks, gave the following recitation, because,, he said, some
friends present had asked him to do so
Belshazzar is King! Belshazzar is Lord!
And a thousand dark nobles all bend at his board;
Fruits glisten, floors blossom, meats steam, and a flood
Of the "wine that man loveth runs redder than blood:
Wild dancers are there, and a riot of mirth;
And the beauty that maddens the passions of earth;
And the crowds all shoiit,
Till the vast roofs ring,—
“ All praise to Belshazzar, Belshazzar the king 1”
| Bring forth,” cries the monarch, “ the vessels of gold,
Which my father tore down from the temples of old;
Bring forth, and we’ll drink, while the trumpets are blown,
To the gods of bright silver, of gold, and of stone:
Bring forth 1 ”—and before him the vessels all shine,
And he bows unto Baal, as he drinks the dark wine;
Whilst the trumpets bray,
And the cymbals ring,—
“Praise, praise to Belshazzar,^Belshazzar the king! ”
What cometh ?—look, look! without menace or call!
Who writes, with the Lightning’s bright hand, on the wall ?
What pierceth the king, like the point of a dart ?
What drives the bold blood from his cheek to his heart ?
“Ohaldeans! Magicians! the letters expound 1”
They are read,—and Belshazzar is dead on the ground
Hark!—the Persian is come
On a conqueror’s wing ;
And a Mode’s on the throne of Belshazzar the king !*
The spirit added, “ Psychic force now wishes you a kind
farewell.” (Laughter.)
Mrs. Olive, in the trance state, controlled by a spirit who
called herself “ Sunshine,” and claimed to be a little Indian
girl, here presented Mr. Morse with a bunch of flowers. She
said that the white flowers meant purity, and Mr. Morse was
pure and good, and the red flowers meant love—the love
which Mr. Morse bore to his fellow creatures. She was only
little Sunshine—only a little girl—she could not give him
gold or silver, for she had none—so she brought him flowers.
The medium on the platform was good, and had helped on the
cause of Spiritualism, so she had done all she could and
brought him flowers. (Applause.)
The remaining items in the programme were songs by Mr.
Whitby and Mr. Ganney, an address by Mr. Everitt. and a
musical performance by the Royal Osborne Handbell ringers.
The company separated at a late hour.
MEETING AT GOWER-STREET.
On Wednesday evening, Oct. 15th, a meeting and tea-party
were held at Lawson’s Rooms, Gower-street, under the pre¬
sidency of Mr. Enmore Jones. The attendance was not large,
but the proceedings were harmonious.
Mr. Jones said that the results of the previous four meet¬
ings in that room had given great pleasure to him, and he
was very thankful for what had been done. They had been
the means of giving information about Spiritualism through
the newspapers to about four millions of the adult population.
Some of his friends present would state their experiences,
after which he would say a few words as to the best course of
action in the future.
Mr. Henry Bielfeld said that it was fourteen years ago when
he and Mr. Jones began to hold a series of regular secmces.
The people in the house thought they were engaged in Satanic
work, so consulted a clergyman on the matter, the consequence
being that they had notice to quit their seance room in John-
street. Next they took apartments at Charing-cross, where
they had many pleasant meetings, and Sir E. Landseer’s
brother sometimes attended. Afterwards they held seances
in apartments in Basinghall-street.
Mr. Jones said that Sir E. Landseer attended their seances
several times, in company with Mrs. Milner Gibson. They
all had to keep very quiet about their proceedings, public
prejudice being at that time so strong.
Mr. Thomas Slater said that his attention was first drawn
to mesmerism in 1848 by Cahagnet’s book—Secrets of the
Life to Come Revealed through Magnetism. He tried experi¬
ments on two of his shop-boys, and found mesmerism to be
true. Moreover, one of the boys became clairvoyant, and
accurately described rooms and furniture in the house of Mr.
Wallington. Afterwards he discovered that his wife’s niece
was clairvoyant, and while she was in that state he asked her
to inquire of the spirits she saw whether there were any
truth in the tales in the newspapers about spirit rapping in
America. “ There is,” she replied, “ and you will have proof
of it within five or six weeks.” One evening, within the
time stated, while his niece was on the sofa, a table three and
a-half feet in diameter, startled him by coming across the
* This is one of Barry Cornwall’s poems, and there was a curious trans¬
position of some of the words and lines as Mr, Morse delivered it while in
the abnormal trance state.—So.
380
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 1,1873.
room to him ; then it jumped up, turned a somersault, and
fell upon the floor, after which the rocking-chair, in which he
was sitting, turned round.“ Next he became a writing medium;
sometimes his arm would be driven for hours as if by a
steam engine, without his knowing a single word of what he
had written, until he cast his eyes upon the manuscript. He
had taken spirit photographs in his own home. The late
Robert Owen came to his house in 1856, and raps on the table
purported to come from the Duke of Kent, who had been a
good friend of Mr. Owen’s; the raps also stated that in time
he (Mr. Slater) would be able to take spirit photographs.
Robert Owen then said, “ According to the law of probability
you will survive me; if I can come back, you shall photo¬
graph me.” In May last he was trying whether the spirits
would fulfil their promise ; Miss Dickson, a lady then at the
meeting, was present. To his surprise the prominent features
of Robert Owen came out upon one of his plates, and by its
side the familiar face of another gentleman, who sometimes
came with him to his (Mr. Slater’s) house—Lord Brougham.
(Applause.)
Mr. T. Herbert Noyes, Jun., B.A., said that he been investi¬
gating Spiritualism for two years, and soon discovered that
its facts were true. In addition, he had within the last two
weeks gained personal experience, for he had developed into
a medium himself for drawing, writing, and—he believed—
rapping. He had received a very solemn message from a de¬
parted relative of his own, the late Archbishop Whateley, of
Dublin, and another from a brother of the archbishop. The
messages gave most convincing proof of the identity of the
communicating spirits. He had recently seen some remark¬
able manifestations ; in one case, with candle light in the
room, a pencil left the hand of the medium and wrote a name
on the ceiling ; in the other case a peculiarly marked pencil
was thrown violently at a door, and was found outside when
the spirits told a gentleman to go there for'it. It could have
reached the passage by no natural means, and seemed to be a
good example of matter passing through matter. Physical
manifestations were but a small part of the beauty of Spirit¬
ualism ; the best part consisted of such beautiful orations as
were given through Mrs. Tappan’s mediumship. He hoped
that Spiritualism would do away with all the miserable
sectarianism of the religious world, and would sweep away
the prejudices in which most people were reared from child¬
hood.
The Rev. F. W. Monck narrated how, through his own
mediumship, some true particulars of a murder were revealed
at a seance, and said that Mrs. Gregory, who had the parti¬
culars, would publish them in a forthcoming number of The
Medivm.
Mr. Enmore Jones said that some individuals thought they
could go to work and leave Mr. Bielfeld and himself in the
background, so they withdrew for a time. Recently many
Christians had clustered round him ; they resolved to start the
Gower-street meetings again, and to hold meetings in every
postal district. Mr. Bielfeld would |be honorary secretary,
and work for twelve months only, when they both would give
way to younger hands. Fifteen gentlemen had agreed to co-.
operate as speakers. The work was inaugurated by Christian
Spiritualists, but theological tenets would be excluded from
their proceedings. London had four millions of inhabitants,
many of whom, inside the churches, .could not be touched
by any spiritual agency at present existing; he and his
friends could reach those persons, because they belonged to
their “ clique,” if anybody liked to apply that term. Some
Spiritualists should rally round him and his friends; others
might rally round other centres, but they would all work
together.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan stated that at the age of ten she
left school, and from that early time when the medium power
came upon her, books and every external avenue of know¬
ledge were closed. She passed through many phases of
mediumship in the first three or four years; she was a writing
medium, |she healed the sick, and she .spoke sometimes in
unknown tongues. She was sometimes, when entranced,
made to walk about the little village in Wisconsin, where her
father dwelt; in that state she would visit the houses of the
sick, and relieve them by the laying on of hands ; and once,
while deeply entranced, she performed a surgical operation
after mortification of the hand had set in. She was only
twelve years of age at the time, and in her normal state knew
nothing about the surgical instruments left by the physician,
which her spirits used to cut out portions of gangrene.
She performed the operation successfully, mesmerised the
patient, and left him in a profound slumber. His wife
thought the whole thing Satanic. This phase of mediumship
lasted for four or five years, when she became an inspirational
speaker. She converted both her parents to Spiritualism.
Spiritualism was a noble truth which would promote no
Church, no individual, no creed, but would throw the gate¬
ways of heaven open to all, and all the children of men were
invited to enter and feast at the banquet of the angels.
The proceedings closed by Mrs. Tappan speaking a short
inspirational poem to Mr. Jones, about his labours on behalf
of Spiritualism.
A NOISY MEETING AT BRISTOL.
Mr. Monck has delivered two lectures in Bristol, at one of
which M. Aksakof was present. Dr. Richardson writes to us
that at one of them four policemen were in attendance, Mr.
Monck being in danger of being mobbed. Much of the com¬
motion was caused by his presenting a raw audience, who
knew nothing about Spiritualism, with some of the more
astounding, consequently unbelievable, of its phenomena.
The following report is from the Bristol Mirror of October
22nd :—
The Rev. F. W. Monck delivered his second lecture on
“Spiritualism” at the Broadmead-rooms, last night. The
audience was not so large as on the previous evening, but the
room was quite three parts filled. Mr. J. Beattie presided.
The Chairman, in his opening address, said he did not com¬
mit himself to all Mr. Monck might say. Mr. Monck had a
difficult task before him, and if he established a parallel
between Biblical and modern Spiritualism he would do much.
Mr. Mohck was received with mingled cheers and hisses,
and there was a roar of laughter when, a few minutes after
he had risen, a bench upon which a large number of persons
were standing gave way with a crash, and several wags in¬
sisted upon attributing it to “ the spirits.” The lecturer said
he hoped to prove that Spiritualism was sanctioned by reve-'
lation itself. The Scriptures abounded with evidence in favour
of Spiritualism, and he marvelled that those who professed to
accept its teachings and acknowledged its authority should be
so blind as not to see, or so inconsistent as not to receive, its
teachings on this important subject. He denied that Spiri¬
tualists were necromancers or wizards. They used no incan¬
tations, no magic formulae, and they did not ask the spirits to
reveal them future things, for they believed, according to
Scripture, that future things belong to God. They had no
dealings with evil spirits (“ Oh ’’). If they could they resisted
them (“ Oh ”). He repeated that they had no dealings with
evil spirits, but they dealt with pure and radiant spirits who
came fresh from the presence of God.* After the lecturer
had been on for about half an hour there was a good deal of
noise, and on his telling his audience not to believe everything
the opponents to Spiritualism told them, unless they got proof,
there were loud cries of “ Proof,” and a voice, ‘ ‘ Let’s see
thee go up to the ceiling.” (Laughter.) The disturbance
lasted for several minutes, and the chairman threatened to
break up the meeting if silence were not restored. Mr. Monck
himself then appealed to the meeting, remarking that when
a man had given up all his past life and friends, and sacrificed
all his interests in society for the sake of defending and advo¬
cating a certain truth—when a man acted in such an English
and conscientious manner, Englishmen of all others ought not
to put him down. He went on to say that he would at-'
tempt to show the various phrases of Biblical Spiritualism,
and give instances of a similar kind which had occurred in
modern times. If he succeeded in tracing a close resem¬
blance between the two sets of phenomena he should hope
that every candid mind would admit that it was probable
modern Spiritualism had the impress of God’s own seal upon
it (“ Oh,” and hisses) ; and so, instead of meriting the sneers
and contempt with which the ignorant and the prejudiced
greeted, it, it would be deserving of the serious attention and
investigation of thoughtful men. In proving that evidences
of Spiritualism were to be found in the Bible, he gave in¬
stances of the apparitions of angels, and contrasted them
with modern spirit photographs; and in reference thereto
stated that Mr. Beattie saw the other day the form of his own
mother, and would tell them that he recognised her own
words as she spoke to him. Levitation was the next topic
introduced, and Mr. Monck narrated a variety of instances,
* The radiant spirit who performs most of the manifestations through
Mr.Monck’s mediumship, calls himself “Sam.”—Ed. of S.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
381
Nov. 1, 1873.
such as Peter walking on the water, and observed that men
in the present day have been seen to be carried by spirits
from one place to another. (“ Oh,” and laughter.) He also
introduced the subject of spirit-writing, and read a long
message which he said he had received within the last few
months of a spirit. (It was on the subject of homenclature.)
He averred that the sick might in these our own times be
healed by the laying on of hands by faithful men, and the
gift of tongues was next mentioned. Reminding his hearers
of the children of the Old Testament who were thrown into
the fire but were not burned, he stated, amid hisses, that a
gentleman had told him that he had seen that extraordinary
medium, Mr. Home, with fire in his hands straight from the
naked fire, and it did not bum him. (“Oh,” and roars of
laughter.) Spiritualists frequently heard spirit voices, and
recognised the voices of their friends ; and the lecturer then
told the story (which we published at length some few weeks
ago) of his spiritual translation from Bristol to Swindon ;
and in answer to one who declared that he paid his railway
fare, said he would swear he did not. In a trance he thought
he was there; and when he went to Swindon three days
afterwards the servant pointed him out as the gentleman she
told her master she saw looking in at the window of the
house three nights previously. (Loud laughter.) He declared
that that was God’s truth. (Laughter.) After some further
remarks, a number of questions were put by the audience and
answered by the lecturer.
Mr. J. B. Taylor, printer, asked whether they were to believe
what Mr. Monck said at Liverpool that the system of Spirit¬
ualism was immoral, or what he had said that night, that it
was from God, and that it was intended, as somebody else
had said, to regenerate the heart of society. (Cheers.)
Mr. Monck said he never stated in his life that Spiritualism
was immoral in its tendency. What he said was that, in con¬
sequence jof his mediumistic powers, and the notoriety they
were giving him among his people and his deacons, it was
making things extremely uncomfortable for him, for his
officers were looking coldly upon him, and (he added) that
was one of my officers (pointing to Mr. Taylor), and we did
not elect him again (laughter). As to saying that he could
not pray, he certainly said something of this kind, that he
could not kneel down and pray with that calm equanimity of
mind that he did before, because of the persecution with
which those honourable Christians visited him. (Cheers and
hisses.)
The chairman next replied to a question which had been
sent up to him, and stated that a condition of spiritual mani¬
festations was that if there were a greater number than ten or
fifteen individuals in a room there were sure to be among
them some individuals who would absorb some of the power,
and the manifestations would not succeed, and1 therefore a
public seance could not be given in a large hall like that.
(“ Oh.”)
. Mr. R. Walton, senior, asked Mr. Monck what his views
were on the subject of the law of marriage, and he drew at¬
tention to the fact that a great number of Spiritualists in
Chicago thought but lightly of the marriage relations. ,
Mr. Monck said he believed iu the sacredness of the institu¬
tion of marriage, that according to Scripture a man should be
the husband of one wife, and if he was unfaithful to her he
should be whipped at the cart’s tail. (Hear, hear, and
laughter.) If there were some Spiritualists who were im¬
moral, so also there were some Baptists and Wesleyans
immoral. He, as a Spiritualist, was no more responsible
for the immorality of those than he was for the immorality
of some leading persons in his late congregation. (‘ ‘Oh,” and
groans.)
Mr. Walton put another question—whether Mr. Monck and
others were certain that the voices, if any they heard, were
the voices of the departed ; was there a possibility of their
being deceived in the matter ?
Mr. Monck said he would defy any man to say he was cer¬
tain of anything but time and death. (Hisses and great
uproar.) His own wife, who died six years ago, came and in
the first place drew him down on his knees, as she did just
before she died, and said “ Pray,’’ with a spirit voice in his
ear. Who could have said that but his wife ? She touched
that finger (holding up the little finger of the left hand) on
which he wore her ring, and he asked who could have done
that but his wife? Thirdly, she promised him that if she
came again to him from the spirit world she would give to
him a certain peculiar sign, and she did it, and she spoke. So
far as any man could be certain of any mortal thing he was
certain of that. (Confusion.)
Mr. Walton was about to put another question, when Mr
Beattie left the chair, and the meeting, which was very noisy
at intervals, broke up.
SPIRIT POEMS.
Many private seances through the mediumship of Miss
Florence Cook have been held during the past two months,
and have all of them been good ones.
At a seance held October 7th, Mr. C. Blackburn and M ss
Blackburn of Manchester, also Dr. Gully, were present. Miss
Blackburn and another lady thoroughly searched Miss Cook
(who requested that they should do so) in a bedroom, after
which they accompanied her to the cabinet which had been
thoroughly searched just previously. Her hands were then
secured with tape, by which also she was fastened to the floor
in the cabinet. All the knots were sealed ;with signet rings.
The spirit came out of the cabinet with bare feet, robed from
head to foot in white, as usual, in a good light. She talked
for about an hour as usual, entering and leaving the cabinet
occasionally; once she walked about a yard from the cabinet,
towards the centre of the room.
At a seance, held Oct. 23rd, M. Aksakof, of St. Petersburg!:,
was among the visitors present. In the middle of the seanct,
a few minutes after Katie had entered the cabinet, he unex¬
pectedly asked her, in a friendly way, to let him look at the
medium. Katie said, “ Yes, come along.” He looked in,
and saw Miss Cook in her dark dress, bound and sealed as at
first. Directly he returned to his seat, Katiatold him to make
sure about it, and bring a lamp into the cabinet with him;
he did so, and found nothing but the entranced medium in
the cabinet. Soon afterwards Katie came out again, and the
seance went on as usual. The medium was tied so firmly at
this seance, that when M. Aksakof cut the tapes at the wrists
to free her at the close, the tapes was so tight that it required
some little care to get one of the blades of the scissors under
between the tape and the arm, to cut the former.
Last Tuesday there was a seance at Mr. Luxmoore’s house,
16, Gloucester-square, Hyde-park. Among the guests were
Mr. and Mrs. Mankiewicz, Pembridge-gardens, Bayswater;
Mr. and Mrs. Cook, of Hackney ; Mr. H. M. Dunpby, Bar¬
rister-at-law, Bssex-court, Temple ; M. Alexandre Aksakof,
of St. Petersburgh ; Mrs. Whyte, 33, Richmond-'road, Bays¬
water ; Mrs. Corner, Miss Corner, and Mr. T. Corner, of
Connaught-square, Hackney ; Mr. Stanhope Templeman
Speer, M.D., of Alexandra-road, St. John’s-wood; Mr. G. R.
Tapp, 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park; Mr. J. M.
Gully, M.D., Streatham ; and Mr. W. H. Harrison, Herne-
hill. The darkened back drawing-room was used as a cabinet,
a curtain being suspended between the two rooms. Miss
Cook was bound and sealed as usual, a seal belonging to Dr.
Speer being used ; the medium was fastened to the floor, with
sealed tape, just behind the curtain. The seance proceeded as
usual, Katie in one instance turning round to show her back
to the company. A minute before the sitting began, Mr.
Luxmoore moved two valuable bowls to a table at the further
end of the dark room, as he thought Katie might accident¬
ally break them if he left them near the medium ; and Mr.
Dunphy saw them placed at the distant part of the room. Soon
after the sitting began, a white arm and hand projected from
the curtains, and handed one bowl to Mr. Luxmoore ; soon
afterwards the other bowl was thrust out. In the early part
of the evening, while Miss Cook was seated in the drawing¬
room, the spirits were rapping in a lively way, and answering
questions.
The tapes and seals were intact at the close of each seance,
and the tapes were stretched before use. It is a matter of
experience in these, as at many other seances, that success
defends mainly upon a harmonious circle, composed of
persons in whose presence the medium feels happy. The
seances are] under the managing guidance of Mr. Luxmoore.
Slow development of the phenomena ^appears to be going
on. The spirits allow the medium to be seen in the cabinet
during the seance more frequently than they used to do, but
when the light from outside falls upon her while in the trance,
it seems to pain her.; she murmurs and twitches uneasily.
Mu. Monck will' lecture oh Spiritualism at Trowbridge,
Wiltshire, next week.
Mbs. Coea L. V. Tappan desires us to state that her
only reception-day is Wednesday, from one to five o’clock.
She finds any other arrangement to be too fatiguing in the
present state of her health.
382
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 1, 1873.
Poettg.
THE TOUCH OP A VANISHED HAND.
“ So I write.”—2 Thessaloniam, iii. 17.
I take the dear old letters from the desk,
Sweet treasured relics from my scanty store;
I read the loving words, long, long ago
Traced by a vanished hand that writes no more.
Old joys and sorrows rise from out the grave,
The old home echoes with each dear dead friend;
This dearest one of all. The old life lives,
Here on the living page. Then came the end.
The end man’s language surely misnames death,
As though this little span of life were all,
E’en as when scattered by the autumn breeze,
The withered leaflets from the branches fall.
Here, on this treasured page, is more than this,
More than old memory, though e’en that were much;
Though dead, my dear one speaks. This fading sheet
Tells one of that which death can never touch.
The ink is pale, the paper tom, the hand
That swayed the pen hath left no wreck behind;
Yet, somewhere nearer God than here, I know
There lives for ever the immortal mind. *
The spirit cannot die; and Paul, who wrote
Our Golden Legend, told how, like the flowers
Uprising from the seed, our bodies send
Bright shoots above, to twine in Heaven’s bowers.
Changed—but not dead, not sleeping; hushed to rest
Here in the grave, but drinking now their fill
Of God’s own life, our recreated ones
Are living, loving—may be writing still.
God knows! Thus musing o’er the treasured page,
It seems as though my faith were lost in sight;
E’en as the Apostle to his far-oft friends
Conveyed the sweet assurance—“ So I write.”
Maurice Davies.
(tfamsponiience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.']
SPIRITUALISM IN VANCOUYEE’s ISLAND.
SlK,—It may be gratifying to your numerous readers to
learn that in this far-away corner of the Queen’s dominions,
the cheering and ennobling views of life and its proper
objects enunciated by leading Spiritualists of England and
America have of late been taking fast hold. The London
Spiritualist and Spiritual Magazine, and the Boston Banner
of Light, are eagerly looked for and read as each mail
arrives. Pulpit denunciations of the “ new views ’’ are few
and far between. Inquires.
Victoria, Vancouver’s Island, British Columbia.
15th September, 1873.
Chinese Praying eor Wind.—Mr. J. M. Peebles, in a
letter to the Banner of Light, says :—Our crew of Chinamen is
a source of fruitful study. They have books on board, and
read them, when not playing at chance games. Their heads
are all shaven, save the pig-tail tuft. Bising in the morning,
they clean their tongues by scraping them, and then sip their
black tea. In the latitude of the trade-winds we were sorely
vexed with calms. It had been a dead calm under a scorching
sun for five days. As nature hates a vacuum, so do sailors a
calm. Was there a remedy? On the sixth day, Sunday morn¬
ing at sunrise, there came on deck a dozen or more serious-
visaged China passengers, with dishes of rice, bowls of tea, dif¬
ferent-coloured paper, slim dry incense reeds, slender red-topped
wax candles and matches. “ What’s up,” inquired Dr. Dunn.
“ Just informed by our mate,” the reply was, “ the Chinamen
are going to pray for wind.” Among the number who had
come forward, was the Chinese doctor, and another grave¬
looking, shaven-headed individual, evidently endowed with
some priestly function. Putting themselves in position, they
touched matches to the paper, throwing it overboard while in
flames; then lighting their reeds and candles, they went
through with certain pantomimic incantations, becoming their
method of prayer—ending by throwing the rice and tea into
the ocean. Besult—a fine breeze -soon from the right quarter.
4 There ! ” exclaimed our exultant Celestials, “ the wind-god
has heard us.” Why not just as rational for Chinamen to thus
pray for wind, as for Christians bowing over cushioned pulpits
to pray in their way for rain; for the staying of the grass¬
hopper devastation ; or the recovery of the Prince of Wales ?
True prayer is not lip-pleading, but silent aspiration. It
affects suppliants, and inclines angels to listen, but does not
change the Deific laws of the Universe.
THE FIRST INSTANCE OF A “TIPPING” TABLE.
(From Dean Stanley's il Historical Memorials of
Canterbury.)
Date of the occurrences, 1170.
“ It remains for us now to follow the fate of the
murderers of A’Becket. On the night of the deed the
four knights rode to Saltwood, leaving Robert de Broc
in possession of the palace, whence, as we have seen,
he brought or sent the threatening message to the monks
on the morning of the 30th. They vaunted their deeds
to each other, and it was then that Tracy claimed the
glory of having wounded John of Salisbury. The next
day they rode forty miles by the sea coast to South
Mailing, an archiepiscopal manor, near Lewes. On en¬
tering the house they threw off their arms and trappings
on the large dining-table which stood in the hall, and
after supper gathered round the blazing hearth; sud¬
denly the table started back, and threw its burden on the
ground. The attendants, roused by the crash, rushed
in with lights and replaced the arms. But soon a
second and still louder crash was heard, and the various
articles were thrown still farther off. Soldiers and ser¬
vants with torches searched in vain under the solid table
to find the cause of its convulsions, till one of the con¬
science-stricken knights suggested that it was indig¬
nantly refusing to bear the sacriligious burden of their
arms. So ran the popular story; and as late as the
fourteenth century it was still known in the same place
—the earliest and most incurable instance of a * rap¬
ping,’ ‘leaping,’ and ‘ turning ’ table. From South Mail¬
ing they proceeded to Knaresborough Castle, a royal
fortress, then in possession of Hugh de Mereville, where
they remained for a year. The local tradition still
points out the hall where they fled for refuge, and the
vaulted prison where they were confined after their cap¬
ture.”—P. 103.
Mr. John Collier is working most actively to promote
Spiritualism in Birmingham, by lecturing at Sunday meetings,
and by spreading knowledge of the truth in other ways.
The Psychological Power oe the Eve.—The power
of the human eye, as exercised by woman over man, is, no
doubt, in certain cases irresistible, but although man imagines
that his own eye has the same overpowering influence over the
lower creation, and that he has only to gaze fixedly on a wild
beast in order to subdue its ferocity and reduce it to the same
state of abject submission as that to which he himself is re¬
duced by woman, yet in practice the theory proves an illusion.
A melancholy example of this, according to the Nero York
Tribune, occurred the other day in Yermont. A professor in
that State is, or rather was, a firm believer in “the power of
the human eye over the wild and ravening beast.” This be¬
lief was not shared by several of his friends and acquaintances,
and doubts having been expressed on the subject, the pro¬
fessor was moved to convince the sceptics of the truth of his
doctrine. He accordingly selected a ferocious bull, who was
the terror of the neighbourhood, as the object of the experi¬
ment. The result was not altogether successful. Accompanied
by a retinue of disbelievers, the scientific gentleman sauntered
into the pasture where the bull was peacefully grazing, and
without loss of time fixed his awful eye upon the dangerous
animal. The next thing which the bystanders observed was
the spectacle of the professor being tossed twenty-seven feet
into the air, and coming down on the other side of the fence.
Fortunately his physical injuries were but slight, but he
labours under great depression of spirits, and his faith in
scientific theories generally has received a severe shock.—
Pall Mall Gazette.
ANSWERS jEO CORRESPONDENTS.
0. B. (Manchester).—It is with much regret that for want of room,
it is necessary to delay publication of your letter for another
fortnight.
Nov. 1, 1873,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
383
On the last Thursday in this month Mr. W. H. Harrison
will read a short paper before the Dalston Association of
Inquirers into Spiritualism, to be followed by a discussion.
Subscriptions in aid of the fund towards the weekly
publication of The Spiritualist should be forwarded to Mr. T.
W. Taunton, Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E. He
has kindly volunteered to act as secretary in the matter.
A makriage recently took place between Mr. John W.
Gray, C.E., and Miss Louisa Hudson, who was recently cha¬
racterised in this journal as being a clairvoyant-medium of
unimpeachable integrity,, and one of the best connected with
Spiritualism.
Miss Fowleb’s Mediemship.—Next Tuesday Miss
Lottie Fowler, the American trance-medium, leaves Liver¬
pool for Manchester. Occasionally she has revealed most
interesting facts to sitters about their past lives and their
departed relatives. ' Like all other mediums, her seances are
variable, and success is best secured by giving her good con¬
ditions. The mixed influence of different persons in the
room is not good for clairvoyants, so that strangers who call
on her unexpectedly and alone often get very good results.
Nevertheless she has often been very successful at public
seances. We shall give a critical account of her mediumship
when there is more space for disposal in this journal than
there is to-day.
ME,. JESSE B. H. SHEPARD takes pleasure in
announcing to the Nobility and Gentry that he has returned from
his THIRD successful Tour on the Continent, and will continue to exercise
those Gifts by which he has made for himself so distinguished a reputa¬
tion at the several Courts of Europe, viz.: PBIVATE SITTINGS for the
development of INSPIBATIONAL Music and Poetry, and a Philosophical
Culture of the Mind, requisite to a proper conception of the beautiful and
grand in the Spiritual manifestations of nature.
Address MB. JESSE SHEPABD, 33, Duke-street, Manchester-square, W.
MRS.- OLIVE, TRANCE MEDIUM, also Medium for
the Cure of various Diseases by Spirit Mesmerism and Prescrip¬
tions. 49, Belmont-street, Chalk-farm-road, London, N.W.
A Public Seance at the above address on Friday Evenings, at Seven
o’clock. Admission, 2s. 6d.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. B. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Ho worth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
Y
ERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
into England the subject attracted attention in Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Association.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
into closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 69 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4Jd. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—19, Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy-
square.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 18Y0.)
President.—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Gowned.
Mr. George Blyton, I Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mrs. Amelia Comer, Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mr. E.J. Wilson.
Secretary & Treasurer.—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
A DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on hear¬
ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, and in¬
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might be
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 16th September, 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter careful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modem Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations tpide Rule IX). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordi¬
nary seance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The laet Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on thejirsi Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Rooms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelope
should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
TNSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
J- (Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“The prayer over he commenced an eloquent and philosophical address
on modern Spiritualism.”—North-Western Daily Times.
“ The medium then passed into what is termed the trance state, and in
clear and forcible language, with a readiness of expression and fluency of
utterance delivered a discourse on Spiritualism.”—Liverpool Daily A Ibion.
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lectui'er, or what¬
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram¬
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—1 Humanity; its Nature and its Needs ’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
'delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!’’—South Wales Press.
“ Those who are intellectually inclined, and desire to know what Spirit¬
ualism is as taught by the spirits, will learn more in an hour’s conversation
with Mr. Morse's guides than in months of misdirected seeking.”—Medium.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.”—Spiritualist.
“ Mr. Morse is what is called a speaking-medium, of no mean order, for
he kept crowded audiences intently listening each evening for above an hour
and a half to his certainly most powerful and accomplished addresses.”—
Darlington and Richmond Herald.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
MR. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
Mr. Morse holds a seance every Friday evening, at 8 o’clock, at 16, Southamp¬
ton-row, "W.O., when he is in London, where letters, &c., may be addressed,
or to his private residence, Warwick Cottage, Old Ford, Bow, E.
SIBYL, Seeress, Clairvoyante, and Test Medium, 53,
Great Ooram-street, Russell-square, W.O. Hours—12 till 6. Terms
—5s. each person.
DR. HUGH MoLEOD acts in conjunction with SIBYL for the Treat¬
ment and Cure of Disease, at the above address. Terms, for consultation, 5s.
Visits, to any part of London, 10s.
SIBYL.—Owing to the press of work she has to go through, Sibyl pro¬
poses to have two special days of rest in each month; and, therefore,
friends will please notice that she will receive no visitors on theyfrsf and
last Thursdays of the month.
53, Great Ooram-street, Russell-square, Oct. 10,1873.
A FRENCH GENTLEMAN, LL.D., Professor of the
French Language, is open to Engagements, and would be glad to
read and translate with his Pupils the French works on Spiritualism by the
late Allan Kardec. Apply by letter, LL.D., Scadding’s Library, Belgrave-
road, S.W.
A DOMESTICATED LADY seeks an ENGAGEMENT
as HOUSEKEEPER in a quiet family, where one servant is kept,
The lady is a Spiritualist, holding no sectarian views, and, with the privi¬
leges of a cheerful home, no salary will be required.—A. B. Reynolds’s
Library, 57, Loughborough-road, Brixton.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Revealing Startling Facts
to the public, can be consulted on either Medical or Business Affairs con¬
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 10 to 5. Terms, One Guinea.
Address, 85, Islington, Liverpool.
384
TH'E SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 1, 1873,
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., G.'WheatleyBennett, Esq.; J. S.Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. R. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.O.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. *J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.O.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee,.persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’  
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household. . .
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch eacn other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,"
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; i> he manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STERLING.
Head 0#ces.-3ROWN STREET AND MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
FIRE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates.
Bonus Returns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Renewed Premiums.
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
- Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities.
W RUSSELL, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, Ac.,
• 238, STAFFORD-STREET, WALSALL. The Spiritualist and
other Spiritual Publications kept on sale. Bookbinding in all its branches
at London Prices. Machine Ruling with accuracy and despatch. Sta¬
tionery—Superfine Note, 6d. per quarter ream; ditto Envelopes, l£d. per
packet, 4s. 6d. per 1,000. Albums, scraps, ladies’ satchels, &c., in grea;
variety. Printing.—W. R. having entered into partnership with Mr
Cooper in the printing department, is prepared to execute orders at a few
hours’ notice. Taste and Style guaranteed. Fifty Visiting cards (without
expense of plate) 2s.; per post 2s. 2d. Country Orders promptly attended to.
TO OWNERS OF HOUSE PROPERTY.
E. BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
11, PARK GROVE, SHEPHERD’S LANE, BRIXTON,
T> ESPECTFULLY solicits tlie patronage of Owners of
JL\l House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixton
Road, and near the Railway Station—offering special facilities for the
prompt letting of Houses of every description.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833,
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS. —Handsomely-printed Blue
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion, may be obtained in packets, each containing 400, price 2s. 6d. per
packet. They are especially useful for distribution at public meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, reading-rooms, clubs, and places of
public resort.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-ehurchyard, London, E.C.
LUNACY LAW REFORM.
ALL PERSONS cognisant of cases of INCARCERATION,
under a false plea of Insanity, or of MALTREATMENT OF
LUNATICS, or who are ready to co-operate in obtaining AMENDMENT
OF THE LUNACY LAWS, are earnestly requested to communicate with
MRS. LOUISA LOWE,
97, BURTON ROAD, BRIXTON.
The following Extract from the “ ACT to Amend the Law relating to Luna¬
tics ” is a fair specimen of Lunacy Legislation
“ It shall be lawful for the Proprietor or Superintendent of any licensed
house with the previous assent in writing of two or more of the Commis¬
sioners, or in the Case of a House licensed by Justices, of two or more of
the Visitors to entertain and keep in such house as a Boarder for such time as
may be specified in the assent, any person who may have been within Five
Years immediately preceding the giving of such assent, a Patient in any
asylum, hospital, or licensed house, or under care as a Single Patient.”—‘25
& 26 Viet., ch. iii., sec. 18.
Crown 8vo. pp. 126, Cloth 2s. 6d.
Hints for tte | evidences of spiritualism.”
By M.P.
London: Triibner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
