RECORD OF THE PROQF(E££ OF THE £CIEJMCE AND ETHIC3 Of SPIF(ITUA£J£M.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 43.—(Vol. in.—No.4.) LONDON: JAN. 1, 1873. Publi£t^^^
CTontent^.
Matter  ... ...       50
Startling Spiritual Manifestations  •  :  SI
Healing Mediumship       52
Private (Stances.—Aeajjee at Mr. Holmes’s; seances at Mr. Guppy's; seances
at Mr. Henry Cook’s ... ...   ...   53
The Spiritualist Newspaper  ... ...   56
Answers to Correspondents.  ...        56
The Anthropological Institute.—Serpent Worship      57
The Royal Institution      ...   58
The Times Newspaper on Spiritualism ...       59
Mr. Bradlaugh on Spiritualism    60
Correspondence. —Mr. Barber’s seances in Manchester ; Mem and
Women; The Mental Influence of Spirits; Spirit Faces   62
Spiritualism in Australia ... ... ...   r..   63
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM, 74, Navarino road, Dalston, E. Seances are held
every Thursday evening at 8 o’clock; and a Library is in course of forma¬
tion for use of members. Prospectuses and Rules on application to the
Secretary. Subscription 3s. per quarter in advance. Thos. Blyton,
Secretary, &e.
Dalston association of enquirers into
SPIRITUALISM.—Notice is hereby given that the Fifth Half-
yearly General Meeting will be holden at the Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E., on Monday evening, 13th January, 1873, at 8 o’clock precisely,
when the Report of the Council, with the balance sheet for the past half-
year, will be submitted to the members for adoption.—Thomas Elston,'
secretary.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER. Clairvoyant Examination and complete Diagnosis,
One Guinea. Mesmerising or Rubbing, One Guinea per week, and travelling
expenses.
Miss Godfrey may be seen, by appointment, at 161, Hampstead-road, N.W.
MISS HUDSON, Normal Clairvoyant and Prophetic
Medium, RECEIVES VISITORS daily (Sundays excepted), from
Twelve till Six o’Clock, at her Residence, 17, Castle-street, Wells-street,
Oxford-street, Terms, Five Shillings each Visitor. Private Parties also
attended in the Evening; terms, One Guinea and travelling expenses.
RIT1SH IMPERIAL INSURANCE CORPORATION,
LIMITED.
Incorporated pursuant to Act of Parliament.
Capital—76200,000 in 200,000 Sharks op £1 Each.
Head Offices: BROWN STREET and MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
Chief London Offices: 20, KING WILLIAM STREET, E.C. •
Central Trustees:
Augustus Frederick Bayford, LL.D., Senior Registrar, Court of Probate,
Doctors’ Commons, London; and Chancellor of the Diocese of Man¬
chester.
William Gimber Goodliffe, Accountant General, India Office, Westminster,
London..
Charles Oppenheim (S. Oppenheim & Sons), Director of the Union Bank
of London, Austin Friars, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Christopher Weguelin (Thomson, Bonar & Co.), Director of the Bank of
England, 57£, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Auditor: Dr. William Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., London, and Southlands,
Bromley, Kent.
The system of Insurance carried out by the “ British Imperial ”
(originally devised by Dr. Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., of Somerset House, and
{ adopted with some modifications by her Majesty’s Government), is perfect
j in Security, Equity, and Convenience.
I Security, because every With Profit, and Self-Insurance Policy, is
issued upon English Government Securities, held in Trust, away from the
I control of the Directors, for the sole purpose of meeting policy claims, the
I amount invested (80 per cent, of the whole premium) being shown by the
! National English Life Table, compiled by the Registrar-General for the
Government to be more than sufficient to provide the sum insured under
the policy.
In Equity, because in the event of an Insurant failing to continue the
payment of his premiums, only sufficient thereof is retained by the Corpora¬
tion to profitably cover the risk incurred upon the life during the time it
was covered by the insurance; the remainder being returned to the Insurant.
The amount returned varies according to the Table under which the
Insurance is effected, between nearly one-half and three-quarters of all the
premiums.
In Convenience, because the “ Surrender Value ” is endorsed on every
Policy, and is made payable at three days’ sight. It can also be used to its
full amount, by payment of 5 per cent, per annum interest on the sum with¬
drawn, without invalidating the Policy.
JOHN A. FEIGAN, General Manager.
WILLIAM DAVIES, Secretary.
E<
BIRD, Builder, House-decorator, Plumber, and
!• Gasfltter, desires to inform his Friends and Employers that he
has taken NEW PREMISES, at 11, Park-grove, Shepherd’s-lane, Brixton,
opposite the Railway Station. Estimates given for every description of
work in the above branches.
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
Capital—ONE MILLION STERLING.
Head Offices.STREET and MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, cir¬
culating LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
Aaron franklin, preseryer of birds
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE, Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’ heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. Aaron Franklin, 58, Suffolk-
street, Birmingham.
SELECTED BY HER MAJESTY’S COMMISSIONER FOR THE
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITIONS.
PHOTOGRAPHS.
Prices from 6s. per Dozen.
MR. A. L. HENDERSON,
OF 49, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON BRIDGE,
AND OF 2, AMERSHAM ROAD, NEW CROSS, S.E.
Photographer on Enamel to the Queen,
EPPS’S COCOA. — The Civil Service Gazette
remarks—“By a thorough knowledge of the natural laws which
govern the operations of digestion and nutrition, and by a careful application
of the fine properties of well-selected cocoa, Mr. Epps has provided our
breakfast-tables with a delicately-flavoured beverage which may save us
many heavy doctors’ bills.”
Made simply with Boiling Water or Milk.
Each packet is labelled—
JAMES EPPS & Co., Homoeopathic Chemists, London.
Also makers of OACAOINE, a thin Evening Beverage.
FIRE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates.
Bonus Returns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Renewed Premiums.
FIDELITY GUARANTEE..
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities.
British imperial life, and British
NATIONAL (FIRE AND GUARANTEE) INSURANCE COR¬
PORATIONS.
Applications for Agencies to either of the above Corporations can be
made to C. W. Pearce, at the Chief London Offices, 20, King William-street,
E.C., from whom Prospectuses, Proposal Forms, and all other information,
can be obtained.
Price 6d. Cloth, 9d. Post free.
HEAVEN OPENED.—Part ll. being further descrip¬
tions bf, and advanced teachings from, the Spirit Land. Given
through the mediumship of F. J. T. With an Appendix containing the
Scripture proofs of Spiritualism.
J. Bums, 15, Southampton-row, W.O.; E. W. Allen, 11, Ave-Maria lane, E.G.
Also Part I,, price 6d. Cloth, 9d.
50
THE SPIRITUALIST.
CHA.EGE FOE ADYEETISEMENTS :—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word.
The, Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 4s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of “ The Spiritualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari-
't ies, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
MATTEE.
In another column, a report will he found of the
proceedings of a meeting at which Mr. Bradlaugh
attacked Spiritualism, and stated that he had “ endea¬
voured to make his own ideas as clear as possible % in
his opening remarks, the aim of which was “ to show
that there was but one state of existence,—that of
matter.”
We have to complain that Mr. Bradlaugh did not
make his ideas clearly understood. He did not define
what he meant by “ matter,” and until he defines
clearly what he means when he uses this word, all his
arguments based upon it fall to the ground, so far as
the comprehension of others than himself is concerned.
No doubt he attaches ideas of his own to the word
“ matter,” but as he did not give a definition, and the
whole controversy hinged and was rooted upon this
particular point, he did not furnish fair grounds for
debate. He made all his arguments rest upon the
interpretation of a word to which different people
attach different meanings.*
What does the scientific world know of matter?
The prevalent idea among physical philosophers is, that
matter consists of a vast number of almost infinitely
small atoms in a state of incessant vibration. That
these hypothetical atoms move . is certain, because
material bodies change their volume with every change
in temperature. Make an iron poker hot, and it is
longer than it is when cold. Hence, as the atoms in
the extreme ends of a hot poker are measurably further
from each other than they were when it was cold, it is
certain that they must have moved. It is supposed
that each little atom vibrates to and fro, and that this
vibration is what men call “ heat.” The greater the
atomic vibration, the hotter is the substance, because
the little atoms knock against the ends of the nerves in
the hand with greater force, and the substance con¬
sequently feels warmer. If the temperature be lowered,
the atoms swing over less spac6 than before, conse¬
quently the poker contracts. If a sufficiency of heat
be applied to the substance, the atoms swing so far
apart that the.force of cohesion is partially overcome,
and the atoms roll over each other like so many
marbles in a moving box. In this state the substance
is said to be “melted;” it is in the liquid state.
Increase the heat, and the little atoms are so liberated
that they fly to and fro, knocking against the sides of
the vessel containing them. This is known as the
gaseous state of matter. This hypothetical yiew of
Jan. 1, 1873.
the nature of material bodies explains a vast number
of physical facts, and is of great value in successful
experimental physical research. It is the view held
by most of the leading physical philosophers of the
day.
Tf Mr. Bradlaugh does not admit that solid sub¬
stances consist of particles in a state of incessant
motion, he is at variance with the best men in the phi¬
losophical world, and he ought to have explained to
the meeting that he holds peculiar views of his own
about practical experiments connected with the expan¬
sion and contraction of solids, so that at once materials
for logical discussion would have been furnished. If,
on the other hand, he admits the hypothesis, then it is
clear that to define what matter is, he must define the
nature of the little vibrating atoms.
In fact, the whole question of “ What is matter ? ”
rests upon the question, “ What is an elementary
atom ? ”
Nobody has ever seen one of them. They are infi¬
nitely beyond the reach of the most powerful micro¬
scope, since millions upon millions of them are required
to occupy the space of a single cubic inch. There is
the greatest difference of opinion in the philosophical
world as to the ultimate constitution of atoms, and
herein lies the justification of our assertion, that Mr.
Bradlaugh’s whole argument was based upon a word
having a vague uncertain meaning.
Professor Tyndall thinks that, possibly, atoms are
infinitely rigid little particles, something like minute
bullets. If Mr. Bradlaugh holds this opinion, will he
please explain how they build themselves up into living
intelligent beings ? If they do not so build themselves
up, but flow to different positions around something
invisible, what is that invisible something, and does it
live when unclothed by matter ?
Professor Sir William Thomson thinks that atoms
possibly consist of portions of an infinitely elastic
fluid, thrown into a state of vortex motion, and Helm¬
holtz has mathematically demonstrated that such mo¬
tion, once set up, would continue to all eternity. By
an “infinitely elastic fluid” is meant one destitute of
viscosity or fluid-friction—a fluid very similar in its
nature to the interstellar ether.* If Mr. Bradlaugh
believes solid substances to consist of vortex rings, will
he please explain how the said rings build themselves
up into intelligent beings ?
Not a few philosophers think that atoms consist, of
forces emanating from points, and points have neither
length nor breadth. Is this Mr. Bradlaugh’s opinion ?
If so, he believes that there is no such thing as common
matter at all in the sense in which the word appears
ordinarily to be used by Secularists.
Professor Huxley is inclined to think, with Bishop
Berkeley, that the nature of the external world depends
upon the nature of our sensations, and the way in
* A clever experiment, designed by Sir William Thomson and Professor
Tait, to show the great permanency of fluid vortex rings, even when a fluid
not destitute of friction is used, was once exhibited to us by the latter
gentleman at Edinburgh University. A large square wooden box had one
of its ends taken off, and a piece of thick cloth was tied over this end. In
the opposite end of the box was a round hole, the size of a cheese-plate.
The necks of two retorts entered one of the sides of the box; the one
retort was made to discharge hydrochloric acid gas into the box, whilst
the other supplied ammoniacal gas. When these two gases mixed, of
course, white fumes were formed; consequently, the box was continuously
charged with dense white smoke. Every time the cloth at one end of the
box was struck by the hand, a vortex ring of common air was forced out
of the round hole opposite; the said ring of air was made visible to the
eye by the white smoke it held in suspension. These white rings floated
about in the room fsr some time before their viscosity caused them to
break up. Whenever two of these smoke-rings struck each other as they
floated about, they rebounded from each other as two india-rubber belts
would have done.
Jan. 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
51
which those sensations act upon our consciousness. He
says that if he were compelled to choose between pure
idealism and pure materialism, he should select the
former.
As it is a fact that the best philosophers of the day
do not know what matter is, and are divided in opinion
as to its nature, we have, just cause for complaint that
Mr. Bradlaugh should use the word <£ matter’’in the
fundamental part of his argument against Spiritualism,
without defining what he means by the term.
There are people who think that there is no such
thing as common matter at all, and that the external
world is the result of mental conditions. Let a person’s
mental condition change, as in clairvoyance, and the
room in which the sensitive is sitting exists no longer
for him; he sees things which are taking place hun¬
dreds of miles away, and the distant scenes and actors
are real, material, and present to him.
STARTLING SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS.
Mrs. Emma Hardixge’s History of American Spi¬
ritualism contains descriptions of some unusually un¬
pleasant spiritual manifestations in California.
She says :—<£ I have copied them, almost verbatim,
from a file of the True Californian of the date of 1856,
but the entire details of the transactions, together with
a vast amount of still stranger phenomena unpublished,
I have myself received from the lips of the witnesses.
With this article I • enclose "to Mr. Davis a private
memorandum of the names of the parties mentioned in
initial letters in the narrative, with the permission to
show these to persons acquainted in California, or likely
to become so; in addition to which, I am permitted to
say that Mr. Joseph Atkinson, well known in this
city of San Francisco, as for some years past proprietor
and superintendent of Lone Mountain Cemetery, is not
only fully cognizant of all the facts, and personally
acquainted with all the parties concerned, but is willing
to answer in person all inquiries, and furnish names,
references, and details in connection with the affair, to
any one interested enough to write or call upon him.”—
P. 4£4.
Mrs. Hardinge then narrates, that Mr. J. P., in
whose house the manifestations took place, lived on
Russian Hill, an elevated spot commanding an extensive
view of the city and bay of San Francisco. She tells
how a Mr. King—a deceased friend of the medium and
sitters—appeared. She says :—“ On looking towards
the place they all perceived the figure of Mr. King,
plainly apparent, precisely as in life, and in his usual
attire. The figure was dense, and presented nothing of
the usual shadowy appearance of such apparitions. He
stood quite still until Mr. J. P. addressed him ; when,
at the request of this cool observer, he raised first one
arm and then the other; moved to the side, advanced,
and retreated, turned his head, bowed, and, in fact, for
several minutes continued to obey every motion sug¬
gested. All at once Mr. P. made a sudden dart for¬
ward, a movement for which he had been some time
preparing, intending, as he expressed it, to ‘grab him
but, on the instant, every article in the house' seemed
to be set in motion at once, as if by the shock of an
earthquake. The figure ‘ melted out’ instantly. Every
piece of furniture in the two rooms was thrown or
rolled out of its place, several panes of glass were
broken as if by an explosion, and cushions were dashed,
with blinding dust and force, into the faces of every
one in the library.”—P. 447.
She then quotes the following account of another
seance, written by an eminent lawyer, and a friend of
the editor of the True Californian, in which the narra-*
tive was printed : —
“ Q. Mr. King, can you appear to night ?
11 A. I will.
“ Q. How long first ?
“ A. In fifteen minutes.
“ Q. What signal will you give ?
“ A. I will ring the door-bell.
“We waited for about six minutes only, when the
door-bell was rung very violently, and an attempt was
apparently made to enter at the door. This was partly
made of glass, and opened from the piazza. The noise
of the door and glass rattling was very violent, and
sounded strange and ghastly in the silence and semi¬
darkness of our circle^ Mrs. X.’s mother, children,
and servants, were awakened by the noise, and the
fierce house dogs, of whom Mr. J. P. had provided
several since these manifestations commenced, began
baying ferociously.
“ Mr. J. P. immediately rose, and in his calm, col¬
lected way carefully traversed the whole length of the
house, and the piazza all around. Not a creature in
the mortal form could be concealed in the ground
undetected by the fierce dogs, who were set loose to
prevent the possible tricks of strangers; besides, the
full moon lighted up the room within and without, and
from the moment when the bell rung every eye was
fixed upon the glass door, and, even whilst it was most
violently shaken, we all knew, Tor all saw, that not a
creature was visible near it. We then resumed our
circle, and inquired, through the raps, who was now
present. ‘ Capitani ’ was the name spelled- out, and
recognised by Mrs. X. as an old Kanaka woman who
was known to them and had died several years before.
“ Mr. J. P. asked if she would appear to-night as she
had on former occasions ; she answered in the affirma¬
tive, and promised to ring the door-bell as the signal of
her approach. It was scarcely twenty seconds after the
raps had ended spelling out. this message, when the
bell again rang furiously, and at the same moment a
bush growing within a few feet of the window was
shaken so violently as to fix all our attention upon it in
the fear that it would be torn up by the roots. Then
we [having our attention fixed upon the bush] dis¬
tinctly, and all together, saw a gigantic human figure
apparently rising and emerging from the bush, issue
out into the broad moonlight, pass within two feet of
the window before our eyes, and glide off towards the
kitchen. By a common impulse we all rose and rushed
to the window, but only in time to see that figure melt
out, and another rise up, as it were, out of the ground,
and immediately seat itself upon a bench before the
kitchen door, and full in the glare of the broad moon¬
light.
“ And here I would fain pause, for I have no words
adequate to describe what I then saw; and, though its
memory will be for ever engraven upon my brain, I
can neither communicate in words the least reality of
it, nor yet attempt its description, without subjecting
myself to the charge of the wildest exaggeration. I can
only add, I pm now writing for the philosopher and
those who, I cannot doubt, will in futurity realise
similar manifestations, and the clue to them; hence, for
the sake of science, and that supreme truth which will
some day vindicate and prove itself, I will attempt a
verbal description of this appalling apparition.
52
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 1, 1873.
<f It certainly bore the human form, though in dis¬
torted and frightful disproportion.
“ It was of gigantic height and frightfully lean. Its
face was hideously long, thin, and distorted; blacker
than any idea of blackness I ever had before; but its
expression I never can pourtray. I can only say it was
an appalling mixture of rage, hate, and despair, so
shocking that I cannot at any time attempt to recall it
without a sickening sensation of horror.
“ It was horrible to look at, horrible to think of,
and I hope my mortal eyes will never again be blighted
with so hideous a spectacle; and yet I looked, and we
all looked, with a fixed fascination I cannot describe,
though I confess then, dnd still feel now, as if I would
have given much never to have keen it. The noise of
the ringing bell had again disturbed the mother and
younger children of Mrs. X., who were occupying the
chamber above us.
“Attracted to the window, as they had often been to
witness similar phenomena, they looked and saw,
exactly as we did, the ghastly apparition below. Un¬
able to retreat, yet scarcely able to endure the sight,
they stood, as they afterwards described, awe-struck
and spell-bound by the shocking spectre. He wore a
large white robe thrown fully around him and partly
covering his immensely long lean head; and there he
sat, reclining on the bench, full in the moonlight, silent,
still, and ghastly, in all his appalling ugliness. The
face was turned to us somewhat in profile.
“ For myself, I confess, the time came when I could
bear this scene no longer. After looking on the goblin
—for human I can never think it—till the sight over¬
powered me, I rushed to the piazza door, feeling the
necessity for air.
“ I was followed by the ladies, who were almost
fainting; but on attempting to unfasten the door,
which Mr. J. P. had opened with perfect ease but a
few moments before, we found it barricaded. Mr. B.,
the bravest amongst us save Mr. J. P., remained,
watching the goblin, as did the family upstairs, until
they saw it gradually and slowly melt out. They never
lost sight of it until its disappearance. As we retreated,
the sofas, chairs, tables, cushions, globes, and mathe¬
matical instruments, were hurled about in every direc¬
tion with great violence. I was severely struck with a
book, and one of the ladies had a cushion dashed in her
face, the dust from which blinded her eyes for several
minutes.
“ Mr. J. P. and his wife now joined me at the door,
and after great exertion we succeeeed in forcing it
partly open, when we found that the heavy iron gate at
the entrance of the grounds had been literally torn up
out of its sockets, and placed bodily against the piazza
door. This must have been done in a few minutes,
since one of the servants had just passed through and
fastened it. It must have been accomplished without
noise, though it would have taken several men to
achieve such a feat, and we had sat opposite to it, with
the moon shining full on it, the whole period of the
circle: hence human agency in such a work was simply
impossible.
“ We then followed Mr. J. P., who, by the way, was
the only one of our party that retained any presence of
mind, through the house to the kitchen, where we
hoped to confront the apparition which we had last
seen, as described, on the bench outside of it. - Arrived
there in tumultuous haste, all was over. The bench was
empty, and not a trace remained of our ghastly visitor.
“ Fortunately, Mr. B. and Mrs. X.’s mother and
children had never quitted their posts of observation,
and each described in an exactly similar manner the
mode of the spectre’s disappearance. Mr. B. stood
within eight feet of it, and, just as we approached the
kitchen-door, he saw, as did those above, the creature
rise with slow deliberation, standing a minute still, as
if to display its enormous height, then, lightly lifting
its robe, it seemed to float off a little way, and then,
instantly, in the clear space, become invisible. There
were four witnesses of this scene, and each gave a pre¬
cisely similar account when questioned separately. At
length we returned to the library, and, after some time
spent in attempting to regain our composure, we re¬
sumed our sitting; but I was so shocked at what I had
lately witnessed, that I protested against resuming the
seance unless the whole circle pledged themselves that
no effort should be made to summon back our frightful
visitor.
“ We all agreed to bend our minds and aspirations
on the attempt to call around us kind, genial, and more
human beings, and conjured some bright and happy
spirits to visit us, and aid in dispelling the horrors of
the last apparition.
“We had not taken our places five minutes before,
nervous and distrustful as we still were, we were con¬
vinced our petitions were answered. Cool, balmy
breezes played around us ; soft, caressing hands stroked
our cheeks and heads ; more than a dozen small, white,
human hands gleamed about the room, at first shadowy
and like thin vapour, at last palpable, opaque, and
seemingly as firm in sight and touch as our own hands.
Mr. J. P. had been suffering all day frem toothache,
and several of those soft hands were seen and felt ten¬
derly stroking his face. In a short time he exclaimed
that the pain was entirely gone, when the soft touches
were withdrawn ; after which we were admonished, by
raps, to break .up our circle, which, at about half-past
one o’clock, we most reluctantly consented to do.
“ Kind good nights were spelled out by the spirits,
and we all departed.”—Pp. 447—449.
HEALING MED1UMSHIP.
Theke is a wonderful power of healing in mes¬
merism, which power is greatly increased when the
mesmeriser is also a medium, and aided by spirits. Dr.
Newton cured on the spot about one in every six of the
persons he mesmerised, and some of these rapid cures
were of the most astounding nature. We published a
list of more than one hundred of the cures, with the
names and addresses of the patients, yet we never
heard that any medical men took the trouble to call
upon those people to verify facts so intimately con¬
nected with their profession. Neither did any of the
daily newspapers send a correspondent round in a cab
to see the cured people. On the contrary, they abused
Dr. Newton, and called him a “ miracle-monger,”
although Dr. Newton constantly disclaimed the power
of working miracles,•and publicly stated, over and over
again, that he did not believe in miracles. He said
that as he charged nothing, and certainly cured people,
the newspapers need not have abused him so. They
might have called him an enthusiast (and he certainly
was an enthusiast of the deepest dye), but they ought
not to have called his sincerity into question. During
his short stay in England, he gave a great deal of
money to the poor, and his only regret was that he had
not more to give. We have been informed that when
Jan. 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
53
he left England he was .£700 poorer than when he
arrived here.
As we have often stated, Spiritualism is much more
a mental than a physical science, and the state of the
affections of the sitters has an all-powerful influence
at seances, in aiding or retarding good manifestations.
It was just the same with the cures effected by Dr.
Newton. He often said to the patient,—“ If you love
me when you look upon me, I know that you will be
cured,” and so it proved in practice. Still, it was not
in the nature of everybody to fall in love with a per¬
spiring old man in shirt-sleeves. Intellectual Spiritu¬
alists, who could overlook external circumstances, and
appreciate the grand and good work Dr. Newton was
doing, usually had their ailments cured, and poorer
Spiritualists, who looked up to him with reverence and
love, had their diseases cured with great ease. His
greatest failures were 'with fashionable people, who
stared at him as a living curiosity, and critically viewed
his manipulations as they would a new experiment in
physics. In the presence of such people, his power fell
to the ground. He told us he did not like to speak to
them with authority, and could not feel towards them
the same amount of love that he did to others. He
professed to love every living thing, for he argued that
the worst of mankind could not help their acts, and
that others would have acted just the same had they
been surrounded by the same conditions.
There were exceptions to the general principles we
have laid down about his healing mediumship. He
occasionally failed with sympathetic people, and some¬
times succeeded with persons who did not believe in
his powers. But in these exceptional cases, so far as
we saw, the sympathy in the one case was not very
great, and in the other case, there was little or no
mental antagonism.
During his short stay in London, he performed more
cures than all the Bible celebrities put together; and
was as soundly abused for it in the newspapers as
Jesus Christ would be, if he came to JLondon to¬
morrow, and did the same thing. Such deeds are
admired in theory, both by Church and State, but in
practice they have an awkward tendency to interfere
with the real religion of the materialistic British
nation,—namely, cash and vested interests.
The facts of Dr. Newton’s mediumship raised a very
great question,—namely, “ If we had more healing
mediums, could some of them effect cures where the
others failed ? ” If so, it is clear that a power exists
in the world to cure, perhaps, four out of every six
diseased persons, instead of the one out of every six
cured by Dr. Newton.
There being at that time no other healing medium
in this country, we went to the Mesmeric Infirmary to
learn whether it was a fact that some mesmerists
could cure patients who had not been cured by other
mesmeric operators. "We were informed that it is an
established fact in mesmerism that some operators
succeed where others fail.
Further, many diseases are hereditary, and due to
ante-natal causes preventible by rational and intelli¬
gent people.
Also, an enormous amount of disease is caused by
the partial laws which drain most of the means of sub¬
sistence in England into the possession of a very few
people, leaving the rest to fight against an abnormal
amount of mental and physical troubles, most damaging
to health and happiness.
To sum up all these facts, it is clear that a great
amount of power to cure and prevent disease exists in
the world, but is unused, because of the people at
large, and most of their leaders, being so deeply stained
by that great sin—ignorance.
Dr. Newton differed from ordinary mesmerists in the
matter of his being a powerful medium, though he very
rarely had any physical manifestations. When any
danger threatened him, his spirits would occasionally
wake him up in the night, and tell him of the danger,
signalling out the messages by means of loud raps on
the floor. One morning we called upon him at Hamp¬
stead, and found him in a state of great glee. A with¬
ered and brown geranium, to all intents and purposes
dead, had been lying on his table in the bedroom when
he went to sleep, and in the morning the spirits told
him that they had restored it by means of vital power
taken from his body. He found the geranium looking
as if freshly gathered, and on comparing it with flowers
on the plant from which it had originally been plucked,
the restored geranium was found to be of perceptibly
deeper colour than the others.
Dr. Newton did not like the protracted presence of
positive-minded people. If such talked to him for
some time, he would often fall into a trance-sleep, and
much of his strength would temporarily leave him.
Once his spirits gave us a message to the effect that
Dr. Newton himself had, practically speaking, long
since passed through the process of physical death, and
had given up his bodily organism to be used for good
purposes by high spirits. They said that Dr. Newton
was only one of a band of spirits who controlled the
organism, that he had already tasted all that he would
ever know of death, and that he and the other spirits
would use his earthly body so long as its vitality should
last; but in the end, like all other things of flesh, it
must pass away.
PRIYATE SEANCES.
{Reported by permission.)
SEANCE AT ME. HOLMES’S.
On Saturday evening, Dec. 14th, we were present at
a private seance for spirit faces at Mr. Nelson Holmes’s,
13, Old Quebec-street, Oxford-street, W.
A dark room is used pending the construction of a
proper cabinet; a partition of dark cloth separates the
two rooms, and it has an opening in it about a foot
square, through which the faces look at the spectators,
who sit in the lighted apartment. A special peculiarity
at these seances is that Mr. Holmes, who is the medium
for the faces, sits outside the cabinet, and there is no
living person in the darkened room. Mr. and Mrs.
Holmes sit at a table close to the cloth partition, and
the power used in producing the faces is drawn chiefly
from Mr. Holmes, through the fibres of the cloth.* As
the manifestations proceed Mr. Holmes is strongly
influenced, and three parts entranced, but never so
deeply entranced that he cannot hear what is said to
him. The arms of Mr. and Mrs. Holmes which are
nearest to the partition become weak, and sometimes
ache before the conclusion, as if much vital power were
drawn out of them.
On the evening in question the proceedings began
with a dark seance, through the mediumship of Mrs.
* This suggests that in cabinets a large piece of non-metallic gauze
might perhaps be placed between the mediums and the aperture, thereby
forming as good a test as the “iron-grating” suggested by the Manchester
gentleman.—Ed.
54
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 1, 1873.
Holmes. The manifestations were very conclusive and
satisfactory. She is not very sensitive to opposing
mental influences, hence is one of the best mediums we
know of to get good manifestations with certainty in
the presence of persons who know nothing about Spi¬
ritualism, supposing those strangers do not spoil the
seances by attempting to impose their own conditions.
This is why we recommencj investigators to go to her
seances first.
, At the face seance, Hiss Cook, who was present, also
sat with Mr. and Mrs. Holmes at the table in front of
the cabinet. The amount of light was small, the mani¬
festations being as yet not fully developed it consisted
of a candle placed at one end of the room, with a hat
before it to prevent the direct rays from falling upon
the opening in the cabinet. The faces were seen by all,
but the person for whom each face was intended had to
go nearer, when invited, to recognise it.
The faces have no white drapery about them, and
the spirits appear in the costume of everyday life..
They do not talk, and as a rule the muscles appear to
be rigid and motionless. They glide to the opening,
and bow gravely and deliberately in answer to ques¬
tions. Some of them are stony white, others flesh-
coloured. The evening we were present one of the
faces was recognised by “ M. A.,” the scientific gentle¬
man who recently contributed some long and interesting
letters on Spiritualism to the Liverpool Mercury. He
says he has no doubt as to the face being that of a
deceased and very dear friend of his.' Another face
was also recognised.
Miss Cook then went inside the cabinet, with Mr.
Holmes, and the first result was that a face which had
previously appeared could at once bear a somewhat
stronger light; it also seemed to be more buoyant, for
it several times floated up past the opening, and seemed
to come down slowly and with difficulty. It was an
old gentleman, with a white necktie, and apparently
faded into nothing below the necktie.
Next “ Katie” appeared, with her head-dress, as at
Miss Cook’s seances. Miss Cook was then entranced,
six or eight feet from the opening, and Mr. Holmes
was a little behind her, further off still. He says he
saw something faintly luminous rising out of Miss
Cook’s body ; this floated towards the opening, and, as
it neared it, he distinguished the full-length form of
Katie, connected with the medium by faintly luminous
threads, extending from and to all parts of both bodies.
When “ Katie ” looked out of the cabinet, he could see
the light from the outer room shining through her—she
was translucent. All this is specially interesting, be¬
cause previously nobody had seen Miss Cook’s manifest¬
ations from the inside of the cabinet, though many have
tried. It was, probably, in consequence of being a face
medium that Mr. Holmes’s influence did not conflict
with hers.
This manifestation brought the very interesting
seance to a close.
SEAXCES AT ME. GUPPY’S.
On Tuesday, Dec. 17th, two or three friends were
present, with ourselves, at the house of Mr. 8. Guppy,
1, Morland-villas-, Highbury-hill-park, N., and one of
the guests suddenly suggested that there should be a
face seance. To this Mrs. Guppy, with her usual kind¬
ness, readily assented. The gaslight was turned down,
and she entered the photographic room used as a cabinet.
8he looked out at one of its openings, and soon a dark
face, surrounded with white drapery, looked out at the
other. The light being too feeble for features to be
distinguished, we were asked to go close to the cabinet,
and then saw that it was an Eastern face of the Hindoo
type—no beard. The eyes and teeth moved. We were
allowed to feel the face, and it was cold. Next a marble
white, rigid face, came, said to be Katie’s ; we could
not see it very clearly.
Mrs. Guppy d°es not sit much for face manifestations,
but the few sittings she has had enable the faces to
bear much more light than they did at first. By fur¬
ther trials the power will doubtless grow stronger still.
On Christmas Eve there was an evening party at
Mr. Guppy’s. Mrs. Guppy and Mr. Williams sat in
the cabinet for face manifestations in a fair light.
“John King” appeared with a pale large round face,
dark beard, and a white turban; he was also dressed
in white. He did not put his head out into the light,
but came near enough to the opening for us to see his
lips and muscles moving as he talked with his well-
known strong voice.
Christmas festivities occupied most of the time of the
guests during the rest of the evening, and all had a
very happy time of it.
SEANCES AT MR. HENRY COOK’S.
Since pur last notice, there have been several seances
at Mr. Cook’s, at Hackney, for spirit-faces, through the
mediumship of his daughter, Miss Florence Cook. The
manifestations were much the same as those already
described in these pages. Katie can now change her
face from black to white, and vice versa, in about fif¬
teen seconds. When the dark face shows, the eyeballs
have a deep chocolate colour, which is very remarkable.
The teeth of the dark face have not yet been seen.
The lips of the dark face are of a dull, and not pure,
red colour. Indeed, this face seems as if produced by
some transparent dark brown colouring matter passed
through the skin of a face which previously was
coloured naturally. Katie will sometimes ask for a
paper and pencil, and write short letters before the
whole company. The following is the first she ever
wrote in this way, and she said she intended it for
Mr. Blackburn, of Manchester:—
I have strained a point to write a few lines to wish you,
dear friend, a merry Christmas and a happy new year. Love
from your and Florrie’s friend.
Annie Morgan (or, Katie King.)
The foregoing was written on the 18th of December,
in the presence of Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D., Streatham;
Mr. F. Piercy, Pall Mall; Mr. B. Cpleman, Bernard
Yillas, Upper Norwood ; Mr. W. H. Harrison, Herne
Hill; and “ M. A.” (This last witness does not desire
his name to be published.)
While the manifestations are going on, the medium
is seated in the lower part of the cabinet, with a string
passed round her waist, and sealed, and the end of the
string held by somebody outside. Thus, even the
slight motion caused when she coughs is felt by the
person holding the other end. The faces show at the
top of the cabinet far above her head.
We have received, the following letter from Mr.
Coleman about the preceding seance:—
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
Sir,—I was privileged to make one of four strangers who
were present at Miss Florence Cook’s seance, on Wednesday
last, and had I not been specially asked to express my
opinion of what I then witnessed, I should have been con¬
tented to refer your readers to those accounts which you
have already published in several of your past numbers, and
to a most graphic narrative in the Daily Telegraph of the
Jan. 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
55
lOfcli of October last of a very similar exhibition from the pen
of “ Our Own Commissioner,” which the editor has dared to
publish. I say dared, for it is certain that the manifestations
which I and a few others have placed upon record for many
years past as phenomenal facts worthy of the consideration
of philosophers have been rudely and scornfully treated at
various times by that journal in common with most of the
others. To my knowledge some of the best minds which are
now engaged in the study of Spiritualism, are those who were
specially engaged by one or another of the public press to
strangle it. Such facts at the present time are the best evi¬
dences that the truths of Spiritualism are dawning on the
minds of a large portion of our literary men, who have been
misled by the false science engendered by prominent members
of the Eoyal Society.
The particular features which accompany Miss Cook’s
mediumship are very remarkable, and the very simple but
complete means which are offered to the observers at once
frees the medium and her friends from all suspicion of trickery.
In addition to the faces shown in the light—the white faces
and that with a pure Eastern skin—there was one who had
not appeared before—a young man’s face with a dark beard
and moustache, all bearing the features of the young girl her¬
self, which is a fact for the philosopher hereafter to reflect
upon.
This semblance of the mediumis face will no doubt be
surpassed; it will remain as one condition of spirit power,
and we shall doubtless attain through this interesting young
lady’s mediumship an advanced phase, when spirits will
come to us and individualise themselves to one and another
of the audience, as a mother or wife, with the well-remem¬
bered expressions of past days which all may recognise.
One very remarkable incident took place at the close of this
evening’s seance, which was certainly not in any programme.
One of the strangers present asked if the spirit would write a
message for us. It consented, and a piece of foolscap, very
much crumpled, and a pencil, borrowed from one of my
friends, was handed to the figure whose face and two hands
were visible to us all. Seizing both the paper and pencil with
a natural but hasty grasp, the figure placed the paper on. the
ledge of the aperture, which no mortal could do, and then
commenced writing rapidly, breaking the pencil in the act,
asking with a wave of the hand for another, obtaining it, and
concluding a neatly-written message, wishing us all the com¬
pliments of the season, &c.
My friend Dr. Gully accompanied me, and he agrees with
me in thinking that it was, upon the whole, one of the most
convincing seances we had ever attended.
Upper Norwood, Dec. 23rd, 1872. B. Coleman.
Mr. Dunphy has sent us the following account of
another seance, at which he, Miss Marie Scott, Mrs.
and Miss Corner, and other friends specially invited by
Katie King, were present:—
To the Editor of The Spiritualist.
Sib,—You will oblige me by giving me the opportunity of
briefly describing a seance held at the house of Mr. and Mrs.
Cook, of Hackney, on Monday evening, the 23rd inst. The
medium was their elder daughter, Miss Florence Cook, and
the circle was composed, as I am informed, of some half dozen
friends, specially invited to be present. The test applied was
simple but satisfactory. A thin twine was passed round the
medium’s waist, and. two knots having been tied both were
carefully sealed. Miss Cook then took her seat in the cabinet,
and the end of the string having been passed through a hole
in the door, was held by two gentlemen present. Had Miss
Cook subsequently risen in order to reach the opening in the
cabinet, or had she contributed in any way to produce the
subsequent manifestations, the persons who held the string
must have been able to detect her movements. A few minutes
after the doors of the cabinet were closed, Katie began an
animated conversation, and eventually showed her face several
times. On resuming the seance, after a brief interval, a black
face appeared at the opening, and shortly afterwards a. man’s
face ; the complexion of the latter was sallow, the head small,
and the beard on the upper lip short and black. These faces
did not bear so strong a light as that of Katie herself, nor was
I able to ascertain that they spoke, although the motion of
the eyes was distinctly visible. A fourth head (that of the
“ Haverfordwest spirit,” as it is now termed) then showed
itself, but without the scar over the left eye. The expression
was not pleasant, and on questions being put to it, the only
response was a somewhat triste expression and a shake of the
head. The general character of the face was similar to that
of the medium, bub the cheeks were rounder and fuller, and
there was a black band over the forehead, while the head¬
dress was totally dissimilar. Katie and the black face sub¬
sequently came again, and in some instances the interval be¬
tween the appearance of the one and the other did not exceed
ten or fifteen seconds, but in no case was I able to see that
both faces were exhibited simultaneously.
The conversation having turned upon the practicability or
impracticability of mechanical hands being protruded, Katie
was asked whether she would put on a diamond ring, as also
a pair of black gloves. Assenting immediately, both were
handed to her; the ring was'put on the wedding finger, and
the gloves drawn on ; one of the latter was subsequently
turned inside out, while the fingers of the other were knotted
together in a curious manner. A lady’s pocket-handkerchief
was also rolled up into a ball, and the ends concealed in some
cunning and complicated fashion.
That mechanical bands could have done these things with
the rapidity we noticed was absolutely impossible. But a
further and more curious test remained. It seemed to me that
the suggestion of mechanical agency (started by myself with
a purpose), aroused all the energy, and evoked all the dexterity
of the mysterious agency by which the manifestations were
produced. Somebody having observed that mechanical fingers
would find some difficulty in writing quickly, Katie called for
pencil and paper, and said she wanted to write a note. I then
produced a gold pencil-case with a double movement, one for
producing the lead, and the other a pen. When handed to
Katie, she immediately unscrewed the little cap at the top, so
as to scatter the store of leads on the carpet ; but as the re¬
ceptacle happened to be empty, she laughed and screwed on
the top again. She then wrote the following message on a
sheet of note-paper and threw it out:—f I am much pleased
that you have all come to-night at my invitation.—Annie
Morgan.”
On the other side of the paper were the words :—“ This is
for my dear beloved . A merrie Christmas and a happy
new year.”
Annie Morgan was, I understand, the terrestrial name of
the spirit who, however, prefers the appellation of “ Katie.”
Katie subsequently wrote a message of sympathy to a lady
whose daughter was present, but who was herself prevented
by indisposition from joining the circle. All these manifesta¬
tions occurred under a bright light.
A very brief seance was afterwards held with the lights
entirely extinguished. Miss Cook was' locked up in the
cabinet, the key being left in the door. The hands of all
present were then clasped, and in a few minutes we heard the
key turned in the door, and Miss Cook, giving a slight scream,
was carried, or propelled into the centre of the room, while the
doors of the cabinet were flung wide open ! I am positive
that no person left the circle to open the cabinet, nor could
any foot have crossed the floor for the purpose without my
hearing it.
I do not attempt to offer any explanation of these phe¬
nomena ; but judging from the rapid development of the
manifestations of late, there is, I think, reason to believe that
more light will eventually be thrown upon a subject which, up
to the present time, has baffled the ingenuity and research of
the learned and the curious, and which is certainly directly
opposed to the traditional ethics of physical science and
moral philosophy.
In common with other inquirers, I am sincerely anxious to
arrive at a solution of what must be admitted to be the most
astounding phenomena of an age remarkable above all its
predecessors for the rapid development of Truth.
Henry M. Dunphy.
3, Essex-court, Temple, December 26th.
"We have received the following letter from Mr.
Enmore Jones about a seance described in our last
number:—
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
Sir,—The reports of your two correspondents, respecting
the 30th November seance, with Miss F. Cook, were very
accurate ; I only desire to add an incident. When looking at
the visage of the spirits, I saw the eyelids were motionless ;
after a time, I asked if she could move hers, as we in the
flesh did ; at once the eyelids commenced their motion, as if
by an ordinary human being. The face I might call Grecian,
the flesh tint natural, with colour in the cheeks. The whole
contour of features was placid and lustrous. The gaslight
56
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 1, 1873.
was strong on the face, and the face steadily looked towards
it, and often turned and looked at the visitors.
Enmore-park, S.E., December, 1872. Enmore Jones.
The Social Review of December 14th contains a
description, by Mr. George Fraser, of one of Miss
Cpok’s seances, as follows :—
At the present moment Miss Florrie Cook, of Hackney,
has far outstripped her contemporaries in “spiritual” gifts.
Skilful as Mr. Home is in the arts of levitation and elonga¬
tion, he has never yet succeeded in making his spirit-friends
visible. Miss Cook undertakes to show those who visit her
the very flesh and blood of the ghostly beings who hold com¬
munion with her whilst she is in the trance state. After such
a promise our readers may imagine how Miss Cook’s house is
besieged with visitors—and how anxious her father should be
to conceal his private address. The editors of two at least of
the London daily papers have attended Miss Cooke’s seances,
to say nothing of their “ specials.” The Daily Telegraph^sA
a column and more about Miss Cook on the 10th October last.
Lords and ladies, men of science, and literary gentlemen have
been pouring in upon her abundantly, and it is not therefore
surprising that some days ago we were pleased to be among
the favoured few to whom Miss Cook is compelled to restrict
her attentions.
Before the manifestations began Miss Cook shut herself up
in a cupboard in the corner of a basement breakfast-room, above
the doors of which a square hole had been cut large enough
to exhibit, as in a frame, the head of any ordinary-sized
human being; and it appears that the spirits retain their
mortal dimensions. After some time had elapsed, the doors
were opened by the direct command of the spirit-voice, and
Miss Cook was discovered tightly tied in her chair, by a long
iece of tape which had been shut up in the cupboard with
er. We were requested to seal the knots of Miss Cook’s
bonds, ahd were particular to do so in such a manner that the
slightest movement would break the seals. Then the doors
were closed again, and shortly after the little curtains which
veiled the opening above the cupboard doors were violently
agitated by a mysterious hand, and we held our breath in
expectancy until suddenly a beautiful head appeared, swathed
in glistening white drapery. This, after conversing in
whispers with the various company assembled, vanished, and
at the end of a second interval, another beautiful face
appeared with a long red cicatrix over the left eyebrow,
declaring herself to be the departed friend of a gentlemen
present. This head has appeared at previous seances, making
the same statement, but the mortal cannot at all recollect his
wounded acquaintance. After another interval the first head
reappeared, accompanied, as many present declared, by a
black face, but from our position in the room we were only
able to see one head. After this the voice directed the cabinet
to be opened : this was done, and behold ! Miss Cook was in
a trance, and bound to her chair, just as before, whilst not
one of the seals was broken.
Refreshments were now served upstairs, and general con¬
versation engaged in. Then the second part of the seance
began, wherein, though Miss Cook was this time untied, only
one face was able to exhibit itself—a face this time surrounded
by hair of a different texture and colour from that of the
medium. Adverse spirits caused the comparative failure of
the second half of the seance, said Miss Cook’s familiar. So
we broke up about a quarter to eleven, feeling somewhat
weak in the knees and shoulders, and not quite certain what
to think of it all.
Miss Florrie Cook is about sixteen, and of a most prepos¬
sessing appearance. Undoubtedly the spirit faces had a
strong resemblance to hers, but there were some rather un¬
accountable differences. Whatever may be the secret of her
mediumship, it is one worth knowing. Spiritualists say the
gift of mediumship is a very common one. After this great
success of Miss Cook, we expect to hear of quite a large deve¬
lopment of spiritualistic power in the feminine part of the
community; and we have therefore thought it worth our
while to publish these short notes of a very singular seance.
Me. C. W. Peaece, of 14, Burnley-road, Stockwell, S.W.,
is busily engaged in the formation of a spiritual society for
Brixton and South London.
Mes. Bassett, the non-professional medium, of Thorn-
ham-grove, Stratford, E., did much good for Spiritualism by
her visit to Dublin, and several clergymen were present at
her seances, She will probably visit South Wales soon.
THE “ SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER.
Up to the present time it has been the custom in our young
movement to more or less support the spiritual periodicals by
subscription, but The Spiritualist for several years stood out
against the principle, and returned sums of money which had
been remitted to it unasked. In consequence of this line of
action we found ourselves subjected to most unfair competition,
as our neighbours all the time were heavily subsidised year
after year by subscriptions. Hence, for once, we recently fell
in with the system, and the result was the very liberal amount
of support shown by the subscription list printed in another
column. We know well the exceptionally large amounts which
Spiritualists have given to various objects of late years, so
think the aid in this case to be all the more generous.
The result is that The Spiritualist is now published fort¬
nightly instead of monthly, so that a very great addition to
the literature of the movement has been made at very small
expense, as compared with the results. We wish our readers
to raise the present sum total by not less than £25, when we
will close-the subscription list altogether, and consider that we
have been adequately supported in the step of fortnightly
publication. If, therefore, those of our friends who have not
subscribed will come forward, and those who have subscribed
some of the smaller amounts, will increase them, the solitary
subscription list we have ever opened in connection with this
journal will be closed.
There should be some central body of Spiritualists, in no
way connected with the spiritual journals, to consider these
and other questions of great interest to the movement. If it
be considered to be for the good of the movement to expend
funds to aid the Spiritual periodicals, then we submit that
those funds should be divided equally among the different
journals by the central society ; otherwise there is direct en¬
couragement to persons to start periodicals which cannot
possibly be self-supporting, and to make up the deficiency by
hard begging.
If A starts a business to clear its own expenses, and to be a
burden to nobody, but B undersells him by supplying goods
under cost price, and makes up the deficiency by incessantly
demanding subscriptions, it is clear that the subscribers by
subsidising B, fine A heavily so long as he refuses to adopt
the subscription system. Moreover, when he adopts it, they
have the burden of supporting two undertakings, neither of
them remunerative.
These, and many other questions of interest to Spiritualists,
ought to be considered by an independent central tribunal, in
no way connected with the Spiritual periodicals. In No. 41
of The Spiritualist we gave a list of some of the gentlemen
qualified to manage a central associatioq ; they were persons
in whom the great body of Spiritualists would have confi¬
dence. We have since heard from several leading Spiritualists
that they desire to see such a central association formed, and
one gentleman has just written to us volunteering £10 a-year
towards its support.  
HlamagT.
Jencken—Fox.—On the 14th inst., at St. Marylebone
Church, by the Rev. Mr. Braithwaite, Henry D. Jencken,
Esq., Barrister-at-law, &c., &c., to Miss Kate Fox, of Hydes-
ville, New York Co., United States.
(^ittereb- Spirit
Cook.—On the 19th inst., in her 84th year, Harriott, relict
of the late W. Cook, Esq., Southwark, and grandmother of
Miss Florence Cook.
ANSWEES TO COEEESPONDENTS.
T. Y.—Haverfordwest.—Your very natural questions were an¬
swered in No. 38 of the Spmtualist, first article.
J. J.—Barking.—We do not see what good the publication of your
letter would do. Proofs of spirit identity are often given through
test-mediums, but nobody has the power to summon any par¬
ticular spirit.
Mr. Holmes writes to us that the little spirit Rosa complains that
we did not give the exact words, last month, of her whimsical
song. She gives the following correction:—
“ A grasshopper sat on a sweet potato vine,
On a sweet potato vine,
On a sweet potato vine,
And a big turkey-gobbler came a-snicking up behind,
And nipped him off from that sweet potato vine.”
I. M. D.—Most of the particulars you sent have already been
published. .
J. T. M., Peterborough.—Your letter is in type, but kept over for
want of space at present.
Jan. 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
57
MARRIAGE OF MISS KATE FOX.
On Saturday, December 14th, 1872, Miss Kate Fox,
so well known as the medium through whom modern
Spiritual manifestations first began in America (about
twenty years ago, when she was a mere child), was
married to Mr. Henry Diedrich Jencken, barrister-at-
law, etc., etc., at the old parish church, Saint Maryle-
bone. The marriage ceremony was performed in the
presence of a few personal friends only; had the
approach of the happy event been generally known
beforehand, there is no doubt that there would have
been a very large attendance of Spiritualists on the
occasion.
The bride was dressed simply in white and lace, with
a half wreath of white flowers in her hair. Miss
Ogden, her companion, who was richly dressed in
black silk and point lace, carried her veil; at the altar
stood Dr. Bird, who gave away the bride; a few other
intimate friends were likewise present. The marriage
service was conducted by the Rev. Mr. Braithwaite.
At its conclusion the bridal party drove to 45, York-
place. The guests present at the breakfast were Miss
Ogden, an American lady, who came to England in
company with her intimate friend, Miss Fox; Dr.
Fred. Tomkins, an old and dear friend of Mr. Jencken,
author of several works on Roman Law, and a gen¬
tleman well known in America; Dr. George Bird,
and Miss Bird, of 49, Welbeck-street; Mr. Henry
Cholmondeley-Pennell, the poet, and Mrs. Pennell;
Mr. James Wason, of Liverpool; and Mr. William H.
Harrison.
In the course of the few speeches which were made
at the breakfast, most heartfelt good wishes for the hap¬
piness of Mr. and Mrs. Jencken were expressed. The
spirits, also, took part in the proceedings by means of
loud raps emanating from various parts of the room;
they also manifested their presence by repeated move¬
ments of the breakfast table, which, despite of its bur¬
den, including the huge wedding-cake, was tilted
several times bodily off the ground.
There was nothing to mar the pleasure of the party,
except a toast which was given by Mr. Jencken, in
which he alluded to some trials which his bride had
passed through since her arrival in England; a tinge of
sadness then passed momentarily over her face. Mes¬
sages of a private nature, for Mr. Jencken, from Miss
Fox’s departed mother, were spelt out. Mr. Harrison
asked whether the spirits could carry a message that
morning to any friends in America. The raps said,
“ Yes; to Maggie” (Miss Fox’s sister). He then asked
them to say, “ Your sister Katie was married to-day in
the presence of nine loving friends.” He asked if they
could also give the message to Mr. Mansfield in New
York, as so many different spirits were aide to com¬
municate through him. The spirits replied that they
would try. This was at three o’clock; so that the
time in America was then about ten in the morning.
Some jocular remarks were also made by the spirits,
and one of them of the name of Taylor signalled out—
“Jencken is his own master no longer”—a message
which created much merriment. The same spirit added,
“ Meet again on Tuesday week.”
Later in the day Mr. and Mrs. Jencken left London
for Tunbridge Wells. We are sure that all Spiritualists
will join with us in wishing them every happiness. Mr.
Jencken is one of the few professional gentlemen who
years ago was not afraid to publish what he knew about
Spiritual phenomena at a time when the promulgation
of such truths produced more ridicule and required more
moral courage than at present.
Mr and Mrs. Jencken returned to London yesterday,
and will probably visit Paris soon.
THE ANTHROPOLOGICAL INSTITUTE.
SERPENT WORSHIP.
On Tuesday evening, December 17th, at the ordinary fort¬
nightly meeting of the Anthropological Institute, at 4, St.
Martin’s-place, Trafalgar-square, London, Dr. R. S. Char-
nock, F.S.A., presided.
Mr. C. Staniland Wake read a paper on the “ Origin of
Serpent Worship.” He said that “we are indebted to
Mr. Fergusson for bringing together a large array of
facts, showing the extraordinary range which serpent
worship had among ancient nations. It is true that he
supposes it not to have been adopted by any nation belong:
ing to the Semitic or Aryan stock; the serpent worship of
India and Greece originating, as he believes, with older
peoples. However this may be, the superstition was certainly
not unknown to either Aryans or Semites. The brazen ser¬
pent of the Hebrew Exodus was destroyed in the reign of
Hezekiah, owing to the idolatry to which it gave rise. In the
mythology of the Chaldseans, from whom the Assyrians seem
to have sprung, the serpent occupied a most important posi¬
tion. Among the allied Phoenicians and Egyptians it was one
of the most divine symbols. In Greece Hercules was said
‘ to have been the progenitor of the whole race of serpent¬
worshipping Scythians, through his intercourse with the ser¬
pent Echidna; ’ and when Minerva planted the sacred olive
on the Acropolis of Athens, she placed it under the care of
the serpent deity Erechthonios. As to the Latins, Mr. Fer¬
gusson remarks that ‘ Ovid’s Metamorphoses are full of pas¬
sages referring to the important part which the serpent per¬
formed in all the traditions of classic mythology.’ The
superstitions connected with that animal are supposed not to
have existed among the ancient Gauls and Germans; but this
is extremely improbable, considering that it appears to have
been known to the British Celts and to the Gothic inhabitants
of Scandinavia. In Eastern Europe there is no doubt that
the serpent superstition was anciently prevalent, and Mr.
Fergusson refers to evidence proving that ‘ both trees and
serpents were worshipped by the peasantry in Esthonia and
Finland within the limits of the present century, and even
with all the characteristics possessed by the old faith when we
first become acquainted with it. The serpent entered largely
into the mythology of the ancient Persians, as it does into that
of the Hindus. In India it is associated with both Sivaism
and Vishnuism, although its actual worship, perhaps, be¬
longed rather to the aboriginal tribes, among whom Buddhism
is thought by recent writers to have originated. The modern
home of the superstition, however, is Western Africa, where
the serpent is not merely considered sacred, but is actually
worshipped as divine. On the other side of the Indian Ocean
traces of the same superstition are met with among the
peoples of the Indian Islands and of Polynesia, and also in
China. The evidences of serpent worship on the American
Continent have long engaged the attention of archaeologists,
who have found it to be almost universal, under one form or
another, among the aboriginal tribes. That animal was sculp¬
tured on the temples of Mexico and Peru, and its form is
‘said by Mr. Squier to be of frequent occurrence among the
mounds of Wisconsin. The most remarkable of the symbolic
earthworks of North America is the great serpent mound of
Adam’s County, Ohio, the convolutions of which extend to a
length of 1,000 feet. At the Edinburgh meeting of the British
Association, in 1871, Mr. Phene gave an account of his dis¬
covery in Argyllshire of a similar mound, several hundred feet
long and about 15-ft. high by 30-ft. broad, tapering gradually
to the tail, the head being surmounted by a circular cairn,
which he supposes to answer to the solar disc above the head
of the Egyptian urseus, the position of which, with head erect,
answers to the form of the Oban serpent mound. This dis¬
covery is of great interest, and its author is probably justified
in assuming that the mound was connected with serpent
worship. I may remark, in evidence of the existence of such
structures in other parts of the Old World, that the hero of
one of the Yagnas of the Zend Avesta is made to rest on
what he thinks is a bank, but which he finds to be a great
green snake, doubtless a serpent mound. Another ancient
reference to these structures is made by Iphicrates, who,
according to Byrant, ‘ related that in Mauritania there were
58
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 1, 1873.
dragons of such extent that grass grew upon their backs.’”
The author then pointed out how primitive nations believed
the serpent t«r have power over rain, clouds, and health. He
said that “ it can be shown that the Hindu deity is a form of
Saturn, one of the Semitic names for whom was Set or Seth.
It was the serpent symbol of this God which was said to have
been elevated in the wilderness for the healing of the people
bitten by serpents, and curiously enough Rudra (Siva) was
called not only the bountiful, the strong, but the healer.”
He said that the serpent was also the symbol of wisdom, and
added that “ the most curious notion, however, is that of the
Mexicans, who always represented the first woman, whose
name was translated by the old Spanish writers ‘ the woman
of our flesh,’ as accompanied by a great male serpent. This
serpent is the sun-god Tonacatl-coatl, the principal deity of
the Mexican pantheon, and his female companion, the goddess
mother of mankind has the title Cihua-cohuatl, which signifies
‘woman of the serpent.’ With the Peruvians, also, the prin¬
cipal deity was the serpent sun, whose wife, the female ser¬
pent, gave birth to a boy and a girl, from whom all mankind
was said to be descended. It is remarkable that the
serpent origin thus ascribed to the human race is not
confined to the aborigines of America.” The author, after
referring to the identification of Seth with the Phoenician
Set or Taout, who was a serpent Sun-God, added that
elsewhere he had ‘ ‘ endeavoured to show that the name
of the great ancestor of Hebrew tradition has been
preserved by certain peoples who may thus be classed to¬
gether as Adamites. He appears, indeed, to be the recog¬
nised legendary ancestor of the members of that division of
mankind whose primeval home we can scrcely doubt was in
Central Asia, answering, in this respect, to the Seth of the
Semites. According to the tradition, however, as handed
down to us by the Hebrews, Seth himself was the son of
Adam. From this it would seem to follow that, as Seth was
the Serpent Sun-God (the Agathodaemon) the legendary an¬
cestor of the Adamites- must himself have partaken of the
same character. Strange as this idea may appear, it is not
without warrant. We have already seen that the Mexicans
ascribed that nature to Tonacatl-coatl and his wife, the mother
of mankind, and that a similar notion was entertained by
various peoples of the Old World. The Chaldean God Hea,
who, as the * teacher of mankind ’ and the ‘ Lord of under¬
standing,’ answers exactly to the Divine Benefactor of the
race before referred to, was ‘ signified by the great serpent
which occupies so conspicuous a place among the symbols of
the gods on the black stone recording Babylonian benefac¬
tions.’ The name of the god is connected with the Arabic
Hiya, which denotes a serpent as well as life; and Sir Henry
Rawlinson says that ‘ there are very strong grounds indeed
for connecting him with the serpent of scripture, and with
the paradisaical traditions of the tree of knowledge and the
tree of life.’ The god Hea was, therefore, the serpent re-
vealer of knowledge, answering, in some respects, to the
serpent of the fall. He was, however, the Agathodsemon,
and, in the earlier form of the legend, doubtless answered to
the great human ancestor himself. It is curious that, accord¬
ing to Rabbinical tradition, Cain was the son, not of Adam,
but of the serpent-spirit Asmodeus, who is the same as the
Persian Ahriman, ‘the great serpent with two feet.’ In
the name of Eve, the mother of mankind, we have, indeed,
direct reference to the supposed serpent-nature of our first
parents. Clemens Alexandrinus long since remarked that the
name Hevia, aspirated, signifies a female serpent. The name
Eve is evidently connected with the same Arabic root as that
which we have seen to mean both ‘life’ and ‘a serpent,’
and the Persians appear to have called the constellation
Serpens ‘the Little Ava,’ that is Eve, a title which is still
given to it by the Arabs. But if Eve was the serpent-mother,
Adam must have been the serpent-father. In the old Akkad
tongue Ad signifies * a father,’ and the mythical personages
with whom Adam is most nearly allied, such as Seth or
Saturn, Taaut or Thoth, and others, were serpent deities.
Such would seem to have been the case also with the deities
whose names show a close formal resemblance to that of
Adam. Thus, the original name of Hercules was Sandon or
Adanos, and Hercules, like the allied god, Mars, was un¬
doubtedly often closely associated with the serpent. That
notion is confirmed by the identification of Adonis and Osiris
as Azar, or Adar, according to Bunsen the later Egyptian
Sar-Apis, who is known to have been represented as a serpent.
The Abaddon of St. John, the old dragon Satan, was pro¬
bably intended for the same serpent-god. It is interesting
to compare the ideas entertained as to the great dragon in
the Book of Revelation and those held by the Chinese in
relation to probably the same being. Mr. Doolittle says :—
‘ The dragon holds a remarkable position in the history and
government of China. Tt also enjoys an ominous eminence in
the affections of the Chinese people. It is frequently repre¬
sented as the greatest benefactor of mankind. It is the
dragon which causes the clouds to form and the rain to fall.
The Chinese delight in praising its wonderful properties and
powers. It is the venerated symbol of good.’” Mr. Wake
closed by saying that “the facts brought together in this
paper far from exhaust the subject, but they appear to justify
the following conclusions:—1st. The serpent has been
viewed with awe or veneration from primeval times,
and almost universally as a re-embodiment of a deceased
human being ; and, as such, there was ascribed to it
the attributes of life and wisdom and the power of
healing. 2ndly. The idea of a simple spirit re-incai'nation
of a deceased ancestor gave rise to the notion that mankind
originally sprung from a serpent, and ultimately to a legend
embodying that idea. 3rdly. This legend was connected with
nature—or rather sun—worship, and the sun was, therefore,
looked upon as the divine serpent, father of man and nature.
4thly. Serpent-worship as a developed religious system origi¬
nated in Central Asia, the home of the great Scythic stock
from whom all the civilised races of the historical period
sprung. 5thly. These peoples are the Adamites, and their
legendary ancestor was at one time regarded as the great
serpent, his descendants being in a special sense serpent wor¬
shippers. ”
Lord Talbot de Malahide said that the paper was valuable
and interesting, although all the listeners could not be ex¬
pected to agree with all its conclusions. More facts ought to
be collected about the present as well as the past prevalence
of serpent-worship before coming to a decision. He said
that it was notorious that in the traditions of the Deccan the
cobra plays a great part as a powerful and beneficent being.
His friend, Sir Vincent Eyre, had recently met in France a
most startling instance of serpent-worship at the present day,
and had communicated the particulars to the Athenaeum
newspaper.
Dr. Carter Blake considered America to be pre-eminently
the country of serpent-worship, and said that true serpent-
worship was sometimes found in countries where there are no
ophidian reptiles.
Mr. Moncure D. Conway, and others, also took part in the
discussion.
Mr. Wake, in the course of his reply, said that Mr. Mon¬
cure Conway had expressed doubt whether the serpent was
originally feared or loved. In India the serpent is considered
to be a good being, and it is curious that the people believe
the mark on the head of the cobra to have been placed there
by Vishnu, an idea which bears a curious resemblance to a
part of the narrative in Genesis. He thought serpent-worship
had neither a good nor a bad beginning, but that serpents
were reverenced much the same as deceased ancestors, or
spirits. He (Mr. Wake) believed that the Jews were origi¬
nally a race of serpent-worshippers, and that the brazen ser¬
pent in the wilderness was merely Seth, the serpent god. He
thought that they worshipped Seth until the reign of Heze-
kiah, when they began to worship Jehovah, and they must
have had some reason for the change.
A paper on the Garo Hill Tribes, by Major Godwin-Austen,
was then read. The proceedings then closed.
The Royal Institution.—Last Saturday afternoon the
new session at the Royal Institution began with the first of a
series of six lectures by Dr. William Odling, F.R.S., on “Air
and Gas.” He showed an experiment which he stated to be
2,200 years old ] yet “apparently,” he said, “even at the
present day it was not understood by everybody, as it had
been made matter of discussion within the last few months.”
He placed a vessel of water in one of the pans of a balance,
counterpoised it by weights in the other, and showed that
when he dipped his fingers into the water the arm of the
balance was depressed at the water end. He then proved
that the weight thus added amounted exactly to the weight
of the water displaced by his fingers. Although he mentioned
no names, it was clear that Dr. Odling alluded to the mistake
made by Dr. Carpenter, in telling a public audience at Chelsea
that Mr. Crookes had not allowed for increased weight caused
by displacement of the water, in the experiments connected
with Spiritualism, described in Mr. Crookes’s last paper to the
Royal Society. Mr. Crookes did not make the alleged mistake.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
59
■Mg 1, 1873.
THE “TIMES” NEWSPAPER ON SPIRITUALISM.
Last Thursday the Times printed an article, three
and a half columns long, on Spiritualism, prefacing it
with the following preamble :—
It is now nearly twenty years since the late Professor
Faraday made public the result of his investigations into the
then fashionable mania of table-turning. With apparent con¬
clusiveness, he proved that the mysterious movements which
were at that time the new nine-days’ wonder of the world
arose from unconscious muscular action ; but such is the
tenacity of a belief once received into the mind, this solution
of the pseudo-marvel seems to have satisfied few but those
who were prepared to accept it by previous disbelief. Spirit¬
ualism and its adherents never heeded it; they went on their
way rejoicing, and rose day by day on stepping-stones of
their former selves to mysteries wonderful and still more
wonderful. Our Australian Correspondence of this morning
shows that the Spiritualist epidemic has reached the Anti¬
podes, and that it has already attained the dignity there of
having its own Press, and, still more, its own schismatics and
sectarians. That in a generation which boasts itself to be
one of exact science and plain matter-of-fact a belief should
have been so long-lived, and should have grown even to such
proportions that Mr. William Howitt, one of its chief fana¬
tics, can number its adherents at “twenty millions,” and
that it should have attained to such an age and vitality with¬
out its falsity having been demonstrated to the satisfaction of
all but the very ignorant, is strange indeed. It is evident
either that the subject is surrounded by unusual difficulties
or that in this matter our scientific men have signally failed
to do their duty by the public, which looks to them for its
facts. We believe the latter to be the case. It may be said,
and is said by some, that Spiritualism was long ago investi¬
gated and proved to be a mass of imposture and delusion ;
but, as a matter of fact, this is not so, for there has never
been undertaken an inquiry of that impartial, authoritative,
and thorough nature which alone can decide a prejudiced
controversy. Our savans too much preferring to give them¬
selves up to such matters as the descent of men from monkeys,
or the fertilisation of the world by means of mossy stones
falling through space, have forgotten that, however absurd
the phenomena and paraphernalia of Spiritualism may be,
the sifting and settling of the whole matter, once and for all,
would be a. practical benefit for which the age would thank
them at least as much as it thanks them for recondite theories
and abstract speculations, half of which are only laid up in
print for the next generation to ridicule.
Mr. Faraday never investigated spiritual phenomena.
He found out by experiments at home that there was
such a thing as unconscious muscular action, but had
he given sufficient practical attention to the phenomena
of Spiritualism, he would have seen that solid objects
sometimes float in the air without being touched at all.
The editor then calls attention to the Report of the
Dialectical Society, saying in effect that the sum total
of eighteen months’ investigation was that the subject
was “ worthy of ‘ serious attention ’ and ‘ careful in¬
vestigation.’ ” This is not a fair statement, and amounts
to a misquotation, because the Committee decisively
reported that solid objects sometimes moved without
being touched, in the presence of mediums, without
there being any imposture or delusion in the matter.
The writer next gives a mass of information about
Spiritualism, culled from the Report of the Committee
of the Dialectical Society, after which he says—“ Before
writing upon this subject, we thought it our duty to
see with our own eyes the actual development which
Spiritualism has attained here in London.” He then
describes a dark seance, evidently with Messrs. Herne
and Williams ; he tells how, after searching the room,
he and his friend held the hands and feet of the
mediums. He says :—
We took hold of one hand of each medium, and at the same
time pressed a foot and knee firmly against the foot and knee
on each side of us. Our friend sat in precisely the same
manner, and thus the 11 mediums” were kept in complete
custody. A box of matches was on the table. We sat as
still as a mouse, listening for the least sound. Presently we
felt something hard pressing gently against the back of our
head. Saying nothing, we leaned our head backwards, when
the substance seemed to yield and slid softly over our hair.
We made a sudden grasp at it with our left hand, still hold¬
ing fast the right hand of the medium, when there was a
sound of something falling heavily on the table. Our friend
instantly struck a match, and lo ! one of the cane-bottomed
chairs, which when we sat down were arranged round the
room, was lying on the table,... We must confess the chair
in the dark fairly puzzled us, and we came away, very far,
indeed, from being Spiritualists, but wishing we could spare
time and trouble to come again and again till we had sifted
the whole matter to the bottom.
The editor then describes another seance, evidently
with Mrs. Mary Marshall the younger. He says:—
This seance was held in the evening at the house of a
famous professional medium. We and our friend were ad¬
mitted by special favour, for the lady in question has been
left money, has retired from public practice, and lives in a
handsome, way somewhere towards Hampstead. We sat in
the drawing-room, in a good light of gas, and scarcely had
the medium touched the small round table than “ John King,”
her well-known familiar, took possession of it and caused it
to play all manner of antics. It jumped into our lap and into
the air, and conducted itself in the wildest way. But the
lady’s fingers, and they were strong, were upon it all the
time, and there was also a difficulty and a delicacy in clearing
her dress quite away from the claws of the pedestal. We do
not for a moment accuse the medium of cheating, but these
are facts. What we wanted were decided raps and motion
absolutely without contact, and this we were unable to obtain,
though we made several attempts. An alphabet of printed
letters was now laid on the table, and we were desired to
think of a name and to pass a pencil along the lines of letters.
We thought of one, and moved the pencil over the paper.
Knowing the eye of the medium was upon us, we tried our
best to move it with the regularity of machinery, but “ John
King ” was too clever to be eluded ; he rapped at the right
letters, and spelt out the name. In this way we obtained
several remarkable answers, but in each case the answer was
known to ourself, and fixed in our mind, and, until some
other solution is demonstrated, we must think that the
sagacity of the lady had more to do with it than “ John
King.” One crucial test was proposed by the medium herself.
We were asked to think of a name, to fix it firmly in our
mind, to place a pencil and paper under the table, and to see
whether “ John King ’’ would write it for us. We thought of
a name the medium could not possibly know, and waited in
all anxiety, for this was a test indeed—a test that, had it
been successfully withstood, would have proved conclusively
the existence of something in Spiritualism beyond the leger¬
demain of the medium. We heard the pencil scratching, we
cast what downward eye we could towards the lady’s feet;
they seemed perfectly still. The scratching ceased, and we
picked up the paper. There was some writing on it, of about
the length of the name we had thought of, and the first and
last letters were correct. But the rest of the word was utterly
illegible, and two letters were not enough to get the idea of
chance out of our mind. We now adjourned to the dining¬
room, to see what “ John King ” could do in the dark. A
paper tube was laid on the table,' which, we were assured, it
was his common habit to speak through. We asked the medium
if she would consent to lay her hands on the table and allow
us to place ours upon them. She readily consented. In a
few moments there came five or six raps, the spiritual signal
for the alphabet. The letters were quickly run over, and it
was soon spelt out that we were taking all the magnetism,
and that “ John King ” could do no more that evening. He
said “ Good-night ” to us in a succession of raps, beginning
loudly and gradually dying away into an apparent distance. We
also then said “ Good-night ” to the medium, and came away,
having detected no imposture, having seen and heard much
that was curious, but certainly having neither seen nor heard
anything to convince us even of the existence of a “ new
force,” much less of the “ supernature ” of “ John King.”
In conclusion, he says:—
Our fourth seance occurred at a private house. There were
nine persons present, including Mr. D. Home and Miss Fox,
the well-known American medium. We formally searched
the room and examined the furniture before we sat down at
60
THE SPIRITUALIST.
the table, which measured 4ft. Sin. by 6ft. 4in. The room
was at first well lighted from a gasburner overhead. On the
table was an accordion, which we took to pieces and tried,
and found to be in every respect an ordinary instrument; a
light lath, about two feet long, a small brass hand-bell,
matches, paper (which we marked), pencils, and two spirit
lamps. We sat down, and almost immediately loud raps
appeared to come from the table and floor. Miss Fox then
got up and went to the door of the room, inviting us to stand
by her and to hold her hands, which we did, when loud
thumps seemed to come from the panels, as if done with the
fist. These were repeated at our request a desired number of
times. To give a detailed account of everything which
occurred would need more space than we can now spare.
Suffice it to say, that the table was made light and heavy at
our wish, that it moved in every direction, that there were
vibrations of the floor and of our chairs, that on Mr. Home
holding the accordion under the table in his right hand, and
by the end furthest from the keys, it played a distinct tune,
Mr. Home’s left hand being on the table, and his feet so
raised as to be visible. All other hands were on the table. At
the same time, and under the same conditions, a small hand¬
bell was rung in different parts of the space beneath the table.
The gas was now turned out and the two spirit-lamps lit;
these gave a fair light. The raps became louder, and, in the
usual method, directed us to take a leaf out of the table.
This was done, when the table appeared to float up about
eight inches off the floor, settling down again in a gentle
swaying manner. The thin wooden lath lying on the cloth
was seen by the whole party to be in motion. It tilted up
sideways and endways, and then seemed to float backwards
and forwards. Holding our hand three inches, as near as we
could guess, above the cloth, the lath rose three times ; the
last time it touched our hand, and directly afterwards the
table jumped and shook violently, and loud raps seemed to.
come from all parts of it and of the floor. The spirit-lamps
were now put out, and what light there was from a low
fire only just enabled us to see white paper on the table
and each other’s positions. Presently, Mr. Home’s and
Miss Fox’s hands and feet being in strict custody, we
felt the accordion pressing against our knees. We put
our hand under the table, when the instrument appeared
to be moving round, till its wooden base was placed be¬
tween our fingers. In that position we held it with its keys
downwards; it seemed to be pushed up towards our hand
and played a few bars. It then stopped, and presently we
felt the bell thrust between the fingers of the same hand.
Almost immediately a flower or sprig was put into our fingers,
but as we were already holding in one hand the accordion
and the bell, the sprig was dropped. It was picked up and
again put into our fingers, and as we received it, we felt dis¬
tinctly the touch of a large thumb and finger. We did not
let it drop this time, and there was immediately a succession
of raps of a loud and jubilant nature. They seemed to come
from the table in our immediate vicinity. A match was now
struck, and we drew our tired hand from under the table,
displaying the accordion, the bell, and the sprig. This was
the end of the seance, for the “spirit” would do no more.
In the account of it we have omitted several experiments
about which we cannot speak decidedly. We tried every test
we could think of. A subdued light, darkened as the even¬
ing went on, was one of the conditions we were obliged to
comply with, and while the accordion was in our hand we
were desired to sit passive, though, as we stated, the hands
and feet of the “mediums” were in strict custody. Mr.
Home seemed to wish to conceal nothing, and gave us every
opportunity consistent with the above conditions for satisfy¬
ing our scepticism. Yet we need hardly say that we were
unable to. satisfy it. By his request we got under the table
with a lamp a great many times, insisted always on seeing his
hands and feet, or on having them as well as those of Miss
Fox held firmly. As to the hand with which Mr. Home held
the accordion under the table, all we know is that on one of
our sub-mahogany expeditions with the spirit-lamp, we saw
that hand quite still, and saw the accordion moving up and
down and playing music. We heard the key-notes, but the
position of the instrument prevented our seeing the keys
moving, if they did move. There was nothing during the
whole evening except the phenomena themselves to suggest
imposture. We tried our best to detect it, but could find no
trace of it. We searched Mr. Home, and found nothing
whatever upon him but his clothes.
Yet, even with all this, we are not a Spiritualist, and do
not even believe in a “ Psychic Force.” We remember and
Jan. 1, 1873.
lay to heart Mr. G-. H. Lewes’s admirable maxim, “ Distin¬
guish between facts and inferences from facts.” We are cer¬
tain that the table rose from the ground, that our hand
received a sprig under the table from what felt like another
hand, but how these things happened we do not know. The
nature of the phenomena and of human nature ape such as to
force us to suspect imposture and legerdemain until we can
satisfy ourselves of the true causes, whatever these may be.
The only comment we have to make on the Times'
article is that, with the exception of the inaccurate
statements it makes about the results of the labours of
the Dialectical Society, it is as fair and impartial an
account as could be expected from a gentleman who
had no previous knowledge of the subject. We can
testify that at some of the seances he did not attempt to
impose his own conditions on the manifestations, and
for that reason witnessed more remarkable phenomena
than are commonly seen by inquirers who begin in a
dictatorial spirit.
The Times of Friday has a long letter from Mr. H.
Dircks, F.C.S., the real inventor of the Polytechnic
ghost ^illusion; it shows that he knows nothing about
Spiritualism. Mr. Hain Priswell also contributes a
letter, certifying the reality of spiritual phenomena.
Of course, in daily newspaper writing a tone of supe¬
riority is assumed. Mr. Wm. Howitt is called a “ fanatic”
in the Times article on Spiritualism, and the investiga¬
tion of scientific men is invoked, although already there
are quite as good scientific men inside as outside the
movement. What is really wanted is a competent
scientific man to look after the editorial work of the
Times. For instance, in the Times of Dec. 27th, in a
review of the Polytechnic entertainments, we find the
following:—
Apart from the production of the ghost, there is practised
on the eyes of the audience, at one moment, a clever piece of
deception, which it requires keen and close perception to
detect; for something is done which we know could not be
done by an ethereal compound of intangible rays of light. The
illusion is certainly a very beautiful one.
What mortal ever heard before of “an ethereal
compound of intangible rays of light ? ” To the
scientific man the expression is simply ludicrous,
and evidence that both the editor and his representa¬
tive do not know what they mean. Once the Daily
Telegraph was very clever. The editor had heard of
nitrates as chemical salts, but knew nothing of nitrites ;
so he described Professor Tyndall as performing various
experiments with nitrate of butyl, which experiments
could not possibly have been produced by the aid of
that compound. The editor had evidently altered the
word “ nitrite ” to “ nitrate,” all through the report, as
the rest of it displayed skilled workmanship, and was
scientifically accurate. We will watch for scientific
mistakes in the Times, and perhaps correct them occa¬
sionally, until there is better education on the staff of
that journal.
MR. BRAD LAUGH ON SPIRITUALISM.
Some time since Mr. Bradlaugh challenged Spiritual¬
ists to enter into public debate with him on the subject
of Spiritualism. Spiritualists took no notice of the
challenge, but Mr. James Burns, a bookseller connected
with the movement, came forward, on his own respon¬
sibility, to enter into public talk with the challenger.
The following is an abstract of the proceedings at the
meeting:—
The debate on “ Modern Spiritualism ” between Mr. Brad-
laugh, the secularist lecturer, and Mr. Burns, of 16, South-
THE SPIRITUALIST.
61
Jan. 1, 1873.
ampton-row, Holborn, which had been for some time announced,
took place on Monday and Tuesday, the 16th and 17th of last
month, at the Hall of Science, Old-street, City-road, London.
Notwithstanding the adverse weather, the hall was well tilled
on both evenings, and the greatest attention was given to the
debate. The reserved seats were principally occupied by
Spiritualists.
The Chairman having introduced Messrs. Bradlaugh and
Burns, who were both well received by the audience, briefly
stated the rules for conducting the debate, which were as
follows :—The only speakers to be the debaters. The debate
to last two hours each evening ; half an hour allowed to each
debater at the opening, and quarter hours for the rest of the
time. The chairman to decide on points of order, and his
decision to. be final.
Mr. Bradlaugh opened the' debate by reading a carefully
prepared paper, stating certain propositions for Mr. Burns to
explain or refute. His argument was—Is there more than
one state of existence ? What do we know of the laws that
govern life, and what does Spiritualism teach* respecting
them ? He would try to show that there was but one state of
existence—that of matter. That we only know of one bodily
substance—that is, the material substance—and that belief in
spiritual substance was a contradiction of common sense. He
denied the existence of the mind after death, and that there
could be any such thing as consciousness of identity. Did
the so-called spiritual philosophy admit an existence after
death for the lower animals ? On this point Spiritualists were
silent, yet it was a corollary of their creed. Life was a result,
not a special principle. The word “ spiritual,” as applied to
any* phenomena, was to him without meaning. He would
like to know the precise meaning Mr. Burns attached to that
word, also his idea of what a “ spiritual body ” might be. Did
Mr. Burns misname intellect “spirit?” Intellect was entirely
dependent on bodily conditions. If the continuity of spirit
meant anything at all, it meant that intellectual ability con¬
tinued in activity after the body ceased to exist in its present
form. This was quite an untenable opinion, as temporary
ailments often destroyed the intellect. He admitted the
phenomena of so-called Spiritualism, but wholly denied their
having anything to do with spirit. He could not conceive of
force except as a property of matter. Matter was indestruc¬
tible ; its conditions changed, but not the substance. The
burden of proof as to spiritual existence and its interference
with natural laws lay with Mr. Burns.
Mr. Burns (who, on rising, was loudly cheered) said it was
the first time he had stood in such a position. He had fyad
little or no previous experience in debate. He was also in
indifferent health through hard work. In reply, he would
state three propositions :—1st. That man has two conditions
of life, the physical and the spiritual, each with appropriate
functions. 2nd. That death is a sundrance of those condi¬
tions. 3rd. That under certain circumstances, those who
have gone from the physical condition are capable of commu¬
nicating with those remaining in it. He then referred, in
proof of this, to the experimental seances of the Dialectical
Society, at which abundant evidence was given that spirits
communicated. He also alluded to Mr. Crookes’s pamphlet,
and the later work of Serjeant Cox. He then described the
modus operandi of seances, and the effect of will-power,
exercised by spirits still in the body upon the manifestations.
Magnetism was the power used by the spirits.
Mr. Bradlaugh said that Mr. Burns had not answered his
propositions, but had started fresh ones of his own. Of this
he complained, as it was not debating. As a member of the
Dialectical Society, he had, in company with others, sat for the
so-called manifestations with Mr. Home, who, he was bound
to say, offered every facility for investigation. But what did
they get after repeated sittings ? A slight wave-motion of
the table and a few raps, which Dr. Edmunds and himself had
imitated by pressure with their thumbs under the table
afterwards. He had, as opportunity offered, investigated
these so-called phenomena for nearly twenty years, but had
never obtained any reliable manifestations. He had sat with
the Davenports and others. If Mr. Burns could make the
heavy table before them move about, by placing his hands on
it, that would not convince him, that it was the work of
spirits. He would |be glad if Mr. Burns would reply to the
questions he had raised. Magnetism was a well-recognised
natural force, and its laws were known and acted upon by
scientific men.* There was nothing spiritual about it. He
* Magnetism is the power which enables a magnet to attract iron. The
force sometimes called “ magnetism ’’ by uneducated Spiritualists is not
magnetism at all.—Ed.
feared Mr. Burns and himself attached different meanings to
the same words.
Mr. Burns regretted he was unable to supply Mr. Bradlaugh
with ideas. As a proof of the existence of the psychical or
spiritual entity apart from the bodily existence, he gave a
description of clairvoyant phenomena observed through the
mediumship of Miss Lottie Fowler and others.
Mr. Bradlaugh again complained that Mr. Burns avoided
argument, and would not answer his propositions. He had
given them the- merest verbiage without sense. He had evi¬
dently got in the habit of using words without troubling
himself about their meaning. There were two ways of
addressing oneself to a subject : on*t with the thoughtful pur¬
pose of endeavouring to find out what was true*, the other by
talking about it, without ever really touching it at all.
Mr. Burns said he had not come there to discuss zoology,
but to consider the question of spiritual phenomena. He then
described a recent seance with Mr. and Mrs. Holmes, at which
spirits had shown themselves and were recognised. He him¬
self had recognised one spirit, and a second visitor present
had recognised another as the spirit of his deceased uncle.
On the second evening the debate was opened by Mr. Burns,
who said that the two natures of man were manifest whilst he
was in the body, but that the spiritual faculty was more de¬
veloped in some than in others. Such persons were called
“ mediums,” and it was through their agency that spirits out
of the body were able to manifest He himself was not a
medium, but he had carefully studied the characteristics of
those who were. The spiritual belief was quite in accordance
with the known laws of nature. Spirits were quite as material
as we were, and could touch and embrace living people. He
gave instances of this kind occurring at the seances of Mr. and
Mrs. Holmes and Miss Cook.
Mr. Bradlaugh said that Mr. Burns still persistently avoided
discussion. It was clear also that he did not know the mean¬
ing of the words he used, for he said that spirits were just as
material as ourselves ! What could intelligent people think
of such a statement as that ? All Mr. Burns did was to tell
them long stories about the so-called manifestations. He had
not attempted even to advocate his own proposition in the
remotest degree. But he would endeavour to meet him on his
own ground. Even supposing the manifestations were true,
they did not enforce the proposition that man had two condi¬
tions, the physical and the spiritual, or that death was a sun¬
drance of the two. When he was told on respectable autho¬
rity that Mrs. Guppy came through a roof, he was not pre¬
pared to deny it, but when he was also told that there was no
hole in the roof, or any trace left of a solid body having sud¬
denly passed through it, all experience was against crediting
such a statement^ as that. He considered his opponent was a
thoroughly honest man, and believed in the extraordinary
things he had narrated. But even supposing them to be true,
how trivial were these manifestations. From what he had heard
and read, only about three per cent, of them even professed
to be for any useful purpose. He had sat with the Brothers
Davenport from nine p.m. to three a.m., and had seen things
done which he could not explain, but which he was told were
the work of spirits. He had seen Messrs. Maskelyne and
Cook do precisely the same things, but they were honest, and
told him that the performance which had puzzled him, and
he could not explain, was simply conjuring.
Mr. Burns said that those who discredited the account he
had given of seances could experiment for themselves by form¬
ing circles, according to the instructions given from time to
time in the Medium, and other spiritual publications. The
field for enquiry was open to all who had the courage and
patience for investigation. As to the alleged triviality of the
phenomena, he utterly denied it. Was aught trivial that
could convince man of existence after death, and of the con¬
tinuance of individuality? Were the proofs of identity given
by raps and taps trivial ? The very fact that spirits could
pass solid objects through material substances, was of itself a
stupendous truth, however apparently commonplace the proof
given of it might be. *He then went on to describe the paintings
executed by spirits through the mediumship of Master Swan,
Aylesbury, and the direct spirit writings given from time to
time through the mediumship of Mrs. Everitt and others.
Mr. Bradlaugh said that so near the close of the proceedings
he regretted to think that he and his opponent were further
from coming to a definite conclusion than ever. He submitted
he had just cause for complaint as to the way in which Mr.
Burns had persistently avoided argument. He had endeavoured
in his opening paper to make hisown ideas as clear as possible,
. beyond possibility of mistake by any person attaching recog-
62
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 1, 1873.
nised meanings to the words of the English language. Mr.
Burns had hazarded some ^wasi-scientific statements in which
he utterly broke down, apparently from ignorance of scientific
subjects. He had also stated certain propositions of his own,
but had not attempted to follow up or explain them. Mr.
Burns had not replied to a single statement advanced, and if
the Spiritualists could find no abler advocate of their cause
than Mr. Burns, he was sorry on their account.* Spiritualism,
so-called, after all was nothing new. It was as old as the
world. Superstition represented the infancy of the globe,-
not the advanced knowledge of the nineteenth century. Out
of Bedlam itself statements more monstrous than those nar¬
rated were never made. Would any properly educated person
who had been taught to reason thoroughly on cause and effect
ever believe such tales ?
Mr. Burns said that when invective entered into an argu¬
ment, it was a sign that the person using it was getting the
worst of that argument. The narratives of the seances he
had witnessed, and also of others, had been corroborated by
respectable and trustworthy persons of all grades in society
over and over again, and the weight of evidence in their favour
was such that doubt must be silenced. He then went on to
describe a seance, when—
Mr. Bradlaugh appealed to the chairman, whether Mr.
Burns was in order, as he was not even now at the close
attempting any reply, but was simply giving fresh narratives.
The Chairman asked Mr. Burns to reply to the arguments—•
Mr. Burns was of opinion that he had already done so suffi¬
ciently to satisfy the audience, if not Mr. Bradlaugh, and pro¬
ceeded with his description of the seance until the time for
the closing of the proceedings arrived.
The Chairman expressed his pleasure at the fair and cour¬
teous manner in which the debate had been conducted on both
sides, and the proceedings closed.
'We have received the following letter about the fore¬
going debate:—
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
Sir,—As a friend to the cause of Spiritualism, I trust you
will allow me to enter my protest against a report which
appeared in the Medium of the 20th inst., relating to the
debate on Modern Spiritualism between Messrs. Burns and
Bradlaugh, at the Hall of Science, last week. The writer—
whose name, of course, it is not difficult to guess—states,
amongst other things, that “ Mr. Burns spoke in a very cogent
and energetic manner,” that “ he followed up a consecutive
argument,” and that “ the views of Spiritualists were tho¬
roughly sustained against the arguments of materialism.”.
Now, sir, these statements I entirely disagree with. A more
painful exhibition than Mr. Burns made of himself, it has
never been my lot to witness. Though my sympathies were
entirely against Mr. Bradlaugh, I could not but be struck
with the powerful, manly, and logical manner in which he
enunciated his views. His opponent, on the other hand,
seemed to have no argument in him, and confined himself to
uttering the most feeble, meaningless twaddle, much to the
astonishment of those present who read his paper, and who
were prepared to see a worthy champion in the gentleman
who told them, the other day, that he was worth, at least,
£1,000 a-year to the cause of Spiritualism. It was the general
opinion that such discussions should, for the future, be
avoided, unless a better advocate than the modest Scotchman
is likely to be forthcoming, for his sole aim seems to be to
bring himself into notoriety, to the very great detriment of
the cause.—I have the honour to be, sir, your obedient
servant, Arthur Crawford.
Dudley Villa, Balham, Dec. 3rd, 1872.
We have received two other letters from friends of
Spiritualism who were present at the meeting, express¬
ing much the same opinions as those contained in the
above communication about the failure. We think it
better that our correspondents should not draw us into
controversy with another journal. They should send
their communications to the Medium, since the paper
which prints inaccurate reports is bound in honour to^
correct them, when correspondents point out that the
reports contain certain statements in advance of the facts.
* Mr. Bums, in his-public actions, acts solely on Ms own responsibility,
and is not elected or invited by London Spiritualists to represent them.
torrespontience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
MR. BARBER’S SEANCES IN MANCHESTER.
Sir,—I see in the Spiritualist of December 1st, an article
on test conditions, in which it is suggested we should try an
experiment by placing a solid board in the cabinet in front of
the medium, and see whether the spirits could bring Mrs.
Barber through. I beg to state that we do not use a cabinet—
that is to say, what is generally understood to be one. Our
arrangements are these :—The medium sits in one of the cor¬
ners of the room ; behind her is placed a dark shawl for a
background. In front of her are two white muslin curtains.
We sit about five feet away, and at the same distance is placed
a paraffin lamp, with a sheet of greased blotting paper to sub¬
due the light. With this simple arrangement we have seen
materialised spirit forms in the opening of the curtains, and
on several occasions the curtains have been so far asunder,
that the medium and the materialised spirit form have been
seen at the same time. Richard Barber,
Manchester, December 11th, 1872.
MEN AND WOMEN.
Sir,—The Social Review of December 21st contains the
following article by Mr. George Fraser. I thought you might
like to quote it :—
“ The last number of the Spiritualist contains some
extracts from William White’s Life of Swedenborg, relating
to women, quoted apparently with the editor’s approval,
though that gentleman very sensibly says, in a foot-note,
‘Assuming women to be the weaker sex of the two, that
would- be an additional reason why the law should not increase
the disabilities implanted by nature.’
“ The statements of Mr. White as commentator on Sweden¬
borg are so extraordinary that we must quote one or two of
them :—‘ Man is the love of knowledge, understanding, wis¬
dom. He searches for information, strives to understand
nature, and delights in the application of the truths he has
won. In woman we discover no such aptitudes. She cares
nothing for science in itself, and has'neither desire nor ability
to extend its frontiers ; but science and wisdom, when realised
in man, she does love. In fine, man loves science for itself ;
woman loves science in man. Woman, of herself, can no
more beget ideas than she can beget children. She never
inaugurates reformation!’
“ Surely the mere publication of such theories must lead to
their being laughed out of the field of argument. Sweden-
bor'g’s knowledge of women does not appear to have been
acquired from those of the higher order of mind ; and any¬
body who can repeat Swedenborg’s ideas with assent or
approval of them must be equally ignorant of the sex to
,which they are so broadly applied. We will not, of course,
deny, that in vastly too marly instances women are to be
found of such limited undeistanding and capacity as to
deserve some such judgment as that of these spiritual dogma¬
tists ; but that iu any sense that judgment is true of the
whole sex we utterly and emphatically deny.
“‘Women care nothing for science in itself.’ How will
Mr. White explain, then, the existence of Mrs. Mary Somer¬
ville, who has so lately departed from amongst us ? An
exception, he may say, which only proves the correctness of
the rule. But since when have women had any opportunity
of studying science, or of being instructed in it ? What will
Mr. White say of those young women who flocked to Professor
Huxley’s lectures at South Kensington the other day, and
excelled their male competitors so greatly in the skill and
correctness of their dissections and analyses ? What can he
think of Mrs. Garrett-Anderson, and those who have worthily
followed in her footsteps ? Have they ‘ inaugurated no refor¬
mation ? ’ Truly their protest against the customs and pre¬
judices of tlteir age is as worthy of admiration as any of the
battles for free thought in days long gone. Had Mr. White
any knowledge of the present state of education in the better
schools for girls, he would not be so hardy in his assertions.
He would find that even so apparently uninteresting a science
as harmony has its hundreds of students amongst their pupils,
and that at all the university examinations girls have won the
highest distinction in it; so much so, that we have heard it
suggested, and even rumoured, that musical degrees are
likely to be the first that the universities will throw open to
women. Indeed, when the capacity of women for teaching
THE SPIRITUALIST.
63
Jan. 1, 1873.
this abstruse subject has been so universally acknowledged, it
is strangely inconsistent to withhold from them the most
satisfactory recognition of this fact which can be granted.
“ ‘ She can no more beget ideas than she can beget children.’
We will not stop to quarrel with the wording of this sentence,
though it is faulty enough. How did Swedenborg, or how
does Mr. White certify this statement ? Swedenborg’s relations
with women seem to have been wholly of the sensual sort; it
is as the means by which man’s sensuality alone can be grati¬
fied that the Swedish prophet seems exclusively to have con¬
sidered them. We have, of course, no means of knowing what
Mr. White’s experience of women has been. But how many
great men, happily married, have gratefully acknowledged
deep obligations to their wives both for the origination and
the elaboration of ideas 1 Two of the most eminent of our
contemporaries, Thomas Carlyle and John Stuart Mill, have
made such an acknowledgment in the most eloquent terms.
But there is no necessity to confine ourselves to the great ;
wherever true conjugal harmony reigns, the wife has proved
the most trusty councillor, the most ingenious deviser, that a
man can have. We can only infer then that neither Mr. White,
nor his approving editor,* has had that experience of home
life which can warrant them to speak or write on the state of
woman. The one thinks it presumption to write down
Spiritualism without working for an extended acquaintance
with its phenomena ; why, then, should he open his columns
for any communication which exhibits so complete an ignor¬
ance of the real nature and capacity of women as that upon
which we have thought it right to animadvert ? ” A. B.
THE MENTAL INFLUENCE OE SPIRITS.
Sir.—-In a report in your number for December 1st, of a
seance at Manchester, where the wife of Mr. H. Barber, of
the 5th Dragoons, was the medium, I observe a statement to
the effect that one of her controlling spirits—Johnson—told
Mr. Barber that he (the spirit) had influenced a medical man
to be interested in the medium, whereby she obtained advice
at much less cost than otherwise would have been likely.
I would like to suggest the desirability of Mr. Barber pub¬
lishing particulars of any other instances in which spirits have
influenced third persons in favour of the medium, as it seems'
to me that, if the possibility of such influence can be estab¬
lished in one case, it may likewise be assumed to be not
improbable in the case of persons who are not themselves
mediums. If Mrs. Barber were not a medium, the facts
connected with instances of the kind that she may have ex¬
perienced would not have been readily ascertained ; but it
does not follow that other persons wh© are not mediumistic,
may not also have their daily affairs controlled in like manner,
though unconsciously to themselves. If this be possible and
probable, it would appear to throw some new light upon the
vexed question of the ‘ ‘ efficacy of prayer,” to which you have
recently devoted so much space.
Another curious fact which may throw some light upon
the philosophy of spirit guardianship, is mentioned in your
number for December 15th, where Mr. Herbert Noyes was.
stated, by Miss Hudson, the clairvoyant, to have been accom¬
panied by Egyptian spirits. Assuming that this gentleman
has, whilst in Egypt, casually made the acquaintance of some
natives whose spirits (or those of their relatives) may thus
have become attracted towards him, we might be led to infer
that all men are ' thus liable to attract strange spirits at
different periods of their life, according to the company they
get into; and if these strange spirits have any power to control
or influence the person they became attached to, it would be
worth while knowing more about the cause and effect of such
influences, and to what extent men ought to be on their guard
against associating with persons whose attendant spirits may
not be of a very desirable order.
Manchester. F. A. B.
[There is abundant evidence that certain disembodied spirits sometimes
attach themselves for a long time, to individuals whom they first meet by
chance; we could give'several curious facts to prove this, did space permit,
It is difficult to pbtain exact knowledge as to the extent, if any, to which
spirits can influence the thoughts of persons not mediums. Once at a
seance at Upper Norwood, at which Mrs. Q-uppy was the medium, Mr. Cole¬
man asked that Mr. Guppy’s hawk should be brought to him from High¬
bury—seven or eight miles off. The hawk was instantly placed in his
hands, dead, and it was subsequently ascertained that it had been killed by
a cat at Highbury, a few minutes before Mr. Coleman asked for it at Nor
wood. Was this mere coincidence, or had the spirits first carried the hawk
to Norwood, and then influenced the thoughts of Mr. Coleman, so that he
asked for it ? Mr. Coleman is not a medium.—Ed.]
* We object to the word “ approving ’’ as amounting to a misquotation.
We expressed no opinion for or against the article, and published it simply
because it raised great social questions well worth discussion.—Ed.
SPIRIT FACES.
Sir,—Time and space are very short to give you anything
from me for this number ; but I will show what light I can
upon the “spirit faces,” which are, for the moment, the
articles in demand by spiritualistic enquirers.
I was, by invitation, on the platform yesterday evening at
St. James's Hall, in re Tiehborne. There were exhibited two
photographs—the second concocted from the first. That is,
take a photograph of a slim%young man ; don’t touch the eyes,
nose, and mouth, but add all round the cheeks and chin, until
you produce a prize agricultural show-face.
At first glance you think they are different persons, but
looking close you see the complete identity in the lines of the
eyes and nose.
Now, I have seen spirit faces at Miss Cook’s, at Mr. Slater’s,
at Messrs. Herne and Williams’, also with my wife alone, as
medium, and with Mr. Herne alone at my own home.-
I saw the face of Katie, and of John King, with black beard
and moustache, and the spirit face of Katie at Miss Cook’s.
I have seen them all as clear as in fair daylight.
But in all these cases, as far as I can trust my eyes, there
was a likeness in each casev to the eyes, nose, and forehead
features of the medium sitting.
The reason is, that as the mould of spirit hands is taken
from the hands of the medium, so is the mould of the face from
the medium’s face.
It is the same with the spirit voice, which, in most cases,
bears a resemblance to the medium’s voice, although the
medium may be talking with some one else at the time the
spirit is talking.
In all, or nearly all cases of spiritual manifestations, they
are strongly tinctured with the habits, thoughts, and corporeal
structure of the medium.
However, these manifestations are in their infancy of de¬
velopment at present, and it is quite believable that such
spirit influences may by-and-bye prevail in circles, as to pro¬
duce features quite different from those of the medium. I
have heard of such.
Meantime, I believe that in all spirit circles, where spirit
hands are shown, spirit faces will also be shown by practice
and attention to conditions. SAMUEL GUPPY.
1, Morland-villas, Highbury-hill-park.
Spiritualism in Australia.—It might be thought that
our engrossing materialism would leave little room for
Spiritualism, and that among our industries there would be
no opening for a ghost with an eye to business. This is not
so, however, for Spiritualism and Spiritualists are established
among us. We have our harmonial circle of progressive Spi¬
ritualists, meeting on Sundays to strengthen their faith and
expose the delusions of Christianity^ and a monthly paper,
the Harbinger of Light, publishing communications direct
from spirits, written in what, for mortals, would be thought
bad English. We have read lately of a split in the Spiritual
camp, in which those not far from the madhouse -are anxious
to disclaim any connection with those a step nearer. The
occasion is the establishment of a “Magnetic Institute,” in
which a lady, whose own spirit is supposed to have retired in
favour of a spirit from the sun, impressionally instructs mem¬
bers of the institution. Few institutions, magnetic or other¬
wise, can get on without money, but funds are forthcoming,
and the irreverent consider that the spirit from the sun is
making a good thing by his visit. The Harbinger of Light
impressively warns its readers that the Institute is a delu¬
sion, and adds,—“It is sad to contemplate the condition of
mind of those who can believe in such absurdities, and wre
would endeavour to save others from drifting into such a
degrading condition.” The same paper then goes on gravely
to describe, for the edification of rational and undegraded
Spiritualists, the mysterious introduction of “a large barrow
wheel weighing 161bs.,_a family Bible, and a 10-gallon cask”
into a circle of believers waiting in a room with closed doors
and windows for these substantial but incongruous evidences
of spiritual force. The Spiritualists have just received with
open arms two distinguished visitors from California, Mr.
Peebles, who, as described by himself, is “the Seer of the
Ages,” and, as described in our own press, is “ an illiterate
Yankee,” and Dr. Dunn, an Irish medium of high reputation
in trance and healing, who travels with the seer. Dr. Dunn
has not yet commenced practice, but his oratory has been too
much for those prepared to admire. Mr. Peebles has also
disappointed all who expected addresses of a higher stamp
than those which we had become accustomed to,—Times'
Correspondent, Dec, 2$th,
04
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 1, 1873.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family friends and relatives,
often gives the most satisfactory evidence of the reality of spiritual
phenomena, and this is the best way for enquirers to begin. At
the same time, as no fully developed medium is present among
those who have never obtained manifestations before, possibly there
may be no results. Nevertheless, it is a very common thing for
striking manifestations to be obtained in this way at the first sit¬
ting of a family circle; perhaps for every successful new circle
thus started without a medium, there are three or four failures, but
no accurate statistics on this point have yet been collected.
Consequently, to save time, investigators should do as the Dia¬
lectical Society did, form several new circles, with no Spiritualist
or professional medium present, and at one or other of them re¬
sults will probably be obtained. When once manifestations have
been obtained they will gradually increase in power and reliability
at successive sittings. The following is a good plan of action:—
1. Let the room he of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands._ The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? " Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly .at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumshi’p than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
G. H. ANDREWS,
TAILOR, &e.,
61, LAMBS CONDUIT STREET, FOUNDLING, W.C.
T>EGS to inform Gentlemen, who may honour him with
l j their patronage, they can be supplied with clothes cut in the most
ashionable manner, good materials, and sound workmanship, at very
moderate charges. Fit and style perfect, having been many years in the
well-known firm of Messrs. Pulford and Co., 66, St. James's Street.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
Trousers, from   0 13 6 1 Black Suit, from  3 0 0
Vests  ... ... 0 7 0 I Unrivalled Black Doe . 110
Tweed Suit  £2 10s. Od.
And all other Garments at the same moderate charges.
TO INEBRIATES AND THEIR FRIENDS.
Just published, limp, Is. 6d.; cloth 2s.,
ON INEBRIETY, Continuous and Periodical, considered
as the Result of Physical Disease, and distinct from the Vice of
intemperance: its Causes, Nature, Treatment, and Cure, showing the
curability of the worst cases of Intemperance. By Sylvanus Hakuis, M.D.
(Pennsylvania).
HAMMOND and CO., 20, Catherine-street, Strand; or post free from the
Author, 14, Serle-street, Lincoln’s-inn, W.C.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
in England, by Benjamin- Coleman, recently published in the
Spiritualist, reprinted in pamphlet form, on toned paper, with coloured
wrapper. The discussion is also included in the pamphlet. Copies may be
had at one shilling each, of Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C., and
are of especial value for presentation to those who are uninformed on the
subject of Spiritualism.
DEDICATED (by permission) to Sir WALTER TREVELYAN, Bart.
Will shortly be Published, price 2s. 6d., with a Portrait of the Smuggler,
engraved from a Photograph by James Partridge, Esq.
THE LAST OF THE SMUGGLERS: being the
Autobiography of William Rattenbury, of Beer, Devon. Edited by
George Fraser, with numerous explanatory notes by Miss Elizabeth Traies.
Descriptions of this work have already appeared in “ The Graphic ” for
9th December, 1871, and the “ Dark Blue ” Magazine for September, 1872.
It is interesting as recording very faithfully the Devonshire idiom, and also
as illustrating a curious phase of English domestic history. It was at the
persuasion of Mr. Glasscott, the late Vicar of Seaton and Beer, that Ratten¬
bury 'wrote the autobiography, which has been read in its manuscript form
by many visitors to those Devonshire villages, and is now put into the
publishers’ hands in the hope of realising some small sum which may save
the aged smuggler from the workhouse. Mr. Ruskin, who has read the
original manuscript, writes:—“I shall have much pleasure in subscribing
for two copies of the 1 Life of the Old Smuggler,’ and am glad it is to be
published.”
Amongst other subscribers are the following:—Earl of Devon, the Earl
of Pembroke, Lady Mary Herbert, Lady Taunton, Sir John D. Coleridge,
M.P., Sir Walter C. Trevelyan, Bart., Sir Charles E. Trevelyan, K.C.B., Sir
John Bowring, Admiral Sir Jas. D. H. Elphinstone, Bart., M.P., Sir Massey
Lopes, Bart., M.P., Sir Stafford H. Northcote, M.P., Sir Sydney H. Waterlo w,
Admiral Sir Thomas Pasley, Bart., Sir Frederick Bathurst, Lady Rolle, Lady
Jane Swinburne, Sir Charles Isham, the Hon. Mark Rolle, J. GWynne
Holford, Esq., M.P., S. Morley, Esq., M.P., Dr. John Brown (“Rab and His
Friends.”), Dante G Rossetti, Esq', John Forster, Esq., A. Locker, Esq.
(“Graphic”), Mrs. Garrett Anderson, M.D., Rev. Canon Kingsley, Rev. J.
Llewelyn Davies, Rev. C. A. Johns, W. D. Christie, Esq., C.B., W. Cave
Thomas, Esq., Rev. H. Vy vyan (Vicar of Seaton and Beer), Charles Hutton
Gregory, Esq., C.E., Captain Dalrymple Elphinstone, R.N. Rev. Compton
Reade, Mrs. Stirling, Mrs. Amelia Lewis, John C. Freund, Esq. Algernon C.
Swinburne, Esq., William Morris, Esq. (Earthly Paradise), F. Madox
Brown, Esq., B. Coleman, Esq., P. McLagan, Esq., M.P., Jos. Aspinwall,
Esq., &c., &c.
Persons interested are requested to send their names and addresses as
soon as possible to Mr. George Fraser, 3, Middleton-road, Camden-road,
London, N., or to the publishers, British and Colonial Publishing Com¬
pany, Limited, 81a, Fleet-street, E.C.
BEYERIDGE & FRASER, Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
LIST of SUBSCRIPTIONS to partially meet
EXPENSES of the FORTNIGHTLY PUBLICATION of 1
Spiritualist ”:—
£
Charles Blackburn, Esq    16
“ A Friend at a Distance ”   10
A. L. Elder, Esq., per Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
W. Tebb, Esq 
Enmore Jones, Esq   ... .
O. F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S 
Mrs. E. M.Cox     
“ Truthseeker(Liverpool)  
Sir Charles Isham, Bart   ... ... .
Thomas Grant, Esq.    .
Friends at Brixton:—
Miss Ponder ;
Miss E. Ponder  
Mrs. Rudd  1
“Longfellow”  
Mr. Withall 
Mr. E. Bird ...'  
Mr. George Dawson   ... ..
Mr. Dawson Rogers  
Mr. Rogers  
Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald   
Mrs. Gunyon    
the
‘Thb
s. d.
  8 0 0
“A Friend,” Temple  3 3 0
N. F, Daw, Esq. ...     ... ... ... 8 3 0
Richard Beamish, Esq., F.R.S        3 3 0
James Wason, Esq.   3 3 0
The Countess of Caithness   ... ... ... 2 2 0
Mr. and Mrs. Edmiston   ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 2 2 0
“Bitterness”...              2 2 0
Algernon Joy, Esq       2 0 0
James Beattie, Esq       ,200
G. Thomson, Esq,. M.D  1 0 0
Mrs. Robert Campbell       ...   10 0
“A Friend,”Manchester ... ...        ... 1 I 0
Benjamin Coleman, Esq    ...    110
E. Musgrave, Esq.    ..!   110
“V.”     110
“ A Friend,” F.R.S  1 0 0
Miss Kislingbury     ...      10 0
G. Nelson Strawbridge, Esq  ... ...     10 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory... ... ... ...  ..100
Miss J. H. Douglas     1 0 0
“ A Friend”   1 0 0
John E. Purdon, Esq,, M.B  1 0 0
Mrs. Hennings ... ...     ... ... ...   10 0
J. Craig, Esq     0 10 0
G. D. (Hackney), Balance in excess of publishing account ... ... 0 8 6
Subscriptions in aid of this object may be remitted to N. Fabyan Daw,
Esq., treasurer, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.; Benjamin
Coleman, Esq., Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood; or to Enmore Jones, Esq.,
Enmore-park, South Norwood, 8.E.
s. d.
0 0
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Fraser, at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published byE. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
