Et&ISTEEED AS A NBWSTAPEB,
CIjjj ($Ib,esf JCmspapr JtOEitteltw toitlj S^iiitealxsm xn (Bxt'&l §nfaht.
/yflE " SPIRITUALIST " is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : xi, Ave Maria4ane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosijue, 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucjnes, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
Library, 346 and 347, Carso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO i “ Religio-Philosophical Journal” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
No. 229.——(VOL. X.—No. 2.) LONDON: FRIDAY, JANUARY 12, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
The Prosecution of Dr. Slade by a Conservative Govern¬
ment :—A Letter from Mr. Gladstone   13
A Story of a Haunted House. By F. J. Theobald ... ... 14
Mr. Blackburn’s Seances. By William Newton, F.B.G.S. ... 14-
The Apparition of Major Blomberg ... ...    15
The Prosecution of Galileo ...      16
A Trance Address by Mr. Morse     ... ... 16
Spiritualism in Dalston:—Sixth Anniversary Meeting of
the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism 17
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Meeting of the
Council... ... ...    18
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Dr. Slade’s
Powers Critically Examined by the Research Committee
—Reports of Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E.,
and Mr. J. W. Gray, C.E.—Report of Mr. W. H. Coffin
and Mr. H. Withall—Report of Mr. George King and
Dr. Carter Blake—Reports of Mr. T. H. Edmands and
Mr. R. Hannah,M.R.I. ... .i. ... ...  18
Poetry:—Songs of the Circle. No. II.—A Printer’s Poem 20
Correspondence:—The Lourdes Water—Mr. Eglinton’s
Seances. Public Mediums—Apparitions and Materiali¬
sations—The Cadaverous Odour appertaining to Cer¬
tain Materialised Spirits—Spiritualism and Sweden-
borgianism—A Spirit Hand—Remarkable Seances in
Liverpool—The Mediumship of Dr. Slade—Spiritualism
in Cardiff—Abnormal Variations in the Weight of
Objects—Another Remarkable Seance with Dr. Slade—
A Seance with Dr. Slade, and Comments ...    ... 20
Services at St. James’s Hall...      ... ... 24
The Testimonial to Andrew Jackson Davis:—The Report
of the Committee—Letter from A. J. Davis to the Com¬
mittee and Contributors      24
Paragraphs :—Prosecution of Mr. Maskelyne, 18; A Ball,
18; Private Theatricals, 18; Mr. J. J. Morse in the
Provinces, 18; Spiritualistic Soiree, 18; A Musical
Prodigy, 18; Spirit Voices at a Bed of Death: 24
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
PEESIDENT.
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.L
{Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
Of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R, Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
acts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinal y experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus¬
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending, the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “for
formation of circles and conduct of seances," and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on apphcation to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s, All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
Agenda for January, 1877.
Wednesday, Zrd.—Soiree at 38, Great Russell Street, at
7 p.m. Music, Conversation and Refresh¬
ments. Open to members and friends.
Admission, Is.
Thursday, 4tt.—Mr. Blackburn’s Seance, at 7.30. Mr.
Eglinton, medium.
Friday, House and Offices Committee, at 6.30 p.m.
„ Conference Committee, at 7 p.m. \
„ Soiree Committee, at 7 p.m. /
„ Trance Seance, at 7.30 p.m. Mr. J. J. Morse,
medium. Tickets, Is. each.
Tuesday, Qth,—Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ Council Meeting, at 6 30 p.m.
Thursday, HfA—Mr. Blackburn’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m. Mr.
W. Eglinton, medium.
Friday, 12th.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Monday, 15th.—Discussion Meeting at 8 p.m.
Friday, 12th.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Thursday, 25th.—Conference Committee, at 6 p.m. )
„ Soiree Committee at 6 p.m. j"
„ Seance Committee at 7 p.m.
The present series of Mr. Blackburn’s Seances being closed
on the ILth of this month, a course of private Seances will he
arranged for Members only, if a sufficient number should send
in their names to the Secretary. It is desirable that each
Member subscribe for a course of not less than three Seances.
Tickets, 2s. 6d. each.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A GENERAL CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS
WILL BE HELD IN LONDON, AT
38, GREAT RUSSELL, STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
On the 7th, %th, and 9ih of February, 1877.
The following subjects are offered as suggestions for papers,
but essays on kindred subjects will also be received :—
1. TheBest Tests of the Genuineness of Physical Phenomena.
2. The Scientific Aspects of Spiritualism.
3. Has Spiritualism given any New Truths to the World?
4. The Evidences of the Identity of Communicating Spirits.
5. The Relation of the Law to Public Mediums.
6. The Aims, Ends, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
7. The Best Means cf Directing Attention to the Importance
of the Private Investigation of Spiritualism.
8. Spiritualism as a Religious Influence.
All papers to be sent to the Secretary, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, not later than January 20th, 1877; the
papers to remain ihe property of the Association, subject to
the conditions laid down in rule 37.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
SPECIAL SEANCES.
A Series of THREE SPECIAL SEANCES will be held at
88, Great Russell-street, on Tuesdays, 16th, 23rd, and 30th
January.
Members desiring Tickets for the same, either for a single
Seance or for the Course, are requested to send in applications
without delay.
E. KISLINGBURY, Secretary.
(CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
J and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
EAST LONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven.
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
On Wednesdays at eight Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seanee, 5s. 6d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c,, apply
to—
H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
Lately published, in two volumes, 8vo, cloth, price 28s.
PHILOSOPHICAL TREATISE on the
NATURE and CONSTICUTION of MAN. By George
G. Harris, LL.D., F.S.A., Barrister-at-law, Vice-President of
the Psychological Society, and of the Anthropological Institute;
and Author of “The Theory of the Arts,” “Civilisation con¬
sidered as a Science,” &c.
- This work embraces a comprehensive and complete survey
of the nature and constitution of man, physical, moral, and
intellectual, exhibiting, moreover, the mutual connection and
dependence of each branch. Topics connected with the
spiritual being, and the leading opinions on this subject,
including the nature, essence, properties, and mode of opera¬
tion of the soul; the alliance between matter and spirit;
reason and instinct, their affinity and diversity, more espe¬
cially, are here discussed; and a new theory is propounded of
our intellectual system, as also respecting the distribution,
mode- of action, discipline, and cultivation of the mental
faculties.
Eminent authorities on certain of the subjects here embraced,
among them some distinguished writers on psychology, physio¬
logy and natural history, foreign as well as English, have been
in correspondence with, and have been consulted by- the
author, by several of whom valuable notes, which will be read
with much interest, on various and important controverted
points, have been contributed.
“ The writer who undertakes a work like this, requires at
once a comprehensive intellect, a widespread realing and
experience, an unprejudiced mind, and almost superhuman
industry. All these qualities appear to be combined in Mr.
Harris.”—Westminster' Review.
“ A treatise so ambitious and comprehensive in subject and
scope, demands great natural powers, immense re-earcb,
patient meditation, and assimilation of the labours of othei s.
All these requisites Mr. Harris brings to his task. His work
proves that a searching inquiry into man’s nature is alike
independent of two extremes, the negation of Atheism, and
theological intolerance. A perusal will lead every man of
faith to inquire more, and every man of science to believe
more.—Hour.
“ This work is one of considerable value, and of deep interest.
Indeed, it is somewhat difficult to lay it down when you have
onee become absorbed by its contents. We moreover venture
to assert that it is impossible to read a single chapter of the
book without being struck with the vast array of authorities,
ancient and modern, that have been read or consulted, the
wide and varied information sought or obtained, and the
original thought displayed in dealing with its deeply interesting
and abstruse objects of research.”—John Bull.
“Dr. Harris has evidently read the writings of both ancient
and moaem anthropologists and philosophers wiih care; and
the work will always be valuable as indicative of deep re¬
search, and a sound, though diffuse, method of treating the
subject. Every quality and style of thought are represented
by the gentlemen who have contributed to the notes, which
range from the thoughs of Mr. Gladstone and Dr. Newman to
those of Sir John Lubbock.”—Public Opinion.
“This is a moat elaborate and learned production, and
testifies on the part of its author his immense research and
great ingenuity. It is, without the name, an Encyclopaedia
of man. Dr. Harris’s work is very valuable as a great collec¬
tion of facts, most of them thoroughly sifted by him-elf, and
many of them having been subjected to the correction of
acknowledged authorities.”—Dundee Advertiser.
“ The present work is the first attempt of the kind; and Dr.
Harris deserves praise for the origin and completion of his
most laborious performance. In these frivolous days, such
books and such authors are rare. Altogether, it is a produc¬
tion highly creditable to the intelligence and industry of the
author, and one which no one interested in the subject on
which he writes can read without profit.”—Literary Y/vrld.
“ We have probably quoted enough from this very thought¬
ful and suggestive work to induce the many members of the
Institute who are interested in the psychological treatment of
the question, to seek pleasure and instruction in its pages.
Added value is given to it by the interesting circumstance
that the proof sheets of several portions were submitted to
learned friends of the author—such as Sir John Lubbock, Dr.
Richardson, Dr. Newman, and many others—and have been
enriched by their comments.”—Journal of the Anthropological
Institute.
London: George Bell & Sons, York-street, Covent-garden.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
IFE BEYOND THE GRAVE : described by
a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any hooks and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will he thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh. Lancashire
ANTED, A SITUATION as CLERK,
ACCOUNTANT, or MANAGER OF SHOP. Good
references; used to the book and newspaper trade; by E. W.
Wallis, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end-road, E.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The
Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of
Printing. Estimates forwarded on application.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Jan. 12, 1877,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OB)
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873,)
President.
Alexander Calderi Esq., 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S ,W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Mitchman, William, M.R.C.S., 29, Ersklne-street, Islington.*}.,,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., S2, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.It.I., Barrlster-at-Law, Goldsmitjj-bulld^
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 9G, Portland-place, W.
Rogers, E. D., Rose-villa, Churcli-end, Finchley,N.W
Smith, Martin R., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra*
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Ashton, E. P., Hopa-viila. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F, A.,22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Kenlngale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall, Richmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K., Nightingale Hall, Richmond-hili.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black*
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd.'J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H , 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fltton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Oheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hook, C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamerercrescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H.T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington*
park. S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. War wick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-slreet, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Reimers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, .v;rs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
r:>aa, S E
Stra vbr:dge. Geo. Nelson, 84, Redclifle-gardens, South Ken¬
sington, S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Tapp, G. fi., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park,i'Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Clsverton-street. Pimlico, S. W.
Waihouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, 1). H. M.A., LL.M., PosteRestante, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H„ 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs,, Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr. J. H. Andre. Mr. H. Cook. Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Klslingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de PEmpereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Kasslm Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaaof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld. Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane; Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lmdesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria. Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany."
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
11. T. Child, Esq., MJ)., 634,Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, CUnton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
■ W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
. J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S,A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., 5, Rue de la Terrasse, Paris,
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Antheime Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, CayugaCo., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1 Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S, Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 67, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—George Browne,
Esq., 63, Nowlands-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gassc, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 84, 2°, Madrid, Presi¬
dent—hi Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for Midsummer, 1876.
President.—William Hitebman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
/Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—James Wason, Mr Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs.
Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, Dr. Hitchman, Mr. Richard Nos¬
worthy, Mr. Vaughan, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. Meredith, and
Mr. John Priest.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charlton, and Mr. Vaughan.
HE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in conneotion with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
July, 1876.
STRANGE VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Brontd, Riehter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
The spiritual magazine, edited by
GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D, etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 8s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“ Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book ” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 600 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Oh. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie”
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, W.C.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctual. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 3 p.m.
are discontinued, but Spiritualist friend^ are admitted as
usual at those hours; Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &c.
Established seven years. Residence, 16, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
DLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
R. DE CAUX, Mesmeric Healer, and
Medical Galvinist, attends upon patients at their own
residence, or at his rooms—35, Alfred-street, Bedford-square,
London, W.C.
RS. KANE AT HOME Tuesdays, Thurs¬
days, and Saturdays from three to five o'clock.—34
Guildford-street, Russell-square, London, W.O.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home dally from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
AN APPEAL TO SPIRITUALISTS.
R. ALDRIDGE (Healing Medium) has
been very unsuccessful in Business this last 3 years,
and failed about 6 months ago—since that time he has tried to
obtain employment but could not, which has rendered himself
and family quite destitute. He is desirous of Emigrating to
Australia by the Assisted Passage, which will cost about £25,
with Outfit and Clothing necessary for the voyage, which he
hopes to raise by Subscription. The next Ship sails about the
middle of January. Cast-off Clothing will be very acceptable,
there being three young children.
7, Alien-road, Stoke Newington, N. 12th Dec., 1876.
The particulars of this case are known to Mr. J. Wilks of the
Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should he made as far as possible in advance,
Manages—Mrs. A. C. Burke
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London
W.C. Price Id.; post free for lid.; or six copies post froe
for 6d.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
Spiritualism in the bible identi¬
cal WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.-
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, THE TWO
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.8.,and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientiflo men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post free, 6Jd. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 3 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
jL xtl uf mh ^|||p xif
Vojlujvie Tej^. Kumber Two.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 12th, 1877.
THE PROSECUTION OF DR. SLADE BY A CONSERVATIVE
GOVERNMENT.
A LETTER FROM MR. GLADSTONE.
The following letter was read at the meeting of the
Spiritualists’ Defence Committee last Monday:—
Hawarden, January 6th, 1877.
Sir,—I am precluded by a general rule from signing the memorial
you have sent me, but I am as yet wholly ignorant of the grounds on
which the Government can have arrived at a decision that the country
shall become the prosecutor of Dr. Slade. The decision is to me a
surprising one, but I reserve any opinion.
Your faithful and obedient,
A, Joy, Esq. W. E. Gladstone.
The three following objections show that the expenditure
of large sums of the public money in prosecuting Dr. Slade
will not result in the settlement of any question "of public
interest:—
A. The case is that a Fellow of the Royal Society asserts that he
has been cheated out of a sovereign by a conjuring trick practised upon
him recently by Dr. Slade. This very small alleged private griev¬
ance, whether well-founded or the reverse, involves no public question,
and does not justify the expenditure at law of large sums of the money
of British taxpayers, Spiritualists included.
B. If the whole question could be heard, and the point decided
whether Dr. Slade is a habitual impostor or not, the ground for prose¬
cution would be broader, and Spiritualists more satisfied, but the police
magistrate decided that the vast body of evidence of educated and
intellectual men who had had seances with Dr. Slade was irrelevant,
and that the whole case should be decided solely on the evidence and
amateur experiences of the prosecutor and his solitary witness. Even
if the whole question whether Dr. Slade is a habitual impostor could be
heard at law, the points at issue are of a purely scientific nature, and a
court of law is not a proper tribunal to pronounce a decision thereupon.
C. It has been said that the Government should step in because
the prosecutor finds himself opposed single-handed to a coalition. But
if one man tries to get another locked up in prison, on the strength of a
solitary alleged experience, at variance with the experiences of great
numbers of critical and intelligent persons—nearly the whole of whose
evidence has been refused a hearing at law—he should be allowed to
take the consequences of such a serious step, and the Government
should not endorse or adopt the censurable mistake.
The original prosecution was founded upon animus against
Spiritualism, which it would not be conducive to the honour
or dignity of the Government to endorse, because in letters
to the Times the prosecutor said that the British Asso¬
ciation for the Advancement of Science had been u de¬
graded ” by taking into consideration the subject of Spirit¬
ualism, and that a medium ought to be treated like a
“ delusive wild beast.”
Great prejudice was created in the’minds of casual readers
of the newspapers by the prolonged attempts of the pro¬
secution to prove that Dr. Slade used a trick table, which
he himself voluntarily produced in Court as evidence in
his favour. As the magistrate who tried the case can bear
witness, the evidence of those who made it proved that it
was not a trick table. They deposed that they made it
how they pleased, with the exception that it was ordered
to be made of ash instead of deal, to resist rough usage,
and had one bracket under each leaf instead of the usual
two, thus presenting fewer movable parts to be objected
to by suspicious observers. They further testified that it
had -not been altered since it left their premises. Dr.
Slade uses also tables in ordinary use, and furniture,
slates and pencils suddenly provided in other houses than
his own.
At the stance with the Princess Louise he had no tables or
slates of his own, neither had he at the seances with the
Research Committee of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, reported upon another page.
The case is further prejudiced by the real phenomena being
of an unbelievable character to those who have not witnessed
the same. But the evidence on this head of the few witnesses
for Dr. Slade whom alone the magistrate at Bow-street would
hear, was unreservedly pronounced by him to be “over-
] whelming.” If evidence were given in a murder case,
I analogous in quality and quantity to that in readiness to
! prove the general genuineness of the strange phenomena
| which take place in the presence of Dr. Slade, it would be
I . strong enough to hang every man in London. Moreover,
| these and other psychological phenomena are not confined to
j Dr. Slade, but have developed in large numbers of private
| families in Great Britain and other parts of the world, and
| have formed the foundations of a new scieuce which now pos-
| sesses a variety of influential organisations, and a score or
I two of periodicals, some of them established -from fifteen to
| twenty years. The literature upon the subject in the library
| of the National Association of Spiritualists amounts to
| hundreds of volumes, some of them written by the Hon.
| Robert Dale Owen, Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S. (Editor of
I the Quarterly Journal of Science), Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
| Gerald Massey, and other standard authors ; moreover, the
| reality of some of the objective phenomena has been admitted
i by the late Archbishop Whately, the late Professor de
| Morgan (president of the Mathematical Society of (London),
| the late Lord Brougham, and the late Napoleon III., as well
! as by a long array of eminent men and women now living.
I Therefore the whole subject is one for scientific investigation,
j and a court of law full of persons totally unacquainted
| - with psychology is not a proper tribunal to decide upon
| the facts.
The Vagrancy Act was not intended to apply to alleged
I offences not in existence at the time the Act was passed;
| farther, the said Act was intended for the protection of
| credulous and ignorant persons from fortune-tellers; it was
| not intended to apply to the St. Petersburg Scientific Com-
| mittee, to Dr. Carpenter, to Mr. Serjeant Cox, to Mr. A. R.
| Wallace, to the editors of the London daily newspapers, or
I to any of the persons to whom Dr. Slade offered to sub-
i mit the phenomena for examination; these, and the wealthy
j and intellectual people who went to Dr. Slade (always
! | without any solicitation on his part), were well able to pro-
; j tect themselves; they went to him to find out what they
II could, as in going to a conjuring exhibition, and not a soul
1! can be placed in the witness-box to say that he has been
} i cheated by a conjuring trick while paying the fee under the
> | belief that he had been communicating with spirits. Is this
[ j a case calling for the expenditure at law of large grants of
i the money of heavily burdened British taxpavers ?
■ If, as the friends of the defendant believe, this is a case
I of ephemeral human opposition to the eternal and repro-
| ducible phenomena of nature, the whole prosecution is one
j which feeds the prejudices of the multitude against a new
j truth, a truth which is opposed just as railways and gas
| were once opposed from the platform of popular ignorance,
I and the Government cannot take up the prosecution without
I staining the historical honour and character of the nation,
1 . just as the escutcheon of another nation has been stained
) | beyond possibility of redemption, because it is the country
II which imprisoned Galileo. If the Government has gone
[ | too far to be able to retreat, we would call attention to the
i ] evil which has resulted from taking up an expensive prose-
11 cution on ex 'parte statements, which are always very conclu-
11 sive until the other side is heard. Did the prosecutor in his
• j . alleged desire to promote the public interests, inform the
! | Lords of the Treasury that the Spiritualistic view of the
[| prosecution, as printed over and over again in our journals
> j is that this is another Galileo case, which cannot be pro-
! I ceeded with without the sacrifice of historical and national
I reputations ? Did he or his agents point out that in taking
| up his petty private grievance such serious issues were
| publicly announced to be involved, or did he in his zeal for
) the public welfare urge them onward without pointing oat
j how the historical honour of the nation might be implicated
14
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 12,1877.
by the adoption of his solicitations. The Lords of the
Treasury should not have taken such a serious step on ex
parte statements, and should have had an opportunity of
examining whether they ran the risk of seeing their names
displayed in the future chronicles of this country, in the same
manner that the names of those who prosecuted Galileo now
stand before the world. It is a matter which affects each of
them personally.
A STORY OP A HAUNTED. HOUSE,
BY F. J. THEOBALD.
I am sure your readers will be interested in the following
account of hauntings.
I can vouch for the entire truth of the whole statement.
The young lady to whom the events happened related them
to me herself, and as far as possible, I have used her own
words as she described the details to me. For obvious
reasons it would not be wise to publish the address of this
house, but I may say that it was at one time inhabited by a
man who held a high position in society, but is unfortunately
noted in history for his atrocities, and especially during his
residence on the premises now under notice.
It is beautifully situated, within a few hours’ railway
journey from London.
I should say that my friend is not a Spiritualist, al¬
though, without her own knowledge, she must be a medium.
The following is the narrative:—
“ One cold winter’s night I awoke, and to my great sur¬
prise I found there was bright fire-light in the room. I sat
up in bed and noticed that the ordinary grate was not to be
seen, but in its place appeared an old-fashioned open hearth
upon which was blazing a splendid fire, the light of which
filled the room and had woke me up. I saw a small strip of
carpet laid down in the front of the fire, but there was no
fender. When we went to bed there had been a large
fender, but no carpet, and no fire.
44 As I looked with astonishment, I particularly remarked
a bright pair of brass fire-dogs, with very curious and pretty
twisted fire-irons resting upon them. By the side of the
fire was a beautifully carved oak arm-chair, made with a
square seat, the point of which was in front, and a rounded
back. It was such a chair as was used two hundred years
ago. In this chair was sitting an old man ; he was resting
his elbow on the arm of the chair, and with his hand sup¬
porting his head; he was looking directly towards me, with
an intent, sad gaze.
<£ He was dressed in the style of the olden times—two
hundred years ago—with knee breeches and stockings. I
noticed curiously the flicker of the fire, as it was reflected in
his bright knee and shoe buckles.
<£ I woke my sister, who was sleeping with me, saying,
4 Do you not see that old man sitting by the fire ? ’ She sat
up by my side, but saw nothing, and advised me to 4 Go to
sleep,’ advice she acted upon herself, but I lay down and
shut my eyes for a time, then sat up, and again saw the
scene I have described, and watched it for some little time,
for I was not in the least frightened, not even at the sight
of the old man, and I often wish I had spoken to him. At
last I lay down and went to sleep. On awaking in the
morning, my sister asked me what I had been talking about
in the night, fully admitting that when I awoke her I was
myself most fully awake, and not in a dreaming condition.
We had been living in the house about two months when
this occurred, and we found that it was known throughout
the town to be haunted. We lived there nearly two years,
and during the whole time were annoyed by mysterious
knockings and noises, but the ‘White Lady’ did not show
herself until just as we were leaving. My father and mother
had already returned home, sending me, with my younger
sister, and a young housemaid' to finish the packing up.
44 On the Saturday evening my sister and I went out,
leaving the servant to cord some boxes, and put the rooms
in order; we did not return until past.ten o’clock, when, to
our surprise, we found the servant sitting in the hall with
the front door open. She began to cry on seeing us, saying
she had been much frightened. She told us that after we
had gone out, and she had changed her dress, as she was
owning out of her room, which opened on to the front stair-
|| case, she thought she saw me coming up-stairs, only I had
| changed my dress, and had on a long white one; she
I exclaimed, 4 Oh ! Miss A , you are never going out, just
I now, in your best white dress ? ’
44 By the time she had said this, the figure was close up to
I her, then she saw it was a woman, dressed in a long trailing
| gown of some white material, but she could not distinguish
any face. The figure stopped when quite close to her, and
j suddenly she thought what it really was—the ghost!—upon
| which, with a scream, she sprang over the flowing train, ran
! down into the hall, and had been sitting by the open door ever
| since. She had seen the figure walk into the drawing-room.
44 The girl was so much alarmed that I told her she could
| make up a bed for herself in the room that I, with my
I sister, was occupying. It was the bedroom where I saw the
| old man by the fire. That night passed quietly, but the
| next night a strange thing happened. We were very late ;
j it was past twelve before we all three retired to our room.
| You will understand that there was no one else in the house
I but our three selves. As the door would not latch securely,
| I placed before it, to keep it shut, a chair, with a heap of
| things upon it. The servant and my sister were in bed. I was
| standing by the dressing table, when suddenly the door was
| pushed open so violently that the chair was thrown out into
j the middle of the room. I turned round sharply, and there
| saw, standing in the doorway, the tall figure of a woman in
i a long white dress, such as had been described by the servant.
| The sudden opening of the door had so terrified both the
■ servant and my sister, that I was compelled to give my at-
■ tention to calming both of them down. I did not tell them
I what I had seen, as I would not frighten them more. I
! should add that when the figure went away, the door was
I drawn to again. a
44 Some few minutes passed before I had quieted my
sister. I then lighted a night light, and put out the candle,
preparatory to getting into bed myself. To my surprise I
saw, When the room was thus darkened, that there was a
bright seam of light all round the door, which would not
close tightly. I went and opened the door, and found the
whole passage illuminated by this white light, as light as
day, but I saw no more of the figure. This frightened me
dreadfully, but I could only jump into bed, and feel glad it
was our last night in that house.
441 should say that for many years that room had been
nailed up, as unfit for occupation, on account of the haunt¬
ing ; it had not been very long unfastened when we went to
stay there.”
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham.
MR. BLACKBURN’S SHANCJZiS.
BY WILLIAM NEWTON, F.B.G.S.
On Thursday, the 4th inst., Dr, 0. Carter Blake conducted
a seance of the above series at the rooms of the British
National Association of Spiritualists; Mr. Eglinton was
again the medium employed.
Eleven observers were present, and the whole of the pro¬
ceedings were conducted in gas-light.
Upon instructions in 44 Joey’s ” voice from the cabinet,
in which the medium had been placed, Mr. Eglinton’s hands
were sewn behind his back by means of strong thread
uniting his shirt sleeves (his coat having been dispensed
with), while his wrists were also secured with tape, tied
firmly in hard knots. As usual, his knees and legs were
visible, protruding between the curtains of the cabinet, and
across his knees was laid the 44 fairy bells,” the strings of
which were soon heard sounding under a pressure apparently
of fingers through the substance of the curtain. Fingers
were protruded freely, and a closed match-box laid upon the
‘‘ fairy bells” was taken in by a right hand and returned
open, with a small candle attached exposed to view. It
was again taken into the cabinet, and upon request 44 Joey”
struck a light a few inches above the floor, and not on it:
the light was visible through the curtain. A snuff-box was
also taken in and returned open: the two parts of a sliding
cigar case (Dr. Blake’s Venezuelan petaca) were returned
separately: the medium’s watch and chain, purse, and pocket
handkerchief were placed outside the cabinet, but were again
taken within, the purse, as was afterwards found, being
Jan. 12, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
15
replaced in his pocket; also the watch, with the chain j
hanging loose. - I
Daring a great portion of the time, the medium under- |
went strong convulsive movements, and was heard to sigh j
deeply, and “Joey” having assured us that the power was j
exhausted, an examination of the medium was made, when j
it was found that a loose end of the tape from the wrist had j
been knotted to the back rail of the chair, while, with the j
exception of a single thread which had become detached I
from the shirt sleeves, the whole of the fastenings remained I
intact, and had to be severed with a knife.
This seance was considered most satisfactory, as well on j
account of the variety of the manifestations as of the cer- I
tainty that the medium’s hands remained as they were first I
placed.  
I agree entirely with the above statement of fact.
C. Carter Blake.
THE APPARITION OF MAJOR BLOMBERG.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist?'
SiR,—Mrs. De Morgan’s interesting narrative of the
apparition of Major Blomberg varies somewhat from the
other published records; and, as a matter of satisfaction, it
may be well to point out how such stories get altered.
I send you herewith the original narrative from Horace
Welby’s Signs before Death. Note the variations:—
Early in the American war, Major Blomberg, the father of Dr. Blom¬
berg, was expected to join his regiment, which was at the time on service
in the Island of Dominica. His period of absence had expired, and his
brother officers eagerly anticipating his return, as vessel after vessel
arrived from England without conveying the looked-for passenger,
declared one to another, “ Well, at all events, he must come in the next.”
His presence in the island now became indispensable, and the governor,
impatient of so long an absence, was on the point of writing a remon¬
strance on the subject to the authorities in England, when, as he was
sitting at night in his study with his secretary, and remarking on the
conduct of the absentee with no very favourable or lenient expressions,
a step was heard to ascend the stairs, and walk along the passage
without. “Who can it be?” exclaimed the governor, “ intruding at so
late an hour.” “It is Blomberg’s step,” replied the secretary. “The
very man himself,” said the governor; for, as he spoke, the door opened,
and Major Blomberg stood before them. The major advanced towards
the table at which the gentlemen were sitting, and flung himself into a
chair opposite the governor. There was something hurried in his
manner, a forgetfulness of all the ordinary forms of greeting, and
abruptly saying, “ I must converse with you alone,” he gave a sign for
the secretary to retreat. The sign was obeyed. There was an air of
conscious superiority about the manner of the visitor that admitted no
dispute, “ On your return to England,” he continued, as soon as the
apartment was cleared of the objectionable witness, “ on your return to
England you will go to a farm house, near the village of  , in
Dorsetshire; you will there find two children; they are mine; the off¬
spring and the orphans of my secret marriage. Be a guardian to those
parentless infants. To prove their legitimacy, and their consequent
right to my property, you must demand of the woman with whom they
are placed at nurse, the red morocco case which was committed to her
charge. Open it; it contains the necessary papers. Adieu! you will
see no more.” Major Blomberg instantly withdrew. The governor qf
Dominica, surprised at the commission, at the abrupt entrance, and the
abrupt departure, rang the bell to desire some of his household to follow
the major and request his return. None had seen him enter; none had
witnessed his exit. It was strange ! it was passing strange! There
soon after arrived intelligence that Major Blomberg had embarked on
board a vessel for Dominica, which had been dismasted in a storm at
sea, and was supposed to have subsequently sunk about the time in which
the figure had appeared to the governor and his secretary, as she was
never more heard of.
All that Major Blomberg had communicated was carefully stamped in
the memory of his friend. On his return to England, which occurred in
a few months after the apparition above described had been seen by the
governor, he immediately hastened to the village in Dorsetshire, and to
the house in which the children were resident.
He found them ; he asked for the case; it was immediately surren¬
dered. The legitimacy and the claims of the orphans of Blomberg were
established, and they were admitted to the enjoyment of their rights
without any controversy or dispute.
This tale was related to the late Queen Charlotte, and so deeply inte¬
rested her, that she immediately adopted the son as the object of her
peculiar care and favour. He was brought to Windsor) and educated
with her eldest son, afterwards George IV., of whom he was through
life the favourite, the companion, and the friend.
(1.) “ Early in the American war ” is fixed at 1765-70.
(2.) “ The Governor ” is named as “ Colonel Stewart.”
(3.) Major Blomberg, in Mrs. De Morgan’s narrative, is
a passenger to Dominica with Colonel Stewart, becomes inti¬
mate with him, and dies shortly after landing. On a
] certain night, not fixed, Colonel Stewart is in bed, Mr.
| Minchin occupying the same room, when the apparition
j presents itself.
In the the old story of Welby, “the Governor” is
“ sitting at night in his study with his secretary, when the
| step is heard ascending the stairs, and Blomberg appears.”
(4.) In Mrs. De Morgan’s version, he approaches the si de
| of the bed where the Colonel lay, and tells him of his
I marriage with “ a young woman in Ireland,” and of one
] child, the offspring of it. In Welby’s narrative, the appa-
| rition “ advances to the table,” orders the secretary out of
| the room, is hurried in manner, “ forgetful of the ordinary
I forms of greeting.” He directs the Governor to go to “ a
| farm-house near the village of  in Dorsetshire,” where
| he will find two children, the “ offspring and the orphans of
| my secret marriage.” He also speaks of a red morocco case
j containing the papers necessary to prove their legitimacy.
(5.) In Mrs. De Morgan’s version, Mr. Minchin hears and
j attests all this. In the other, the Governor is alone, his
; I mysterious visitor vanishes, the Governor rings the bell and
j fails to trace him. “ None had seen him enter; none had
| witnessed his exit.” Soon after intelligence is received that
[| “ Major Blomberg had embarked on board a vessel for
[j Dominica, which had been dismasted in a storm, and was
II supposed to have subsequently sunk about the time in which
| j the figure appeared.”
(6.) Welby relates, moreover, a circumstantial account of
| the visit of Colonel Stewart to Dorsetshire, the interview
| with the nurse, the finding of the morocco case, and the
j admissions of the orphans to their rights without any contro-
|| versy or dispute.
Mrs. De Morgan, on the contrary, gives us details of a
| trial at law, in which Mr. Minchin’s attested testimony was
i produced, and Colonel Stewart’s evidence is sworn on oath.
I presume these narratives refer to the same facts. If so,
| it is very singular to us how, without discrepance which is
I positively detrimental, variations have crept into the
jlj records. Mrs. De Morgan’s narrative is far more circum-
| | stantial than Welby’s. Does she know of, or has she seen
||| that to which I have referred ? Was Colonel Stewart actu-
| I ally Governor of Dominica? M. A. Oxon.
i | THE PROSECUTION OF GALILEO.
| | By the treaty of Campo Formio, or, in fact, before the
| | treaty was signed, Napoleon Bonaparte forced the Pope to
| | accord him about one million pounds, one hundred pictures,
| | and five hundred manuscripts. Among the manuscripts
||| carried off was the Prosecution of Galileo, which, after the
11 removal from the Vatican to Paris, was pronounced by the
| | historian Denina as without importance. Notwithstanding
f ] this, Napoleon ordered its translation, but, strange to say,
| | the translation was never completed. During the first years
| | of the Restoration, active negotiations were carried on with
If! the view of getting the French king to restore the manuscript
| | in question, but his most Christian majesty refused. The
jf j Court of Rome could persuade neither Louis the Eighteenth,
| I the sceptic, nor Charles the Tenth, the despot, to part with
| | the spoil which had been seized by Bonaparte, notwith-
jtf standing the ulterior pains and penalties attaching to the
| | crime of keeping back church property. But what was
I refused by the Bourbons was accorded by Louis Philippe,
| | and the manuscript, after remaining in France about half a
gf century, was sent back to Rome, and was handed by the
| | unfortunate Rossi to Pius IX. It was at once restored to
I | the secret archives of the Vatican. A short time ago, to the
| | astonishment of the world, Dominic Berti was permitted to
| | take a copy of the original documents, and these he has just
| published. And most interesting is the account which the
| | Italian writer gives of “ starry Galileo and his woes,” of his
jjj talent, his grace, and his wit, and ho.w he was feted and
| i caressed at Rome and Florence until he began to speak of
| | the system of Copernicus, and to demonstrate the movement
j | of the earth. His discovery of the satellites of Jupiter had
I j been hailed with delight, but the inference their movements
| | suggested caused his perdition. The astronomer was first
| | attacked by a Dominican preacher at Florence, who accused
jjj him of throwing doubt on the authenticity of the miracle
i!l performed by Joshua. Galileo replied that the Holy
16
THE SPiftiTUALIST,
Jan. 12, 1877.
Scriptures could not err, but that they should not be literally
interpreted. Another Dominican, called Nicholas Lorini,
then denounced Galileo to the Holy Office, and the closest
watch was kept on his words and acts by the Inquisition.
He went to Rome in the hope of being able to prove his
innocence, and of being allowed to continue his pursuits
without interference. The Holy Office, however, unani¬
mously declared it to be an absurd heresy to pretend that
the sun is motionless, and that the earth turns, and the Pope
directed Cardinal Bellarmini to inform Galileo that he must
no more teach the doctrine condemned, or he would be thrown
into prison. Galileo promised to obey. He was received by
the Pope, and was treated with kindness. He was neither
punished nor molested.
Not long after this a new Pontiff was elected—Urban
VIII., of the House of Barbarini. He was a Florentine as
well as Galileo, and a lover of letters. Galileo had six long
audiences with the Pope, but what passed between them is
not known. The astronomer now thought himself at liberty
to write his Dialogue, in which the system of Copernicus,
without being defended, was expounded. The Pontiff had
no sooner received a copy of this work than he showed him¬
self violently irritated, and but for the supplications of the
Tuscan ambassador he would have at once sent him before
the Holy Office. As it was, a commission was charged
to examine the (( Dialogues,” and shortly afterwards the
Inquisitor of Florence delivered Galileo a formal order to
appear before the dreaded tribunal alluded to above. Gali¬
leo, who was then seventy years of age, and ill, implored pity.
The Grand Duke of Tuscany interceded in his behalf. The
Pope would hear of no delay. He gave orders that the
culprit should be seized and brought to Rome in chains, if
he was able to support the journey. Galileo, half dead,
reached Rome in January, 1633, and in April he was
interrogated by the Holy Office. For ten months he sup¬
ported, in anguish of mind, the threats and ill-treatment to
which he-was subjected, and then, he confessed that he had
gone too far in advocating the system of Copernicus. He
was called upon to give a more explicit denial of the truth
of what he had advanced, or the judges were to proceed to
a rigorous examination, which, in the language of the Holy
Office, means “ torture.” It is urged^ but not by Signor
Berti, that Galileo was actually tortured, and that the docu¬
ment giving a description of the scene was suppressed at
the suggestion of M. Guizot (a Protestant) and Rossi. On
the other hand it is asserted that when the Pope directed a
rigorous examination, if it could be supported, he knew
very well that Galileo could not support torture, and that
torture would not be inflicted. It is clear, however, from
what. Signor Berti says, that the Pontiff showed neither
compassion nor indulgence toward his old friend. Even
after his adjuration, Galileo was kept in a state of semi¬
confinement, and was only permitted to see a few friends.
He went blind—then died.— The Scotsman.
A TRANCE ADDRESS BY MR. MORSE.
Last Friday hight Mr. J. J. Morse delivered a trance address at the
rooms of the British N ational Association of Spiritualists, at 38, Great
Russell-street, London, under the presidency of Mr. Desmond Fitz¬
Gerald, M.S.Tel.E.
Mr. Morse gradually passed into the trance state. The external
symptoms were that for about three minutes his eyes were closed ; he
shuddered and breathed heavily .now and then as he sat upon his chair;
then his head fell back ; gradually he rose, made two or three passes
over his forehead with his hands, and addressed the meeting stand¬
ing up.
The communicating intelligence said: We only ask you to attach
such importance to our words as they may naturally require ; you will
receive simply the opinion of one person, and what is said stands or
falls upon its own merits. We wish to speak to you to-night of
“Spiritualism: its Present Position and its Future Prospects.” The
position in the future will not be that of to-day, for it has not yet
reached its fulness of development. Within the ranks of Spiritualists
is diversity of opinion ; some think that it cannot become a religion,
and claim that it is only a science ; others say that it must be one of
the philosophies of the ages ; of the making of such philosophies there
has been no end, and they have usually resulted in making the past
and future of man more doubtful than they were before. We would
advise you to adopt the simplest and best method of gaining a know¬
ledge of every subject upon earth,—that is to say, devote yourselves to
observation and to experiment. Some speak of Spiritualism as a force
which is raising the world upwards; but many who hold this view
have rather miscalculated the means by which this raising of the human
i) i race is to be effected, for they do not see how analysis and observation
I s | of facts can assist in the amelioration of the world, yet to the creed of
i; I Spiritualism there is but one key—the key of knowledge. Here it may
j(i be said that we are preaching utilitarianism. We preach rational
Kj research into the circumstances of the human spirit, embodied or dis-
Iji embodied; a mere sentimental belief in Spiritualism would be of no
j < I permanent use to the human race, and would be twisted to and fro with
i |! every passing doctrine. The present position of Spiritualism seems to
be anything but enviable, since attempts are being made everywhere
i (i to discredit its facts ; but if the adversaries could succeed in throwing
jSl all Spiritualism into the shade, and in overthrowing all its experiences,
i ? j a similar course would next be adopted with all other religious systems,
||| for people will gravely question whether ancient records, written by
Kj those whom they never knew, stand upon a firmer foundation than the
|) I modern experiences of those with whom they are now living. What is
j ( Spiritualism ? It appears to have many distinct issues, each of which
IS j is claimed by its believers to cover the whole ground, whereas each and
j;j all are more or less true without any one of them covering the whole,
in It is either true that the manifestations are produced by disembodied
|) beings, as claimed, or it is not true ; if true, the fact is the foundation of
| ! all Spiritualism; if untrue, then the position is most unenviable, and
|(j you have been supporting that which cannot stand investigation. We
|) j do not admit the latter position, but assert that these manifestations
j) are produced by departed human beings. But if the departed can pro-
jy duce the manifestations, we claim that it is equally possible that the
i) selfsame spirit, while embodied in the mortal form, can put forth some
|1| foresb ado wings of what the disembodied spirit may do. We see no
j \ evidence of Spiritualism being a coherent moral reform, although many
:> | Spiritualists are trying to make it so; neither is it a coherent science,
it ] for who has made it so % It is not a coherent system of philosophy as
| j 1 yet. Why ? It appeals largely to people whose sympathies are large,
|j and who like to revel in the idea that spirits are constantly smiling
if: around them ; they cannot turn to the cold stern facts, and to the study
\{ | of the methods by which the results are accomplished; they cannot
|) | criticise ; they are like persons who gaze at a beautiful picture, but
I f | cannot understand the means by which the artist has produced such a
j( | pleasing result; yet if the artist had not studied the means, the beau-
i) I tiful picture before the eye of the observer would never have had an
jt ] existence. You will say that we present a doleful picture of Spiritual¬
ly | ism. Many have worked hard towards the building up of true know-
j) j ledge by the best method which could possibly be pursued, for they
1(1 firmly and perseveringly follow one line of investigation, that
i) | of establishing the facts beyond mistake. If the facts are there, their
j) | elaboration into laws and philosophy is certain in the future, so all
K I labour in this direction confers such substantial benefit on the future
j) I of Spiritualism that the action of the workers deserves the truest
|) I praise. But you must bear in mind that you are dealing with a class
K of beings who are intelligent, who have affections and hopes, and you
j) cannot do less than to treat them as respectfully as you would those
ji whom you meet in this mortal life, for they are trying to help you to
I \ j heap up rich legacies for humanity. At present the chief aim of
I) I Spiritualism is to demonstrate the fact of human immortality. Some-
!) | times you pause in your labours to ask what are our conditions and
|jyj our states. These ai’e common sense questions, and when you are
j) satisfied with the identity of spirits you accept their testimony.
|n ' Already Spiritualism has done sufficient to demonstrate human im-
j( j mortality, but now it has to keep and to extend its position, and it can
j j best do this by subjecting itself to the fullest and freest criticism that
k can be brought to bear upon it in anyway; opposition always in-
n creases its life and vitality. Universal acceptance would stifle it. The
I) I public have always been behind the age, and sneered at those who
j( promulgated new truths, but never yet has a truth been born into the
) world which could afford to rest before it had reached its point.
j)‘ Who are the proper people to extend the question of Spiritualism?
K The general public ? You might as well ask a little child to explain
|) the motions of the heavenly bodies. The best persons are those who
) are inclined to psychological research, chiefly those Spiritualists who
( bear in mind that they must put the facts in such a form that they can be
i thoroughly tested and repeated. Two or three things well established,
) and which can always be reproduced, are worth more than many
< marvels imperfectly attested, although, at the same time, we would
j not protest against wonders in spirit circles ; nevertheless, their reality
) should be tested before they are recited to others. Spiritualists should
( remember that at test sSances they are not, as a rule, testing the
( honesty of the medium, but the reality of the phenomena, and this
) should be impressed upon the sensitive, otherwise mental dis-
(| turban.ce is caused which interferes with the results ; he should
j understand that the investigation does not apply to himself,
|| but to the facts that appear in consequence of his presence; every-
j i thing should be done to keep his mind perfectly tranquil.
)j Always exercise the clearest and sharpest criticism, because from
such criticism there is everything to gain and nothing to lose. We
U rather oppose the idea- of the erection of Spiritualism into a new
; j religious system; it had better not enter into the fray with the
II religious sects which are quarrelling among themselves, and trying to
(I pull each other down. Let every Spiritualist try to live as noble a
) | life as he can, but not to form a new creed, or to narrow the great
/ i facts down to small issues. There is plenty of evidence that departed
human beings interfere occasionally with the affairs of human life.
We do not say that every manifestation has its origin in the next
11 world, for the human spirit has powers of its own. If there has ever
l i been a communication from our world, there must be some possibility
)j of communication between the two states of existence without the
)j intervention of miracle. We have never seen a miracle performed,
(j and doubt whether a miracle has ever been witnessed at all. If rela-
) | tions between the two worlds exist, the Almighty Power has provided
’ ^ the necessary means of communication, and spirits return as a matter
THE SPIKITUALIST.
17
Jan. 12, 1877.
of course. Instead of death being the end of all things, it but marks
the point at which the natural enters the realms of the spiritual, and
nothing supernatural or miraculous is involved in the transition. Will
Spiritualism ever become a proud science 1 Will philosophy, with its
golden glory, ever light up the pages of its history 1 Why not 1 If
it is founded upon facts it possesses everything which is necessary for
the building up of a science. If the facts led you nowhere they would
be useless, but every fact has its use in being, and our simple facts
reach out from the , terrestrial kingdom into the spiritual world, so
inevitably in the future shall you see and understand the science of
Spiritualism. In those days, - instead of the phenomena being
fugitive, the conditions under which they occur will be under¬
stood, and obedience to the laws of their production will bring
the desired results; there is no reason why the facts of
Spiritualism should not be reduced to practical purposes as much as
those of electricity; you will one day master all its principles, and
settle them for humanity for ever. If Spiritualism stayed its hand
there, it would have done good service to the world and reared
a proud monument to the energy and the ability of its fol¬
lowers : but it will not end there, for the intelligences who show
you these things will not stay their hands, and humanity will raise
the natural cry, What are your conditions i—what are the circum¬
stances of your life and state 1 So different are our conditions that it
is almost impossible to explain them to you at present with the means
at our command. In the coming time you will not only ask as to the
conditions of our life, but for an explanation of moral and religious
questions. We see plainly what reforms will best fit you to enter our
state, and as we impart this knowledge, moral and religious changes
will gradually be brought about. We think not that we can give you
any much better moral or religious code than you could get without
Spiritualism, for you must remember that for long ages there have been
few changes in the fundamental moral teachings underlying all forms
of religion. We may claim to speak with a certain force, we may be
able to help you to clear away clouds, and to pull down barriers which
stand before the grand truths of immortality ; but if we attempted to
preach a new morality, we think the result would be but a gigantic
failure. Religious ideas have not been created by new phases of
thought in any era of the world’s history, but the present ideas of
morality which the world entertains will have to pass through great
modifications, indeed they are doing so now, and have been changing
rapidly for the last half century. We tell you that in the spheres above
there is eternal progression, and that in the future Spiritualism will
take its position as a science, a religion, and a philosophy, but it will
be neither of these separately. It will be a scientific religion and a
religious philosophy, an interpreter of the facts of the being and nature
of every human soul.
Mr. Morse then passed under another influence, from whom a second
address was received, shortly after which the meeting broke up.
SPIRITUALISM IN DALSTON.
SIXTH ANNIVERSARY MEETING OF THE DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM,
On Thursday, last week, the sixth anniversary of the Dalston
Association was held at its rooms, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.,
under the presidency of Mr. G. R. Tapp. There was a large attend¬
ance of members and friends.
Mr. Thomas Ely ton, the Honorary Secretary, read letters of con¬
gratulation from various friends, including one from Mrs. Elgie
Corner (Florence Cook), dated Shanghai, November 12th, in the course
of which she said—■** Spiritualism is progressing out here ; I have
given several seances, and some figures appeared. There is some sort
of Spiritualism among the Chinese, but they will not admit
‘ Elopians • (Europeans). They are a queer lot; very superstitious;
and, as a rule, the greatest liars and thieves in existence. I get on
with them very well—(Laughter)—and am honoured with the title of
‘No bobbery mississe.’ China is not such a bad place, but I expect
my old friends will say I am very much altered, as I never care to go
out.”
Mr. Blyton next read letters from the Rev.. F. R. Young, of
Swindon, Mrs. Bassett, and Dr. George Sexton. He further an¬
nounced gifts to the Association from Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Man¬
chester, and Mr. Thomas Grant, of Maidstone.
The Chairman said that the Association might congratulate itself
upon having reached the sixth year of its existence, and that it had
never been in a more flourishing condition than at present; this was
due to the energy of some of the members, more especially that of Mr.
Thomas Blyton, whom he did not want to flatter, for they all knew
that he merely spoke the truth.
Miss Thompson then gave a solo on the piano.
Mr. Thomas Shorter said that at the present time Spiritualism was
in a critical position, but the very fact of the present prosecutions
proved that the movement had made considerable strides, and that
it had passed the stage of contemptuous toleration, when those who
had failed in argument had resorted to the clumsy expedient of trying
to put it down by law. He sympathised with all persons who had
been unjustly accused, and who might fall victims to popular
ignorance. He would not speak against physical mediums, for they
were very useful, but if any prosecution tended to put a stop to any
imposture so much the better; at the same time, it was their duty
to stand by those whom they believed to be improperly attacked.
No harm to the movement would be done if Spiritualism hereafter
should have to be investigated in the home circle, rather than in the
room of the public medium, for private circles were by far the most
useful to the movement.
Miss Edith Cook then sang i( Robin Adair,” after which Mr.
Tredwen recited a poem entitled “Midnight Adoration,5* and Miss
Sparey sang “ Gone Home.” The words of the latter song were from
one of Miss Lizzie Doten’s trance poems, and had been set to music
by Mr. Robert Cooper, in America.
After a few words from Miss Kislingbury, Miss Cook played a solo
upon the piano.
Mr. T. Blyton said: On the 15th September, 1870, about a dozen
ladies and gentlemen met at these rooms, when it was thought that the
alleged phenomena of Spiritualism should form the subject of systematic
investigation, that if true they might be demonstrated. This association
was accordingly formed, and since its establishment a large number of
intelligent investigators has been enrolled as members. In celebrating
this evening the sixth anniversary, it may be well to consider briefly
what has been the result of the investigation under the auspices of the
association, during the past six years. The plan of working has been,
as you are aware, that of the observation of such results as have been
evolved at the weekly experimental seances without the presence of
professional media, by the study of the published records of other
investigators, by occasionally engaging the services of professional
media for the observation of such manifestations as they may obtain under
the best test conditions possible, and by soliciting from members reports
of any manifestations observed by them in their private home sejmces.
The result has been such as to corroborate in the main the laot that
many of the phenomena are due to some other than human agency,
while in some instances the evidence is very strong in support of their
claim that they originate with the spirits of departed human beings.
Careful observation tends, in my individual opinion, to show that much
which transpires in seances is due to the psychological influences of the
sitters; as, for instance, at some recent seances of the Association a
member has stated that he sees things which, from his description
thereof, apparently appertain to, and are representative of, some acts on
the part of the sitters, either at the time of the seance, or at some
previous period. From this it would appear as if our ordinary
actions are, in some mysterious manner, indelibly impressed upon
our surroundings so as to be seen by some sensitives, in whom
certain faculties may at times be abnormally developed. Some
of our fellow-members have wisely held stances in the seclusion of their
private homes, and to one of these I am personally deeply indebted for
opportunities of regular observation of the development of an advanced
phase of mediumship; I refer here to what are called “ form manifesta¬
tions.” This probably is one of the most perplexing phases of phenomena
as yet developed in this country. That the form of the medium and the
“ spirit form ” are separate and distinct I have had good evidence; but
to what extent, if any, the intelligent principle of the medium takes an
unconscious part in the manifestation, it is not possible for me to say
now. The “ spirit form ” asserts that the manifestation is produced by
temporarily withdrawing from the medium the elements for constituting
the “ form,” and the life principle is, as it were, transferred, so that the
body of the medium is nearly lifeless. I have, however, noticed that on
touching the form of the medium, while the “ spirit form ” stood on one
side, that the medium would move in an uneasy manner, showing that
vital action was not entirely suspended. I will not, however, take up
your time by further allusions to my own experiences, but would urge
upon my fellow-members the value of home circles, in which the most
satisfactory evidence of the genuineness of the phenomena is obtain¬
able, and the conditions for development of the faculty of mediumship
are more suitable than at public seances, I trust the members of this
Association may, as a body, agree with me in thinking that we have
cause for congratulation at the results already obtained; inasmuch as,
notwithstanding the misrepresentation and abuse so freely bestowed
upon those who are courageous enough to espouse unpopular facts, we
have obtained by experience a knowledge of the subject sufficient to
corroborate the published records of many other investigators. It is,
therefore, to be hoped that further experiences may help to make clear
those points which, at present, are obscure, and, by studying the nature
of the faculty of mediumship more carefully, we shall attain to a
truer appreciation of the subject of Spiritualism. In conclusion, I
venture to express a hope, as one of your officers, that each member of
the Association will continue to take the active interest in its welfare
which alone has insured its prosperous career up to the present time,
and by which its future usefulness and prosperity may be assured.
Also that, according to our individual convictions, we may assist to our
utmost the efforts of those who, especially at the present time, are
striving to uphold the freedom and privilege of investigation into
psychological subjects against the combined action of those parties who
attribute the whole of the phenomena to imposture.
After a song from Mr. Thomas Dawburn, Mr. J. J. Morse made a
few remarks on the efficient way in which the Dalston Society was
managed, and Mme. Gurry favoured the company with some music.
Mr. Morse next gave a trance address, and Master Donald Cook sang
“ Come, Birdie, Come,” accompanied on the piano by his sister, Miss
Kate Cook. Mr. Charles Dawburn then made a few remarks, after
which Miss Maltby gave a selection from Lucrezia Borgia, and the
meeting broke up.
Our knowledge of the nature of spiritual beings, and of our own in¬
tellectual constitution, may be as perfect as our knowledge of material
objects, inasmuch as in both cases we are acquainted with neither of
them as regards their essential nature, but only with the operations they
are undergoing or capable of producing.—Harris's Treatise on Man.
The Scientific and Literary Review says that Dr. Collyer’s pamphlet
on the Slade prosecution, “like all productions from the pen of Dr.
Collyer, is clear and forcible; and certainly what he states with regard
to Slade and his so-called spirit-writing should cause everybody to
pause and give the matter further consideration before they venture to
decide that Slade is a mere juggler and impostor,”
18
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 12, 1877.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
Last Tuesday night, at the usual monthly meeting of the Council of the
British National Association of Spiritualists, Mr. Alex. Calder presided,
and the other members present were Mr. Morell Theobald, the Rev. W.
W. Newbould, Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Mrs. Wiseman, Mr.'Desmond
Fitz-Gerald, Mr. C. C. Massey, Mrs. Wood, Mr. R. Pearce, Mr. E. T.
Bennett, Mr. W. H. Coffin, Mr. Dawson Rogers, Miss Houghton, and
Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen.
Eighteen new members were elected.
Mr. C. C. Massey proposed that Dr. George Wyld should be invited j
to become a vice-president of the society, and spoke highly of the valu¬
able public work Dr. Wyld had done for Spiritualism.
This was seconded by Mr. Fitz-Gerald, supported by Mr. W. H.
Coffin, and passed unanimously. j
Five resignations of membership were reported.
Presents to the library by Mr. C. C. Massey and Mr. S. C. Hall were
acknowledged with thanks.
The Secretary read an offer of 1150 a year for the use as private
apartments of two of the rooms of the Association. The Council re- j
solved that it was “ not prepared at the present time to entertain a pro- j
position for letting any of the rooms.” ]
A short discussion then took place about the making of improvements
in two of the rooms of the Association. The matter was referred to a
committee. j
The question of the method of presentation of the memorial from the
Council to the Home Secretary about the Slade prosecution was left to
the discretion of the President.
- Mbs. Honywood is at Cannes. ■ |
The Rev. H. R. Haweis will preach next Sunday morning at St. j
James’s Hall on “Sunday Worship and Sunday Recreations.” The j
service begins at eleven o’clock.
Prosecution of Mb. Maskelyne.—Messrs. Munton and Morris, |J
solicitors to Dr. Slade, have commenced proceedings in the High Court j I
of Justice against Mr. Maskelyne, the conjuror, for alleged slander. j
The Spiritualist is published every Thursday evening in London, con- i
sequently it should be obtainable of newsvendors in all parts of the i
United Kingdom by Saturday at latest. Subscribers’copies are posted jj
from 38, Great Russell-street, every Thursday. i /
A Ball.—Last Tuesday night a ball took place at 8, Upper Bedford- |(
place, at which many Spiritualists were present, including Dr. Slade | j
and his American companions. The arrangements were of an elegant i j
nature, and the company separated at 3.30 a.m. ;
Peivate Theatricals.—On Tuesday last week, several Spiritualistic ! |
and other friends gave a private theatrical entertainment at 8, Upper i)
Bedford-place. The performers displayed considerable ability, and | j
kept the interest of the observers fully alive throughout both the pieces, i j
The first was No. I Round the Corner. “Mr. Flipper,” Mr. Walter I
Ker; “Mr. Nobbier,” Mr. Hugh Cowper. The second piece selected jf
was A Kiss in the Dark. “Mr. Pettibone,” Mr. Walter Ker; “Mrs. |)
Pettibone,” Miss Slade; “Frank Falhorn,”Mr. Hugh Cowper; “Mary” jj
(a servant), Miss Simmonds; “Unknown Female,” Miss Burke.
Mr. J. J. Morse in the Provinces.—On Sunday last Mr. Morse j
delivered two trance addresses in the Old Freemasons’ Hall, Newcastle- j j
on-Tyne: the one in the afternoon was upon “Spiritualism not a ij
Superstition,” and in the evening the subject was “The Spiritual j j
World : its Origin and Nature.” Both lectures were ably treated, and i ji
afforded pleasure to good audiences. Mr. H. A. Kersey presided. On i jj
Monday evening Mr. Morse delivered a brief trance address. The j jj
remainder of the evening was devoted to answering questions from the j jj
audience. On Sunday next, in the same Hall, Mr. Morse will attend j j
the quarterly meeting of the North of England Conference Committee, i j
at 2.30 p.m., and at 7 p.m. will deliver a trance address. His other jjj
engagements are: Liverpool, January 21; Birmingham, January 28, 30, i jj
and February 1; Glasgow, February 11. jjj
Spiritualistic Soiree.—The usual monthly soiree of the National jjj
Association of Spiritualists was held at 38, Great Russell-street, London, j jj
on Wednesday, the 3rd inst. The chief feature of the evening was a j j
recitation of Albery’s unpublished poem of Joan of Arc in Prison, by jjj
Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat). The deep dramatic feeling of jjj
the Maid of Orleans when repelling the accusation of witchcraft was iji
admirably expressed by Mrs. Ross-Church, who seemed to sympathise jj
with every subtle turn of thought and sentiment in the captive heroine, i j j
Later in the evening Mrs. Ross-Church sang Sullivan’s touching jjj
“ Distant Shore,” which proved that her musical powers are not second j ji
to those of dramatic recitation. Mrs. Limpus sang with great taste j \\
Gounod’s Ou voulez-vous aller? and Miss Slade and Miss Simmonds also j jj
added to the entertainment of the evening by excellent pianoforte per- j j i
formances. There was a thin attendance. ' J jjj
A Musical Prodigy.—There is a little fellow of our acquaintance in jjj
this city, not yet five years of age, who has recently developed a musical i j j
talent that is really surprising. Without any instruction whatever, he jjj
can play any simple tune on the piano, which he may have heard jjj
whistled or played by anyone else. Some of the tunes which he per- j j j
forms are “ Yankee Doodle,” “ Tell Aunt Rhoda,”“ Old Hundredth,” and jjj
others. His mother the other day was rocking the baby to sleep, and jjj
humming the tune of “ Greenville,” when he at once sat down to the jjj
piano and played it correctly. The other day he attended the funeral of jjj
one of his relatives, where they had singing as one of the exercises, j j j
Upon returning home he played the tune which was sung without diffi- jjj
culty. He has good time, and whenever he makes the slightest error, j j
immediately corrects it himself without any prompting. It is indeed a j' j
remarkable case that one so young, and who until recently has never j j
taken any interest in music, should exhibit such proficiency.—Cctpe Ann jjj
(Mass.^ Advertiser, ' ■ , ' ill
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
DR. SLADE’S POWERS CRITICALLY EXAMINED BY THE RESEARCH COMMITTEE.
Dr. Slade recently agreed that he would submit his
medial powers for one evening to the observation of the
Research Committee of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, on their premises, at 38, Great Russell-street, and
use none of his own tables, chairs, slates, or pencils. He
gave the sittings on the 15th December last, admitting two
at a time to the seance-room, experience having shown that
the presence of more weakens the results. The following
are the reports:—
REPORT OF MR. DESMOND FITZ-GERALD, M.S.TEL.E., AND MR. J. W. GRAY, C.E.
We sat down to an ordinary deal, double-flap, Pembroke
table. Dr. Slade sat with a flap to right and left, but side¬
ways, so that his legs did not pass under the table. Mr.
Fitz-Gerald sat on his right, opposite the flap, and Mr.
Gray opposite to Dr. Slade. All joined hands on the top
of the table, and at about the middle thereof. Raps, and
even blows, were then almost immediately heard and felt
beneath the table, these being sufficiently strong to cause
the table to vibrate distinctly; and in this way was affirma¬
tively answered the question, “ Will you write ?” Dr. Slade
then bit off a small piece of pencil, and placed it on a slate,
the frame of which bore a mark, so that the slate could not
be turned over without detection. The slate was then passed
several times partially under the table and withdrawn by
Dr. Slade, who held it by one corner, his other hand joining
that of the other sitters on the top of the table. At no time
was the slate in such a position that the writing could by any
possibility have been done by Dr. Slade. After a few of these
movements of the slate, and whilst it was partially visible,
and apparently close against the table, both Dr. Slade’s
hands being lull in view, a sound as of writing on the slate
was distinctly heard, and then, after it had moved three
times against the table (to indicate that the writing was
finished), the slate was withdrawn, and writing was found
thereon, extending right across the slate lengthwise.
The next experiment was with a folding slate, which had
been bought by Mr. Fitz-Gerald for the purpose. A crumb
of pencil having been placed on one leaf of the slate, and
the other leaf folded over it, Dr. Slade took hold of the
closed slate between the thumb and forefinger of the right
hand, and placed his other hand on those of the other sitters
on the top of the table. The slate was then passed several
times beneath the table for the fraction of a second, and was
then held by Dr. Slade above the table, in which position
writing was distinctly heard on it, Mr. Fitz-Gerald placing
his ear close to the slate to make quite sure of this fact.
On the slate being then opened writing was found on one
leaf thereof, the words being; ff He is not a developing
medium,” this being evidently in reply to a remark made by
Dr. Slade, a minute or so before, that Mr. Gray was a strong
medium. The slates being then removed from the table, we
placed our hands on the latter, and Dr. Slade asked that it
might be raised. After being strongly tilted once or twice,
it was suddenly raised from the floor, and turned over above
our heads. The latter movement was so sudden, however,
that the exact conditions immediately before it Occurred had
not been noted. It was therefore suggested that the experi¬
ment should be tried whether the table could be made to
rise slowly and vertically whilst under careful observation.
The request that it should do so was immediately acceded to.
The medium placed one foot right away from the table, so
that it was well in view of the sitters, and the other foot he
placed beneath one of Mr. Fitz-Gerald’s, while all hands
were joined on the top of the table. It then, and under the
closest observation, rose twice about six inches from the
ground, the top remaining perfectly horizontal during the
movements. Thus ended a most satisfactory seance.
(Signed) John W.m. Gray..
I fully concur in the above account.
Desmond G. Fitz-Gerald.
REPORT OF MR. W. H. COFFIN AND MR. H. WITHALL.
Dr. Slade having kindly volunteered to give seances to
the various members of the Experimental Research Com-
Jan. 12, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST. 19
mittee, I had the pleasure, in company with Mr. W. H. j |
Coffin, of having a sitting. • ||]
We took our seats at an ordinary deal Pembroke table m
which had been specially provided by one of the members of j j
our committee. The manifestations were rather feeble, but | j
once whilst the slate was being held partially under the table, j
by Dr. Slade, it was apparently acted upon by an exterior |
force and pressed tightly against the flap, and whilst in that |
position the sound of writing was heard, and when the slate j \
was removed, a short sentence was found written upon the I >
upper side. This manifestation occurred in such a way as to I
convince us of the genuineness of the phenomenon. After |
this the table was bodily lifted, but hardly under sufficiently |
good test conditions to be a conclusive proof of a force out- j |
side of ourselves. H. Withall. ||
The slate was several times written upon on the upper sur- j
face, while held by Dr. Slade under the table, with his right j
hand thumb uppermost, his left being on the table. j]
His thumb, and portion of right hand were always visible, j
and On several occasions, a great portion of the slate was in j
view, while it was held very close to the under surface of the j
table. W* H. Coffin. ,|
REPORT OF MR. GEOROE KING AND DR. CARTER BLAKE. j
Dr. Slade having kindly volunteered to give a seance to I j
the members of the Experimental Research Committee, we 11
assembled to meet him this evening. We gathered in the j J
large seance room, and while waiting proceeded with the ij
routine business of the committee. At about seven o’clock h
Dr. Slade arrived and sat for a little, chatting with us. He 11
said that he could not that evening sit with more than two j ]
at a time, and as there were about eight of us, we drew ji
lots for the order of precedence. My lot fell to be in the j]
third couple, and my partner was Dr. Carter Blake. The j1
previous sitters were with the medium about twenty minutes, j<
and experienced some strong physical manifestations, for when j ]
Dr. C. Blake and I entered the small stance room, we found |j
that one globe of the gaselier had been broken, we were ||i
told by the table having been violently tossed up into |j
the air. j j
Dr. Slade, Dr. Blake, and I sat down at a small and very j
rough table belonging to Dr. Carter Blake. My companions j |
sat facing each other at opposite sides of the table, and I | j
sat between them at the medium’s right, and thus, as he |
always held the slate in his right hand when he placed it j \
under the table, I had every opportunity of closely observ- j
ing him. We used two slates, supplied by a member of j
the committee, one an ordinary school slate, the other a jj
folding book-slate. We had a number of very short mes- jj
sages, sometimes on one slate, sometimes on the other, li
obtained in the way which has been so often described. ! j
Usually the slates were completely hidden under the table, jj
and thus the seance was not so conclusive as the private one j
I had had with the same medium a week or two before. I j!
observed a mark on the school slate, which, on these occa- j
sions when the slate was not passed entirely out of sight,
enabled me to say positively that the writing was j
done on the upper side of the slate, and not on the under.
One little circumstance seems to me very remarkable, and I I
am astonished that attention has hot been more forcibly j
called to it, in accounts of stances with Dr. Slade \Note A\.
The crumb of pencil invariably remains at the point where
it stops after writing the message, forming a perfect con¬
tinuation of the last stroke of the last letter. This fact,
trifling in itself, to my mind goes far to prove that the
message had been written with that identical piece of pencil,
and on the upper side of the slate. I do not see how other¬
wise the medium could place it in position with such
mathematical accuracy. It may also be thought worthy of
record that the style of the handwriting was very dissimilar
from that of the message I had received at the private
stance above referred to, and that the intelligence purporting
to communicate was different also. [Note
Dr. Slade afterwards took an ordinary blacklead pencil,
about six inches in length, and laid it on the slate above a
half sheet of note paper which I had supplied. He passed
them under the table, when the pencil appeared to drop on
the ground. We immediately looked for it, but could no¬
where And it. Dr. Slade then passed the slate with a crumb
of slate pencil on it under the table, and asked where the
black-lead pencil had been put. The written answer was
“On the top of the door,” and on the top of the door Dr
Blake found it. The door was about ten feet from where
we sat, and none of us had stirred from our chairs from the
moment of entering the room. The incident was a curious
one; but as I had not the means of identifying the pencil,
and had not searched the top of the door before beginning
the seance it does not carry very great weight. [Note C.~]
Geo. King.
Note A.—Attention has been often drawn to this point in communications
which have appeared in The Spiritualist newspaper.—0. 0. B.
Note B.—-The handwriting was dissimilar from that of “ Allie,” u Phoebe,’’
and purported to be that of *£ Owossoo.”—-0. 0. B.
Note C.—The pencil found by me on the lintel of the door was identified
by me by certain marks as the same pencil placed by Dr. Slade on the paper,
and subsequently dropped. It ought to be' stated that my own chair was
dragged from beneath me by a force acting on the other side of the room to
that on which Dr. Slade sat; and that I was forcibly touched on the shoulder
under like conditions. - With these additions, I coincide in Mr. G-. King’s
report,-—0. Carter Blake.
REPORTS OF MR. T. H. EDMANDS AND MR. R. HANNAH, M.R.I.
Dr. Slade attended the meeting of the Research Committee,
and after a short interval was shown into the front seance
room, where he received the members by twos. Mr. * R.
Hannah and I were the last to enter. We found Dr. Slade
standing by a common deal table, which, with the three
chairs to be occupied by us, was detached by an interval of
eight or ten feet from' the other articles in the room. I re¬
ceived the slates which were used, one a double folding and
the other a common school slate, from the members who had
entered immediately preceding Mr. Hannah and myself, and
took them into the seance room. On the common slate a
short message was written whilst it was partially under the
table. I then expressed a wish that something might be
written in my pocket book, which I handed to Dr. Slade
with a small bit of my own pencil (blue). We were informed
that a trial would be made to give us a message. Dr. Slade
held the pocket book over the table open and in full view,
then dropped the bit of pencil on the open leaf, then turned
over the half cover so as to close the book, except so far as
was prevented by Dr. Slade’s thumb being at one corner
holding the book. In about a minute, without any action
or movement by Dr. Slade, writing was heard to be in pro¬
gress, the whole book being still in sight, as also were both
hands of Dr. Slade, one only being used to hold the book, and
a message was written.
A small piece of pencil was then placed on one side of
the double slate and the other side closed over it; the closed
slate was then held for an instant by Dr. Slade partly under
the table, but at Mr. Hannah’s suggestion it was put on the
top of the table, and pressed down with the tips of Dr. Slade’s
fingers and thumb. When the slate was brought up and
placed on the top of the table, Dr. Slade opened it to show
that it was then free from writing. Almost instantly writ¬
ing was heard, and on opening the slate a sentence was found
to be written which was preserved and attested by Mr.
Hannah and myself by our signatures on the frame of the
slate, and the slate handed to Mr. Fitz-Gerald, to whom it
belonged. Mr. Hannah is of opinion that no more satis¬
factory conditions could be required as proof that Dr. Slade
had no active part in producing the writings, than were
afforded by these two experiments with the pocket book and
the slate, and I concur with him entirely.
T. H. Edmands*
A series of sittings was given by Dr. Slade to the Re¬
search Committee at 38, Great Russell-street, on the 15th
December. He was shown into the front seance room, where
he received the members by twos.
Mr. Edmands and I were the last to enter, and we found
Dr. Slade standing by a bare table, which—-with the three
chairs to be occupied by us—was detached by an interval of
eight or ten feet from the other articles in the room.
Mr. Edmands took into the room the slates to be experi¬
mented upon—one a double-folding and the other a common
school slate.
On this common slate a short message was written whilst
it was partially under the table. Mr. Edmands then ex¬
pressed a wish that something might be written in his
pocket-book. A very small portion of prepared lead was
26 SPlRlTtTALIST. Jan. 12, 1877.
placed upon it, and Dr. Slade held it, quite open, in sight,
but partly covered by the corner of the flap of the table.
In about a minute the book seemed to shut without any
action on the part of Dr. Slade, and writing was heard to
be in progress, the whole book being then in sight, as also
were both of Dr. Slade’s hands.
A small piece of pencil was then placed on one side of
the double slate, and the other side closed down over it.
The closed slate was then held for an instant by Dr. Slade,
partly under the table, but at my suggestion he put it on |
the top of the table, and pressed it down with the tips of
his fingers and thumb. Almost instantly writing was heard,
and on opening the slate a sentence was found which was
preserved, and afterwards attested by Mr. Edmands and
myself signing our names on the frame.
I do not think more satisfactory conditions could be re¬
quired as proof that Dr. Slade had no active part in- pro¬
ducing the writing than were afforded by these two experi¬
ments—with the pocket-book and the folding slate.
An incident attracted my notice during the sitting which
I may be allowed to mention, as it bears on a part of the
evidence given in the prosecution, where it was said that
Dr. Slade adopted the rather uncouth mode of biting off
bits of pencil in order that he might have some pretext for
the noise made by “ clearing his throat.” The only time
during the sitting Dr. Slade indulged in this “knack” was
when holding the pocket-book open partly under the table.
He had not hitherto bitten a pencil at all, as the sentence
on the common slate was written with a largish piece, which
had been on the table. The knack seemed spasmodic, or as
indicating that he might be in very slight degree in the
state which is called N under control.” Besides these
writings certain unimportant movements of the table oc¬
curred. B. Hannah.
BONGS OF ?HE CIRCLE,
fro. ta
Et' the grate of her I lovej
In the autumn gloom* I wahder i
Pale and wan the sky above,
In deepest grief, I muse and ponder.
Oh I the cold, the lifeless clay.
Mocking voices seem to say—
“ Murky night ends fairest day,
Even love must pass away.”
By the grave of her I love,
In the smiling spring, I wander:
Blue and bright the sky above.
See, the sun shines gaily yonder !
And my heart is light to day,
For I hear her spirit say—
“ After darkest night comes day,
Love can never pass away.”
By the graves of those we love,
Let us often muse and ponder :
Lifting longing eyes above,
Filled with awe, and thankful Avonder ;
Knowing that, in this, our day,
Dear ones, gone before, can say—
“ Love shall never pass away,
Death—not love—has passed away ! ”
F. E. W.
A PRINTER’S POEM.
An S A now I mean to write,
2 you, sweet K T J,
/ , The girl without a ||,
The belle of U T K.
I 1 der if you got the 1
I wrote to you B 4
I sailed in the R K D A,
& sent by L N Moore.
My M T head will scarce conceive
1 calm IDA bright,
But 8 T miles from you I must
M ^—! this chance to write.
& 1st, should N E N V U,
B E Z, mind it not;
If any friendship show, B sure
They shall not be forgot.
From virtue never D V 8,
Her influence B 9
Alike induces lOderness
Or 40tude divine.—Banner of Light.
iEumsponuence.
[ Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned; copies
should be kept by the writers.]
THE LOtfiDES WATER.
Sir,—In reply to “ T’s ” letter in your last number, I beg to inform
him that it is possible to obtain some of the Lourdes water in England,
but that it cannot be sold, or given to anyone—still less can the genuine
Lourdes water be exported without the sanction of the authorities on
the spot. Nothing is more certain than that the sale of this fluid as a
mere drug would prevent the production of the extraordinary cures which
result from its application to certain persons alone. The chemical pro¬
perties of the water are perfectly normal.
If “T’’ is serious in the investigation, I recommend him to read the
fourth of the Manchester Dialogues, by Father Harper, S. J., and then
try the water from Holywell, near Mostyn, which is nearer than Lourdes,
arid of which the curative powers may be tested any day. The evidence
on this subject is so clearly summed up in this little book that I must
refer to it for the categorical statements of facts and evidence.
C. Carter Blake.
MR. EGLINTON’S SEANCES. PUBLIC MEDIUMS.
Sir,—Mr. Eglinton has called my attention to a slight error in the
report of the Research Committee of the National Association, pub¬
lished in No. 226 of The Spiritualist, which I hope you will allow me
to correct. It is there stated that the committee had six seances with
Mr. Eglinton, and two with Mr. Herne, whereas the committee had four
stances with each medium.
I have also been asked what is meant by the passage in an article in
your last issue, “ the Spiritualists’ Defence Committee should let it be
generally understood that if from this date any medium in pursuit of
gain shall place himself within reach of the law, the committee will not
help to defend him.” Perhaps you may think well to explain this
matter further. Emily Kislingbury.
[We mean that if paid mediums admit people to their stances, who after¬
wards bring charges at law against the said mediums, Spiritualists shall pay
nothing to relieve them from the consequences of their own want of care in
placing themselves within reach of such accusers. It is a moot point whether
it would not be to the advantage of Spiritualism were there no paid medium-
ship for the next few years, but as some very few good mediums have begun
to devote their lives to it, these should be cared for by Spiritualists, who should
engage them to give plenty of private stances, to which strangers may some¬
times be admitted as a matter of grace and favour, but who should subscribe
nothing if paid mediums after the past warnings place themselves within
reach either of just or unjust attacks.—Ed.]
APPARITIONS AND MATERIALISATIONS.
Sir,—After reading the reports in your excellent paper of the recent
discussion upon materialisation, the question suggested itself to my mind,
Are apparitions materialisations? We will take, for instance, the re¬
markable case reported in The Spiritualist for last week, in which a
deceased officer appeared to two of his friends in a room “ sufficiently
light to distinguish objects plainly,” and held a long conversation with
one of them , the other one testifying that he had both heard and seen all
that took place. Was this form which appeared to these officers a
materialised form ? If so, where was the “ energy ” taken from ? The
identification was also here complete, and I find this to be the case with
nearly all apparitions: an apparition seldom leaves the spectators in
doubt as to its identity, whereas at seances “ spirits ” find it almost im¬
possible to establish their identity. Will you, sir, or any of your able
contributors kindly take this matter up ? Are apparitions materialised
spirits? If so, under what conditions does the materialisation take
place ? Also, why is it that identification is so general in the one case,
and so rare in the other ?
It strikes me that studying these two phenomena—if they be two-
together may help to understand materialisations at seances better.
Inquirer,
January 1st. -—-■■■
THE CADAVEROUS ODOUR APPERTAINING TO CERTAIN MATERIALISED SPIRITS,
Sir,—The singular phenomenon of a cadaverous odour attending
some spirit manifestations mentioned by Mr. Tapp (Spiritualist, vol.ix.
page 256) is not new to the annals of Spiritualism. In Baxter’s
Certainty of the World of Spirits, an account is given of an apparition
in the house of Lieut.-Col. Bowen, in Glamorganshire. The book was
first published in 1691. I quote what follows from pages eight to sixteen
of a small reprint dated 1834:—
Col. Bowen was a professed. atheist, and a man of dissolute life.
At the time of the apparition he was in Ireland, and his wife at their
house in Gower. One night in December, 1655j she being in bed, a
person “in the likeness of her husband, and just in his posture,” pre¬
sented himself at her bedside. There was “ a great noise, much like
the sound of a whirlwind, and a violent beating of the doors, or walls,
as if the whole house were falling to pieces.” The night following “ the
noise of whirlwind began again, with more violence than formerly, and
the apparition walked in the chamber, having an insufferable stench,
like that of a putrified carcass, filling the room with a thick smoke,
smelling like sulphur, darkening the light of the fire and candle.” It
appears that “ the smell of a carcass some while dead ” was observed
more than once. Some persons received blows the bruises from which
were visible the next morning. The apparition was seen several times;
“ it would come with a cold breath of wind, the candles burn blue and
almost out,” and with “ sad smells of brimstone and powder. . . . His
voice hath been heard luring his hawks, a game he delights in, as also
the bells of the hawks.” “ Strange miserable bowlings and cries were
Jan. 12, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
21
heard about the house ; his tread, his posture, sighing, humming, were
frequently heard in the parlour; in the daytime often the shadow of one
walking would appear upon the wall.”
This last passage is very curious, as it seems to imply that the object
causing the shadow was invisible.
At first it was supposed Col. Bowen was dead, but about May, 1656,
he returned to Wales, and after that the disturbances seem to have
ceased.
The story appears to be well attested. Several letters are given from
credible persons, one being from Col. Wroth Rogers, then Governor of
Hereford, and three from clergymen, from which I have extracted the
main points.
No precise answer to Dr. Carter Blake’s question is to be found here,
for though both the cadaverous odour and the cold wind are mentioned,
it is not positively said that they were associated.
I have a vague impression that I have seen notices of the putrid
smell elsewhere, but cannot now refer to the passages.
It is said that Mrs. Bowen was a religious woman, and shewed great
nerve under these trying circumstances. W. Whitbab.
High-street, Hornsey, Jan. 4th, 1877.
SPIRITUALISM ANb SWEDENBORGIANISM.
Sir,—As a constant reader of your journal, and as a Swedenborgian
Spiritualist, I feel much regret and surprise you should have published
Dr. Bayley’s philippic against Spiritualism, and am induced to send
you a spirit communication to my late husband, which I think suffi¬
ciently corrects the erroneous views Dr. Bayley has set forth, repeated
from a lecture he formerly delivered. I hope you will think it advisable
to insert it in your next number, for the perusal, and, as I consider, the
benefit of your Swedenborgian and general readers.
The other extract is, I think, also valuable as bearing on the same
subject. Frances G. Prichard,
1, Bernard Villas, Upper Norwood, January 7th, 1877.
The following communication was written Sept. 2§tht 1868 —
“ The Church is now in a very different condition to its state some
short period agd; and now man is to become more conscious of the
reality of the spiritual world, and its connection with him and the
very principles from which he is able to act. As man becomes more
interior, communications with the spirit world will be multiplied, for
man first disunited himself from free intercourse with it by becoming
merely external, and as, by the Lord’s continual care to bring him to
interior states, he becomes more internal, his free intercourse with the
spiritual world will be restored.”
A Spiritual communication written through the late Mr. G. B. Prichard’s
mediumship, on the 22nd of June, 1862, after reading Dr. Bayley's
lecture on the Dangers and Unlawfulness of Communicating with
Departed Spirits, published in a series in answer to “ Essays and
Reviews.”
“ Now you are yet in doubt as to genuine communication with the
spiritual world. As the ideas of men savour of earth, and time, so what
may be written will be of that kind. The Jews were forbidden to have
intercourse with spirits, because nothing of a heavenly nature could
gain access to their minds; therefore the spirits they associated with
themselves spoke of things of earth and were from beneath. The men
of this day, for the most part, are external, doubters, visionaries,
hunters after their own glory and worldly gain; therefore their commu¬
nications are from low spirits, pandering to their external cravings and
luring them from the paths that the Lord has pointed out as leading to
higher aims and to eternal peace.
“ Now, some there are who live for heaven and tread the paths that
lead thereto; if these have communications from the spirit world, can
they, be of a kind to open up the workings from below ? Will you
ignore all your experiences to the contrary ? You have tried the spirits,
you have experienced feverish, exciting, and barren influences upon
your mind; you have also felt the calm, satisfying, and elevating effects
of your spirit communications from those who work for your eternal
interests: say, then, if the latter can be the violent and forbidden
removal of that barrier which has existed between the natural and
spiritual worlds. The wise of yesterday are not the wise of to-day.
The times past are not the present time; nor are all the exigencies
of the former the exigencies of the latter. Argue not always from
the results in general, which may be the ephemeral results of
the hour, at a time when a new spiritual state is being opened,
and the spiritual world is daily gaining closer connection with,
and acquiring an increased influence upon the natural world. All
changes, both natural and spiritual, from a lower to a higher
state—from a state of less light to a state of increased light—are
ever attended, as experience has ever testified, with apparent ex¬
ternal injury to individuals; but it is but apparent, and, even ad¬
mitted to its fullest extent, it is nothing compared to the countless
benefits that must result from the succeeding and superior state. All is
progress now; hitherto all was retrogression. Church succeeded
church, each church drawing to its close, and each church, up to the
Jewish church, being more external than its predecessor, and closing
more and more its avenues to the spirit world, till the barrier between
the two worlds became hermetically sealed, except as to the general
laws that prevailed of the operation of the spiritual upon the natural.
The Christian then followed, but that, though more internal than the
last, became corrupt and external, and is at this time totally dead,
except so far as the dawning of the new dispensation [New Jerusalem,
Rev. xxi. 2] may throw some light upon, and infuse some heat into, its
decrepitude, till its own glorious influences can operate from itself,
without the intervention of such an expiring medium. This church is
of a nature totally different from all its predecessors. It carries not
within itself the seeds or the possibility of its dissolution, but will
increase in beauty and vitality till the end of time. Why, then, may
not the intercourse that has now obtained between the inner and
the outward world be consistent with the progress to be observed at this
day, both in natural and spiritual things ? Even the members of the
new church may hug old prejudices, even as may be observed in the
consummated church, and in old and worn out systems affecting the
governments of nations. Let them observe the signs of the times, not
quick to adopt new ideas indeed unless fully tested, but yet not obstinate
to reject all things of what is understood by Spiritualism, against such
evidence as the man of wisdom will accept. Can you not look fairly at
the case ? Judge from the experience you have had, and the fruits that
the future may produce.”
A SPIRIT HAND,
| Sir,—Dr. Monck being in Manchester last Tuesday (January 2nd),
i I called on him at his hotel at four p.m., and after assisting him with
his writing, and taking tea together, at eight p.m., we went to a friend’s
i house in Burlington-street, but not before I took very particular notice
of Dr. Monck’s appearance and dress, and the contents of a small box
I and bag which I was asked by him to assist in packing, and which were
| both left at the hotel.
j, There were eight visitors, including Dr. Monck, and two of them
strangers. We sat round an ordinary circular table, and were closely
packed; we sat first in the dark, and while every hand was locked two
chairs were passed on to the arms of two of the sitters, on the contrary
side of the table to where Dr. Monck sat; at the same time a large
| heavy sofa was brought from its place, and set in a vertical position
I close behind the medium, who was firmly held by Mr. Reimers and
myself.
| Afterwards we had a light seance, in which every object was dis-
| tinctly observable. A large musical box belonging to the house was
| wound up inside by means of the lever, while Mr. Reimers had his
elbow on the lid of the box, which was closed, and while holding both
j hands of the medium in his. A small musical box lying on the table
| was also wound up, started playing, and stopped as requested by the
sitters, no hands being near it at the time.
|| Now came the most extraordinary manifestation. We had all of us
II felt from time to time what appeared like the touch of a hand. I sat
11 next to Dr. Monck, not twelve inches between us; both his hands were
!| on the table, and feeling something touch me on the right side, I
| looked down, and distinctly saw a white hand (rather smaller than my
i own), come up between myself and Dr. Monck; in fact, it was close
| under my eyes. A silk folded umbrella was presented, and the hand
i grasped it and held it two feet from the floor in a vertical position for
/ j some seconds, and then in a slanting position at an angle of forty-five
| degrees. Dr. Monck told me to take a slate which was lying on the
11 table, and holding it with both hands a little above the edge of the table,
(| about six inches away from it, the hand came up again; Dr. Monck threw
(i a white handkerchief over it (to protect it from the glare of the gaslight),
i when it took hold of a piece of slate pencil, and in sight of all the
j sitters, wrote the words, “God bless you all, Samuel Lilly.” It then
I dropped the pencil and disappeared.
|! Never before having had such an opportunity, the hand being close to
) | my body, I took very particular notice. I observed that at its first ap-
(i pearance it was semi-transparent, and each time after it came up it
| i became more and more dense, until the last time at which it wrote, it
| i was in appearance quite solid, and, moreover, I noticed that it was only
| materialised to the wrist, below that it appeared vapoury.
! This astounding phenomenon, occurring as it did close under my eyes,
j dissipates for ever—at least, to my mind—the idea of conjuring or
j trickery. The evidence of an occult force or power producing this
) i manifestation was so complete that I felt any tests suggested by us are
(| of but little value in comparison with those given by the occult force or
| intelligence itself. If human testimony is of any value at all, then I
(j claim that the exhibition of such a phenomenon is worthy of better
(j treatment than the sneers of ignorance and the rancour of bigots, who
| i believe none but themselves, when an unwelcome truth or fast is pre-
(i sented to them.
(j The whole of the visitors signed their names, as witnesses to the fact
(| of the writing by the hand, which I possess, and will show to any who
wish to see it. William Oxley.
(I Higher Broughton, Manchester, January 8th, 1877.
j (| REMARKABLE SEANCES IN LIVERPOOL.
i) Sir,—Having witnessed some remarkable phenomena of a mesmeric
I (| and psychological nature, through the instrumentality of Miss Parry,
|! of Spencer-street, in this town, I constructed a sort of original
i (j cabinet in her father’s house, for the purpose of instituting a series of
ill experiments in the science and practice of modern Spiritualism. Every
I'U suggestion, rule, order, condition, or regulation which I chose to pre-
lu scribe, from time to time, was faithfully acquiesced in, and cheerfully
j) ; obeyed, not only by the amiable medium herself, but by her parents
|; i and friends, many of whom were present on each occasion, as believers
iij or sceptics. Mr. John Chapman, Mr. Manton, Mrs. Bell, Mrs. Jones,
|(| Mr. Wood, and several other ladies and gentlemen in this neighbour¬
ly hood have been amongst the more regular or frequent attendants
j c | at these beautiful and interesting seances. I say “ beautiful ” advisedly,
jv! because we often required neither the aid of gas nor firelight to distin-
l/i guish the various sitters, or the different objects and furniture in the
m apartment, so brilliantly splendid and luminous were some of the
III “ spirit lights” (as they were called), which not only illuminated the person
|) I of Miss Parry occasionally, but rather did they revolve around and above
i(.i us all, as seemingly conscious, intelligent, living powers, responding to
!>| our remarks, affirmatively and negatively, by one or three speck, 1
m numerical flashes of the “lightning” of higher and better spheres.
■ It would occupy several columns of your valuable scientific journal
22
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Jan. 12, 1877.
were I merely to glance at all the striking and important facts wit- |
nessed, especially by Mr. Parry’s family and myself, during the whole I \
of these practical studies. Taking as a fair specimen the last sitting i1
it was my privilege to enjoy in Spencer-street, in the presence of |
eleven other witnesses (and the names, addresses, dates of meeting, j
and other details I possess), I may observe that we commenced our ij
proceedings by singing the hymn, “ O land of bliss.” The centre table |)
of the room first gradually “ bowed,” as it were, to each person pre- i <
sent, then rose more than a foot, and remained for 57 seconds suspended ■; (
without the touch of mortals; it next slowly descended, and kept \)
time and tune as cleverly as could the possessor of those phrenological ! (
organs in the best-developed head of humanity. Miss Parry was next !)
locked in the kind of novel wardrobe to whicji I have already referred, i)
the apertures or windows of which were entirely out of her reach. I (
She was placed on a, seat very far back from the folding doors, and j {
quickly passed into a profound state of nervous coma or trance, becoming j \
controlled by the spirit of a younger brother, who recently departed this i j
life. His address chiefly related to certain sayings and doings of a stranger I >
in the room, which circumstances had actually transpired during that ! (
day. The full and precise character of the details tended not a little is
to disturb the equanimity of the recipient of the remarks, he exclaim- : (j
ing, with much vigour and excitement, “Lord help us! what is coming I (j
upon the earth ? That young lady is bewitched, for every word and j j j
deed is true.” .1 then placed a violin upon the top of the cabinet
(which none but myself could possibly reach), and asked to be favoured j \ j
with a little music, whereupon it began to be very skilfully manipu- i||
lated by some invisible master-hand, evoking sounds richly and rarely j
sweet, as it floated round the room. I then said, “Verily, Spiritualism |u
is to me a thing of beauty and a joy for ever, dear spirit friends.” ijj
And instantly I was caressed upon the face with.a soft, delicate, fairy- ] /!
like hand, accompanied with three pronounced raps on the head by jfj
means of the said violin itself. The latter instrument then literally j j j
danced on the top of the cabinet, at the same time playing very j-w
accurately (without a bow) the well-known tune called “The White ijj
Cockade.” After answering various questions which I put, either in jjj
writing upon paper, or by raps upon the ceiling, chairs, table, or the | ( ’
heads of sitters, not one of which was submitted in English, but, on j
the contrary, in Hebrew, Greek, Latin, Italian, French, and German, i j
the violin, at my own request, left the top of the wardrobe, or j
cabinet, shook hands, so to speak, with me in a really demonstrative j
manner, and remained tightly fixed under my arm, to the evident i
consternation and dismay of previous unbelievers. The seance was i j
declared by many persons having large “ experiences of Spiritualism,” j j
to have been seldom, or never surpassed in perfection of proofs, since I (
the final phenomenon with which we were favoured was the ma- i j
terialised form of Miss Parry’s chief control, namely, her brother rl
“ Willie,” a form that on this interesting occasion constituted a human i
angelic figure, gorgeously apparelled, not only in a robe of light, but a j j
galaxy of stars. William Hitchman, M.D. I j
Liverpool, January 1st, 1877. jjj
THE MEMUMSHIP OF BE. SLADE. jjj
Sir,—I should consider myself unfaithful to the cause of Spiritualism 1(1
(in which I firmly believe) were I to omit, in the present crisis of its ijj
persecution, to publish my own experience of the mediumship of Dr. j I
Slade, and therefore request you will do me the favour to insert the fol- i ji
lowing in your next issue of The Spiritualist. I (i
Being intensely disgusted by the remarks under false pretences, admit- i j i
tedly made to Dr. Slade by a young and inexperienced individual, jji
lamentably ignorant of the phenomena of Spiritualism, I sought the ijj
opportunity of obtaining several sittings with him, and for this purpose jjj
took up my residence with Mrs. Burke, at No. 8, Upper Bedford-place; ■ jjj
The night after my arrival, that lady was sitting for a few minutes with j j j
Dr. Slade and his relatives, after his return from the theatre, between jjj
11 and 12 o’clock, when he suddenly exclaimed—“Why, Mrs. Burke, jji
I see the name of John Hale written over your head, in letters of light! jji
Did you ever know any one of that name ? ’’ to which Mrs. Burke replied j j j
in the negative. She mentioned the circumstance the following morning, j j j
at breakfast, when I said, “ That was the name of my father! ” A day jjj
or two after this occurred Mr. and Mrs. Blezard (two entire strangers) ijj
arrived from Lancashire, and had a sitting with Dr. Slade. These j ji
persons had not the remotest knowledge of me or any one connected jjj
with me. The first communication they received, and which they ijj
naturally expected would be from some friend of their own in spirit life, ijj
was from my father; it ran thus; “ My daughter is in this house; ijj
I wish, to communicate with her.—John Hale.” This was found ijj
written on a perfectly new slate when it was turned up—it having been ijj
merely placed on the top of the table, before their eyes. On Mr. and j j j
Mrs. Blezard’s return from their seance they inquired whether there was jji
any lady in the house whose maiden name was Hale. Of course I jji
replied that it was mine, and on receiving the spirit message, I at once, j j i
in company with my friend, Mrs. Tennyson Ker (sister of the Laureate), j j i
obeyed the request, and had & seance with Dr. Slade, when I received i ji
and heard written on a new slate (placed before me on the table, one of j (j
the doctor’s hands being placed over my two, his other on the slate), the j i
following communication:— jjj
My Dear Child,—I have been long anxious to come to you, and tell you I ill
am by you when you call for your father’. Your good aunt Mary Ann is ijj
present, also your loving sisters Mary and Fanny, f We are in hope to be able I j j
to come to you and communicate to you through your own mediumship, and j (i
shall, if you will sit often for us to come. I see I have not room now to say I j I
all I would like. Believe me, my dear child, to be' your loving father j j j
Johst Hale. ’ jjj
Mrs. Tennyson Ker also received several signed messages from her jvj
relatives in spirit life. ' j j I
I have only to add (and after several weeks’ residence under the same j j i
roof as,Dr. Slade and intimate acquaintance with him), that I believe ! ;
j him to be incapable of trickery in any form; he has no occasion for it,
being the most gifted of mediums, and he has a most delicate, sensitive,
j and honourable nature. C. Burton Burton, nee Hale.
j 8, Upper Bedford-place, London.
SPIRITUALISM IN CARDIFF.
Sir,—If you kindly insert the following notice, the Cardiff society of
Spiritualists, known by the name of “The Cardiff Progressive Insti¬
tute,” will deem it a favour to the Spiritualists of Cardiff and surrounding
j districts.
The want of a central room having been long felt by Spiritualists
j here, for the investigation of spiritual science and the phenomena
j connected therewith, this want is now supplied by our obtaining a com¬
fortable room, well situated, at 109, Frederick-street, adjoining Crock-
j herb-town. It is sufficiently capacious to comfortably accommodate
over one hundred persons. We are indebted to the generosity of Mr.
Bobert Haily, of Osborne Villa, Canton, and others, for having it com¬
fortably and substantially furnished with every convenience.
As yet our numbers are small, considering the population of this
important town, therefore we earnestly request the co-operation and
assistance of all those in Cardiff and surrounding districts who call
themselves Spiritualists, as our sole desire is to cultivate a spiritualised
nature, through communion with departed friends. The society will be
most grateful for any gifts of books or pamphlets.
The principal Sunday service commences at 6.30 p.m., to which we
invite as many as the room can hold. Any further information respect¬
ing the society will be most gladly given by
Richard Brooks, Secretary.
8, Victoria-street, Adam-street, Cardiff.
ABNORMAL VARIATIONS IN THE WEIGHT OF OBJECTS.
Sir,—In Dr. Carpenter’s recent lecture on Spiritualism, which I have
but just read, I find him reported to have said as follows“ I received
a letter not long ago from a medical man at the West End, telling me of
a very singular case about an individual standing in any part of the
room, who could make a table light or heavy by a simple effort of will.”
He then goes on to say that his idea was that this must be done in a
similar manner to the way in which the professional juggler Houdin
imposed upon the Arabs. Dr. Carpenter further says he questioned his
informant, and found that “ the ^erfomer could stand in any part of the
room, and command the table to be light or heavy at pleasure.” He
then says that he received a letter from the brother of the above medical
gentleman, in which he soon saw how the whole thing was done, or words
to that effect.
Now, sir, as I am the performer here alluded to, will you kindly
allow me to correct this false impression.
Dr. George Wyld and his brother called upon me upon other business;
I took them up into my private room, and there let them see and test a
genuine power or force that did make a table heavy or light without any
mechanical aid whatever, and without pressure from the hands, for
this was specially tested by Dr. George Wyld. So sure did this
gentleman feel of the genuineness of the phenomenon before him that he
made the remark, “ This would be just the thing for Dr. Carpenter to
see.” I told him then, and afterwards, that I should be pleased to see
Dr. Carpenter at my house for this purpose whenever he chose to
come, that he might come when he pleased, test the powers when he
pleased, and if he wished he might bring his own table.
Dr. Carpenter has never availed himself of this invitation, and there¬
fore has no personal knowledge of us; but, on the contrary, he goes
before a public audience and states what I can never believe was repeated
to him, viz., “ that the performer could stand in any part of the room
and order things to be done.” This, as far as my family are concerned,
is quite false, and I can only imagine it was put in this style before his
audience to induce them to think contemptuously of the whole subject of
his lecture.
Dr. Carpenter, in concluding his lecture, says, “ When such phe¬
nomena can be brought before scientific men I for one will be quite ready
to witness them,” as if no scientific men had ever seen or admitted these
facts, put the conclusion is evident; Dr. Carpenter must think other
scientific men incapable of judgment, or he is himself prevented from
receiving what half the world knows to be facts, from the influence of a
most powerful and dominant idea, that all who admit them are border¬
ing on insanity. John Rouse.
80, George-street, Sloane-square, Dec. 23rd, 1876.
ANOTHER REMARKABLE SEANCE WITH DR. SLADE.
Sir,—Possibly what I am about to relate may be of interest to your
readers, especially at a time when science is running amuck, creese in
hand, upon those who unfortunately happen to be mediums, simply
because it is either too arrogant to observe or too lazy to study the mani¬
festations which are daily occurring. It is needless to go into a long
history of how I became a Spiritualist. I have been for some time and
still am an investigator, although I may announce myself as having
been a firm believer in what is called Spiritualism for nearly two years.
I have seen extraordinary manifestations in all parts of the world—
England, India, Australia, New Zealand, and the United States—both
with professional and private mediums; and did I say I was not con¬
vinced of the superhuman (not supernatural) agency of the manifesta¬
tions, I should simply abnegate the senses of hearing, seeing, feeling,
and smelling, and even be compelled to shut out my powers of reason.
I happened to be in New York last October at the time the news of
the Slade prosecution reached that city. I had previously heard so much
of Dr. Slade’s power, that when I heard of the Lankester-Donkin
affair, thinking it possible—though not probable—Dr. Slade was a
trickster, I made inquiries of many, both professed Spiritualists and
Jan. 12, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST. 23
those who from curiosity paid their four dollars to see something
wonderful, and, having seen'it, never troubled their heads further in the
matter. The result of my inquiries led me to the conclusion that Dr.
Slade was no common medium, nor in any way either a common or un¬
common impostor. Since my arrival in England I have heard much of
various seances held with Dr. Slade, and have noticed that his power
and the results of manifestations differ with each and every visitor;
with some the manifestations were simply wonderful, with others not
more than I could get in my own house with members of my own family.
I therefore made up my mind to try if I could not get the spirit of a
friend who departed this life early in 1868, and whose eyes I closed in
death, to come and control Dr. Slade, and afford me a test above all
suspicion. With this view I have sat with a well-known medium (Mrs.
Olive) four or five times, during the week before last, and have had the
spirit of my friend controlling her on several of these occasions. Knowing
as I do the difficulty spirits find in controlling new mediums, I wished
to know before I went to Dr. Slade whether there was any probability
of my being able to get Dr. Slade controlled by my friend’s spirit.
Having been assured that if I tried I should in all probability be success¬
ful, on Wednesday, the 3rd January, at 2 p.m., I took with me a box-slate,
hinged, and closed with hook and eye, and went to the residence of Dr.
Slade, at No. 8, Upper Bedford-place, Russell-square. I had certainly,
about six weeks ago, been introduced to Dr.- Slade, and conversed with
him for two or three minutes, but he, as far as I know, knew nothing
about me. At all events, he knew nothing of my intended visit.
After entering the room, Dr. Slade asked me to examine the table,
which I did. It is an old rickety Pembroke table; upon it no suspicion
could attach as being constructed for tricks. The table was placed with
the flap sides facing north and south. I sat on the north side, the edge
of the north flap being before me; Dr. Slade sat on the east side. Each
of us sat, not with our feet under the table, but parallel to the side on
which we were respectively sitting; Dr. Slade’s feet were before my eyes,
my feet before Dr. Slade’s. The hands of both were on the top of the table.
My box slate was on the table. We had not been sitting more than a
couple of minutes, when the table began tilting and jumping about.
I felt my legs touched in different parts by something. All this time
Dr. Slade’s hands were in mine on the top of the table, and his feet in
full view outside the table. I wished mentally for a communication
from my departed friend, and asked myself, “ Shall I get one ? ” An
answer from the table came in the shape of three raps, and a signal
which Dr. Slade said was for the slate. On this Dr. Slade took one of his
own slates. It was quite clean. He put a grain of pencil on it, held it
with his right hand under the table, his other hand being held by mine
on the table, and in a few seconds there was written, “ We will do all
we can.” There was no name to the writing. After the lapse of a
minute or so, the table again signalled for a slate. Dr. Slade took
another and larger slate, put a piece of pencil on it, and held it in
the same manner as before under the table, our hands and feet beingfin
the same position. Some force beneath the table forced the slate out
against Dr. Slade’s alleged will three or four times. He then said,
Let us try the top of the table.” He then placed the slate on the top
of the table and a small piece of pencil underneath the slate. My right
hand and Dr. Slade’s left were placed on the slate, my left and his
right on the table. I soon felt the pencil grinding away under the slate;
in a minute or two the slate was lifted, and on it was found, written in
a very fair hand, as follows:—
“ Deae Fbiend,—May the sorrows and errors of the old year pass
away and fade from memory, and may the New Year bring to you joy
and blessing that shall give you strength to stand firm to the truth, and
be faithful to our glorious cause that is so important to the nation, are
the prayers of your spirit friends and A. W. Slade.”
After another pause, our hands holding each other on the top of the
table, my hands and arms began moving convulsively, like the piston of
a locomotive. This to me is nothing new, when I am sitting with and
giving, as I suppose, strength to the medium; it always occurs, but it
elicited a remark from Dr. Slade that he never felt so much power.
Soon again the signal was made for the slate. This time my box slate
was taken by Dr. Slade. It had never been out of my sight or reach
from the time I entered the room. Dr. Slade put a piece of pencil be¬
tween it, and held it under the table. Here again some force pushed it
out three or four times. Dr. Slade put it on the table, opened it, but
there was no trace of writing. The slate was again closed, and Dr.
Slade’s left and my right hand put on it. Almost instantaneously I felt
the grinding of some one writing under my hand. After a short time we
opened the slate, and on it was the following writing
“ I am still your friend, and ever shall continue to be; I remember
you in life, and shall in spirit.—Ever truly, W. F. F.”
Now here I may be allowed to state that the initials of the person
whose spirit ! invoked were W. F. F.; that I never mentioned name
nor initials in Dr. Slade’s presence; that I got what I wished for; and
that the handwriting is, not only in my opinion, but also in that of
another friend who knew him well, wonderfully like that of W. F. F.
After this, whilst sitting at the table, Dr. Slade’s two hands in mine, my
neck shawl—which was hanging round my neck with the ends in front
untied—was drawn off my neck. My calves were pinched, my beard
was pulled, and an attempt made to lift my chair. I willed mentally
that the chain of my watch, which was in the fob of my trousers, should
be pulled, and my watch drawn out. Nothing was done, although I felt
hands fumbling about my thighs and stomach. A signal was made for
the slate: on its being passed under the table and brought to light, there
was written on it “ Can’t get into your pocket.” On this I drew the end
of the chain with the key attached out, so that the key was just below
my waistcoat. Almost instantaneously I felt my watch drawn from the
bottom of my fob, and had I not stopped it, the watch would have been
out of the fob. During all this operation Dr. Slade’s hands were under
mine, on the top of the table. I then requested the table to be lifted.
I put my feet on the left foot of Dr. Slade’s, his two hands were under
mine on the top of the table. The table was lifted bodily about four to
six inches from the floor. As one of Dr. Slade’s feet was at liberty, I
then requested him to put both feet under mine. He did so, and the
table, notwithstanding my downward pressure, was lifted until its top
was on a level with my chin, when suddenly it fell to the ground with
a crash. The above are the facts that occurred at my stance on the day
above mentioned.
I have given you at foot my name and address, as it is, in my
opinion, full time that those who have the fortune or misfortune to be
convinced that these every-day movements and manifestations are not
of human force, should come boldly to the front and avow themselves at
once as Spiritualists, and not seek refuge under the unknown X.Y.Z.,
or call themselves simply investigators, with no fixed ideas on the sub¬
ject, more especially as science in its arrogance has dared to denounce
all those through whom the manifestations have arisen as impostors, and
all those who believe in what they see, hear, or feel, as dupes and fools,
A. T. T. Peterson,
Arnewood Towers, Lymington.
i j A SEANCE WITH DR. SLADE, AND COMMENTS.
I | Sir,—When the evidence, to quote Mr. Flowers, is so “overwhelm-
| i ing,” one is almost afraid of wearying your readers by an additional
I | record of Dr. Slade’s perfectly convincing mediumship. But as the
I j prosecution may not favour me with another opportunity of giving that
| ] testimony in the witness-box, which Mr. Lewis declared would be so
j i “essential to the ends of justice,” I must seek for additional facts the
j | hospitality of your columns. My seance this morning was not more
j ] remarkable than the dozens of others which in the form of c‘ proofs ” must
j i be swelling Mr. Serjeant Ballantine’s brief to portentous dimensions. But
i | it afforded a particularly neat little test—just sufficient, we will say, to
i 1 make an honest materialist reconsider his creed, or to convert an applaud-
iji ing audience at the Egyptian Hall into an indignant mob, demanding
jjj back their money at the doors. And yet I did not even get the writing
i j on my own slate! but on one of Slade’s, which might have been treated
Ijj with a whole laboratory full of chemicals five minutes before I saw it.
j i And not even when the slate was on the table! And I didn’t get a
! | message from a friend of whom Slade had never heard; nor, with the
| I exception, perhaps, of one outlandish word, and two or three symbols of,
i | to me, profoundly doubtful import, in any of those half-dozen ancient
! i and oriental languages with which, of course, this accomplished “ rogue
| i and vagabond ” is thoroughly familiar. All this has happened over and
j I over again, and my poor little narrative will seem very tame in com-
| | parison. Yet, as Mercutio says, “it is enough, it will serve.”
I}! “ What needs the bridge much broader than the flood ? ”
|j! We are not dealing with psychic force, but with trickery, not with
}l| Serjeant Cox or Dr. Collyer, but with Mr. J. N. Maskelyne, for of Pro-
Ijl fessor Lankester’s exposition of the art of conjuring one seldom hears.
|) | Slade sat facing the window; I had a friend of my own pro-
wj fession with me, who sat on his right, I opposite Slade. There
j i were two slates on the table, of different sizes, the smaller, which
I (j was to be used, we examined both sides of. Slade then took the
| > | slate, and did not change it—that is to say, we did not see him do so.
iji And the Langham Hotel did not fall suddenly as I was passing it an
)Jj hour ago—that is to say, I did not see it fall. There was just as much
IJ | possibility of the one thing happening without observation as of the
111 other. We have been told that there is “an unsuspected amount of
||| credulity,” and “ an unsuspected incapacity for observation.” The in-
j} I capacity for observation of us two who failed to detect the change of
| (| slate under such oppprtunities as Slade had for changing it, and we for
| | seeing him do so, I should estimate at precisely the same quantity as
| | the credulity of the person who, accepting the accuracy of my statement
|| of the conditions, believes that the slate nevertheless was changed.
| Such a person has not an intelligent experience of the resources of con¬
juring, but simply a boundless credulity in them. I remember the in-
| dulgent smile of superiority with which Mr. Maskelyne, when in the
witness-box, put aside Messrs. Lankester and Donkin’s theory of the
pencil under the finger nail, and substituted one, at least practically
conceivable, of his own. Maskelyne knew what he was talking about
—they didn’t. I have put a hypothetical case to a man at my club, who
rather “ fancies himself ’’ on the subject of conjuring, but who is without
j any practical acquaintance with it, and have failed to get from him an
j admission which I got from Maskelyne without a moment’s hesitation
when I put the same case to the latter. The amateur conjuror of The
; Examiner, whom that paper represented as able to reproduce Slade’s
! phenomena, has since, we hear, disclaimed any such pretension ; but I
have not observed any recantation by his faithful disciple who
wrote The Examiner article. That writer honestly and clearly
| described his own experiences, couldn’t of course explain
them, but fell back on his conjuror, who had apparently
then only witnessed some feeble manifestations, which, to the inexpe¬
rienced in medial phenomena, are always suspicious, and could, no doubt,
j often be reproduced by mere trickery. But the conjuror, it seems, goes
J again, has a better seance, and sees, presumably, what the writer had
| seen. And, knowing what he is about, and, possibly, with the fear of
Mr. Joy’s challenge before his eyes, he “caves in.’’ The writer is,
| probably, still writing about the “ credulity ” of Spiritualists, uncon-
i scious of the monstrous quantity of it implied in his own scepticism,
j It is a pity, for no one could read the article without acknowledging the
intellectual honesty of the writer in recording facts, in the teeth of his
| own prejudices. I hope he will study conjuring practically, and then
pay Slade a few more visits, and write another article.
But, to proceed. Then Slade tried to put the slate (on which he had
| placed the usual morsel of pencil) under, but close against, the table.
* When it had got half-way, that is to say, while half of it was still
24
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Jan. 12, 1877.
projecting and visible, it stopped. Slade said he could get it no further;
that some force resisted him. His right hand held it, his thumb being
on the upper surface, and his fingers below, supporting the slate. His
other hand was, and had been from the moment he took the slate,
joined with ours on the table. Then we heard a sound, in every
respect resembling that of a slate pencil writing on a slate. Slade’s
nails are so cut down that there is no projection beyond the flesh to
serve as an instrument for imitating this sound. And only “incapacity
for observation ” could mistake an imitation so produced for the real
thing. A man who took it for granted that the sound was thus made
might easily mistake the reality for the imitation, just as another, who
took it for granted that the sound was that of writing, might easily mis¬
take an imitation for the reality. The influence of intellectual states
upon the interpretation of sense impressions is a source of failing alike
for believers and for prejudiced sceptics. Moreever, supposing Slade to
have had a nail long enough, and so to have used it, simulating with
exquisite skill the currency of the pencil right across the slate, the
dotting of the i’s and the crossing of the t’s, I think those flexor tendons
of the wrist (which we saw) must have told the tale. But they didn’t.
The writing, as I therefore take leave to call it, without prejudice to
any other conceivable explanations of the sound which ingenuity may
suggest, was slow and deliberate, going on for two or three minutes, and
during all the time Slade held the slate motionless, as above described.
The moment its conclusion was announced by the usual taps, and Slade
was about to withdraw the slate, I called upon my friend to observe
this action closely; as we both did. Slade drew back the slate very
slowly, and, as he did so, line after line of the written communication
became successively visible on the upper surface. There were eight
lines in all, and they had to be read from Slade, that is, from the middle
to the further extremity of the slate. The message was as follows:—
“ Friends, when you are convinced of the truthfulness of this writing, we
shall be pleased to help your friends to communicate. This you receive
from “A. W. Slake.”
Having read the message, we handed the slate to Slade, who at once
commenced wiping out the writing with his dry fingers. Suddenly
recollecting that it would be as well to preserve it, I stopped him, got
the slate from him, and kept it. It is now in my possession, with the
writing a good deal smudged, but still legible. I have gone in tiresome
detail into the description, in order to show that the only refuge for
scepticism (apart from doubt of my veracity), is in the suggestion that
the slate was a prepared slate, with suppressed writing, timed for de¬
velopment, without heat (for no hands were laid on it), during the period
of two or three minutes that it was under the table. Any chemist or
other person skilled in such processes would only have to glance at the
slate and the writing to be satisfied that this is not the case, and that it
is slate pencil writing on an undoctored slate. But we have to deal
with people who, in their ignorance, in their suspicions, and in their
inability to conceive unfamiliar facts, are to the last degree credulous
and irrational. It will be well, therefore, if this slate comes in evidence,
to have some expert to examine, and, if it is desired, to test it chemically.
If our opponents had common sense in this matter, Maskelyne ought to
be laughed out of court; but it is easy to drive him out scientifically,
and we should be prepared to do so.
I wish that all new investigators with Slade could have the problem
reduced to such simple terms. The invention of tests, when obscure
psychological conditions are in question, is seldom likely to lead to
satisfactory results. People have not learned to understand this. That
failure or refusal of Slade to get writing in Mr. Hutton’s locked slate
has stuck in the public throat more than anything else, as it apparently
affected the tone of Mr. Hutton’s testimony. It has been done, however,
and that it could be done again I have not the smallest doubt. But it
is also quite certain that it cannot be done “ to order,” for any person
and at any time.
It would be very delightful to put Mr. Hutton into the box at
Clerkenwell, to say that he had at last got the desired and decisive test.
So it would be very delightful to obtain a message in open Court from
the Assistant-Judge’s deceased grandfather, revealing family secrets;
or physical manifestations that would amount to a very importunate
“ Contempt of Court.” Unfortunately we cannot expect these little
dramatic surprises under psychological conditions; or, rather, we have
the strongest reasons for knowing that the very circumstances which
make them so desirable make them also most unlikely. Unfortunately,
too, our facts have got far ahead of our philosophy, and there are so
many things which the public will not believe unless they are explained.
It is not so much the ignorance as the preconceptions of mankind about
spiritual beings that throw suspicion on the evidence we have to offer
of their existence. Such investigators as Mr. Algernon Clarke, for
instance, are quite sure there must be a trick when they get messages
from fictitious persons. They take it for granted that a spirit must be
a human spirit, and, what is more, a truthful human spirit, and are
incapable of looking at evidence apart from their preconceptions.
C. C. Massey.
Temple.
Spirit Yoices at a Bed of Death.—The following is an extract
from The Lives of the Nuns of Port Royal, and refers to the death of
Genevieve, the abbess, who passed away in the spring of 1646:—“I
do not know whether 1 ought to mention one incident which we noticed
when she died. .... The whole of the community was standing round
her bed, and we were chaunting the Subvenite, according to our custom
at such a time. A very extraordinary thing happened, which we all
noticed. It seemed to us as if other voices mingled with ours, and
joined with them in supernatural harmony. Perhaps this may have
been merely our imagination; but we were all certain that the angels
rejoiced when they received her soul, and although our senses may
have deceived us our hearts showed us the truth.”
SERVICES AT ST. JAMES’S HALL.
Last Sunday morning, the Rev. H. R. Haweis, whose church in
Cavendish-square is undergoing extensive repairs, gave the first of a
series of discourses at St. James’s Hall, which was well filled on the
occasion. In the course of his remarks he said, that in previous cen¬
turies religion had denied the reality of the solar system, but now a
reaction had set in, and physical science was attempting to deal with
mental and moral questions, and to deny the existence of God Himself.
This was but natural reaction; overstatement on the one side having
led to overstatement on the other. The men who taught these things
were better than their creeds; they were persons whose heads weighed
down their hearts, and if such men lived noble lives, it was in spite of
their convictions, and not in consequence thereof, for such people had
no ground for their morality or their religion. If they told him to live
like a spiritual being, yet took away his soul and his God, what was
there to live for? Men without an immortal destiny would be like
candles upon a Christmas-tree. Further, religion would consist but of
bubbles of sentiment, without any permanency; and he would yas—
“ Take it away! I do not wish my highest feelings to be played with.
Take it away! Why cumbereth it the ground ?” During the past
year there had been catastrophes and calamities which would almost
induce men to doubt the existence of God, were it not that some of
these were preventable by man, and that there was a moral discipline
connected with suffering. There was that within man which gave him
a peace and a power which the world could neither give nor take away;
which made him feel that, living or dying, he was the Lord’s. These
trials made men look up to Him, and taught the sufferers that they had
but little time to dwell here below, that every human life was but as a
drop of water, although in the future, when it extended from time into
eternity, it would be as the ocean. Those who were filled with this
hope and this conviction, could say—
My spirit shall arise again
By Him recalled to breath
Who captive led captivity,
Who robbed the Grave of victory,
And took the sting from Death.
THE TESTIMONIAL TO ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS.
THE REPORT OP THE COMMITTEE.
The total amount of contributions received is eight thousand one
hundred and fifty-three dollars and thirty-seven cents. ($8,153.37.) Of
this sum, six hundred and sixty-five ($665) are in promissory notes,
payable to Mr. Davis in from one to ten years. Add to this expenses
of printing, postage, etc., one hundred and nine dollars and seventy-five
cents. ($109.75.) Deducting these sums from the first amount, leaves
seven thousand three hundred and seventy-eight dollars and sixty-two
cents ($7,378.62) net (about ^1,350), which sum is securely invested.
It will be observed that the interest on this investment will give to
Mr. Davis about $500 per annum. From this time forward all commu¬
nications and payments should be addressed direct to him at Orange,
New Jersey.
In closing this Birth-Day Testimonial to the author of Nature’s Divine
Revelations, the committee desire to return their heartfelt thanks to all
who have so cordially responded to the call and seconded the appeal.
William Green, Chairman,
New York, Dec. 20th, 1876. O. O. Poole, Secretary.
LETTER FROM A. J. DAVIS TO THE COMMITTEE AND CONTRIBUTORS.
Very Dear Friends,—In accepting from your hands all the money
and the notes which you have received from the contributors to the
“ Testimonial Fund,” I experience a thankfulness which I cannot
embody in words. Your investment of all the available funds is in
accordance with my particular request, and meets my entire approba¬
tion. The security is ample, and I am certain that the interest will be
promptly paid; as also would be the principal, should an emergency
arise making it necessary.
To you, gentlemen of the committee, and to each and all of the
generous men and women who have made contributions, and sent en¬
couraging words, allow me to say that I recognise in your bestowments
the beauty of spontaneous goodness and friendship; and my beloved
companion unites with me in returning to you, one and all, to strangers
and acquaintances alike, the profound gratitude of our gladdened hearts.
The sum accumulated for and given to us—to hold up our hands, and to
fortify us in our work for human progress and happiness—is much
larger than we dared hope. Industry everywhere was depressed,
business almost at a standstill, and even the exceedingly rich felt poor.
Under these circumstances, to say nothing of the many large demands
made upon believers in Spiritualism on all sides, it was not reasonable
to expect anything. And yet, the responses to the call of the committee
were immediate, sympathetic, and most generous-hearted. We did not
before imagine that we possessed so goodly an array of practical friends.
We feel deeply enriched by this discovery, and believe that the good of
it will live within us throughout our lives. Besides the efforts of the
committee, we remember the loving and frequent service rendered by the
editor and proprietors of the Banner of Light; also, the kindly and
earnest co-operation of the editor of the Religio-Philosophical Journal;
as well as the words printed and spoken by our esteemed Spiritual
friends in England, Germany, Russia, and Australia. The result upon
us so far is, we have been enabled to withdraw from the external
world of trade, by which for four long years we were constantly en¬
thralled ; and now we begin, faintly, to realise a degree of mental and
spiritual liberty, which in due time may become fruitful. And for this
great blessing, and more especially for the good that may grow out of it,
we desire to render loving gratitude to all who have united in this testi¬
monial of friendship, fellowship, and trust. A. J. Davis.
Orange, N.J., December 20th, 1876.
Jan. 12, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A-
standard Work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS on the boundary of another
WORLt), by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.3. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
tlie physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANOHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound. With gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts cannected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most'remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.O.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritnal-
sm to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols.. crown 8vo., 15s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supomaturallsm of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and .Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
,Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
ana Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals Iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient Intelligence to Select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s, fid.; cheap edition,
7s. fid. _
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM.MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam, fis.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6a.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. fid. Z
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
uublic trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. fid.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. fid.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. fid.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), fid.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. fis.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s; fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. fid.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 26s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle, fis. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists, is. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott, fis.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. fis.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism, fis.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaao Post.
5s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
NEW WORKS OF M. CHARLES GOUNOD.
PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,
39, Great Marlborough Street.
ON THE SEA OF GALILEE. Arranged by E. Tinkl as
Pianoforte Duet and Vocal Solo. Prioe fis.
LA VENEZIANA. Pianoforte Solo, 4s.
FETE DE JUPITER. Grand March, 4s.
OFFERTORIUM. For Organ, 4s.
JOAN OF ARO. French Vocal Score, 10s.
BALLAD OF THE PAGE, English and French words, 4s.
Also A SERIES OF SEVEN DOETS containing the Prin¬
cipal Music, arranged by the composer expressly for Her
Majesty the Queen and H.R.H. Princess Beatrice. Nos. 1
and 2, price 2s. fid. each. Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7, price fis
each.
ILALA, May, 1874. Words by Lord Houghton, written iu
commemoration of David Livingstone, 4s.
My True Love hath My Heart, 4s,
Ohidiock Tiehborne, 4s.
Go, Lovely Rose, 4s.
A Series of 12 Part Songs, fid. each. Special arrangements
made to Choral Societies.
NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION.
MISS TREHERNE (MRS. WELDON).—The BroOk, words
by Tennyson, 4s. Hier au Soir, words by Victor Hugo
(English words by Mrs. Eric Baker), 4s.
ALFRED RAWLINGS.—Lullaby, words by Bradwyn Brad-
wen, 4s. Beware, words by Longfellow, 4s. Part-song,
To the Cuckoo, fid.
JOHN URICH.—Bagatelle, words by T. Hood, 4s. Venetian
Barcarola, 4s. Pity the Wives at Home (sailor song), dedi¬
cated to Samuel Plimsoll, Esq., M.P., 4s. Mazurka, 4s.
F. CLAY.—Enid’s Song. 4s. Elaine’s Song, 4s. Vivien's
Song, 4s. Guinevere’s Song, 4s. Mary’s Song, 4s. There
is no Flock (Resignation), 4s. Sands of Dee, 4s.
HAMILTON CLARKE.—Serenade for Pianoforte, 4s. Ditto,
arranged as a Duet for Pianoforte, fis. Two Voices: a Song,
4s.
ALFRED CELLIER.—Flower Girl: a Song, 4s.
KJERULF.—On the Heather; Danish Melody.
Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Quadrilles, with Portrait of Mrs.
Weldon, arranged from Grannie's Nursery Rhyme Book, by
Mrs. Weldon, 4s.
Subscribers’ Names received for Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme
Book—Subscribers, fis.; Non-Subscribers, 7s. fid.
All the music published by the Music and Art
Association, 39, Great Marlborough-street, is sold for the
benefit of Mrs. Weldon's Orplianage,
A List of Works sent post-free on application,
THE MANAGER, MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,
39, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET. 
Now Ready.—Fifty-seventh Year,
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC &
MESSENGER for 1877. Post free Seven Stamps; or,
with Efhermis, Thirteen Stamps.
London: Catty and Dobson, 1, Ivy Lane, E.O,
DR. SLADE.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. fid.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam-
hulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gamed the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub, at 7s. fid.) 4s. ;
1 THE SPIRITUALIST” OF Sept. 29th CONTAINS
ALL THE EVIDENCE ON BOTH SIDES,
WHICH was given for and against Dr. Slade
in the Times newspaper. It contains a reprint of
the letters in the Times from Professor Lankester, F.R.S.; Dr.
H. B. Donkin; Colonel Lane Fox, president of the Anthro¬
pological Institute; Dr. Carter Blake; Mr. C. O. Massey,
barrister-at-law; Mr. J. A. Clarke; Mr. A. R. Wallace,
F.R.G.S.; Mr. A. Joy, M.Inst.C.E.; Mr, G. C.Joad; Mr. Park
Harrison; Mr. Serjeant Cox; Professor Barrett, and Dr,
Slade.—2jd., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
By Royal Letters Patent.
“ KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR, ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC’’ an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. fid. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. JOHN ROUSE, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
Published at 7s. fid. Reduced to 4s,
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
oocarring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about an'inal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for ns to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. ■•We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. fid. Reduced in price to 4s,
Inland Postage, 4d. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Jan. 12, 1877.
SPIKITUALISTS’ DEFENCE FUND.
Dh. Slade, a stranger, from the United States, on his
journey to St. Petersburg, is, by an unfortunate sentence of a
magistrate, under condemnation to imprisonment, and punish¬
ment appropriate to a criminal is meted out to him. This
highly-gifted sensitive, the greatest medium of the day in
England, is condemned to “hard labour,’’ and will, in January,
1877, become the forced associate of criminals. Unless we
adopt some effectual means, nothing can prevent this out¬
rageous calamity.
The affair is not individual, but relates to all. The struggle
raised before the nation is between Materialism ana Spiritual¬
ism. A more important issue was never before us. Spiritual¬
ism demonstrates, through facts occurring around us, the
existence of a future life; while Materialism would deprive
humanity of the precious doctrine of immortality.
When we reflect that the proceedings aimed at Dr. Slade
are really designed more as a blow to the sacred cause of
Spiritualism than against him, shall Spiritualists stand by
and accept the verdict without remonstrance? Will they,
without appeal, suffer him, whom they consider innocent, to
be imprisoned and punished as a felon without a struggle?
Assuredly not. Conscience being our witness, let us perform
what we know to be right.
The question is before us. According to the measure of
support so will be the power of the Committee, and their
ability for action.
Donations will be thankfully received by the joint treasurers
or by the secretary.
The Executive Committee.
Alexander Calder, 1, Hereford-
square, South Kensington, S.W.
IH Enmore Jones, Enmore-park,
Qeo^ Wtld, M.D., 12, Great Cum-
berland-place, W,
C. o. Massey.
W. S. Moses, M.A.
0 oo. Sec.—A. Joy, 69, Great Bussell Street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
SUBSCBIPTIONS.
£ s. . d.
The St. Petersburg Committee    50 0 0
Mr. G. C. Joad    SO 0 0
Miss Douglas         25 0 0
“Nicodemus ”      25 0 0
Mr. Alexander Calder  21 0 0
„ J. N. T. Martheze       20 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn 1  20 0 0
Countess Caithness  |    10 10 0
Mrs. Weldon     10 10 0
Mr. Martin Smith 7  10 10 0
„ Thomas Grant  10 10 0
Mr. W.Tebb      10 10 0
Miss H    10 0 0
Sir C. Isham, Bart  10 0 0
Mr. A. Tod      10 0 0
„ J. Bulteel    10 0 0
“ Lady Jane Grey ”   10 0 0
B. P. J.     ;    10 0 0
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood  10 0 0
Mr. N. F. Dawe      10 0 0
Prince Emile von Wittgenstein   6 0 0
Mr. J. Enmore Jones      5 0 0
„ C. O. Massey    5 0 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory  ;  5 0 0
„ Douglas Bayley  5 0 0
Oscar von Hoffman   5 0 0
Dr. George Wyld   5 0 0
Mr. T. E. Partridge   5 0 0
Mrs Hennings     5 0 0
Mr. N. Kilburn, jun  5 0 0
„ It. Joy    5 0 0
Dr. S. T. Speer     5 0 0
Mr. A. T. T. Peterson   5 0 0
Mrs. H 7..   5 0 0
An American     5 0 0
Mrs. O. Bird   5 0 0
A . v. H     5 0 0
Friends at Belper, per W. P. Adshead   3 10 0
Newcastle, per H. N. Kersey  3 10 0
Mrs. Straworidge   3 3 0 .
Mr. J. B. Stones     2 12 6
F. J. T. (collected)  2 2 6
Mr. H. Withall   2 2 0
Captain James     2 2 0
M.A. (Oxon.)   ;  2 2 0
Mr. G. Pearson        2 2 0
Mr. W. P. Adshead     2 2 0
Mr. F. W. Perch al...       2 2 0
Dr. J. Dixon      2 0 0
Mrs. Lowe   2 0 0
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun  2 0 0
Mr. A. B. Wallace     2 0 0
„ J. C. Ferguson   2 0 0
“ Disciple ” 1 1  2 0 0
Mrs. w atkins  2 0 0
Mr. J. H. Gledetanes.....    2 0 0
Mr. Geo. Stones     110
„ J. Mould  1  110
Dr. K. Cook  110
K. G    110
J.E.W         110
Mrs. Maltby       110
Major Menars     110
Mr. J. C. Ward      110
„ E. D. Bogers     110
„ Morell Theobald      1 ~ 1 0
„ William Theobald      110
„ B. M. Theobald, M.D  110
„ H. N   f    110
„ J. Andrd         110
„ James Brown    110
The Misses Withall tt   110
Dr. Baikie   I     110
Anon, per C. C. Massey ....'.    110
A. M. W., by Mr. J. Bums   110
Mr. T. P. Barkas | 110
„ Tucker — .s,s7, 10 0
Mrs. S. Parker..      10 0
Miss Douglas Bayley   1 0 0
Mr. A. Smedley    1 0 0
„ F. Smedley  10 0
“D ” (CiericuH)  10 0
Dr. W. M Buchanan    10 0
Mr. St. George Stock    10 0
,, C. Beimers     10 0
„ J.Walhouse  10 0
Smaller sums  4 0 6
Collected by Mr. J. Bums     2 7 6
lSpirituaUsts‘ Defence Fund continued.
From America.
The following consists of amounts advertised as received by
The Banner of Light newspaper, Boston, U.S., towards the “ Slade
Defence Fund,’’ up to the 9th Dec,, of which £264 8s. has
already been remitted to England.
dols.
Colby and Bich (Publishers Banner of Light),
Boston        200,00
Epes Sargent, Esq., Boston      50.00
A. P. H. (a Spirit)........., ,....,  25,00
Mrs. Mary M. Hardy, Boston  25,00
Henry J. Horn, N, V. City      5,00
Jefferson Cutter, Medford, Mass  3,00
G. Sweet, N. Y. City    2,00
Isaac Gibbs, Springfield, Mass....  5,00
Harvey Howes, North Bennington, Vt  5,00
John A. Day, Norfolk, Mass  2,00
H. E. Parsons, Ashtabula, O  ^00,00
J. L. Donaldson, Boston, Mass   5 00
W. H. B     3,00
Obas. Levy, St. Louis, Mo  2,00
A. Fuller, Wahham. Mass  2,(!0
Emma Hard'nge Britten, Boston   10,00
L. B. Wilson, Boston   8,00
F. A. Gould, Boston  10,00
G. H. Woodis, Worcester  .t  2,00
Wm. Benson, Albany, N.Y  100,00
David Appleton, Bowell, Mats  100,00
Andrew Williams, Lawrence, Mass  100,00
James Codman, Worcester, Mass    100,00
Sarah Johnson, Worcester, Mass   100,00
Dr. Josiah Jordan, Springfield, Mass.    5,00
Mrs. Louisa Andrews, Springfield, Mass  5,00
E. Crowell, M.D., Brooklyn, N.Y   50,00
C. M. Barrett, New Haven, Ct  2,00
Geo. Stacy, Montreal, P. Q  2,00
A. Burford, East Liverpool, Ohio  2,00
M. A. Giles   2,00
O. Giles  2,00
A Friend to the Cause  2,00
W. Y., Philadelphia, Pa  25,00
Joseph Wescott, No. Castine, Me   2,00
Geo. W. Smith, Boston, Mass  20,CO
J. DuBois, Everett, Pa   5,00
Mrs. A. O. Whittemore. New Boston, Ct  3,00
L. K. Joslin, Providence, B. 1  3,00
Jas. T. Walton, Terre Haute, Ind  10,00
Chas P. Perot, Philadelphia, Pa  5,00
A Friend, Spencer, Mass 1  2,00
Henry Seyberts, Philadelphia, Pa  25,00
H. G. Wyte, Buffalo, N. IT    2,00
Joseph Kinsey  5,00
Mr. and Mrs. E. P. Tucke    3,00
Martin Hiscox, Providence, B. 1  2,00
Henry Bennan, W. Meriden, Conn  2,00
Henry Gildemeister, Bunker Hill, 111    2.00
“ A Liberal,” Greenville, Me  3,00
H. K. Morrill    2,00
Jos. P. Hazard, Peacedale, B. 1  5,00
Dr. G.B. Brooklyn, N. Y  3,00
J. N. H., Peacedale, B. I ;  25,00
Joseph Beals, Greenfield, Mass  2,00
Jas. Wilson, Bridgeport, Conn  5,00
F. B. Baker, Topeka, Kan  5,00
James Shackleton, Lawrence, Mass  2,00
F. Hinckley, Barnstable, Mass   5,00
Warren S. Barlow, St. Johnsbury, Vt  5,00
Frederick Schroeder, Papineau, 111  2,50
Joseph Schroeder, ditto    5,00
Samu d Bobinson, Swansea, Mass  2,00
David A. Mundy, Bahway, N. J  2,00
“A Friend of the Banner”    50,00
J. W. Bobins, M.D., Uxbridge, Mass.    2,00
Mr. and Mrs. J. Boberts, Bush, N. Y  2,00
J. B Angel, Bed Bank, N. J L 5,00
Lucy James, Danielsonville, Conn  6,85
Wm A. Atkins, Provincetown, Mass  5,00
Mrs. Chas, Baldwin, Fayville, Mass  5,00
J. Mayo, Waltham, Mass  2,00
A. M Gaffleld, ditto.   :... 2,00
Isaac and D. W. Wright, Harvard, Mass  2,00
Mrs. A. L. Pratt, New Haven, Conn  2,00
Samuel Smart. Willoughby, Ohio  2,00
Joseph Dimmock, Stonington, Conn    2,00
Bobert Kerr Elliott, Live Oak, Fla    3,00
Jas. Laurence, ditto  .-.  3,00
S. C. Moses, Mendota, 111  2,00
B. L. Wade, Jefferson, Ohio    10,00
C. B. Brooklyn, N. Y  2,00
J. F. Hamilton, Berlin, Wis  2,00
E, Man, Litchfield, Mich  5,00
E, Nickerson, Burton Harbour, Mich  2,00
Calven Westover. Oxford, N. Y  10,00
Friends, Charlotte, Mich    2,50
S. G. N. Millerton, N. Y    2,00
E. B. Whitirg, New Haven, Conn  5,00
H. W. Ballard, Malone, N. Y  2,00
W. M. C., Phi adelphia, Pa.   6,00
B. Ellis, Plymouth, Mass  2,00
S. H. Austin, Syracuse, N.Y  2,00
Jas. Thompson, Devonport, la  2,00
Levi P. Benjamin. Friendship, N.Y   2,00
Luther B. Ames, Worcester, Mass  2,00
Ansel Edwards, New Orleans, La  3,00
Thomas B. Watford, Philadelphia, Pa  2,00
J. L., New Jersey   2,00
Mrs. M. A E. Green, W. Winfield, N.Y  5,00
Dr. J. S. Loucks, Potsdam, N.Y   2,00
Bobert Eutherford, Bochester, N.Y   5,00
From One who Hates Persecution   10,00
J. D. Wheeler, Acton, Mass  2,00
Henry Miller, Sacramento, Cal  10,00
M. A. Britton, Santa Bosa, Cal.   2,00
Harvey Lyman, Springfield, Mass.    2,00
James S. Draper, Wayland  2,00
Isaac Snow, Boston, Mass  5,00
C. N. Lyme, Philadelphia, Pa    2,00
Mrs. Lavelette     5,00
Sundry persons   16,13
L. Elliott, Live Oak, Fla    2,50
Joseph Willoughby, Manchester, N.H  2,00
W. N. Choate, Jackson Mills. Mich   5,00
E. J. Kempton, New Bedford, Mass  2.00
Granville W. Lukens, Mt. Holly, N.J  2,00
Mrs. G. W. Keene, Lynn, Mass    5,00
Charles Chittenden, Boston, Mass   8,00
F. T. Houghton, San Francisco, Cal  2,00
P. A. Cornell, Central Village, Conn  2,00
Friends, New Britain, Conn  6,50
Friend of Beligious Freedom, Dalton, Pa 2,00
S. Morton, Winslow, N.J.»   2,00
Sums under two dels, (198 subscribers)  184,00
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found’in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations.
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, tor such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means.“No,” and two
mean “Doubtful," and ask whether the arrangement is under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet, slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “ Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ? ” Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be stiengthened.
Next ask “Who is the medium?” When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody presen', well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the failings of humanity.
A medium is usually a person of an impulsive, affectionate,
and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
Mediums are of both sexes.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and
all the members of the circle are strongly bound together by
the affections, and are thoroughly comfortable and happy.
Family circles with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at tbe first sitting of a circle symptoms of other
forms of mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appear¬
ance, while by sitting regularly two or three times a week the
manifestations will tapidly develope.
Among the varied phases of the phenomena already ob¬
served by investigators may be noted the tollowing:—Move¬
ment of physical objects, both with and without contact with the
sitters ; direct writing, drawing, and voices ; entrancetuent •
trance and inspirational utterance ; temporary materialisa¬
tions ; involuntary writing ; healing; visions j impressions;
as well as many phenomena observed in the study of mesmer¬
ism and clairvoyance.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics o
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PBlCE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, publisbed weekly, ia the
-■- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E, F.B.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.B.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science" (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, out has, up to the present time,
expressed no. decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred B.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876): Prince;Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Bight Hon. the Countess of
Caithness: His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson. F.G.S.Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Bobert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein): Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr, George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexanderl Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Bev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia): Mr. Epes Sargent) (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham. Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas JSt. Peters¬
burg) : the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H. M Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital: Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies. D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S.'C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States, 4 dols. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to W. H. Harrison,
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London
W.C.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, Loudon, E.Q.
