A RECORD OF THE PROQREj3£ OF THE ^CIEJMCE AND ETHIC3 OF £PIF(ITUAU£M.
[REGISTEEED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 46.—(Vol. III.—No. 7.)
LONDON: FEB. 15, 1873.
Published on the 1st and 15th of every
Month; Price Fourpence.
Contents.
The Origin of Evil '... ... ... '.      98
Some Experiences and Conclusions regarding Spiritualism. No. II. 98
Other World Order       100
Spiritualism and Anthropology     102
Private Seances.—Mrs. Everitt’s seances; seances at Mr.Guppy’s; seances
at Mr. Henry Cook’s...        103
The Psychological Committee of the Anthropological Institute    107
The Anthropological Institute '  107
Correspondence.—The Mediumship of Miss Cook, Mr. Holmes, and
Mr, Williams; Men and Women; Miss Florence E. Cook’s Me¬
diumship; Spiritual Aspirations  1C8
Uncle Tackerbury’s Ghost...    110
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENOUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM, 74, Navarino road, Dalston; E. Seances are held
every Thursday evening at 8 o’clock; and a Library is in course of forma¬
tion for use of members. Prospectuses and Rules on application to the
Secretary. Subscription 3s. per quarter in advance. Thos. Blyton,
Secretary, &c.
V/TISS GODFREY, CURATIYE MESMERIST AND
-LvJL RUBBER. Clairvoyant Examination and complete Diagnosis,
One Guinea. Mesmerising or Rubbing, One Guinea per week, and travelling
expenses.
Miss Godfrey may be seen, by appointment, at 161, Hampstead-road, N.W.
MISS HUDSON, Normal Clairvoyant and Prophetic
Medium, RECEIVES VISITORS daily (Sundays excepted), from
Twelve till Six o’Clock, at her Residence, 17, Castle-street, Wells-street,
Oxford-street. Terms, Five Shillings each Visitor. Private Parties also
attended in the Evening; terms, One Guinea and travelling expenses.
The rise and progress of spiritualism
in England, by Benjamin Coleman, recently published in the
Spiritualist, reprinted in pamphlet form, on toned paper, with coloured
wrapper. The discussion is also included in the pamphlet. Copies may be
had at one shilling each, of Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C., and
are of especial value for presentation to those who are uninformed on the
subject of Spiritualism.
EBIRD, Builder, House-decorator, Plumber, and
O Gasfltter, desires to inform his Friends and Employers that he
has taken NEW PREMISES, at 11, Park-grove, Shepherd’s-lane, Brixton,
opposite the Railway Station. Estimates given for every description of
work in the above branches.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, cir¬
culating LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Ringsiand.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c.,' to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
Aaron franklin, preserver of birds
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE, Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’ heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in groat variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. Aaron Franklin, 58, Suffolk-
street, Birmingham.
SELECTED BY HER MAJESTY’S COMMISSIONER FOR THE
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITIONS.
PHOTOGRAPHS.
Prices from 6s. per Dozen.
MR. A. L. HENDERSON,
OF 49, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON BRIDGE,
AND OF 2, AMERSHAM ROAD, NEW CROSS, S.E.
Photographer on Enamel to the Queen.
EPPS’S COCOA. — The Civil Service Gazette
remarks—“By a thorough knowledge of the natural laws which
govern the operations of digestion and nutrition, and by a careful application
of the fine properties of well-selected cocoa, Mr. Epps has provided our
breakfast-tables with a delicately-flavoured beverage which may save us
many heavy doctors’ bills.”
Made simply with Boiling Water or Milk.
Each packet is labelled—
JAMES EPPS & Co., Homoeopathic Chemists, London.
Also makers of CACAOINB, a thin Evening Beverage.
B
RITISH IMPERIAL INSURANCE CORPORATION
LIMITED.
Incorporated pursuant to Act of Parliament.
Capital—£200,000 in 200,000 Shares of £l Each.
Head Offices: BROWN STREET AND MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
Chief London Offices: 20, KING WILLIAM STREET, E.C.
Central Trustees:
Augustus Frederick Bayford, LL.D., Senior Registrar, Court of Probate,
Doctors’ Commons, London; and Chancellor of the Diocese of Man¬
chester.
William GimberGOODliffe, Accountant General, India Office, Westminster
London.
Charles Oppenheim (S. Oppenheim & Sons), Director of the Union Bank
of London, Austin Friars, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Christopher Weguelin (Thomson, Bonar & Co.), Director of the Bank of
England, 57i, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Auditor: Dr. William Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., London, and Southlands,
Bromley, Kent.
The system of Insurance carried out by the “ British Imperial ”
(originally devised by Dr. Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., of Somerset House, and
.adopted with some modifications by her Majesty’s Government), is perfect
in Security, Equity, and Convenience.
I v Security, because every With Profit, and Self-Insurance Policy, is
issued upon English Government Securities, held in Trust, away from the
control of the Directors, for the sole purpose of meeting policy claims, the
amount invested (80 per cent, of the whole premium) being shown by the
National English Life Table, compiled by the Registrar-General for the
Government to be more than sufficient to provide the sum insured under
the policy.
In Equity, because in the event of an Insurant failing to continue the
payment of his premiums, only sufficient thereof is retained by the Corpora¬
tion to profitably cover the risk incurred upon the life during the time it
was covered by the insurance; the remainder being returned to the Insurant.
The amount returned varies according to the Table under which the
Insurance is effected, between nearly one-half and three-quarters of all the
premiums.
In Convenience, because the “ Surrender Value ” is endorsed on every
Policy, and is made payable at three days’ sight. It can also be used to its
full amount, by payment of 5 per cent, per annum interest on the sum with¬
drawn, without invalidating the Policy.
. JOHN A. FEIGAN, General Manager.
WILLIAM DAVIES, Secretary.
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STERLING.
Head 0#c&s.-BRO WN STREET and MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
FIRE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates.
Bonus Returns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Renewed Premiums.
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities.
British imperial life, and British
NATIONAL (FIRE AND GUARANTEE) INSURANCE COR¬
PORATIONS.
Applications for Agencies to either of the above Corporations can be
made to C. W. Pearce, at the Chief London Offices, 20, King William-street,
E.C., from whom Prospectuses, Proposal Forms, and all other information,
can be obtained.
Price 6d. Cloth, 9d. Post free.
HEAYEN OPENED.—Part II. being further descrip¬
tions of, and advanced teachings from, the Spirit Land. Given
through the mediumship of F. J. T. With an Appendix containing the
Scripture proofs of Spiritualism.
J. Burns, 15, S6uthampton-row, W.C.; E, W. Allen, 11, Ave-Maria lane, E.O,
Also Part I., price 6d, Cloth, 9d.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
98
Feb. 15, 1873.
Cfxe Spratalxsf Jifccrspapr.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whpm advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may he longer sometimes.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 4s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregulanty in the supply of “ The Spiritualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E. C., should always be infoi'med of such impediments and iii’egulari-
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Bochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Qp., 383. Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco —Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—Q. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Bichard Boberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTBALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Bussell-street.
Or The Spiritualist maybe hard by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny;
thus the, total cost of thirty numbers is 12s. 6d., which may he remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking'countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
THE ORIGIN OF EVIL.
The problem known as “ The Origin of Evil,” which,
to some extent is considered by Mr. White, in an article
in another column, has perplexed thoughtful men in all
ages, and at the pres'ent day some of the professors of
moral philosophy in our Universities consider the ques¬
tion to be insoluble. Not a few leading Spiritualists,
however, have come to the. conclusion that there is no
evil, and the revelations of Spiritualism alone appear to
show a way out of difficulties presented by this great
problem.
Spiritualism demonstrates that, after passing through
the natural process called “ death,” men are grouped
together in accordance with the affinities of their affec¬
tions. Rogues and scoundrels live together, and cannot
see or mix with spirits much higher than themselves; cruel,
callous people have to live with their own kind ; the
good and the true also live in their own place or state.
Why this is so we do not know, any more than we
know why certain salts dissolved in one volume of
Water, will each deposit themselves in their own par¬
ticular crystals, quite independently of each other. In
like manner, the heavens and hells of the next world
are formed by the action of benevolent, invariable laws.
The states of suffering are not eternal, and progressing
spirits may work their way upwards, although, ac¬
cording to their own testimony, the task is often slow
and painful.
Did life end with so-called death, or were persons
who have suffered here, doomed for any acts whatever
to eternal punishment hereafter, then, indeed, would it
be impossible that what men call “evil” could be
reconciled with the idea of the existence of an all¬
powerful and loving God. Savages and semi-civilised
nations have tried to explain the mystery by inventing
one or more wicked Gods, strong enough to upset the
designs of the good one, who, consequently, is not
then omnipotent.
When it is remembered that the cruel, the selfish,
and the wicked, who love earth and its material plea¬
sures, are tied to each other, and to their loves after
death, whilst purer persons enter states of greater
happiness, it is evident that there is less evil in the
world than is generally supposed. The man who
drudges hard for wealth through two-thirds of his life,
who then is robbed of all his hoards in one fell swoop,
considers that evil has dogged his footsteps all the days
of his life. But let him pass through the gates of death,
he sees that the loss of a few handfuls of gold may have
saved him from sinking into sensual indolence, and was
the means of making him, both before and after he
parted from his body, a purer, happier spirit. He sees
that the man who legally or illegally robbed him of the
wealth, thereby had his vices more’ deeply stamped in
his nature, to be eradicated in spirit life with all the
greater labour and pain, so that he learns that, in
spiritual things as in physics, action and reaction are
equal.
Mr. White shows how slight “ evils,” as they are
called, act as spurs to exertion. Supposing the suf¬
ferings to extend throughout the whole length of life
on earth, the re-action will come hereafter. It is only
a question of time. The intense sufferings many en¬
dure on earth are due to the circumstance that men
are benevolently placed in a state of so much freedom
and independence; hence, if they choose to inflict
terrible injuries on each other, they have the power,
but in the long run will have to pay the penalty to the
uttermost farthing. Most of the material ills of life
spring from the actions of corrupt legislators, in making
laws for their own private advantage, thereby drawing
the means of subsistence away from large numbers of
people, into the possession of the lawgivers. But let a
pure spirit observe from on high the purification of the
spirits passing through the fire of suffering because of
the loss of their worldly property, and let him see the
vices eating deeper into the nature of those who have
illegitimately acquired the means of gratifying earthly
senses and passions, and let him see them all when
they are released from their earthly bodies, he will pro¬
bably admit that in the long run action and re-action
are equal, and that the laws governing the universe are
just. The man who, at the age of six score years and
ten, reviews the events of a life passed in two states of
existence, perhaps finds the problem of the origin of
evil beset with fewer difficulties than he who contem¬
plates his experiences during three score years and ten
passed in one state of existence.
SOME EXPERIENCES AND CONCLUSIONS
REGARDING SPIRITUALISM.
No. II.
BY J. M. GULLY, M.D.
Let me add another instance of the power of earthly
affections on those in the spirit world. My departed
brother once came to us, and expressed his fondness for
his sisters and myself; and on one of my sisters asking,
“ Does it not distress you to leave your happy home to
come to us ?v he replied, “ No; earthly affections are
heaven-like to us.” And on another occasion I asked
THE SPIRITUALIST.
99
Feb. 15, 1873.
Mm, “Am I still‘dear Jim’to you, as of old?” he
answered, “ Dearer than ever.” This fraternal spirit
repeatedly shook hands with me, firmly and heartily,
and much to my delight; the only occasion on which I
felt a disagreeable sensation being when, from some
sudden change in the surrounding conditions, his hand
melted into thin air whilst it was clasped in mine. I
then felt a sort of electric shock up the whole length of
my arm. I shall have more to say of this spirit when
speaking of the musical manifestations. Meantime, I
cannot refrain from recording a seance at which Home’s
departed wife returned to us with beautiful evidence.
It was her first attempt at manifestation since she
passed away, and it was with some difficulty that we
distinguished her spelling of her name, Sacha; but
when Home asked if that was right, she joyously rapped,
“ Yes, yes, yes,” and then added with the alphabet, “ Je
suis si heureuse ! oh, mon Dieu ! quel bonheur !” (She
and her husband always spoke in Prench when she was
on earth.) Home asked if she knew what he had
placed on the table (it was a portion of the stone from
her tomb at Cannes). She replied, “ Ho.” He told her
what it was, and she said,<£ Cela ne m’interesse pas ;
mon corps m’a fait souffrir seulement.” He asked her
if she would give us some flowers. She answered, “ Je
tacherais.” A large vase of flowers was then emptied
of its water, and placed underneath the table; touching
Home repeatedly, as if to gather power from him, she
then handed up to each one around the table (except
one) a small bouquet, distributing them with a wonder¬
ful precision as to the tastes of the individuals—helio¬
trope to one, a rose and a fern leaf to another, and to
myself a bunch of red geraniums. One of the circle, a
Scotch lady, was omitted for some time, and when re¬
quested to give her a flower, the spirit said, “ Oh, oui;
comme compatriote.” Hereby hangs a curious fact:
Horae’s wife was the daughter of a Russian father and
a Scotch mother, and was particularly proud of the
blood of the latter, and was fond of speaking of herself
as being Scotch ; so, when she handed the flower to my
northern friend, she claimed nationality with her,
though nof one present had uttered a hint' or word
about her Scottish blood. After distributing all the
flowers to us, she raised the emptied vase, and placed it
upon Home’s knees, I sitting next to him and witnessing
the fact.
Home very frequently went into a trance during the
seances, the manifestations at which were suspended
during his trance. On one occasion of this kind, he,
after exhibition of infinite unrest, and even distress, at
length sat down on the carpet, cross-legged, in the
Eastern fashion, tied a ^handkerchief on his head,
covered his shoulders with a coloured table-cloth,
bowed his forehead to the ground, and gave all the
indications of an Asiatic native. He, after some time,
arose, walked gravely towards me, placed his hand on
my head, and said, solemnly, “ I am a physician, and
I inspire you.” “ Were you known to me in your
earth life?” He smiled, and said, “I lived on earth
several hundred years ago.” Then, from his previous
exhibitions, it occurred to me that the possessing spirit
might be that of one of the great Arabian doctors of
the 10th century, and I asked, “ Did you flourish in
Arabia?” Three touches on my head were the reply,
i* Will you tell me your name?” Long pause. I put
the same question again, when he seized a pencil, and
scribbled a word on paper, which was lying on the
table. He then mesmerised my head awhile, and came
out of the trance. I kept the paper ; and, long after¬
wards, when a learned Indian Civil Service officer was
under my care, I showed it him without giving any
account of how I came by it. He asked, curiously,
how I came by it, said that the writing was Arabic,
but of an antique kind, that he did not know what it
meant, but that the word spelled was Avicenna. How
Avicenna, at Bagdad, with Rhozes and Avensoar,
Mohammedans in Spain, were the great medical
teachers of the world (for Europe was then in the dark
age, and taught nothing but violence and superstition)
during the tenth century, and from them a long list of
therapeutic 'agents have descended to the present time.
When awake, Home had never heard of Arabian
mediums or physicians, as is probably the case with
many who may read this paper.
It was a repeated remark of Home that he never got
such wondrous musical phenomena as in the drawing¬
room of my house at Malvern, and I have never met
with any similar or equal to them on record. In
introducing them here, I am compelled to speak ihore
of myself and mine than may be considered graceful.
I can only request the reader to think of me as John
Doe, Richard Roe, or any other fictitious person, but
to be very sure there is no fiction about the musical
history now offered. At the latter end of 1862 I was
suddenly stricken down with disease, arising from acute
irritation of brain and digestive organs; and in the
course of three weeks my life was utterly despaired of;
pulse and breathing were those of a moribund man.
As the doctor said, it was a question of a few hours, but
the fatal end was inevitable. A curious, and, to my
attendant, hitherto unobserved, mental condition ob¬
tained ; for three weeks I lay muttering with great
rapidity, and was apparently delirious; but whenever my
attention was arrested, I constantly answered with per¬
fect lucidity and appropriateness, but always in the
third person :—“ His feet are cold ;” “ He feels so ill;”
“ He wants something cold to drink,” &c. Perhaps,
never did man get out of the jaws of death when they
were so nearly closing upon him. And when I went
to Pau for rest and recuperation, it was a widely-spread
statement that I had gone to a lunatic asylum there,
that Spiritualism had overset my brain, and produced
my disease; and this because, a few months previous
to my illness, I had asserted the authenticity of the
late Robert Bell’s account in the Cornhill Magazine, of
the renowned seante at Mrs. Milner Gibson’s house
at that period. This by parenthesis. The pleasure¬
seeking, money-getting, and earth-bound public believe
all we Spiritualists to be lunatic. So be it. They have
their lunacy also. It was about one year after the
sickness alluded to, that at a seance o, spirit child, when
asked by us to play something on the accordion, said,
“ We will play my dear papa’s sickness ;” and imme¬
diately, Home and I, holding the instrument by its
upper side, underneath the table, they gave a most
elaborate, wonderfully descriptive piece of music, which
lasted a quarter of an hour, or more, and pourtrayed, so
as not possibly to be mistaken, the beginning of the
malady (screeching, discordant, vibratory notes), the
fury of the acute symptoms (loud, rushing, rapid, pain¬
fully-sounding bars), the stupor that followed (low,
murmuring notes, interrupted, every now and then, by
others that represented unmistakeably the stertorous
breathing of coma), the total collapse and exhaustion
(no movement of the instrument save to give, at long
intervals, a jerky, catching, snoring sound, indicative of
100
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 15, 1873.
an inspiration of half-a-minute, or so, and a weak
staccato tick about every quarter-minute, indicating the
heart-beating at such interval), the gradual recovery
from this death-throe (by a steady augmentation of the
notes involved, and increase of their fulness), and,
finally, a burst of joyous music, full, rich, diversified,
to show recovery from extreme peril, and their delight
at it. Home declared he had never heard a more
wonderful descriptive piece of music, and my sisters,
who had watched throughout the illness, easily traced
each phase of it as the instrument was played upon.
At a subsequent seance, the spirits repeated the whole
piece at our' request. They told us that eleven spirits
were employed in its production. Some time after¬
wards they informed me, that, during those three
weeks of apparent stupor, my spirit was almost entirely
separated from my body, and that, “ for a moment, it
was as completely in the spirit-world as it will be
when it finally quits it; and that my mother and
brother kept my body from actual dissolution during
the partial separation.”
OTHER WORLD ORDER.
BY WILLIAM WHITE.
Dissatisfaction' with the world is universal. Ab¬
solute content is unknown. Who would not alter the
conditions and order of Nature in some respects, if he
had the power ? As for our fellow creatures, it would
be discreditable to be satisfied with them. Hear what
any saint or philanthropist, Scots Presbyterian or High
Anglican, Carlyle or Comtist, Pope or Prench Com¬
munist, Mahometan, Brahmin or Mandarin, has to say
of his contemporaries ! And if, perhaps, we might not
care to use the trenchant epithets of these worthies,
yet we should all agree that the human race was in a
bad way, and wanted putting to rights (that is to say,
brought into conformity with our private ideal), and
thankful should we be if we had any assurance of its
accomplishment.
Yet (and it is a daring assumption) may the human
race, collectively or individually, be a failure ? Is it
not conceivable that in all its varieties of efficiency
and deficiency, of righteousness and wickedness, of hap¬
piness and misery (inclusive of ourselves and our dis¬
satisfaction) it may be what its Maker intends ?
The assumption may be thought shocking, but the
reply is ready that a Creator whose work is more than
He designed, or other than He designed, is not glorified
thereby. Calvinists and Arminians have had many a
hard fight over this ground. Arminians charging Cal¬
vinists with the conception of an unjust Deity, and
Calvinists charging Arminians with the invention of an
impotent Deity, both accusations being true. Neither
Calvinists nor Arminians have managed to reconcile
Divine omnipotence with Divine equity and goodness
in human experience, and until reconciliation is effected
there can be no rest for the heart in theology.
I do not say that there have been no fair answers to
the difficulty. On the contrary, there have been many,
but none conclusive. One answer I would specially
distinguish, which is conveyed in the argument that if
this world be a preparation for another, it is not rea¬
sonable to pronounce judgment as to failure or success
on the partial evidence which our experience supplies.
It is the assumption, articulate or tacit, that in this
world we have the conclusion of all things, that is the
basis of the melancholy, cynicism, and despair, which
possess so many who brood over the phenomena of life,
and which George Elliot in our own day shares with
the ancient voluptuary who discovered that “ all was
vanity and vexation of spirit,” and “ there was no
profit under the sun.”
It is only shallowness and heartlessness that regards
the misery of mankind as fully explicable on any
theory. But whilst much of that misery is mysterious,
we need not convert the mystery into an impeachment
of creative goodness, wisdom or power. On the con¬
trary, we may venture to step from the known to the
unknown ; and, inasmuch as the larger part of the
suffering wherewith we are acquainted is corrective,
proceed to infer that if our knowledge were more ex¬
tensive, we should discover that where pain appears
excessive or wanton, it has ends as beneficent as any
we already recognise.
The chief perplexity consists in the suffering of the
young and innocent. In contact with their distresses
we cannot but exclaim, What can they mean! And
yet may not pain, even mere physical pain, have spiri¬
tual issues that amply compensate for endurance ? May
not the consolation St. Paul addressed to the Corinthians
have a very wide application, wider far than is com¬
monly assigned to his words ?
“ Though the outward man perish, yet the inward is
renewed day by day. Por our light affliction, which is
but for a moment, worketh for us a far more exceeding
and eternal weight of glory; while we look not at the
things which are seen, but at the things which are not
seen ; for the things which are seen are temporal, but
the things which are not seen are eternal.”
I remember a lady, an ardent disciple of Robert
Owen, attacking me one summer day at a garden party,
to this effect—
“ You say there is a God and that He is good. Now
for years I have been in almost constant suffering from
neuralgia. If, therefore, there is an omnipotent God,
and He is merciful, will you explain why He goes on
torturing me thus ?”
What was my answer, I do not recollect; but the
question, and the humour of the situation, have often
recurred to me. It would have been to little purpose
to have met my querist with Law’s admonition to
Wesley—
“ Sir, you are troubled because you do not under¬
stand how God is dealing with you. Perhaps, if you
did, it would not so well answer His design. He is
teaching you to trust Him further than you can see
Him
Nor to have delivered Carlyle’s stern rebuke—
“ Of those mean repinings, miserable arraignments
and questionings of the Eternal Power, such as weak
souls, even well disposed, will sometimes give way to
in the pressure of their despair. Eor the Eternal Power
will not answer, but silently and terribly accounts them
impious, blasphemous, and damnable. Devout sub¬
mission to the will of the Supreme in all things is the
highest and sole essential form which religion can
assume, and without which all forms of religion in man
are a mockery and a delusion.”
Eor, she might have retorted, “ You assume the ex¬
istence of a reasonable Eternal Power, which is just
what I question.” Indeed, to meet a demand like hers
is not easy—-is perhaps not possible; for the spirit in
which it was preferred was of defiance rather than of
inquiry; and where there is no disposition to be con-
Feb. 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
101
vinced, persuasion is hopeless. Still, I might have
ventured to assert, that if the conditions of her life
were known, the neuralgic torture of years would prove
to be the discipline needful to qualify her for her place
in the world to come. And had she repelled such a
statement as undemonstrable or incredible, I might
have urged that her pains had obviously the merit of
stimulating her intelligence ; and if pain had no other
action on creatures otherwise stupid, it would be far
from purposeless.
The probability is that physical suffering has numerous
uses, and various as the sufferers; but the why and
wherefore of each case is fully known to Him alone
\^ho is within and present in the suffering, administra¬
tive and responsive to every throb.
Nor should we lose sight of the truth which the
Combes taught with such emphasis, that pain is an
indication, of wrong-doing and a spur to amendment.
If we are ailing, it is because we have violated physical
order, and the remedy lies in our restoration to obedi¬
ence. Yet how obvious is the inadequacy of the gener¬
alisation ? Much suffering is accounted for by our
ignorance or our wilfulness, and in the light of the
truth we are shown how to secure relief; but how
much suffering remains where neither knowledge nor
obedience is available! There is the long chronicle of
accidents, with ensuing years of helplessness or agony,
which no foresight could avert; and a host of diseases,
such as cancer and tubercle, to which submission is the
only prescription.*
Then there is mental suffering, from which none
escape, and which is of every degree of poignancy
and duration. Our desires go one way, and conditions
and events otherwise or contrariwise, and irritation and
sorrow are freely begotten. Many drag themselves
through life under slow gnawing torture, with affections
thwarted, fair expectations frustrated, and every well
of delight poisoned. And, worst of all, bright youthful
souls are drawn almost insensibly into evil, and from
thence to degradation, swift or deliberate, terminating
in early wreck, or in old age blasted and hardened.
"Who has not witnessed such tragedies? and who, turn¬
ing from the miseries of private experience to the wider
public miseries, with which the newspapers make us
familiar, is not tempted at times to cry with Cowper ?
Oh for a lodge in some vast wilderness,
Some boundless contiguity of shade,
Where rumour of oppression and deceit,
Of unsuccessful or successful war,
Might never reach me more ! My ear is pained,
My soul is sick, with every day’s report
Of wrong and outrage with which earth is filled.
There is a great deal of optimism which is main¬
tained by shutting the eyes and proclaiming with a
cheery voice that All’s well! All may be well, but all
is far from well in the sense of these light-hearted
spirits. Nor if we are to arrive at firmly grounded
composure shall we do so by shirking the dreadful and
shameful realities of human nature—its malignity and
greed, its deceitfulness and impurity, its stupidity and
laziness; and, I may add, its ill-luck.
In presence of such admissions—inadequate admis¬
sions possibly—my querist in the garden might exclaim
with exultation—And, yet you believe in a God omni¬
potent and merciful!
* There was an article in No. 44 of the Spiritualist attempting to prove
that tne great majority, if not the whole of human diseases, are due to the
sin of ignorance, and pointed out certain unused and unstudied powers of
both preventing and removing diseases. Are not what Mr. White calls
“accidents” preventible by human care?—Ed.
I do: and in the first place would justify belief with
the observation (which I cannot do better than advance
in the words of one so little inclined to prophesy
smoothly as G. H. Lewes) that—
“ Evil is essentially a narrow finite thing, thrown
into obscurity in any comprehensive view of the Uni¬
verse. The amount of evil massed together from every
quarter must be held as small compared with the
broad beneficence of Nature.”
And, as the Rev. T. T. Lynch, sets forth in another
way—
“ Let us remember that those laws of Nature by
which we suffer sometimes, and so severely, are always
at work, and that for our advantage. The waves of
the sea support a thousand ships at the very time they
engulf one. A thousand fountains descend from the
hills to feed rivers and supply towns at the very time
when the flood cuts for itself an irregular destructive
course. A thousand vehicles traverse the streets safely
while one, by the loss of a wheel, or the stumble of a
horse, is overset.”
The drift of truth conveyed in these passages is to
my mind irresistible. Yast as are the misery and mis¬
fortunes of Humanity, vaster far are its happiness and
success. The fact is, that misery is so deadly that its
predominance anywhere is impossible; where failure
was the rule men would cease to strive. The subsist¬
ence of the most rotten community is only ensured by
its measure of sanity. Even a crew of pirates could
only hold together by their virtues. When evil attains
a certain percentage (far short of fifty) dissolution in¬
evitably ensues.
Hence is asserted a law of order over Humanity,
which translated into human consciousness is content,
pleasure, peace. Now men of science are never tired
of the iteration of the universality of law, that excep¬
tions are only apparent, and that when patiently and
accurately investigated, they are found to resolve them¬
selves into harmony therewith. Conceding the truth
of this position, which indeed research is ever more
confirming, a volume of strength is conveyed to our
argument. Eor, grant that the law of order over
Humanity is a law conducive to human happiness, we
are driven to the conclusion that any infractions thereof
are only apparent, and if patiently and accurately inves¬
tigated they too will be found to resolve themselves
into harmony with the supreme law. At the same
time it is to be recognised that, in the case of human
beings, such patient and accurate investigation is ex¬
ceedingly difficult; for they present problems that are
obscure and deeply complicated ; and (admitting that life
here is a preparation for life hereafter, where the incom¬
plete will be completed) the data for palpable conviction
are unattainable. We must be satisfied to infer the
unknown from the known, and venture to confide
where we cannot see—a procedure to which the ex¬
ample of physicists affords ample sanction. When
Tennyson sings—
Oh yet we trust that somehow good
Will be the final goal of ill 
he expresses no vain hope, but one so reasonable that
it may pass for certainty, unless the first principle of
modern science is illusory, that what is true anywhere
is true everywhere.
1 remember George MacDonald remarking in a
sermon, that wonder was sometimes expressed why
God suffered sin and sorrow. “ Why!” he exclaimed,
“what sort of men and women should we be without
102
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 15, 1873.
sin and sorrow ! ” Hawthorne, in hisT romance of the
Marble Fawn, sets Kenyon arguing,—
“ Here comes my perplexity. Sin has educated
Donatello and elevated him. Is sin, then, like sorrow,
merely an element of human education, through which
we struggle to a higher and purer state than we could
otherwise have attained?”
To my mind, the question admits of hut one answer.
Sin begets sorrow and suffering, and by sorrow and
suffering we discover our sins, and are afflicted until
we hate and forsake them, and are educated from
animals into men and women in the process. Consider
how hearts are enlarged and enriched by breaking !
Consider how intellect is developed by hardship and
difficulty t Is it not a proverb, that necessity is the
mother of invention ? Take even suffering in its grossest
form,—that of cold and famine,—and see how essential
it is to the majority of mankind. The history of the
poor laws has taught us that there are multitudes
ready to sink into idleness and vice, if only shelter and
food are provided gratis, and that almsgiving breeds
much more misery than it relieves. Indeed, few of us
would do our duty as we ought, if not whipped up to
it; and we never know what is in us, and what we' are
fit for, until we are thrown into some intolerable
predicament.
Illustrations of the uses of sin and suffering in the
development of human nature might be extended
through volumes, with confessions of those who have
discovered the benefit of their afflictions, and who
would commend to us good Dr. Byrom’s advice:—
With peaceful mind thy race of duty run :
God nothing does, or suffers to be done,'
But what thou would’st thyself, if thou couldst see
Through all events of things as well as He.
The drawback, however, to many of such confessions and
counsels is, that they are too often conceived in the spirit
of the old woman who regarded her own griefs and
mishaps as chastisements of the Divine love, and those
of her neighbours as judgments and foretastes of the
wrath to come. We shall all smile at the old woman’s
simplicity, but is it not precisely what many of the
pious mean, but have not audacity to articulate ? Any
such restrictions, however guarded or however palliated,
I would distinctly repudiate. I am persuaded that God
wants souls of just as many patterns as there are men,
women, and children in this wide world, and that His
love and wisdom will stand perfectly vindicated in their
creation and experience, however grievous they may
for a time appear. With James Smith, the wise author
of the Divine Drama of History, I believe in what he
calls, “ the Providential Order of the World,” and hold
that it is better than any Tory, Whig, Radical, Pro¬
testant, Popish, or Infidel plan that I have ever heard or
read of, and that things are in a train for producing a
more magnificent result than could possibly be pro¬
duced, were even the greatest philanthropist of the age
invested with full power to rule the world and the
ideas of men according to his own limited judgment.
Ox Thursday evening, February 27th, Mr. Tapp, one of
the most intelligent members of the Dalston Association of
Enquirers into Spiritualism, will read a paper before that
society on “ The Philosophy of Spiritual Manifestations.”
The following advertisement has been inserted in several
of the leading sectarian newspapers“ Spiritualism.—
Wanted, a Text from New Testament Scripture to prove that
Miracles have ceased.—Kindly address to J. Enmore Jones,
Enmore-park, S.E.”
SPIRITUALISM AND ANTHROPOLOGY.
The Anthropological Institute was founded in the
face of much opposition from the orthodox, for the pur¬
pose of studying man as a science. As the spirit and
the intellect are the driving powers governing the
acts of the human body, it follows that, in neglecting
to give attention to psychology and its facts, the Insti¬
tute has been in much the same position as the
theatrical manager who resolved to produce the play
of Hamlet, but to strike Hamlet and his speeches out
of the play. If the Institution of Civil Engineers
resolved to give all its attention to machinery, and
none whatever to the nature of steam and of the forces
driving the machinery, it would stand in exactly the
same position with reference to the science of engineer¬
ing, that the Anthropological Institute has hitherto
occupied in relation to the science of man.
The interest in Spiritualism is so wide and so deep,
that the formation of a Psychological Society is only a
question of time, nor do we suppose that if the Anthro¬
pological Institute resolved to devote as much as one-
third of its whole time and energy to psychology, it
would long retard the formation of a separate society
for the study of the most important part of Anthro¬
pology. The nature of steam and of molecular forces
may conveniently be studied by men like Professor
Tyndall, who are not engineers, but who possess the
right order of mind for the work, and who can do it
better than men who give their whole attention to
applied mechanics. In like manner there are persons
whose mental nature leads them to take more interest
in the governing powers of the human body, than in
its mechanical structure. Each order of mind will
undertake the work in which it feels most pleasure, so
that there are advantages as well as disadvantages in
dividing Anthropology into two great branches, under
the care of two independent societies. Another reason
why the formation of a Psychological Society is only a
question of time, is that none are so well acquainted
with the subject as Spiritualists, consequently, any effi¬
cient psychological association must drift into the hands
of Spiritualists, just as any efficient astronomical society
must be managed by astronomers rather than by inex¬
perienced amateurs.
The Anthropological Institute has fought its way for
ten years, in the face of difficulties and prejudices, but
is gradually gaining a position of very considerable
strength. By its past neglect of psychology, it has,
perhaps, lost some influential members, though, pro¬
bably, it retains some in the rural districts who would
take fright at a proposal to deal with the subject of
Spiritualism. There are several men on the council
not at all prejudiced against Spiritualism, but who may
not feel it to be their duty to run the risk of alienating,
perhaps, a large body of members, by publishing much
about the unbelievable facts connected with the un¬
popular subject. Before this could be done, the more
uninformed members of the Institute require a little
preliminary education in psychology, which, perhaps,
Mr. A. R. Wallace and Captain Burton could give
them in the pages of the Anthropological Journal.
Mesmerism is now universally admitted to be true;
and the orthodox medical profession, which abused it
so long, now admits it surreptitiously into its standard
literature under the name of “ artificial somnambulism.”
If the new Psychological Committee of the Anthropo¬
logical Institute inquired into and reported upon mes-
Feb. 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
103
merism and its phenomena, the uninformed members
would not take fright at that very mild subject,
and Spiritualists would begin to take more interest
in the society. The Committee might collect its
facts from all the scattered literature of mesmerism,
from its own experiments, and from the testimony of
mesmeric lecturers now living. A thorough know¬
ledge of mesmerism would be of immense advantage
in the elucidation of the phenomena of Spiritualism,
but when we ask the world of science for the required
information, it is unable to give it, in consequence of
having tabooed mesmerism; in other words, by an
unwritten law it has for a whole generation declared
certain of the phenomena of the universe to be un¬
worthy its attention. If a Psychological Society were
formed, it would probably lay a foundation by collecting
and publishing full and reliable information about
mesmerism ; but really this is work which the Anthro¬
pological Society might unobjectionably take in hand at
once, and gain new members without alienating any of
the old ones.
It may be asked what advantage would it be to
Spiritualists, to study psychology in the ranks of the
Anthropological Institute, rather than to form a society
to undertake the special work. A new society would
probably do the work quicker and better, because the
members would be more or less informed upon the
subject, and would not have to lose time in educating col¬
leagues imperfectly informed upon psychology. On the
other hand, the Anthropological Institute has its repre¬
sentatives in nearly every country upon the globe, and
its foreign officers could, if requested, supply a great
mass of information about psychological phenomena ob¬
served in different parts of the world. Yery many
years would have to pass away before a Psychological
Society would possess similarly good machinery for col¬
lecting information from abroad. The Anthropological
Institute in itself deserves to be well supported; spiri¬
tual phenomena also deserve to be thoroughly studied,
and the old motto of union being strength, holds good
in this as in all other cases.
As many readers may not be aware of the extensive
nature of the ramifications of the Anthropological In¬
stitute, the following information about its foreign local
secretaries and their places of residence, may be of
interest:—
In Africa it has 5 local secretaries ; in Algeria, 1; Argen¬
tine Republic,4; Austria, 6; Australia, 3; Barbadoes, 1; Bel¬
gium, 3; Borneo, 2 ; Brazil, 3; British Columbia, 1 ; Burmah,
1; Canada, 3; China, 4; Denmark, 1 ; Ecuador, 1; Egypt, 2;
France, 6: Greece, 2; India, 5; Italy, 2; Japan, 1’/Jamaica,
1; Natal, 3; New Zealand, 2; Norway, 2; Nicaragua, 2 ; Por¬
tugal, 1; Puerto Rica, 1 ; Queensland, 1 ; Russia, 2; Saxony,
1; Sierra Leone, 1; Spain, 1; Sweden, 3; Turkey, 6; United
States, 5 ; Panama, 1; Venezuela, 1; Victoria, 1.
In this list none have been counted twice ; for instance, the
“ three ” local secretaries in Natal are not included in the
“ five ” in Africa.
Also, where several local secretaries are entered as residing
in one country, they are stationed in different parts of it and
not in the Same town. In Austria, for instance, the following
are the six local secretaries and their places of residence :—
Vienna, M. Franciscus Miklorich ; Briinn, Dr. Kalmus ; Hun¬
gary, Dr. Maximilian Herz ; Stuhlweissenburg, Dr. Julius
Sehvarcz, F.G.S., Member of the Hungarian Academy of
Sciences; Besth, Annin Vamb6ry, Esq., Professor in the Uni¬
versity ; Prague, Dr. Anton Fritsch, Director of the National
Museum of Bohemia.
In addition to the local secretaries, the Anthropo¬
logical Institute has about a hundred “ corresponding
members,” residing in foreign countries. Hence it has
eyes, brains, and hands, ready to collect information for
it from all parts of the globe, and such extensive ma¬
chinery as this a new Psychological Society could not
hope to create till after the lapse of very many years.
PRIVATE SEANCES.
[Reported by permission.)
MBS. EVERITT’S SEANCES.
Mr. Morell Theobald writes:—
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
Sir,—Quiet domestic circles appear to me at present to
point more to the mission of Spiritualism and its cui bono
than even the more startling manifestations which are in¬
creasing around us. With your permission, I will as briefly
as possible, narrate what passed at two recent seances. >
The first was a children’s seance, held just before my boys
returned to boarding-school. It took place at the kind invi¬
tation of Mr. and Mrs. Everitt, in their own house, and seven
children were present as a great treat.
As soon as raps were established, we were directed to read
from Ephesians vi. 1'—8, the Gospel of St. John iii. 1—4,
Ecclesiastes xii, first verse only ; then a short prayer was
offered up amidst continual raps of approval, especially where
blessings were invoked upon the children.
The usual lights and refreshing perfumes followed as soon
as the lamps were put out, and soon a very feeble voice was
heard. It was my father, who passed away some 3rears ago,
speaking audibly for the first time. The voice increased in
power and perceptible motion, and appeared to proceed from
over my little boy’s' head, some distance from Mrs. Everitt.
It was my father’s custom to spend the last Sunday evening
before returning to school with us, and now I was forcibly
reminded of those pleasant home evenings, as my father, with
a voice trembling with emotion, begged the boys to “ be
truthful always ; not to tell a lie even to get out of .a scrape,
to love one another, to learn with all their might, and never
forget to pray to God.” “John Watt’’soon after came and
spoke with a firm loud voice, somewhat as follows :—
“ You have had some nice portions of Scripture given you'
to read ; I would advise you to commit them to memory, so
that they may always be in your mind. Never omit to pray
to your Heavenly Father. Your earthly father will be away
from you when you go to school he can tell you anything
now yon want to know, but remember you can talk to your
Heavenly Father ; He is always near. If ever you feel un¬
happy, think of what your grandfather and John Watt have
said.”
The Indian spirit, Knippy, came with great frolic, and much
amused the children, making us all laugh immoderately at his
jokes and imitation of our laughter, than which nothing is
more catching. But even Knippy, after thus establishing the
power, which laiighter always does* (how is this?) became
grave, and spoke most sensibly to the children from all parts
of the room. He wished us to get a song, the words of which
he repeated slowly for me to write down in the dark, as
follows:—
I live for those who love me,
Those who are kind and true;
For the Heaven that smiles above me,
And the good that I can do.
Can any of your readers tell me where to get it ?
For the benefit of Serjeant Uox, and those who believe in
the ventriloquous theory of the voice, I would add that when
my father spoke, Mrs. Everitt was in her normal state joining
in the conversation, and all three voices were very different
in all respects. My father, in addressing me, said, in alluding
to the cessation of power in our own house, and almost total
loss of any spiritual manifestations of late:—“We are pre¬
paring a new phase, and we all hope soon to come bodily
amongst you, so that you can see us, and we take the vacant
chair beside you.”
The second seance was held in my own dining-room—pre¬
sent, Mr. and Mrs. Everitt, Dr. Morell, Mr. Kempe, Dr. Theo¬
bald, F. J. T., Miss Mummery, myself and wife. It was a
most interesting one, chieflj' from the long continued and con¬
nected conversation which took place between the two doctors
and John Watt, and the account I have given below was the
result of questions, which for convenience I have placed in
another form. Very much is omitted, but what is here is
taken from notes made by me in the dark. The Scriptures
* [Lord Russell might say “ To drown shuffling noises.”.—Ed.]
104
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 15, 1873.
, we were directed to read were the first chapter of Revelations
(stopping us at the first paragraph of the nineteenth verse),
and Acts ii. 1—4.
After a long continued percussion sort of sound on the
walls of the room (which Knippy said was to mesmerise it),
John Watt came, and, as I have said, answered questions at
considerable length, which will interest more than those who
were privileged to hear him.
He said he was born at Torquay, but came to London,
where he died at the age of thirty-four of consumption. He
was an engineer and had chiefly to do with locomotives. He
had travelled a great deal and visited China, Japan, India,
and other plaqes. On “passing away’' (an expression he
preferred to “ dying,” for he said he was not dead 1) he did
not immediately awake to conscious spirit-life—he had had
much wearing away of the body, and the body had aifected
the spirit which required time to recover. When he first
came to the consciousness of spirit-life it was like an awaken¬
ing from a profound sleep ; he was surrounded by spirit
friends whom he had known in the flesh, and who attended
him until he was gradually restored to perfect health.
Now he could rapidly pass from place to place whenever he
willed—“ quick as thought : ” they did not reckon by time
in the spirit world, but by states. Spirits had a much greater
power than we have : in understanding all problems of things,
such as the means and laws of existence. He had never yet
seen the great Divine Being Himself, although he could see
the outward manifestations of God around him always, as we
could ; but spirits had a larger means of knowing and inter¬
preting laws and things than we had, a different kind of
power over matter*, and they were always helping us. The
more they advanced and knew the more could we know. On
passing away all go into societies or classes appropriate to
them in their spirit home; he added—“ You are making your
own home now.”
He had not yet visited any of the planets, but he intended
to do so, and if he went he would tell us what he saw there.
Progress in the spirit world is more intellectual than moral,
perfection being sooner reached because the temptations of
earth life do not exist to hinder speedy advance. Companies
of spirits often visit lower states to assist lower spirits to rise :
there is no physical hell as we often understand it, but the
lower states bring their own punishment. Speaking at some
length on the recent controversy on the “ Efficacy of Prayer,”
he told us—“It is right to pray for everything you want;”
right to pray for rain. It is not wrong to pray for things
governed by natural laws. Prayer is good,” he added; “it
is a lever of enormous power.”
“ Many things,” he said, “ we understand, but cannot ex¬
plain to you ; either because we are not permitted, or from
the difficulty of explaining through your vocabulary. v One
word of ours often conveys a sentence in which you would use
a hundred.” “ Why was necromancy forbidden to the Jews ?”
was asked. “ Because Moses thought it wrong.” He (John
Watt) was surprised at him, for Moses was a good medium
himself. “But,” we added, “in those early days perhaps
Moses was right; it might have done harm.’’ He didn’t
think so, but thought Moses was mistaken. “ The * doctrine
of devils’ spoken of in the New Testament does not refer to
spirits ; there are many devils in the flesh. Every one has a
right to his own beliefs ; they are corrected in spirit life. I
was a Unitarian on earth, but I soon learnt better. When you
pass away there is no physical suffering, although the lower
states bring their own sufferings. Those who will not look into
Spiritualism lose a very great privilege, and a great help to
higher and wider life, because we can and do help you. It is
not necessary, and it is better not to go into it at all, than in
the frivolous spirit some do ; it then does much more harm
than good to them, though it will result in great good to the
world. It is wanted to correct false teaching and the
materialism of the age, and therefore it is sent.”
At this silting my father spoke also very faintly, so that we
could scarcely hear him. We had no lights, as usual, but the
perfumed breezes were very refreshing. It is now a week
since this seance, and we have had wafts of perfume frequently
every day since, perceptible to all in the house. There are
many nuts to crack in these few notes I was able to take of
John Watt’s interesting conversation and replies to our queries
given above. It is in the hope that other private seances of a
similarly interesting character maybe sent to you that I have
sent this. I may add that at both sittings we were, some of
us, softly touched by spirit hands. Spiritualism has now
established itself as a fact, but we are as yet far from under¬
standing its mysterious laws. Let us collect facts well authen¬
ticated, and they will lead us on to the truth, which is some¬
thing beyond psychic force, or unconscious cerebration.
Hendon, N.W., Feb. 2nd, 1873. Morell Theobald.
SEANCES AT MR. GUPPY’S.
Mr. Clifford Smith has sent us the following letter:—
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
Sir,—I have been requested by Mr. Guppy to report the
results of a seance held at his house on Sunday last.
Persons present : Mr. and Mrs. 'Guppy, Mr. and Mrs.
Childs, Miss M , J. C (a medium), and myself.
The room having been darkened, almost immediately the
tambourine, which had been previously placed upon the table,
was taken up, and commenced playing some lively tunes over
our heads, the accompaniment being played upon the piano
which had been observed to be closed at the commencement
of the seance^ After these manifestations of spirit presence
had continued for a short time, we were directed by raps to
“ wish;” each person around the table accordingly expressed
a desire for something to be brought to him. The wishes of
the circle were principally confined to fruits. One person
having started, others of course followed out the same idea.
Mr. Childs expressed a wish that an orange might be brought
to him. His wife desired a bunch of white grapes. Mr.
Guppy also asked for grapes, but requested that they would
bring him a large bunch of black grapes. These wishes were
each gratified, as well as others expressed by the other mem¬
bers of the circle. Mrs. Guppy's wish ought to be particu¬
larised, as she desired the spirits to bring her a banana. The
fruit that was brought was one of the like of which is not
often to be seen in England, being perfectly ripe and black.
When Mr. Childs displayed the orange that had been brought
to him, Mrs. Guppy said there were oranges in the house, but
the one then brought was of a different kind. At a former
seanee I myself expressed a wish that an orange should be
brought to me, and an exactly similar one was brought on
that occasion.
After our wishes had been gratified, and the consequent ex¬
citement had ceased, spirit lights were to be seen flitting like
butterflies around us. One of the sitters asked if the spirits
could show some luminous hands; after a short pause two
brilliantly phosphorescent hands were shown, becoming
gradually more luminous, and also throwing off the charac¬
teristic luminous vapour that would proceed from phosphorus.
These hands were presently brought one on either side of Mrs.
Guppy’s face, so that we could see her face between them ;
they then gradually withdrew, and commenced mesmerising
her head, which soon became slightly luminous. Another
spirit afterwards went through a somewhat similar process
with myself, and I was told that afterwards a light was seen
on my own head. We were then called to supper. We had a
short sitting afterwards, when a box of white mice which had
been sent as a present to little Tommy Guppy during supper
time, and which had been removed from the seance room and
placed in the hall before the second sitting, was brought again
into the room. A lady was sitting in the hall at the time, but
did not notice its removal, although she said she felt sure they
were going to be taken in.
J. C. is a medium recently developed, and every seance is
producing better results through his mediumsbip. I had the
pleasure of sitting with him at his own home on Monday night,
when there were good physical and voice manifestations, and
also some direct writing on the ceiling. I have no doubt he
will soon prove a first class medium. H. Clifford Smith.
February 12 th, 1873.
The following letter has been sent to us by Mr.
Guppy:—
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
Sir,—At a seance held at my house on Tuesday, February
llth, the tambourine, piano and bells played at the same time.
Luminous hands and illuminated face. The ring test per¬
formed with a chair, which was passed in between Mr. Wil¬
liams and Mr. Clifford Smith, while holding hands ; Mrs.
Guppy’s jacket taken off, and afterwards put on while I was
holding her hand ; Mrs. Guppy with chair placed on the table;
conversation with spirits Peter, “Jacksprat,” and Katie, all
which spirit voices were speaking at once ; a roasted apple
handed to each person round the table.
Mediums present—Mrs. Guppy, Mr. Williams, and J. C. Mr.
C. Smith’s hat was brought from passage and put on his head.
1, Morland-villas, Highbury- SAMUEL GUPPY,
hill-park, N.
Feb. m 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
105
'SEANCES AT MR. HENRY COOK’S.
On Wednesday evening, Peb. 5th, a face seance took
place at the house of Mr. Henry Cook, Hackney, at
which Lord Arthur Russell, M.P., Lady Russell, Miss
J. H. Douglas, Mrs. A. Corner, Mr. Henry M. Dunphy,
and Mr. W. H. Harrison, were among the guests pre¬
sent. Miss Florence Cook was, as usual, the medium.
It will be remembered, from the many reports pub¬
lished in these pages, that the chief spirit manifesting
at these seances, calls herself “ Katie,” and much
resembles Miss Cook in features, so that a string is
fastened round the waist of the medium, sealed, and
the end passed through a hole in the door of the cabinet,
and tied to a chair, to show that Miss Cook does not
rise from her chair inside the cabinet, so as to be able
to show her real face at the opening where the spirit
faces appear. Many of the faces bear no resemblance
to Miss Cook’s.
Lord Arthur Russell is a sincere disbeliever in Spi¬
ritual phenomena. He recently tried to grasp the
spirit heads at one of Mr. Holmes’s seances. At Mr.
Cook’s, at the seance now under notice, he repeatedly
expressed a wish to pull the door of the cabinet open
while the manifestations were going on, and made
occasional sarcastic remarks about what ho observed.
Of course, Spiritualists know full well the reflex action
such a mental influence has upon manifestations occur¬
ring in the presence of a very sensitive medium.
"■ Katie,” instead of appearing with her usual fair face
and blue eyes, came up with the dark complexion of Miss
Cook, and dishevelled head-dress, and the waist string
which Miss Cook handed to Lady Russell after the
seance was over, had been cut, and the ends sown with
thread, as if the medium had cut herself loose and
sewed up the string, so that from the “ outsiders’ ”
point of view the whole proceedings looked like as
clumsy a piece of imposture as could well be imagined.
The same evening we wrote and asked Lord Russell for
his account of the seance for publication, on the ground
that it was the custom in the Spiritualist to print the
reports of independent witnesses. The following letter
was the result:—
To the Editor of the “ Spiritualist. ”
Dear Sir,—I cannot refuse to comply with your exceed¬
ingly fair request that I should state the reasons which made
me think the manifestations of last night utterly unsatisfac¬
tory to a sceptic like myself. At the same time, I wish it to
be clearly understood that I am only giving my own impres¬
sions, and that I bring no accusation of fraud against Mr. H.
Cook. A test was applied in your presence, which failed. It
is difficult to apply tests with politeness, because every test
implies suspicion, and, when each proposal to investigate is
resented as an insult, it is impossible to arrive at a satisfactory
conclusion.
I had been led by the accounts of witnesses to expect a
startling apparition ; it was therefore, naturally, very disap¬
pointing, after Miss Florence Co6k had been tied down in the
cupboard, and the ghost of “ Katie” looked out of the peep¬
hole, to observe that the face of the ghost was merely Miss
Florence Cook’s face, with a piece of white linen wrapt round
it, and that the black face which subsequently appeared was
again merely Miss Cook’s face with a black tissue drawn over
it. I could not feel satisfied with the explanation of the
believers present, that the spirit faces are usually found to be
strikingly like their mediums. I also thought that the alarm
and indignation shown by Mrs. Cook, when I proposed sud¬
denly to open the cupboard during the apparition of the spirit,
was calculated to confirm the suspicions of an unbeliever.
Miss Florence Cook’s often repeated request that we should
talk together while I was endeavouring to listen to the shuffling
noise she made inside the cupboard, before the apparition of
her face at the aperture, also produced an unfavourable im¬
pression upon me.
When Miss Florence Cook was liberated, and the string
with which she had been bound was cut, Lady Arthur Russell,
who does not believe in ghosts, naturally picked up the string
and examined it carefully. She found that the portion which
passed round Miss Cook’s waist, had been cut and sewn to¬
gether again with white thread. The explanation suggested,
that this had probably been done in the shop where the string
had been bought, was, I must say, not convincing to my
mind; nor was the opinion, expressed by a lady present, that
the string might have been cut and mended by an evil spirit,
in order to throw discredit on the phenomena of Spiritualism,
at all more conclusive.
During the second seance, when Miss Florence Cook had
been effectually tied with pocket handkerchiefs and twine, no
ghost appeared at the peep-hole. It was quite impossible for
an unbeliever in spiritual manifestations, like myself, not to
draw an unfavourable conclusion from this fact when put to¬
gether with the observatio.ns of the first part of the seance.
During the controversy which ensued, you showed so much
fairness and impartiality that I venture to make two sugges¬
tions which, I think, will further the object we both have in
view—the attainment of truth. I would propose that hence¬
forth the medium be male to sit on a low seat or cushion,
not on a chair with a back, on which it is easy to climb.
Then I think it absolutely necessary that the door of the cup¬
board should be opened suddenly during the apparitions, even
at the risk of incurring the displeasure of the spirits. If no
believer can be found with sufficient courage to do this, I
shall always be happy to offer my services.
Athenaeum, Feb. 6, 1873. Arthur Russell.
There is a mixture of facts and assumptions in the
foregoing letter. Lord Russell has stated the facts very
fairly, hut the inferences are open to the comments
which we will make further on. First, the practical
part of the subject demands attention.
No other guests of Mr. Cook during the past year
have had the “ cut-and-sewed ” string of Lord Russell’s,
or the pulled-in ” string of Mr. Pennell’s, as demon¬
strated by the testimony the witnesses have published
in these pages ; and as the majority of those witnesses
are equal in character and reliability to the minority, it
is clear the latter have had exceptional experiences.
Last Monday another seance took place at Mr. Cook’s.
Among the five or six guests present were Miss J. H.
Douglas, and Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, of 16, Gloucester-
square, Hyde-park. Miss Douglas brought with her
some whipcord and tape. Before the first sitting, Mr.
Luxmoore tied the whipcord tightly round Miss Cook’s
waist, and the knots were sealed with signet-rings
brought by the visitors. Miss Douglas searched the
cabinet, and at hex request Miss Cook substituted for
the ordinary chair in the cabinet a child’s chair, with
a seat and back so low that if Miss Cook stood on the top
of the highest rail of the back of the chair, the top of her
head would only reach the bottom of the cabinet win¬
dow, the top back rail of the Tittle chair having been
broken off. At Miss Cook’s request. Miss Douglas
took her into the cabinet to feel different parts
of her dress, to be sure she had nothing bulky
concealed about her. Then the seance began, and
among other faces a man’s face with a beard was well
seen. A woman’s face and a child’s face were also
seen by those nearest the cabinet; the other witnesses
saw the heads of these plain enough, but not the fea¬
tures, as they did not come sufficiently forward into
the light. Hands came out of the cabinet window,
snatched a glove from a gentleman who held one to the
aperture, and put it on ; at this sitting not more than
two inches of slack string were allowed to Miss Cook
from the chair outside, but the chair was not moved.
At the next sitting Miss Cook’s waist was tied with
tape, and the knots sealed. Miss Douglas then asked
Mr. Harrison, with Miss Cook’s consent, to tie the
106
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 15, 1873.
wrists of the latter together with whipcord, to which
he objected, on the ground that he was known to have
full confidence in the genuineness of her mediumship, so
would rather leave as usual all the manipulations to
the other guests. On the request being repeated, he
agreed on condition that Miss Douglas and Mr. Lux-
moore should stand on either side with a light, and
examine the tying as it went on. The piece of whip¬
cord was then passed once round one wrist, and tied
in a treble knot, next once round'the other wrist,
and tied with a treble knot, the length of whipcord
connecting the two wrists being then about three inches.
Next the wrists were firmly bound close together with
many convolutions of the rest of the cord, and a great
many knots between the wrists. Lastly, her hands
were tied in front of her waist with the same piece of
whipcord, to the tape which had previously been passed
round her waist and sealed. Miss Cook then entered
the cabinet, and Miss Douglas, who attended to the
amount of slack tape, allowed her none at all, but made
the tension just sufficient not to break the seals.
The instant the door was closed raps came from all
parts of it, and they told Miss Douglas to place her hands
on different parts of the door. She did so, and wherever
she placed them heavy blows came under her hands ;
she placed her hands high up on the two panels L L, on
either side of the aperture A B, shown in the accompa¬
nying cut. and the blows came underneath her hands at
that elevation. The blows were so violent at the point
H in the cut that the vibration of the wood there could
be seen. The raps asked for string, which was put in at
the aperture, and when the seance was over, this string
was found tying Miss Cook by both her earrings to the
back rail of the little chair. During this second sitting,
also, hands came out of the aperture, took a pencil and
paper handed in by Mr. Luxmoore, and wrote a mes¬
sage in the sight of the observers. Baps said that the
whipcord, round the wrists was stopping the circulation.
On opening the cabinet, Miss Cook was found with her
wrists still tied together and to the front of her waist,
the waist-tape with its seals was intact, and she was
tied by her earrings to the back of her chair, in
addition.
Mr. Luxmoore, of Gloucester-square, Hyde-park, is
an independent gentleman, well-known and trusted by
Spiritualists, and for many years he was known as one
of the most active of the Devonshire county magistrates.
Miss Douglas is a friend of Lord Arthur Bussell’s, and
is a very reliable observer. The late Dr. B. Chambers,
of Chambers’s Journal, in one of his published letters
to Mrs. De Morgan about Spiritualism, said—“ There
is only one other person in Scotland to whom I care
to communicate these singular phenomena—a Miss
Douglas, niece of the late General Sir Neil Douglas,
our commander-in-chief. With ordinary people I
scarcely can open my mouth on such subjects.”
Last Wednesday, at another face seance at Mr.
Cook’s, many guests were present, and the following
account of the first part of the seance was drawn up
from notes taken as each manifestation took place :—
This evening, February 12th, 1873, we, the undersigned,
were present at a seance at the house of Mr. Henry Cook, of
Hackney, Miss Florence Cook being the medium. Mr.
Dunphy, Mr. Blackburn, and Mr. Mankiewicz searched the
cabinet, and removed everything from it but a loose piece of
carpet and a child’s chair, the height of the seat of which was
10J inches, and of the back rail 14J inches from the floor.
When Miss Cook entered the cabinet, Mrs. Mankiewicz, at
her request, felt her dress all over, and turned out her pockets.
to be sure she had nothing bulky about her. A piece of string
was then tied quite tightly round her waist, with three knots,
which were sealed with three different signet rings brought by
the visitors. Her hands were lied together tightly with a
handkerchief by Mr. Mankiewicz, and the knots sealed with
a signet ring. The end of the waist string was tied to a chair
outside the cabinet, and the knot on the chair sealed. Mr.
Blackburn attended to the amount of slack string allowed,
and it was less than three inches.
The instant the door was closed two dark hands appeared at
the opening, and pulled the curtains about, not one second
having elapsed since the witnesses lost sight of the medium.
Instantly also showers of raps came upon all parts of the door.
In about ten minutes the first face came. It was a man’s
face, dark and young, with no whiskers
Five minutes later another man came, elderly in appear¬
ance, with a bushy black beard. By raps he called himself
“ Alphonse,” and said he often manifested at Miss Kisling-
bury’s seances. While this face was at the opening Miss Cook
held a quiet conversation with the visitors outside, and her
voice could be heard coming from the lower part of the cabi¬
net, while this and other faces came.
Hands came to the opening, raps asked for paper and pencil,
and the hands wrote the following message from Katie before
the eyes of the whole company, “ I will not show my face
again, because of the trouble it has been to the medium.”
Katie then asked for string, and shortly afterwards re¬
quested that the doors should be opened. Miss Cook was
found tied tightly round the neck with the string, the knots
being at the back of her neck ; the string was afterwards
passed round the rail of the chair at the back and tied there.
It was then ascertained that two gold finger rings, which
Mr. Dunphy had put through the aperture to Katie, had been
passed through the gold wires which Miss Cook wore in her
ears, thus making pendants of them.
When Miss Cook came out of the cabinet, Mr. Mankiewicz
took both her hands and led her upstairs to the door of a
room, which she entered with Mrs. Piercy and Mrs. Corner,
who took off her clothes and searched them, and found
nothing whatever concealed in the medium’s clothes. Mr.
Dunphy, Mr. Blackburn, and others examined the cabinet
directly she left it, and found nothing in it but the chair and
the piece of carpet.'
All the seals were unbroken and intact when the cabinet
was opened. There were no joints or knots of any kind in
the string but those which the visitors had made and sealed.
Charles Blackburn, Parkfleld, Didsbury, near Manchester.
Frkdk. Piero v, 12, Stock Orchard-villas, Holloway.
James Mankiewicz, 37, Upper Bedford-place, Bussell-equare.
Amelia Corner, 3, St. Thomas’s-square, Hackney.
A. Piercy, 12, Stock Orchard-villas, Holloway.
Henry M. Dunphy, 3, Essex-court, Temple.
Ada Mankiewioz, 37, Upper Bedford-place, Bussell-square.
William H. Harrison, Chaucer-road, Heme-hill.
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D., of Streatham (late of
Malvern), had to go away directly after the above
seance was over, and before the foregoing document
was drawn up, but he saw all the manifestations, and
will, no doubt, certify the accuracy of the description
of them.
At the second sitting, Mr. Dunphy bound Miss
Cook’s wrists together with tape, also with a hand¬
kerchief. A lady tied her feet together, and one of the
guests asked to tie the string from the outside of the
cabinet to both her earrings instead of to her waist, to
which she assented. It was afterwards noticed that,
as a physical test, this tying by the earrings was not a
good one. Then the observers coaxed Katie to show
herself once more, and she quickly put her head and
both her hands at the same time, out of the aperture,
with a mischievous expression on her countenance. A
passing remark was made about lawyers, and she asked
whether her hearers knew what the Irish usher said
when he was ordered to clear the court? “ No,” was
the reply. “ Well, then,” said she, “he shouted, ‘Now
then, all you blackguards who are not lawyers, leave
the court I ’ ” At the close of the sitting, Mr. Dunphy
found Miss Cook’s hands doubly bound, as he had left
them, her feet were also tied as before, and the string
Feb. 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
107
from the outside of the cabinet still held her by her
earrings.
The accompanying cut shows the construction and
dimensions of Miss Cook’s cabinet. The distance from
the bottom E, to the tops of the doors E, is 66 inches ;
and from P to the top of the cabinet D, 21 inches ; total,
87 inches. The aperture, A B, for the faces, is one
foot square, and the bottom of the aperture is three
inches above the top of the doors at H. The width,
E M, of the cabinet is 37 inches. P P represents the
level of the seat of the child’s chair, lOl inches from the
floor. K K is the level of the top of Miss Cook’s head,
when seated on the chair, and is 41 inches from the
floor. N is the hole through which the string is
passed. The depth of the cabinet, T Y, is 21 inches.
W is the loop round Miss Cook’s waist, X the three
seals, Y the hole in the door again, and Z the rail of
the chair to which the string is tied.
Before closing, it may be well to say a little about
the argumentative part of Lord Bussell’s letter:—
The best spiritual manifestations with a very sensitive
medium are obtainable when all the members of the circle
are bound together by the affections ; when there is a great
want of this harmony a chief condition necessary for pure
spiritual influx is broken. This was the case last week.
The pulling open of the doors of a cabinet during face
manifestations is other than a question of “ courage. “ A man
might have courage enough to pull open the door of an elec¬
tric lamp while Professor Tyndall was showing experiments
with it at the Royal Institution, but the auditory and the lec¬
turer would resent the act.
When light is suddenly thrown upon a sensitive in a
trance, it always causes pain, and interference with certain
spiritual manifestations is fraught with danger to life. When
unruly people strike lights, as they sometimes do, at dark
seances,instruments fall, and sometimes hurt the observers,
and mediums are seldom floated in the air at public seances,
because of the danger to life which then results from striking
a match. At Mr. Home’s seances he often tells the sitters to
“talk to each other,” because it induces a more passive and
less anxious state of mind ; singing is also good at all seances.
The shuffling and other noises are palpable, in Miss Cook’s
cabinet, and no talking drowns them.
In the midst of a tide of uninterrupted success, Miss Cook
has had five or six unpleasant seances. At a time when Dr.
John Purdon, of Sandown, Isle of Wight, had had little ex¬
perience in Spiritual phenomena, he found out that “ Katie’s ”
face much resembled her own; this startled him, so he at¬
tempted to govern the manifestations by putting her in a
straight jacket, and sewing her hands behind her back. At
the close of the manifestations she was found to have been
freed from the jacket, evidently with a cutting instrument,
but she insisted upon Dr. Purdon publishing these circum¬
stances in the Spiritualist, because they were true. He did so,
and she suffered for a time. Dr. Purdon’s further experiences
forced him to approach Spiritualism other than with a tone of
authority, and when he began to obser v e in a different spirit,
“ Katie ” gave him physical tests in abundance, which he
published in these pages.
Time passed on. It was discovered also that the other face
mediums obtained some faces which were more or less dupli¬
cates of their own, and gradually the cloud cleared away.
Mr. Herne sometimes gets faces like his own, yet one of the
chief fellows of the Royal Society recently tied, wired,
soldered, and secured him in a most efficient way, obtained
the faces, and afterwards gave his verbal testimony as to the
result to Lord Arthur Russell.
Another F.R.S. recently tied, wired, soldered, sewed, and
strapped up Mrs. Holmes, with her consent, in an extraordi¬
nary way. He obtained the manifestations as usual, but
before the close all his bonds were flung at his head, and the
medium found to be completely free.
Attempts to reduce Spiritualism wholly to mechanics result
in many failures and a few successes, so that to the Materialist
it is a most aggravating subject. Leading Spiritualists have
more confidence in the integrity of each other than in the
integrity of ropes and chains, although they are by no means
blind to the evidence furnished by the latter, and persons of a
different nature cannot penetrate far into the inner circles of
Spiritualism.  
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL COMMITTEE OF THE
ANTHROPOLOGICAL INSTITUTE.
Ok Tuesday, Eeb. 4th, the Council of the Anthropo¬
logical Institute appointed a committee to “ promote
psychological research.” Mr. Francis Galton, F.R.S.,
of 42, Rutland-gate, Hyde-park, is the president of
the committee. The other members are—Mr. John
Beddoe, M.D., Y.P.A.I., 4, Lansdowne-place, Clifton,
Bristol; Mr. Hyde Clarke, 32, St. Greorge’s-square,
S.W.; Mr. David Forbes, F.R.S., F.G.S,, 11, York-
place, Portman-square, W.; Sir John Lubbock, "Bart.,
M.P., F.B.S., High Elms, Farnborough, Kent; Mr.
Edward Burnet Tylor, F.R.S., Linden, Wellington,
Somerset; and Mr. Alfred Bussell Wallace, President
of the Entomological Society, the Dell, Grays, Essex.
The committee has power to add to its numbers, and
to confer with other scientific bodies.
THE ANTHROPOLOGICAL INSTITUTE.
On Tuesday night, February 4th, at the ordinary fort¬
nightly meeting of the Anthropological Institute, 4, St. Mar-
tin’s-place, Trafalgar-square, London, Colonel A. Lane Fox,
V.P.S.A., presided.
Mr. W. L. Distant read a paper on the inhabitants of the
island of Car Nicobar, whom he described as shrewd and in¬
telligent ; he stated also that robbery and murder were un¬
known among them. In speaking of their religion he said
that they believe in a good and evil spirit; the latter lives in
the woods, and is only to be feared if they do wrong by steal¬
ing, having more than one wife, and so on. They say that
some villages have regular visits from the bad spirit; then
the inhabitants clear out of their village, and put food before
their doors. They exhume their dead after three years,
and throw away the remains. The author of the paper
was in Car Nicobar, in 1868, and remained there four
months.
Mr. Moncure D. Conway asked whether the people paid
equal worship both to the evil and good spirit ? Did they
worship the evil spirit simply through fear, or had they built
up any philosophy on the subject ?
Mr. Distant said that they had scarcely any notion of a
good spirit, but a very strong one about the evil one; they
had scarcely any religious idea but that of gross fear.
Mr. E. W. BrabrooW, F.S.A., then read a paper by Mr. J. E.
Calder, on the “ Extirpation of the Native Tribes of Tas¬
mania.”
The President then announced the appointment of the
Psychological Committee of the Anthropological Institute.
108
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 15, 1873.
(Kurrespontience.
[ Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
THE MEDITTMSHIP OP MISS COOK, MB. HOLMES, AND MR.
"WILLIAMS.
Sir,—I observe in your impression of yesterday several
references to me, in connection with the so-called “ face
manifestations1” at Miss Cook’s seances, coupled with remarks
on matters of fact, which oblige me reluctantly to trespass
upon your space, and to request you to be good enough to
publish in its entirety my letter to you of the 16th Jan. last
on the subject of the seances in question, and written at your
particular request. The following is the letter referred to:—
4, Sumner-terrace, S.W., 16 Jan., 1873.
Sir,—The “suspicious appearances” you ask me to men¬
tion for Mr. Blackburn’s information respecting the face
manifestations at Miss Cook’s seance last night are :—
1. That the faces which appeared, whether white or black,
were always, in every feature, exact counterparts of the face of
the medium.
2. That the “check string,” if I may use the term, was
drawn into the cabinet to a sufficient distance (about two
feet) to allow of the face of the medium appearing at the
aperture; a circumstance to which, you will remember, I
called your attention at the time, when measuring off the
string. The drawing in of the string took place by intermit¬
tent—though, as it appeared to me, systematic—pulls or
jerks, many of which occurred before the so-called entrance-
ment of the medium.
3. No faces appeared until the full quantity of string had
been drawn in.
4. This check or test string was the only practical impediment
to the medium presenting her own face at the aperture.
To the best of my judgment the same thing precisely took
place on the only other occasion when I was present at Miss
Cook’s seance. •
You are most welcome to show this note to Mr. Blackburn,
or use it in any other way you thick proper.
H. Cholmondeley-Pennell.
Your correspondent will perceive from this letter that he
was misinformed in supposing that “ I did not disclose the
-circumstance at the moment.” I both mentioned it repeatedly
during the seance, and also, when it was over, * requested you,
as the responsible person present, to notice that in measuring
off the “ slack ” of the check string I did so accurately, care¬
fully stretching it to the mark it had reached and remained at
during the manifestations, and then cutting it off close to the
shut door of the cabinet. I retained the excised portion, and
it measures two feet ten inches, or, allowing four inches for
the interval between the medium and the door, exactly the
“thirty inches” you state in your article to be “necessary to
enable the medium to get her own face out of the opening in
the top of the cabinet. ”
It is also stated editorially, that in the former seance (ap¬
parently that referred to in the latter part of my letter above
quoted) the drawing in of the check string had occurred
“ after, and not before, the faces were seen, f This is the
reverse of the fact, as presented to my judgment.
In this instance, also, immediately after the seance, I cut
off and, with Miss Cook’s permission, retained the portion of
slack string, and I find its total length, two feet nine inches,
is, within one inch, identical with that already described.
I may, of course, have been unfortunate in the conditions
under which I witnessed the faces in the presence of Miss
Cook, of whose courtesy and that of her family I retain only
the pleasantest remembrance ; and nothing would give me
more pleasure than to find my experience reversed on further
investigation. If otherwise, however, the most severe censor
* On this point there is a direct but unimportant contradiction in
testimony. Mr. Harrison says—“ I knew of no pull on the string, and (Jid
not hear Mr. Pennell speak of any pull on the string till the first sitting was
quite over, and it was too late to rectify it. Then I saw Mr. Pennell
measuring a bit of string inside the cabinet door, but did not verify his
measurements, or know exactly what he was doing till he told me some
time afterwards. Of course I accepted his testimony, as a gentleman, as to
the results, which results vitiated the whole seance. So I informed Mr.
Dunphy and Mr. Dawe what Mr. Pennell had stated, and asked them to
attend the next seance, specially to note whether they had any pull upon the
string, and whether the string itself had any joints in it. This they did,
and their certificates, printed in the last Spiritualist, destroy some of the
leading points in Mr. Pennell’s letter. So likewise do the published experi¬
ences of many other guests.’’
need not be very bard on the frolics of a young lady of
sixteen.
Whilst on the subject of the “materialisation of spirits”
and “spirit faces,” it may possibly interest some of your
readers who, like myself, have taken an interest in the inves¬
tigation of what are termed the phenomena of Spiritualism, to
hear the result of my experiences with another celebrated
medium, Mr. C. E. Williams, descriptions of whose seances
have recently occupied so many columns of the Spiritualistic
press. Mr. Williams’ seances, as you are aware, are some¬
times held in a cabinet in the light, on the same principle as
Miss Cook’s ; he also sits in a cabinet for face manifestations
in the dark, in which case the spirit faces, dimly irradiated by
a pale, greenish light, appear outside of the cabinet and close
to the spectators.
I had a most successful seance of this latter character in my
house with Mr. Williams a month or so ago, when both
“John” and “Katie King” showed their faces outside the
cabinet (a screen draped with curtains), and spoke to us in a
very affable manner. At this seance no test conditions were
imposed; but, having established the suitability of the
cabinet, surrounding conditions, &c., for these manifestations,
a second sitting was arranged as before, and with all the same
sitters except one person. On this occasion, however, it was
suggested that if a thin welded steel chain were passed
through a staple screwed and rivetted into the wainscotting,
and were then fastened round the medium’s neck with a
puzzle letter padlock, it would add to the interest of the
manifestations, as it would make it physically impossible for
the medium to present his own face beyond the limits of the
surrounding screen. Accordingly, a chain as above described
was affixed and padlocked to Mr. Williams’ neck, and his
hands fastened tightly to the opposite sides of the chair,
Nothing could, in fact, be more complete and absolute than
the test, but—nothing of any sort appeared, nor was there a
solitary rap heard upon the table; and, after sitting for an
hour and a half, the seance was, with the medium’s concur¬
rence, adjourned. About a week ago this seance was repeated,
under similar test conditions, both in the light and dark, but
again the results, either as to rappings or faces, were nil,
literally nil.
On both occasions the medium stated that he felt himself
“quite comfortable,” so that the failure of the manifestations
cannot be attributed to mental or bodily discomposure on
his part.
The similarity between the features of Mr. Williams and
those of “Katie” and “John King” has been repeatedly
noticed by Spiritualistic writers ; and you yourself have, as
you stated in yesterday’s Spiritualist, borne testimony at
least to the former resemblance.
In concluding this unavoidably somewhat long letter, I will
only add that I have been present at face seances with Mr.
Holmes, both in his house and in my own ; but as Mr. Holmes
declined to submit to the tests I proposed—or, indeed, to any
tests whatever—I express no opinion as to the character of the
manifestations which occur in his presence.
H. Cholmondeley-Pennell.
4, Sumner-terrace, S.W., 2 Feb., 1873.
MEN AND WOMEN.
Sir,—Your correspondents appear to think that under the
protection of Swedenborg I have represented women as desti¬
tute of intellects worth the trouble of culture ; but anything
further from my intention it would be difficult to conceive.
My position is this—that the feminine mind is designed for
the worship of the masculine mind, for its reception and ap¬
preciation, to their mutual delight, or in Swedenborg’s phrase,
“ Woman is the love of man’s wisdom;” and assuming such
to be the fact, with what reason could I be hostile or indiffer¬
ent tb the mental culture of women ? for how could the
woman love the wisdom of the man unless her intellect was
developed in harmony therewith? The position assumed pre¬
scribes, in its very terms, the culture of woman’s xaind pari
passu with man’s—that is to say, if true conjugal love is to
subsist between them.
“ But,” remarks a friend, “ your explanation intensifies
your offence, which is, that you deny the equality of the
sexes.’’ Say, rather, that I assert their difference, and the
subordination — the natural and willing subordination of
women to men. Can anyone familiar with history question
that women are intellectually subservient to men, and that
whilst they can understand whatever man may know, yet that
they only recognise what man does know ? In a word, know-
Feb. 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
109
ledge has to be humanised ere women can perceive or enjoy
it. Consequently, women are never originators, inventors,
discoverers, explorers ; paternity is not among their functions.
Woman is a follower, never a leader.
I know the reply. Mary Somerville, George Eliot, Harriet
Martineau, Miss Nightingale, Elizabeth Barrett Browning,
&c., &c. ; whereon I might reasonably object that until the
genesis of the ideas of these women is known, it is unscientific
to urge them as evidence against a well-known law which
only some “ women’s rights ” people venture to call in ques¬
tion. Let me, however, take the first two in the list, Mrs.
Somerville and George Eliot, and see whether they affect my
argument in any way.
Mrs. Somerville’s love of abstract science was unusual in a
woman, that is all ; but how is it inconsistent with Sweden¬
borg’s assertion that woman is the love of man’s wisdom ?
The point is. did Mrs. Somerville do anything to enlarge that
wisdom ? Moreover, had she been a man, would her acquire¬
ments have been considered in anywise extraordinary ? As
for George Eliot, I admire and dislike her novels, but their
usual treatment by reviewers is not criticism—it is abject
adulation. They are as distinctly didactic as Miss Yonge’s,
but few have the information necessary to perceive it. Mr.
G. H. Lewes’s Positive Philosophy has comparatively few
adherents, and would be rejected with horror by the orthodox,
but diffused through Middlemaroh, it is extolled as a fresh
revelation of human nature, and is absorbed in every genteel
English household as the last best thing in literature. But
how many such luminaries have we seen rise, shine, and, in
due season, set!
And here let me remark, that it is as letter-writers and
story-tellers that women excel, and that by reason of the con¬
stitution of their intellects. In their worship of humanity,
they play round, enter into, and discuss character with a
minuteness and a zest which only men who approximate to
th6 feminine type can rival. It is Madame de Sdvignd, Lady
Mary Wortley Montague, and Miss Mitford, who are the true
immortals among women.
Mr. Fraser says intellect is of no sex, and that a woman
solving a geometrical problem goes through the same process
as a man. Even so do men and women eat and drink at the
same table and yet remain men and women. I venture to
maintain, that there is precisely the same difference between
men and women spiritually and mentally that there is between
them physically. Spiritualist as I am, I perfectly coincide
with the new school of materialists who aver that there is
nothing in the mind which is not in the body, nor in the body
which is not in the mind. Indeed, physiology is nothing but
psychology reduced to Nature ; and as Swedenborg long ago
taught, we may safely reason from one to the other.
A woman-despiser ” is a singularly inappropriate epithet
to apply to a Swedenborgian, who regards “ conjugal love as
supreme felicity, wherein exists innocence, peace, inmost
friendship, full confidence, and perfect good-will ; and from
whence proceed blessedness, satisfaction, delight, and plea¬
sure, the eternal enjoyment of which is the bliss of heaven.”
Hampstead. William White.
P.S.—As I write, I open the New York Nation of 2nd
January, and read ip an article on “ The Morals and Manners
of the Kitchen ’’:—
“ Women are not naturally good cooks. They have had
the cookery of the world in their hands for several thousand
years, but all the marked advances in the art, and, indeed, all
that can be called the cultivation of it, have been the work of
men.”
When it is said that women invent nothing, it is replied
that they have had no opportunity. Surely they have lacked
no opportunities in cookery.
MISS FLORENCE E. COOK’S MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—Last week we had the pleasure of a visit of two or
three days from Mrs. and Miss Cook. During that time the
spirit Katie made her presence continually felt by rapping
about the table, and causing it to vibrate at meal times. We
only held one circle, a dark one, and then Miss Cook was
entranced by my spirit sister, who gave a test message to my
mother. Miss Cook afterwards complained of feelings of pain
similar to those experienced by my sister before her departure
from the body.
These are trifling incidents, but I mention them as a proof
of the constant, involuntary working of mediumship, for it was
our wish to put no strain upon Miss Cook during her visit "to
us, and the continual raps were due to no desire for manifes¬
tations, expressed or unexpressed, on our part.
93, Clarendon-roal, Notting-hill. Emily Kislingbitry.
February 12th,
Sir,—I wish to describe the marked physical aspect of
certain unmistakable spirit manifestations obtained through
the mediumship of Miss Florence Cook on Saturday evening,
18th January last.
To those who have studied the modern spiritual phenomena,
and recognise the best conditions conducive to good manifes¬
tations, it is simply necessary to state that the medium was
-surrounded with those who appreciate her gifts and reciprocate
the warm kindly feelings of her family, and feel proud to
claim her as a true-hearted, generous friend. The circle,
which was made up of Mrs. Cook, her daughters Florence and
Katie, Mrs. Thomas Blyton, the servant Mary, and myself, sat
around a tolerably large oak table, on which a guitar, concer¬
tina, tambourine, and harmonica were placed. The gas was
turned off, and the seance opened with singing, during which
the various instruments were freely manipulated and carried
about the room, while the medium and all the other members
of the circle were heard singing their part of the music. The
familiar voice of “ Katie King ” was heard; she allowed all
to feel her hands. Various articles were handed to her, and
aftqr being taken all round the circle, were carefully returned.
Suddenly, the heavy swab of the sofa was dropped length¬
ways upon the table, and the medium as suddenly lifted from
her chair and laid upon the swab, where she was found
laughing, upon a match being struck directly afterwards.
Order having been restored, Katie asked for a long piece of
rope, and a stout piece of clothes-line, about ten feet long,
was accordingly obtained, with which she proceeded to tie up
her medium. On obtaining a light, after an interval of a
minute or two, she was found bound to the back of her chair
in a most remarkable manner. On examining the fastenings,
it was found that her hands had first been separately and
securely fastened with knots at the wrists, which were drawn
and fastened to the middle rail of the back of her chair, and
the ends of the rope then brought round her waist and secured
firmly in the front of her. The fastenings at the wrists were
so taut, as to swell the flesh on each side, and it took upwards
of five minutes to release her from her bonds. The seance
was then resumed, and at my solicitation, Katie King bound
my hands together to my neck, and bringing the rope down¬
wards, secured my body to the back of my chair, where the
ends of the rope were knotted. While this most satisfactory
feat was being performed, I was frequently twisted round with
my chair for the purpose of enabling the spirit the more
readily to manipulate the fastenings, and Katie was ex¬
ceedingly dexterous in making the fastenings secure. The
tying having been scrutinised in the light, the rope was re¬
moved, and the seance again resumed. Katie King, taking
up my right hand, secured one end of the rope to my wrist,
and, after securing the medium with her hands to the back
of the chair, as in the first instance, she then grasped my left
hand, and, guiding it alongside my outstretched right hand,
secured it with the other end of the rope. Some little time
was taken up in scrutinising the work and removing the rope,
when the lamp was again extinguished. The tablecloth was
then suddenly removed from against the door of the room,
and I was enveloped in it. The rope was then thrown in a
noose over my head and drawn taut, being carried downwards,
and my body again lashed to the back of my chair. An anti¬
macassar and chair were then placed over me, while on
top of the chair were piled the musical instruments, which
were manipulated, and the signal then given for a light.
After the laughter and astonishment had subsided, the lamp
was again blown out, when Katie King wished each one sepa¬
rately “ Good night,” and immediately overturned the heavy
table, chairs, with the sitters, sofa swab, and other things in
the room, care, however, having been taken of the musical
instruments, which were carefully laid upon the sofa. The
seance was closed, a light obtained, and a most extraordinary
state of confusion made apparent', at which it was difficult to
refrain from laughing. Throughout the whole of the seance,
there were very many little incidents which it is impossible
to record with justice, but which only helped the more con¬
clusively to demonstrate the reality of the presence of dis¬
embodied spirits. If jnvestigators would only strive to submit
to the spirits those essential conditions of harmony and
kindly feeling to the medium, they would not meet so often
with what they consider indifferent results of their sittings
with foreign media. The foregoing marked physical manifes-
110
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 15, 1873.
tations were in no small measure due to the happy condition
of not only the medium, but the whole of the circle, which,
from experience, would appear to be one of the chief laws
governing spirit manifestations. Thomas Blyton.
74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
January 20th, 1873.
[This letter was sent for publication 'in our last number, but was kept
over for want of space.—Ed ]
Sir,—If you have space, and I am not too late, will you
kindly put these few lines into the next Spiritualist, as I
think it but just that all the evidence procurable should be
published in defence of those who so disinterestedly expend
both time and trouble for our instruction. I particularly
allude to Miss Florence Cook. On Monday, the 10th inst.,
I had the privilege of being present at one of Miss Cook’s
seances, which was conducted under very severe test con¬
ditions ; in the first part of the seance whipcord was securely
tied and sealed round her waist, the end drawn through the
door and attached to a chair, which was so close to the door
of the cabinet that only a few inches of slack could be gained,
even if the chair were pulled close to the hole in the door
through which the cord was passed (this, however, was not
done). While thus secured faces showed themselves, but not
so distinctly as usual, owing perhaps to its being a new mani¬
festation. Hands were shown very distinctly, some of them
much larger than Miss Cook’s. ‘ A glove was taken from a
gentleman and placed on one of the hands. In the second
portion of the seance the tying was the same, except that
tape was used instead of cord, and that her hands were tied
to her waist. Miss Cook sat in an unusually low chair, the
seat of which was only 10J inches from the ground. Paper
and pencil were asked for, and on my presenting them at the
aperture they were caught out of my hand with what I might
almost designate as violence ; the bottom of the aperture is
about six feet from the floor, and when Miss Cook, before being
tied, stood on the chair, she could not get her face up to it;
but when tied she certainly could not get either hands or
face anj-where near the opening ; so let those who choose
to doubt her integrity, show how all this is done, if they
can. I will not write more, as the phenomena which are
presented at Miss Cook’s seances, have been so often de¬
scribed. I must, however, ask one more question which is,
What object can a highly respectable and (by those who
know them) much esteemed family have in allowing, nay,
aiding their daughter in practising deception.
16, Gloster-square, Hyde-park, J. C. Luxmoore.
Feb. 11, 1873.
[Mr. Luxmoore was informed of the experiences of Lord Arthur Russell
and Mr. Pennell before the seance began, so carefully attended to the seal¬
ing and tape tying.—Ed.]
Sir,—Allow me a little space to record an interesting seance
at my own house, through the mediumship of Miss Cook,
showing that Miss Cook’s mediumship is not confined to the
manifestation of spirit faces, however excellent they may be,
as all unprejudiced persons who have had the good fortune to
witness them must acknowledge.
Miss Cook made me a friendly call a few days ago, and
stayed to tea, after which I proposed a little'seance, to which
Miss Cook readily consented. Present—the medium, my two
daughters, and myself. The evening being very cold, we
placed the table near to a large fire, and kept two gas burners
fully turned on. Miss Cook was soon influenced to write, and
when paper and pencil were placed before her, she wrote,
commencing each word from the end. We were able to read
the message by holding it before a toy mirror one of my
children happened to have by. “ All sit; I will give you tilts
and raps—Katie.” The tilts commenced immediately, and
were soon succeeded by raps, low at the commencement, but
gradually increasing in sound, and answering all questions
put by us in an intelligent manner. This continued some
time, the knocks being as it were in the centre of the wood
on the top of the table. The raps were so loud as to be heard
in the kitchen under the room where we were sitting. Miss
Cook’s hand was again influenced and Katie wrote : “ Would
you like me to entrance my medium ? ” to which I replied,
“Yes, if Miss Cook does not object.” We were then told to
put the gas out; but the conditions were still not right, owing
to the large fire which was burning. I then said, “ We will
place our hands on the table, and Katie will, take it to where
she wishes us to be.’’ Immediately the table “trotted” to
another part of the room and stood still, but certainly not
in the part I should have chosen. In about three minutes she
was entranced, and Katie chatted to us in a most social man¬
ner. She then said, “I will make my medium as tall as
Carrie,” and while she was still sitting, she rose apparently
from a little below the waist, like the drawing out of a tele¬
scope, and was suddenly shot down to her normal size. This
was repeated three or four times. She then said, “ My
medium shall walk as tall as Carrie,” and she rose from her
chair and was again elongated; she walked about half-a-dozen
steps and back to her chair again, after which she was restored
to her normal state, without any appearance of exhaustion.
3, St. Thomas’s-square, Hackney. Amelia Corner.
SPIRITUAL ASPIRATIONS.
Sir,—Having read much upon the subject of Spiritualism,
I am now anxious to go further, practically, in the search
after spiritual knowledge ; and, being personally unaquainted
with other spiritual enquirers, I venture to ask the favour of
being allowed to state my case in your columns, in the hope
that some lady or gentleman may be disposed to afford me
private opportunities of carrying o ut my wishes.
As a voucher of my social position, I may state that I am
a London physician of many years standing. I enclose my
card. Any communications forwarded to M.D., care of A.
Smith, Esq., 45, Euston-square, will duly reach
February 11th, 1873. A Searcher after Truth.
[Our correspondent had better induce his private friends to form spirit
circles in their own homes.—Ed.]
UNCLE TACKERBURY’S GHOST.
From the “ American Artisan," January ith, 1873.
The World, in a recent issue furnishes the following
details of a recent Spiritual seance, which are enough
to make one’s hair stand on end:—
At Dr. Slade’s mansion, in West Forty-third-street,
a fashionable party assembled to witness a seance by
Miss Harriet Tackerbury, the great Cleveland Spirit¬
ualist. Among the assemblage there was Professor
A. Thurber, Dr. Simpson, Dr. Higgins, Professor
McDonald, Charles A. Slainbridge, and a number
of Spiritual disciples. At eight o’clock Professors
King and Thurber introduced Miss Tackerbury to
the audience. Drs. Higgins and Simpson, who are
sceptics, were appointed as a committee, and what is
termed a “ cabinet ” by the Spiritualists, was brought
into the room and placed in the front parlour. The
cabinet is a plight wooden frame which shuts up like
a closet. The frame is covered with black glazed
cloth, and the open space at the top, was covered with
a shawl. It was placed in front of one of the large
mirrors that adorn the walls. A bundle of rope was
then brought in and a roll of court-plaster. The latter
was placed over Miss Tackerbury’s mouth, and then
layers of sticking-plaster firmly glued qii the top of
that. The committee then examined her mouth in
order to see that the sticking-plaster was firmly put
on. After they were satisfied Miss Tackerbury suffered
herself to be tied with a rope, and fastened by another
rope to the chair, after which the audience examined
the tying and came to the conclusion that she was tied
fast. Professors Thurber and King then lifted her
into the cabinet.
Mr. Thurber now announced that Miss Tackerbury
had departed to the spirit land. The cabinet door was
closed and the lights turned low. A murmuring sound
followed, and lights appeared at different pprts of the
room, while the cabinet seemed to move in a mysterious
manner, which caused many to quake and tremble.
Mr. Thurber announced that spirits were moving
around. The lights were again turned on when a
knocking was heard. One of the audience then asked
who was there. The reply from the cabinet was that
a spirit had come. The spirit was then asked his
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Ill
Feb. 15, 1873.
name. He replied, “ Uncle Ben Tackerbury.” The
sceptic then put several puzzling questions to Uncle
Ben, which he answered.
He said that in the spirit world those who are not
troubled spirits linger in blissful repose. A voice then
asked what were troubled spirits. The spirit replied,
“ Those who had not followed the paths of duty
towards their brother and sister spirits while sojourn¬
ing in this world.” The committee then asked the
spirit if he had power to untie Miss Tackerbury. The
spirit replied, “ Yes; ” but that he would sing a song
first. The spirit then sang “ Old Dog .Tray.” After
the song was concluded the spirit announced the
medium was untied. The committee opened the
cabinet, and there sat Miss Tackerbury in a trance,
with the sticking-plaster on her mouth and the rope
untied and laid in a bunch in her lap. The cabinet
door was then closed, and the spirit threw the ropes
through the door. The audience then requested Uncle
Ben to be with the medium again, which he did in
a few minutes.
The cabinet door was again opened and Miss
Tackerbury was found still tied firmly to the chair as
when she was placed there two hours before. She
looked pale, and wan, and lifeless. The ropes were
then unloosed, when a look of horror was depicted
upon the countenances of the audience. Miss Tacker¬
bury had swooned. The medical men felt her pulse,
while Professor Thurber administered restoratives.
All was for a time useless. The medium’s head was
bathed, when all of a sudden the lights burned blue,
the table moved, music played, and the pictures moved
to and fro. Strange voices were heard, and several
again trembled with fear. A voice then said : “ The
spirits depart, but will return again.” The lights
again burned up bright, and Miss Tackerbury awoke
as from a dream and stared wildly around her. This
ended the affair, and many left, wondering by what
unknown power all this was brought about. Every¬
body left satisfied, and several were glad to leave.
ANSWEBS TO COBRESPONDENTS.
E. B. (Edinburgh).—We see no reason for supposing there is any
connexion between the two things.
W. S.—If the circumstances under which the first picture was
taken were published, the man would be thought less to blame.
In Mr. Enmore Jones’s letter in the last number of the Spiritualist,
the words “moral child” were printed in error, instead of
“ model child.”
Foolscap Svo., cloth. Published at 3s., now offered at 2s.; post free, 2s. 3d.
THE MENTAL CURE: illustrating the Influence of
the Mind on the Body both in Health and Disease, and the Psycho¬
logical Method of Treatment, by Rev. W. F. EVANS, author of “The
Celestial Dawn,” “The Happy Islands,” “The New Age and its Messen¬
ger,” &c., &c., &c.  
The design of this Treatise is to explain the nature and laws of the inner
life of man, and to contribute some light on the subject of Mental Hygiene,
which is beginning to assume importance in the treatment of disease, and
to attract the attention of physiologists. The author has aimed to illustrate
the correspondence of the soul and body, their mutual action and reaction,
and to demonstrate the casual relation of disordered mental states to
diseased physiological action, and the importance and mode of regulating
the intellectual and affectional nature of the invalid under any system of
medical treatment.
Glasgow: James MiGeachy, 89, Union-street.
G-. H. ANDREWS,
TAILOR, &c.,
61, LAMBS CONDUIT STREET, FOUNDLING, W.O.
KEGS to inform Gentlemen, who may honour him with
their patronage, they can be supplied with clothes cut in the most
fashionable manner, good materials, and sound workmanship, at very
moderate charges. Fit and style perfect, having been many years in the
well-known firm of Messrs. Pulford and Co., 65, St. James’s Street.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
Trousers, from   0 13 6 I Black Suit, from .. ... 3 0 0
Vests. ...   0. 7 0 | Unrivalled Black Doe. 110
Tweed Suit  £2 10s. Od.
And all other Garments at the same moderate charges.
I^EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
Vice-Patrons.
His Grace the Duke of Argyll, K.T.
Her Grace the Duchess of Argyll.
The Baroness de Rothschild.
The Countess de Noailles.
President—The Right Honourable the Earl of Shaftesbury, K.G.
Treasurer—Henry Charles Stephens, Esq., 171, Aldersgate-street, E.C.
Honorary Secretary—James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.
Lady Secretary—Mrs. Blangy.
Bankers—The London and County Bank, 441, Oxford-street.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —'Jo provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume Demy 8vo.,
pp.780, price 7s. 6d.
EMANDEL SWEDENBORG: HIS LIFE AND
WRITINGS. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the
Doctrines, and the other-world Experiences of the great Swede are concisely
and faithfully set forth;-also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The Volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engravings,
by Mr. C. H. Jeens—I. Jesper Svedberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80.
“ It is by the profusion of his extracts, the honesty of his comments, and
the picturesque detail with which he crowds his pages, that Mr. White at
once captivates attention. The work may be described as a long exhaustive
gossip about Swedenborg, his writings, and his disciples; pleasant thought¬
ful gossip from a mind which impresses you as being kindly and truthful
above the common. We can with confidence assure thoughtful readers
that there is more to interest them in Mr. White’s biography than in any
work of the year whose professed object is to entertain.”—Pall Mall Gazette.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
LIST of SUBSCRIPTIONS to partially meet the
EXPENSES of the FORTNIGHTLY PUBLICATION of “The
SPIJEtlTTJALIST ”: —
£ s. d.
Charles Blackburn, Esq    15 0 0
“ A Friend at a Distance ”   10 0 0
A. L. Elder, Esq., per Benjamin Coleman, Esq  5 5 0
W. Tebb, Esq         5 0 0
Enmore Jones, Esq  5 0 0
C. F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S  5 0 0
Mrs. E. M. Cox   5 0 0
“ Truthseeker” (Liverpool)   5 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart  5 0 0
Thomas Grant, Esq;  ...  ,600
J. C. Luxmoore, Esq ;    5 0 0
Friends at Brixton:— £ s. d.
Miss Ponder   ... 1 0. 0
Miss E. Ponder ... '  1 0 0
Mrs. Rudd    ...   10 0
“Longfellow ”    10 0
Mr. Withall  10 0
Mr. E. Bird  ,..      10 0
Mr. George Dawson   10 0
Mr. Dawson Rogers   ... ... 10 0
Mr. Rogers      ^10 0
Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald   10 0
Mrs. Gunyon        10 0
  8 0 0
“Bitterness’    ... ...    4 4 0
“A Friend,” Temple       3 3 0
N. F. Daw, Esq.'  3 3 0
Richard Beamish, Esq., F.R.S  3 3 0
James Wason, Esq  3 3 Q
The Countess of Caithness     2 2 0
Mr. and Mrs. Edmiston   2 2 0
Algernon Joy, Esq  2 0 0
John Beattie, Esq    2 0 0
G. Thomson, Esq.. M.D  ... 10 0
Mrs. Robert Campbell     10 0
“A Friend,”Manchester    ... 110
Benjamin Coleman, Esq     110
E. Musgrave, Esq    ... 1 1 0
“V.”... ... ...    1 l 0
Oscar von Hoffmann (Leipzig)   1 0 0
“ A Friend,” F.R.S. ...    1 0 0
Miss Kislingbury... ... ...    10 0
G. Nelson Strawbridge, Esq. ...    1 0 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory...       ... 10 0
Miss J. H. Douglas ...        10 0
“AFriend”  .-.   10 0
John E. Purdon, Esq,, M.B  1 0 0
Mrs. Hennings ...  •    1 0 0
J. Craig, Esq     0 10 0
G. D. (Hackney), Balance in excess of -publishing account   0 8 6
Subscriptions in aid of this object may be remitted to N. Fabyan Daw,
Esq., treasurer, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.; Benjamin
Coleman, Esq.,Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood; or to Enmore Jones, Esq.,
Enmore-park, South Norwood, S.E.
112
THE SPIRITUALIST.
1873,
Feb. 15
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family friends and relatives,
often gives'the, most satisfactory evidence of the reality of spiritual
phenomena, and-' this is the best way for enquirers to begin. At
the same time, as no fully developed medium is present among
those who have never obtained manifestations before, possibly there
may be no results. Nevertheless, it is a very common thing for
striking manifestations to be obtained in this way at the first sit¬
ting of a family circle; perhaps for every successful new circle
thus started without a medium, there are three or four failures, but
no accurate statistics on this point have yet been collected.
Consequently, to save time, investigators should do as the Dia¬
lectical Society did, form several new circles, with no Spiritualist
or professional medium present, and at one or other of them re¬
sults will probably be obtained. When once manifestations have
been obtained they will gradually increase in power and reliability
at successive sittings. The following is a good plan of action;—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the’ hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of;
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place: some pointed, lead-pencils, andisome
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief’or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feehng among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near. (
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak,' and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spibitualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart, M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim,
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq.;. Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq. M.D.; Bev. 0- Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D.; D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.C.S.; Mrsv
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds; James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.G S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; C. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
Ph D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans, Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee: —
“George Cary, Esq..,. B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq,, .Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower,,Esq.; H. D. Jencken,.Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported : —
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action' or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those _
present, and frequently without contact Or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
o f signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported: —
‘ ‘Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’
In another part of the report the same committee stated:—
“After a committee of eleven persons had been sitting round a dining
table for forty minutes, and various motions and sounds had occurred, the
chairs were turned with their backs to the table, at about nine inches from
it. All present then knelt upon their chairs, placing their arms upon the
backs of the chairs. In this position, the feet were of course turned away
from the table, and by no possibility could be placed under it or touch the
floor. The hands were extended bver the table at about four inches from
the surface.
“ In this position, contact with any part of the table was physically im¬
possible.
“ In less than a min'ute the table, untouched, moved four times ; at first
about yfywinches to one side, then about twelve inches to the opposite side,
then about four inches, and then about six inches.
A “Thehands were next placed on the backs of the chairs and about afoot
Trofii the table. In this ppsition, the table again moved four times, over
spaces varying from four to six inches. Then all the chairs were removed
twelve inches from the table. All knelt as before. Each person folded his .
hands behind his’ back, his body being about eighteen inches from the
table, and having the back of the chair between himself and the table. In
this position the table again moved four times, in like manner as before
In the course of this conclusive experiment, and in less than half an hour,
the table moved, without contact or possibility of contact with any person
present, twelve times, the movements being in different directions, [and
some according to the request of different persons, present.
“The table was then carefully examined, turned upside down, and taken
to pieces, but nothing was discovered. The experiment was conducted
throughout in the full light of gas above the table.
“Altogether your committee have witnessed upwards of fifty similar
motions without contact on eight different evenings, in the houses of
different members of your committee, and with the. application of the most
careful tests their collective intelligence could devise.”
TO INEBBIATES AND THEIE FRIENDS.
Just published, limp, Is. 6d.; cloth 2s.,
ON INEBRIETY, Continuous and Periodical, considered
as the Result of Physical Disease, and distinct from the Vice of
Intemperance: its Causes, Nature, Treatment, and Cure, showing the
curability of the worst cases of Intemperance. By Sylvanus Harbis, M.D.
^Pennsylvania).
HAMMOND and CO., 20, Catherine-street, Strand; or post free from the
Author, 14, Serle-street, Lincoln’s-inn, W.C.
DEDICATED (by permission) to Sir WALTER TREVELYAN, Bart.
Will shortly be Published, price 2s. 6d., with a Portrait of the Smuggler
engraved from a Photograph by James Partridge, Esq.
THE LAST OF THE SMUGGLERS: being the
Autobiography of William Battenbury, of Beer, Devon.
Descriptions of this work have already appeared in “ The Graphic ” for
9th December, 1871 and the “ Dark Blue ” Magazine for September, 1872.
It is interesting as recording very faithfully the Devonshire idiom, and also
as illustrating a curious phase of English domestic history. Ii was at the
persuasion of Mr. Glasscott, the late Vicar of Seaton and Beer, that Eatten-
bury wfote the autobiography, which has been read in its manuscript form
by many visitors to those Devonshire villages, and is now put into the
pubhshers’ hands in the hope of realising some small sum which may save
the aged smuggler from the workhouse. Mr. Buskin, who has read the
original manuscript, writes:—“I shall have much pleasure in subscribing
for two copies of the ‘ Life of the Old Smuggler,’ and am glad it is to be
published.’’
Amongst other subscribers are the following:—Earl of Devon, the Earl
of Pembroke, Lady Mary Herbert, Lady Taunton, Sir John D. Coleridge,
M.P., Sir Walter C. Trevelyan, Bart., Sir Charles E. Trevelyan. K.C.B., Sir'
John Bowring, Admiral Sir Jas. D7H. Elphinstone, Bart.. M.P., Sir Massey
Lopes, Bart., M.P., Sir Stafford H. Northcote, M.P., Sir Sydney H. Waterlow,
Admiral Sir Thomas Pasley, hart., Sir Frederick Bathurst, Lady Bolle, Lady
Jane Swinburne, Sir Charles Isham, the Hon. Mark Bolle, J. Gwynne
Holford, Esq., M.P., S. Morley, Esq., M.P., Dr. John Brown (“ Bab and His
Friends.”), Dante G Rossetti, Esq, John Forster, Esq., A. Locker, Esq.
(“Graphic"), Mrs. Garrett Anderson, M.D., Bev. Canon Kingsley, Bev. J..
Llewelyn Davies, Bev. C. A. Johns, W. D. Christie, Esq., G.B., W. Cave
Thomas, Esq , Bev. H. Vyvyan (Vicar of Seaton and Beer), Charles Hutton
Gregory, Esq., C.E., Captain Dalrymple Elphinstone, R.N. Rev. Compton
Beade, Mrs. Stirling, Algernon C. Swinburne, Esq., William Morris, Esq.,
(Earthly Paradise). F Madox Brown, Esq., B. Coleman, Esq., P. McLagan,
Esq., M.P., Jos. Aspinwall, Esq., &e.j &c.
Persons interested are requested to send their names and addresses as
soon as possible to Mr. George Fraser, 3, Middleton-road, Camden-road,
London, N.
BEYERIDGE & FRASER, Printers of The Spiritualist.
FULLWOOD’S-BENTS, HOLBOEN, W.O.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Fraser, at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood's Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
