AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE,
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 108.—(Vol. Y.—No. 12.) LONDON: SEPTEMBER 18, 1874. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
By Prince
Friehold on
Spiritual Manifestations Produced by a Sleeping Lady
Wittgenstein  ...   
Mesmeric Influences. By D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M
Materialised Spirits in Newcastle  
Spiritualism at Plymouth f  
Falling Water Phenomena ...   
Discussion in Marylebone on National Organisation—Mr,
National Association—Miss Kislingbury on National Association—
Mr. Harrison on National Association—Mr. Charles Hunt on National
Association—Mr. Tilby on National Association—Messrs. Paul
Brothers and Drake on National Association—Mr. C. W. Pearce on
National Association... ...    ... ... ... ... ... ’... ... ...139
National Organisation    142
Correspondence—Testing Physical Mediumship; Spirit Photography;
Explanations; The Doctrine of Immortality among the Ancient
Egyptians  *.        143
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan at Bury --  144
Answers to Correspondents    ...    ... 144
Paragraphs—Mr. Morse’s Lectures, 134; A Trance Lecture  144
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion. Londok : Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
INSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance Medium).
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Mr. Morse will sail for the United States on Thursday, October loth, 1874.
He has a few vacant dates for September next; early application is
necessary. ^
Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flbod of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
ecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.’’—spiritualist.
‘‘The address quite riveted the attention of the audience.”—Fojf&oume
Chronicle.
“ He spoke for nearly an hour-and-a-half. Not a hitch occurred. The
address was more or less argumentative throughout, in parts it was really
eloquent ”—Brighton Guardian.  
MB. J. J. MORSE. Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
All letters should be addressed to his private residence, Warwick Cottage,
Old Ford, Bow, E,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
SPIRITUALISTS.
OF
The British National Association op Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
promote the study of Pneumatology and Psychology; to aid students and
inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal the means of sys¬
tematic investigation into the now recognised facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by
careful scientific research; and to direct attention to the beneficial in¬
fluence which those results are calculated to exercise upon social relation¬
ships and individual conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of
every class, whether members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and
all inquirers into psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing to
become affiliated, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. Louis Freeman, York-hill Farm, Loughton, Essex, of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1874.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.
Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. Q-. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. R. Casson.
Mr. D. Gay.
Mr. T, B. Griffin.
Mr. Riece.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox,
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Casson.
Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. John Lamont.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
Mr. Bretherton. I Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthfu
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instructiou
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
THE WONDER OF THE AGE. JUST ISSUED.
m
1HE TWO DISCOYERIES, OR KEY TO PINE’S
JL SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH.
This Key not only unlocks the abstruse labyrinths of Mathematical
Science, but enables every person, who values the privilege, to converse as
freely in domestic retirement with friends in spirit life, as when they were
on earth; and contains a series of communications of (the most intense
interest, received by this new Invention, with an engraving of the
instrument.
BY CLEMENT PINE.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, and Stationers’ Hall*
court, E.C.
Also published by the Author at Bridgewater. To be had of all Booksellers.
In substantial paper covers, 152 pp., 8vo. Price Is. postage 2d. Stereo¬
typed and copyright secured.
THE SPIRITUAL DEPARTMENT contains the confessions and
conditions of eight spirits, well known to the Author in Earth-life, who had
deviated from the path of duty; also the experiences of as many more
spirits well known io him, who had performed their duty on earth, and
experienced a happy entrance into the spirit realm. The conditions of
spiritual existence, even their divine unions in marriage, are completely
exemplified by this new mode.
The mathematical discovery increases the accuracy of astronomical
observations, tenfold, by a process so simple as to suit the public
schools.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Sept. 18, 1874
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was-chosen, to draw up a prospectus.- 
The, Objects of this Association are
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
Of'the facts of Spiritualism.
• 2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for-all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tern., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
• ■ Richard Fitton, Secretary pro tem.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—TAs. Richard Pearce.
Information about the society may be obtained from the Officers of the
Association by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee Rooms,
30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. {Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
    A. M. GREENE, Hon. Secretary.  
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row. 
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6d., First Series.
AC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
MOHAMMED and MOHAMMEDANISM: Lectures
delivered at the Royal Institution of Great Britain in February and
March, 1874. By.R. BOS WORTH SMITH, M.A. Crown 8vo., 6s.
“A view of Mohammed’s life and doctrines, perhaps more faithful and
more just than any that has before been published."—Academy.
“ A learned, able, and eloquent volume . . . acute thinking, judicial
reasoning, and eloquent exposition.”—Scotsman.
Published on the First of each Month. Price Twopence.
THE CHRISTIAN SPIRITUALIST,
EDITED BY GEORflE SEXTON, H.A., L.L.D.
Honorary and corresponding Fellow of the Royal Italian Academy of Science, Ac
Each number contains inter alia—
An Oration, by the Editor. Original Articles on some Phase of Spiritual¬
ism. Leaves from the Editor’s Note Book. Reports of Lectures, Meetings,
Seances. Reviews of New Books and Publications. Spiritual News, Poetry,
Correspondence, &e.
Published by F. Arnold, 86, Fleet-street, London, E.C.
JOHN BRAY,
TEUBNEE AND CO.’S PUBLICATIONS.
THE HONEYMOON. Remembrance of a Bridal Tour through Scotland.
By the Count de Medina Pomar. Now ready. In two vols., Crown 8vo
MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN’S WORKS.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD. With
Narrative Illustrations. An enlarged English Copyright Edition.
Post 8vo., p.p. 412, cloth, 7s. 6d.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS WORLD AND THE
NEXT. With Illustrative Narrations. Crown 8vo,, pp. 456, cloth, 9s.
THREADING MY WAY: Twenty-Seven Years of Autobiography. Crown
8vo., pp. 344, cloth, 7s. 6d.
“ A very pleasant little book.”—Saturday Review.
THE CREED OF CHRISTENDOM its Foundations contrasted with its
Superstructure By W. R. Greg. Third Edition. With a new Intro¬
duction. Two Vols., crown 8vo, pp. 272 and 290, cloth, 15s.
ENIGMAS OF LIFE. By W. R. Greg. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo., pp. xxi.—
308, cloth, 10s. 6d.
Contents:—Realizable Ideals—Malthus Notwithstanding—Non-Survival
of the Fittest—Limits and Directions of Human Development—The Sig
niflcance of Life—De Profundis—Elsewhere—Appendix.
THE DESTiNY OF MAN, The Storm King, and other Poems. By
Frederick Griffin, Fcap. 8vo., pp. vi. and 90, cloth, 2s. 6d.
London: Trubner & Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
JVeosMrer.—Herbert N. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane
Offices.—64, BERNERS STREET.
Hon. /Sec.—Mrs. Lowe (LOUISA),
MARYLEBONE SOCIETY OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
6, BLANDFORD-STREET, BAKER-STREET, W.
HE next monthly social meeting of the society, will
be held at the above address on Monday evening, September 7th, at
half-past seven, when it is hoped every member will be present. Friends
also desirous of joining the Association, are cordially invited to attend.
Admission Free.
Discussions will also be held here on the following subjects, viz. :—
Wednesday, Sept. 9th.—Will the establishment of a National Association
of Spiritualists be beneficial to the cause and progress of Spiritualism ?
Wednesday, Sept. 16th.—Are the phenomena of modern Spiritualism simi¬
lar to those related in the Old and New Testaments?
Wednesday. Sept. %&rd.—Are the teachings of modem Spiritualism in har¬
mony with those of the New Testament ?
Wednesday, 30<A.—Is modern Spiritualism calculated to benefit humanity ?
To commence at 8 o’clock. Admission 2d.
Non-Spiritualists and Inquirers are especially invited to take part in these
discussions. Charles Hunt, Secretary.
MR. MORSE’S FAREWELL BENEFIT SOIREE.
Arrangments are being made by the metropolitan friends of Mr. J. J.
Morse to give him a complimentary farewell soiree previous to his departure
for America in October next. The meeting will be held in the
CO-OPERATIVE INSTITUTE (late Princess’s Concert Rooms),
55, Castle-street, Oxford-street, W.
On THURSDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 8th, 1874.
The proceeds of the above soiree will be presented to Mr. Morse to assist
him in the object he has in view. The proceedings will be similar to those
at last year’s soiree, which proved so highly attractive. Refreshments
will be served during the early part of the evening, and selections of vocal
and instrumental music, interspersed with a few speeches, will occupy the
remainder of the time. Tickets for soiree and entertainment, 2s. 6d.; for
entertainment only, Is. 6d.
The chair will be occupied by Mr. Thomas Everitt. Further particulars
in future advertisements.
Mrs. F. A. Maltby, hon. sec.,
8, Granville-terrace, Shaftesbury-road, Hammersmith.
GOSWELL HALL.
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
Just published, price 2s.
CURATIVE MESMERISM,
BY
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, or from
Bailliere & Co., King William-street, Strand.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S'-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
MRS. BULLOCK (Trance Speaker) will LECTURE
on SUNDAY EVENINGS (commencing on the 27th of September),
at GOSWELL HALL, 86, Goswell-road, E.C.
Lectures on the following'Subjects will be given by Mrs. BULLOCK,
under the Influence of her Spirit-guides: —
September 27th. “ Life’s Ultimate; or, the Progress of the Soul in the
Spirit-spheres.”
October 4th. “ Death Destroyed; or, Man’s Eternal Career proved by
Modern Spiritualism.”
October Uth.—“Nature, and the Laws of Nature; the Lesson of Life.”
October 18th.—“The essence.of the Spirit of God.”
October 25th.—“ The Unity of Spiritual Truths.”
November 1st.—“The Celestial Heaven.”
After this Course subjects for Lectures may be selected by the
Audience. Doors open at 6.30, service at 7. Investigators and others,
desiring information, may communicate with Mr. JOHN W. HAXBY, 8,
Sandall-road, Camden Town, N. W.
ON SUNDAY, the 27th inst., MR. COGMAN’S
QUARTERLY TEA MEETING takes place. Tea on the table at
five o’clock. Tickets one shilling each, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end-
road, E.
(rr
VOI.UJVIE FIVE. FruJvlBEFl TWELVE.
IffeMIM
eJAs
LONDON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18th, 1874.
Established in 1869.
CHAEGE FOE ADYEETISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, thq
paper is not usually torn up when read, hut preserved for binding.
Oobeespondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregulanty in the supply of “ The Spiritualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E. C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCEIBEES IN FOEEIGN COUNTEIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 164, Bourke-street.
Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. 0. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst.—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
J1EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
. The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the Operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—Fitzroy-square, W.
SPIEITUAL MANIFESTATIONS PEODUCED BY A
SLEEPING LADY.
BY PRINCE WITTGENSTEIN.
As The Spiritualist, Yol. Y., No. 8,- page 85, contains
Miss EMingbury’s very judicious remarks about tbe two
contending theories in Spiritualism, allow me, in my
turn, to communicate to you a fact, which seems strongly
to corroborate my belief in reincarnation, and which
happened to me in the summer of 1869.
A very distinguished French writing medium, Mdme.
C had come to spend some weeks at my house, at
Nieder Walluf, and we had asked our leading spirits
whether it was possible or not to evoke during the
sleep of the body, the spirit of a person now alive ? Soon
- after there fell from the ceiling, on the table where
Mdme. C was writing under spiritual control, a
small oval bronze medal, quite tarnished, with some
dry yellow earth sticking to it, bearing on one side the
likeness of Christ, on the other one that of the Yirgin
Mary, and seeming, by its style, to belong to the 16th
century. We were then told, that this medal had been
buried a long time ago, with a person who had con¬
stantly worn it, and who had died a violent death—that
this person was now reincarnated in Germany—that an
object which had belonged to her formerly was necessary
to establish between her and us a fluidical connection,
which might enable her to come and appeal to us for
assistance against a sort of painful obsession under
which she was labouring—that her name began with
an A—and that we were to call her “ In memory of
the town of Dreuxf
Accordingly, on the following and some other even¬
ings we set to work, Madame C-   (whom I had
mesmerised to sleep for better control) holding the
pencil: And presently the spirit wrote, in small,
hasty writing:—“ I am here.”
Quest.—How is it that you are already asleep ? (It was
only ten o’clock).
Ans.—I am in bed, ill of fever.
Quest.—Can you tell us your present name ?
Ans.—Not yet. When I wore the medal I was in France;
in the reign of Louis XIY. I was killed by a man who was
carrying off a lady from the monastery where I was a nun.
Quest.—Why did he kill you?
Ans.—He did so unintentionally. I had just returned from
Dreux, where I had been sent on an errand by our Abbess. I
overtook them unawares and threatened to scream; he then
struck me on the head with the pommel of his sword, in order
to stun me into silence, and killed me.
Quest.—How did he manage to enter the convent ?
Ans.—By bribing the man who kept our doors, and who
feigned to be asleep while they were stealing his keys. When
he saw that I was dead he was frightened. He and his
servant bore me off and buried me in the first place they
found fit. There are now houses built all over it, but my
grave exists, still unknown, in a garden.
Quest.—What place was it ?
Ans.—The Pr6-aux-Clercs, Paris.
Quest.—Was the man who hilled you a nobleman ?
jins.—Yes. He belonged to the Lesdiguieres.
Quest.—Who was the nun he carried off ?
134
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 18, 1874.
Ans.—A novice of a noble family. He bad led ber already
to a coacb, wbicb was to carry ber off in another direction
than the one be intended to take ; they were to meet again
later. So she knew nothing about my death. They fled to
foreign countries. She died soon after.
Quest.—What did your spirit do when it left your body 4
Ans.—1 hastened straight to our Abbess, but she was
terribly frightened when she saw me, thinking it was a night¬
mare. I then roamed about the chapel, always thinking
myself alive still. I only understood that I was dead when
those who were burying me said a prayer before covering my
body with earth. A great trouble overcame me then, and I
felt it a hard task to pardon them. I have great difficulty in
obeying your call, because as soon as I am asleep, I am
usually forced to return to Dreux and to haunt the church
under my former aspect, as I used to do before my present in¬
carnation. It is a terrible subjection, a constant hindrance to
my progress, as it paralyses all my efforts to come into con¬
tact with the good spirits who guide and comfort those who
are in the flesh and asleep. Emile ! You must help me to free
myself.
After some words of advice and encouragement, and
my promise to help her, we continued :—
Quest.—In which street at Paris was your monastery situated?
Ans.—Eue de 1’Abbayie.
Quest.—Under the patronage of which saint ?
Ans.—Of St. Bruno ; the congregation of the Ladies of the
Passion.
Quest.—Does the monastery still exist ?
Ans.—Destroyed; plundered during the revolution.
Quest.—Is there anything now remaining of it ?
Ans.—A wall.
[Having, after this, written to Paris for information, the
friend to whom we wrote informed us that, after many long
searches, he had indeed found out, incrusted between houses,
an old wall, which once, as was said, belonged to a lady’s
monastery.]
Quest.—Have you, in your present incarnation, any recollec¬
tion of the one gone by ?
Ans.—I have a sort of apprehension, as if I were to die of
a violent death—an injury to the head. It makes me very
nervous at times l I see now that it is only a reflex of the
past. I also dream of phantoms in monastic gowns, and of
murderers rushing at them; also of a spectre in an ancient
dress, who grins at me.
Quest.—Do you live far off?
Ans.—In Germany.
Quest.—Is your name a German one ?
Ans.—Yea. Those questions hurt me !
Quest.—Do I know you ?
Ans.—To be sure you do !
Quest.—Where do you live ?
The medium then begins to trace with great diffi¬
culty :—F . . . Fu . .. I exclaim, under sudden in¬
spiration, Fulda! and at the same moment Mdme.
C gives a shriek and a violent start, nearly up¬
setting her chair. She says she felt a commotion, as
of a strong electric discharge. I understand at once
that the controlling spirit is that of my cousin, the
Countess AmeUe of Y. . . who lives in Fulda (a small
town about five hours’ journey away by the railway),
where she occupies a high charge in a Protestant Chapter
of noble ladies.
Quest, (after a long pause).—Why did you give the medium
such a shock ?
Ans.—I did not want you to know yet.
Quest.—Did your body awake ?
Ans.—No; but I was startled.
While we were still (Madame C and I) de¬
bating whether it were really my cousin or not, the
medium’s hand unconsciously wrote down a name
which cut short all my doubts, as it referred to a secret
known only to the Countess of Y and myself.
Quest.—How am I to ascertain your identity, and make sure
that you are not a frivolous spirit, mocking us ?
Ans.—When you meet me, before long, ask whether I have
any dreams, in which it seems to me as if I were killed ? I
shall say no, and add, that I dream sometimes of a priest
murdered by ruffians: You may also show me the medal: I
shall feel then as if I had known it before.
With this communication we closed our evocations of
Amelie, which had taken us several evenings.
A few months later I met my cousin at my sister’s
country seat. Amelie, as was her wont, began joking
with me about my faith in Spiritualism, declaring that
it was all delusion and deception. I bore her merry
attacks merrily, defending, however, my theories about
dreams, reminiscences, spirit messages, and so on, till I
came to ask, as in a joke, whether she, for example,
never dreamt that she was being murdered? She
answered “ No,” adding, after a slight pause, that, in
fact, she had sometimes a disagreeable dream, always
the same—a sort of nightmare—which made her ner¬
vous and uncomfortable for the whole day after. On
my insisting upon receiving the particulars, she said
at last, that she dreamt of a Catholic priest in sacerdotal
dress, flying from a burning church, with armed men
at his heels, who wanted to kill him. After changing
the conversation, I took the medal out of my pocket
and showed it to her, feigning to have bought it at an
antiquary’s. She handled it about for some moments,
and then began to examine it so long and so closely
that I, at last, asked her, “ What was the matter?”
whereupon she answered that “ she could not under¬
stand how that object seemed as familiar as if she had
possessed or seen it formerly, although she could not,
for the world, recollect under what circumstances ?”
I now told her all about our evocations; and she,
being very much struck by my narrative, requested to
be shown the medial writing. This writing, I had
thought, was not like her own. I had known hers only
by her letters, in German, written with pen and ink,
while the former, traced by a French medium, was
Written in French. When she saw it she exclaimed
that it was positively Tier writing, when she used a
pencil instead of a pen; and forthwith she wrote some
words which I dictated, and which proved to be exactly
like the original.
She got into a great fright at the thought of her
soul haunting an old church, and I advised her, in order
to paralyse the attraction, to pray every evening for
help to her guardian angel, and to say three times
aloud, before going to bed, “ / will not go /”
Since she has done this, I was informed by my lead¬
ing spirits that she has entirely succeeded in ridding
herself of the aforesaid subjection.
This, my dear Sir, is my personal experience of a
fact, interesting enough I think, to find a space in your
columns ; and I would be thankful for every explana¬
tion of it, given in the non-reincarnationist sense, in
favour of the French ^proverb which says. Da choc des
opinions jaillit la verite.
Believe me, at the same time, my dear Sir, yours
very truly, Emile, Puiwce or Wittgenstein-.
Nieder Walluf, on the Bhine, Sept. 6,1874.
Me. Moese’s Lectuees.—Mr. J. J. Morse left London
on Monday last to commence a series of farewell engagements
in the Northern and Midland counties prior to his departure to
America. He will visitBushden, Glasgow, Newcastle, Bradford,
Liverpool, and Birmingham. He willreturn to London about
the 3rd of next month, and his annual soiree, which this year
is to take the form of a farewell benefit meeting, will be held
at the Co-operative Institute, for particulars of which see our
advertising columns. Mr. Everitt, one of the Vice-Presidents
of the British National Association of Spiritualists, has kindly
consented to occupy the chair. Several well-knoifn Spiritualists
have promised Mr. Morse their cordial support. Mr. Morse,
intends publishing a list of patrons shortly.
Sept. 18, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
135
MESMERIC INFLUENCES.
BY D. H. WILSON, M.A., LL.M.
Spiritualism iu its most comprehensive sense is
spiritual science, whereof mesmerism, clairvoyance,
and psychometry are the initial steps of the synthesis.
For the last few years the study of mesmerism and
mesmeric clairvoyance has been much neglected. Many
recent converts to modern Spiritualism, by means of
the physical phenomena, are comparatively ignorant of
the equally wonderful manifestations of Spiritual power
and energy displayed in mesmerism. And yet a know¬
ledge of mesmerism is absolutely necessary for the
proper elucidation of the mysteries of many of the
other spiritual phenomena, as of trance, visions, of
impressional mediumship, and, indeed, at times, of all
the phenomena. The following incident illustrates the
fact that a clairvoyant may be biologised involuntarily.
Once when the celebrated Adolphe Didier was giving
a public seance, a sceptical gentleman stepped upon the
platform, and, handing Adolphe a sealed packet, asked
him to read its contents. The somnambule took the
gentleman’s hand in his and proceeded thus:—
“ There are three English words written in this
packet.”
“ Quite true,” returned the inquirer, loosing Didier’s
hand.
“ I’ve made a mistake,” exclaimed Didier, “ they are
French, and not English words.”
“ No; you were right at first. They are English
words,” said the gentleman, again touching the clair¬
voyants.
Didier proceeded: —“ The words are e Can you
yollca ?’
“Perfectly correct,” returned the inquirer, once
more loosing his hold of Adolphe.
The latter then exclaimed:—•“ I’m wrong again.
They are the three French words, * Fleur de Marie.’ ”
“ No,” returned the gentleman, impatiently. “ You
were right at first. And, ladies and gentlemen,” he
continued, addressing the audience, “ in order to satisfy
you that he has read correctly the contents of the
packet, I will open it in your presence.” He did so,
and saw, to his astonishment, ‘ Fleur de Marie ’ written
therein.
The secret was this :—The inquirer’s wife—a greater
sceptic than himself—had taken advantage of an oppor¬
tunity of exchanging the paper whereon her husband had
written, “ Can you polka ? ” for one bearing the words,
te Fleur de Marie.” And the positive mind of the
inquirer had made the sensitive think with him as
long as they were in contact, that the words in question
were, ‘ Can you polka ?’
A trance medium may also be involuntarily biologised
by positive minds about him. A seer may have visions
produced by the presence of positive thoughts in the
minds of persons near him. And for a large number
of the untruths given through mediums of all kinds,
this involuntary mesmerism alone is responsible. A
medium is thrown into, or induces in himself, a re¬
ceptive condition, and whoever makes the greatest
impression upon him has the best chance of being
heard. If the strougest influence affecting the sensitive
is that associated with his surroundings, as the room
or furniture, he psychometrises himself. How much
of a spiritual message is due to a disembodied intelli¬
gence, is the residue of it, or less than that, after
deducting what has been called the personal equation
of the medium; the involuntary influence of other per¬
sons ; the influence of their particular wishes in respect
of the subject matter of the message; and the influences
associated with the inanimate surroundings of the sensi¬
tive in his capacity of psychrometrist.
English Spiritualists are much indebted to the
exertions of Messrs. Adolphe and Alexis Didier for their
knowledge of clairvoyance. Those gentlemen, more*
than twenty years ago, gave public and private seances
in London, and in many of our principal towns, and
had to bear with, as much opprobrium as our mediums
have to-day. In the sleep-waking condition they read
sealed letters, played games of cards with their eyes
closed and bandaged, submitted themselves to cruel
tests—as being pricked, cut, and even burned to satisfy
sceptics that they were insensible in that state to pain ;
they took spiritual flights, visiting distant places, and
accurately describing persons and scenes, and clair-
voyantly examined sick persons to discover diseases and
prescribe cures. Alexis, in Paris, still exercises his
clairvoyant faculties for all these different experiments.
M. Adolphe Didier, who resides in London, and has
practised mesmerism as a healing agent for more than
twenty-five years, has long ceased to employ his clair¬
voyance for other purposes than diagnosing disease.
The surest way to become reliable as a clairvoyant is
to use the faculty for a special purpose and for no other.
This is also true of psychometric powers.
There are two classes of mesmerists for healing
purposes. The one possesses a large fund of vitality,
and in treating patients is guided entirely by his own
judgment: the other is not necessarily a robust person,
but is very impressionable; he feels that his hands are
guided in their movements by some power external to
himself. The former is properly called a mesmerist
simply; the latter a healing medium. The healer is
directed by benevolent spirits who knowing something
of the laws of mesmerism, are able to discern the
nature and seat of the disease in the patient, and
therefore can apply the healing power in the most
efficient manner. The healing medium feels no exhaus¬
tion as long as he mesmerises under spirit influence.
Although in ordinary he may lack vitality (so to speak)
yet when healing he feels surcharged with it. In
bodily disease the mesmerist, if he be ignorant of the
seat of disease, mesmerises some great organ as the
brain or heart. The mesmeric fluid is the sap of life
to each and every organ, nerve, and tissue. Where it
is required that part is recipient, and octopus-like
ravenously devours any additional supply of it to the
system. Where the functions are healthy there is
enough of it. Indeed the various parts of our machinery
co-operate for the general good of the whole machine.
If a wheel creak, all the others do their best to
contribute some lubricating matter to the one deficient
of it. If no supply come from without, then all the
axes will in time grate and rust, and what at first was
a local weakness terminates in a general disorder. If
it were pot for this community of the vital electricity,
this tendency to find its level, there would be less
chance, because less time for it, of any extraneous
supply coming to the relief of the necessitous part.
One may be a powerful mesmerist for such experi¬
ments as catalepsing the limbs, rendering them in¬
sensible to pain, and so forth, and yet lack the healing
power. The virtue of human mesmerism as a curative
agent lies in its quality rather than quantity. Again,
amongst mesmerists there are diversities of ends for the
exercise of their individual powers. Thus some can
136
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 18, 1874.
exert an influence over the growth and development of
the objects of the vegetable world. M. Adolphe Didier,
in a recent publication of his, speaks of a gentleman of
his acquaintance who had this power. His garden ex¬
hibited effects of his mesmerigations. Here some
apricots which he had mesmerised, willing them to grow
large, far exceeded their ordinary development; there
others, which he had willed to shrivel, were dried up
and worthless. One is reminded by this narration of
Jesus and the fig-tree.
M. Didier relates that he once passed a current of
electricity for half an hour through an auricaria which
had shown no signs of growth for four years. The
morning following this experiment the first signs of
“ shooting ” appeared all over the tree.
It would seem that spirits occasionally assist a mes¬
merist when catalepsing the limbs of persons, or forcing
them to do, or to abstain from doing this or that. Thus
a friend informs us that he has been trying such ex¬
periments upon several persons, whilst a lady was
writing mediumistieally in the same room, and that
when it was written through the lady that he would
succeed in any particular experiment he was about to
try, he succeeded, and when the reverse, he failed, and
this without his knowing what had been written. If
the hand of the medium wrote, “ How he cannot make
them do so and so,” he was unsuccessful; and when it
wrote,<e How we will enable him to control their move¬
ments,” he succeeded. This mesmerist was a good
healing medium, and the lady was an automatic writer.
It does not follow that spirits assist mesmerists in
all such experiments. A strong will, whether in or
out of the flesh, is a power in itself, and can hold
captive men and spirits. Mesmerism is invaluable as
a curative agent in the highest sense. Mr. Easy’s
machine, which fitted on the cranium, depressed some
bumps, and raised up others, was a grotesque expres¬
sion of a true principle—of that which affirms the
intimate relation between brain and mind in the em¬
bodied man, and the physical expression of spiritual
qualities. The fault of Mr. Easy’s system was that it
worked at the outside from the outside. In a study of
masks and faces it tried to mould the faces, of elements
it only had faith in, to the masks of common materials
it knew well enough. The machine should have at¬
tacked and capped the spiritual man, for the develop¬
ment desired is a spiritual one. Press down this sharp
angle of selfishness by sacrificing self and helping others,
and draw out of seclusion, benevolence and charity, by
works with open heart and hand, and the bumps may
take care of themselves; nay, they will be well pro¬
vided for. As refined and intellectual trance controls
educate the medium influenced, so do good resolves and
ideas formed under mesmeric pressure favourably in¬
fluence the individual pressed when he is free. The re¬
verse of this is also true, namely, that spirits of a lower
development than a medium, by frequent control of him,
retard his progress, and that mesmerists diseased in
body or mind injure those under their treatment. To
effect a spiritual cure, we must be able to get at the
spiritual man, and this is just what, mesmerism—and
mesmerism under one or other of its various forms—
alone can do. The mesmeric power is gentle, though
resolute; plastic yet irresistible. It can stimulate and ex¬
cite, pacify and subdue. The sensitive under influence
resolves (suppose) to take a more charitable view of men
and things than is his wont. This resolution is carried some
way into his normal state; it goes further the oftener
it is made, its strength and endurance increases each
fresh time it sets out: the subject thus developes his
spiritual organ of benevolence by repeated habits of
benevolence: habits take root in us, and when confirmed
are states and express ourselves—our worth, great or
little. The moral actions whilst under constraint may
be distasteful, like physic to a child, taken upon com¬
pulsion ; the same actions as habits have no title to
merit, but they become states by virtue of our love for
them in preference to their opposites, and our characters
are summed up in our loves. A great spirit must have
for its just expression a fine organism, a brain of good
size and proportions. But it is not true that we
must put up with the spirit as we find it, because
we cannot alter the conformation of brain. The brain
can be improved from within—through its spiritual
associate to whose mystic abode mesmerism furnishes
the key. Mesmerism then should take the place of the
cat-o’-nine-tails and gibbet. It is the proper physic
for criminals, profligates, and violators of decorum and
peace, in our prisons, penitentiaries and reformatories:
as well as for idiots, lunatics, sick persons and children
in our asylums, hospitals, and schools.
MATERIALISED SPIRITS IN NEWCASTLE.
Befoke the materialisation of spirit forms began in
this country between three and four years ago, the
materialisation of spirit hands had been common for a
very long time; also the materialisation of vocal organs
enabling the spirits to speak at dark circles. That in
these old established phenomena there was material¬
isation, and not the organism of the medium used either
consciously or in the unconscious trance, was certain,
because at dark circles the materialised hands were
busy touching people and carrying solid objects within
an area of three or more yards of the medium, while
the medium was held hand and foot by the sitters on
either sicj,e. Moreover, in light circles, especially with
Mr. D. D. Home, spirit hands would sometimes appear
in full view of the spectators,“and manipulate musical
instruments while his own hands and those of all the
other members of the circle were in sight. Mrs. Mary
Marshall also sometimes obtained similar manifesta¬
tions. It was, found that materialised hands were very
frequently the duplicates, in appearance, of those of the
medium, and in the early stages of the development of
the direct spirit voices at circles, the voice was usually
found to bear a resemblance to that of the medium,
thus indicating a duplication of the form of the
vocal organs. When the materialised forms first
began to appear in London, it was discovered that in
the case of the four or five English mediums who ob¬
tained them, the faces and forms were duplicates of
their own. This led to ah elaborate system of testing,
to ascertain that the mediums themselves were not
shown in a state of unconscious trance ; it was found
that when the mediums were most securely bound and
sealed by educated and acute observers, the manifesta¬
tions went on just the same. But the objection was
raised that as spirits can pass common matter through
common matter, and can free some of their mediums
from bonds in the twinkling of an eye without untying
the knots, and can put them back in the twinkling of
an eye, tying tests did not afford absolute proof of the
duplication of the whole form, in the way that hands
were known to have been duplicated. But as the
phenomena developed, reliable and respectable witnesses
Sept. 18, 1874. THE SPIHITUALIST. 137
were at last occasionally allowed to enter the cabinet,
and see the spirits and their mediums at the same time;
Mr. Crookes, for instance, testified that he thus saw
Miss Cook and her attendant spirit together. Further,
Mr. Yarley once sent a weak electrical current through
the body of a medium in the cabinet all through the
seance; the materialised spirit came out several yards
into the room with no wires attached to her arms, and
all through the seance the indicating instruments showed
that not only was the electrical resistance of a human
body in circuit in the cabinet all the time, but the
amount of resistance was exactly that of the body of
the youthful medium, as measured by the most sensitive
apparatus. All the various points which were pub¬
lished at the time by Mr. Yarley in these pages, gave
physical and mathematical demonstration to several
scientific observers at once, that the body of the medium
was inside the cabinet while the materialised spirit was
outside. On the other hand, in the case of a very
truthful and reliable medium, who has passed through
the severest physical tests, there is evidence that on
one occasion the sensitive was walked out of the cabinet
in the trance state. Pieces of the white drapery cover¬
ing these materialised spirits have sometimes been cut
off by them and given away; the said drapery has
sometimes been apparently of foreign manufacture, and
difficult to match ; in other cases it has been common
stuff, easily obtainable anywhere. At test seances away
from their own homes, the chief mediums and the ex¬
temporised cabinets have been thoroughly searched
before an$ after the seances, but there has been no such
white drapery about them ; it appears to be carried by
spirits to and from the seances, just as they sometimes
carry other things backwards and forwards, but where
they get it, or how they make it, is not known.
"While it is upon them it is subject to abnormal condi¬
tions, for sometimes in a strong light, the gas being
fully turned on, they have cut a great number of large
holes in it, from two to three inches in diameter, and
instantaneously under the eyes of the spectators, the
holes have disappeared, and the dress has become per¬
fect as before, without holes, or seams, or joints of any
kind in the places where the holes had been.
As this journal has had the exclusive privilege for
many years of recording all the most striking mate¬
rialisation seances with the best non-professional
mediums in London, all these facts have long since been
put on record, authenticated by well-known witnesses
of the highest standing and character. The leading
results have been summarised on this occasion for the
information of friends in Newcastle, who have some
of the phenomena in their incipient stages in their
midst.
Miss Wood and Miss Fairlamb are two celebrated
physical mediums in Newcastle, and we first saw them
at a public dark circle at the rooms of the Newcastle
Spiritual Society, Weir’s-court, in that town. The
mediums were placed back to back in two arm chairs,
and each of their arms was strapped and buckled at
their request to an arm of the chair, one loop of each
strap being round the wooden arm of each chair, and
the other loop round one of their wrists, so that
a vertical section of the loops would have had the form
of the figure 8. The sitters sat in an oval, surrounding
the two chairs, and about a yard or four feet from the
mediums. The manifestations were of the ordinary
kind at dark circles, and very strong with the exception
of the direct voices, which were much less powerful
than those which usually accompany physical phenomena
of similar strength. Hands touched the sitters, and
musical instruments flew about, the latter touching the
ceiling immediately whenever requested. It was at
one of these circles that a man recently flashed a lantern
and said he saw a man with a banjo on the ground and
one of the mediums out of her chair, which statements
even the other strangers present denied. Those who
unfastened the mediums said that they were bound
exactly as at first.
On another occasion we had a materialisation seance
with Miss Wood. A spirit who calls herself Poccahontas
—which is familiarly shortened by the sitters to
“Pokky”—manifested. She was said to be a little
black spirit, a foot or more shorter than the medium.
She was certainly much shorter than the medium, but
the light was so low and there was so much white
drapery about Pokky’s feet, that it was impossible on
this occasion to tell whether or not it was the duplicate
form of the medium kneeling—in which case the
manifestations might be correlated with others common
in England, with more developed mediums under a
strong light—or whether Pokky was really so much
shorter than her medium, in which case it would be a
comparatively new kind of manifestation so far as this
country is concerned. Pokky could only speak feebly
and with great difficulty; she had to use a tin speaking
tube to make herself heard, in which respect the
manifestation differs from the general run, although
there are records of similar phenomena in America.
The manifestations being undeveloped, the light was
bad; we could not see Pokky’s features, and a gentle¬
man present who had once seen her teeth considered
that a great point, as he mentioned it frequently, which
was evidence that the light was generally low at the
seances. We could not see whether she was black or
white; one of the sitters who sat somewhat in shadow
looked quite black, as we pointed out at the time
to Mr. Hare, the light being so low. Nevertheless
Pokky’s motions were clearly perceptible because she
was robed in white drapery, and she was very obliging,
coming out of the cabinet as far as she could, and
exerting herself to give general satisfaction. There was
no melting of the drapery or of the form, while in sight
of the spectators. Miss Wood is evidently developing
into a powerful materialisation medium.
We had another seance with Mrs. P , a New¬
castle private medium, whose seances have caused some
controversy. At the dark seance we can speak as to the
genuineness of the manifestations, for there were many
points about them which to an experienced observer
were tests, although they would not be recognised as
such by others. A materialisation seance was also
tried, but it was a weak one; no face or form was seen,
but a few hands appeared, not in a good light. The
members of the family were puzzling themselves over
the same problems, as to the goodness and objects of the
spirits in coming in the way they do, which have beset
other families similarly circumstanced, which tended to
show the phenomena to be of the same kind.
During our few days stay in Newcastle every facility
was kindly given for seeing the manifestations, and gain¬
ing information about the local aspects of Spiritualism,
for which privileges we have to thank the mediums,
and Mr. Barkas, Mr. Hare, Mr. Blake, and other friends.
Mas. Woodfobde, the trance-medium, has left town for
a few weeks. See the notice at the end of her advertisement.
138
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 18, 1874.
SPIRITUALISM AT PLYMOUTH.
From, the “ Western Morning News," September IliA, 1874.
A ckowded audience assembled at the Plymouth Mechanics’
Institute last evening to hear a lecture by Mr. David H.
Wilson, M.A., LL.M. (Cantab), on “ Spiritualism : criticisms
hostile to the spiritual theory set forth and refuted.”
The Rev. J. F. Collett (Christ Church, Devonport), presided,
and said he took the chair as a non-spiritualist. He was not
favourable to Spiritualism, but every theory advanced for the
moral benefit of man should receive thoughtful attention, and
as the question was exciting much interest, he thought it
should be considered, and, therefore, for the sake of that con¬
sideration, had consented to take the chair. After reading
books on the subject he was convinced that Spiritualism was
not what its advocates claimed it to be; and if he thought
the lecture such as claimed notice, he should reply to it at
Christ Church.
Mr. Wilson then delivered his lecture, and towards the close
of it said that like Goethe himself he wanted “ light, more
light,” and if the messenger of truth were the devil himself,
he for one would hear him speak. If it was one of their duties
to be loyal to the king of their doctrine, reason ; and if they
were satisfied of the truth of what they were told, they should
act upon it. People might disbelieve the miracles recorded in
Scripture, and say that the clergy were devils in disguise. But
a tree was judged by its fruit—(applause)—and truth would
be sure to come out. Spiritualistic science had now been be¬
fore the world for twenty-six years, and it was highly improb¬
able that in that time, if the statements of the Spiritualists
were false, that they had not been proved to be so. There
were thousands of Spiritualists in the world, and if the whole
lot of spirits were let loose from hell, was that any reason why
the question should not be discussed ? (Hear, hear.) Spirit¬
ualism had laid claim to the dignity of a science, though
people were apt to attribute the phenomena to those causes
with which they were most familiar, Maskelyne, Cooke, and
Dobler, for instance, believed they arose through their art; and
morbid religionists spoke against Spiritualism, and followed
the role by their own idiosyncrasies. Any new discovery of
genius or science they did not believe in, and Spiritualism
came away from their minds with cloven feet, tail, horns, and
trident. Having referred to the numbers of the Spiritualists,
and related some extraordinary instances of Spiritualistic
manifestations, received by the audience with cheers and
hisses, the lecturer inquired what was the cui bono of Spirit¬
ualism ? He was rather suspicious of this question, because
it often sailed under false colours. The phenomena affected a
knowledge, were interesting as a study, and were therefore
useful. In the infancy of any science they could not follow
all its uses ; but that did not invalidate its use as a subject of
study. There was on the part of the people a great disinclina¬
tion to believe in anything but what were evident facts. The
belief of the world must be established by distinct phenomena,
and such phenomena Spiritualism presented to them. The
science had been upheld by some of the greatest men, and
ushered into the world by the denizens of an immortal sphere.
It demonstrated the existence of man’s spiritual nature,
shewed the cause of its being here, and pointed to its immortal
destiny. It had, therefore, a moral and religious significance.
It was not for any particular sect, but “with healing in its
wings ” its great heart throbbed for suffering humanity. The
lecturer concluded with a glowing panegyric on Spiritualism,
as promoting in every way man’s temporal, moral, and spiritual
welfare. He resumed his seat amidst much cheering and some
expressions of dissent.
The meeting, which at times was noisy, became more so
during the discussion, which was an animated and exciting
one.
Mr. Davet: The lecturer has said that Spiritualism can
be proved to have uprooted materialism. I should like the
evidence of that.
The Lecturer said that Dr. Robert Chambers said he knew
of several instances where materialism had been uprooted;
but he (the lecturer) had heard a gentleman they all knew by
name say in public that Spiritualism brought him round to a
belief in Christianity. That was Mr. S. C. Hall, editor of the
Art Journal. (Applause.)
Mr. Sidney Smith said the lecturer had stated that the
spirits of their departed friends were permitted to visit this
world, and we had communion with them and they with us.
He believed in the communication, but not through the
medium of their departed friends. Were they angels, or were
they the spirits of departed friends ?
The Lecturer, however, said that what the Spiritualists
believed was that those who died after death communed with
those in the fiesh, and he had given the reasons. He ad¬
vanced no reasons as to angels being identical with or dis¬
tinct from human beings.
Mr. J. R. Harris said he was a Spiritualist, though not
of the Lecturer’s sort. Did he consider the faith, peace, and
love which Spiritualism brought about in humanity were
fairly exemplified in one of their most notorious champions
—Mrs. Yictoria C. Woodhull ?
The Chairman: That does not come within the Lecturer’s
province. '•
Mr. Harris said the lecturer had stated he would receive
truth at the hands of the Prince of Darkness himself. Did he
consider such a sort of truth was in accordance with the
generally received idea that none but God could do good, and
in accord with the old saying, “ I fear the Greeks even when
they bring presents ? ” (Applause.)
The Lecturer: I would learn the truth from any one—even
from the devil. (Cheers and hisses).
The Rev. S. Beale asked if the lecturer believed with Lord
Amberly that unless they believed in Spiritualism they were
not entitled to believe in the miracles of the New Testament ?
The Lecturer said the manifestations were occurring round
them, and they could investigate them. If they were untrue
it was idle to suppose the miracles were true, because they
had no means of testing them, (A voice: “ Go home to
your father, and the devil will hear you. ”) Some dispositions
required more faith than others, and he did not believe he
should ever have believed in the miracles of Christianity if he
had not seen the same things going on that day.
Mr. C. Piper (a gentleman who denounced the “ horrible
doctrine,” being unable to get a hearing,) asked if the lecturer
believed in the authenticity of the writings of St. Paul, but
The Chairman ruled the question irrelevant. He asked the
Lecturer three questions : What was modern Spiritualism ?
Does this modern Spiritualism teach a moral truth? If so,
what is it ?
The Lecturer said he had stated that Spiritualism was a
science, demonstrating to man his spiritual nature and destiny.
It taught a very great moral truth—which was this, that a
bad life here meant a bad life hereafter, and a good life here
a good life hereafter, and a progressive life too.
Several persons here attempted to address the meeting, but
the chairman vacated the chair, and amid loud hissing the
proceedings closed in confusion.
FALLING WATER PHENOMENA.
Mb. T. P. Bakkas, F.G.S., has published the ^following
particulars in the Newcastle Chronicle:—
On two or three occasions when I had sat with a private
circle in the house of a friend, I had witnessed both in the
dark and daylight the falling of large and small drops of water
on the table round which we sat, and on which we rested our
hands.
This evening at 5.45 I went to my friend’s house, without
giving him any notice of my intention to call, for the purpose
of trying experiments in the presence of his son, a lad about
thirteen years of age, and through whose mediumship water
frequently falls on the table in a closed and ceiled room. At
six o’clock we sat down to the table, which is about three feet
long and eighteen inches broad ; the table was uncovered, and
the top consisted of plain American fir. The boy sat at one
end of the table, his father sat at the side next the window,
and I sat at the side of the table facing the window. To
prevent the possibility of the boy squirting water from his
mouth, I caused him to turn his head towards the window.
We had excellent daylight in the room. I placed a mahogany
planchette on the centre of the table, and in less than a
minute several drops of water had fallen upon its surface, and
yet a greater number on the surface of the table. I placed my
hat crown downwards on the table, near the centre, and in the
hat I placed a sheet of clean paper. In three minutes I took
the paper out of my hat and found it covered with drops of
water; in fact, table, paper, and planchette resembled the flags
on a street after a slight shower of rain.
I next endeavoured to ascertain from what elevation the
drops of water came and what was the maximum height at
which I could get drops to fall on the planchette. I discovered
that the maximum height was eighteen inches. At that height
from the table I got several drops, but the number gradually
increased as the planchette approached the table, The falls of
Sept. 18, 1874,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
189
the drops of water oecurred sporadically. At all times some
drops fell, but occasionally at intervals of about three minutes
considerable quantities fell on the table, planchette, .and
hat. I propose to follow up this investigation, and shall, with
your permission, report progress.
On Tuesday morning, September 8th, I described to three
well-known gentlemen, residents in Newcastle-on-Tyne, the
phenomena which are recorded above, and they promptly
accepted an invitation to go and witness the phenomena for them¬
selves. I arranged with them to go to my friend’s house in the
evening at 5.50, and at that hour we assembled in his sitting room.
There were present in the room the three gentlemen referred
to, the boy in whose presence the phenomenon of falling
water occurs, the father and mother of the boy, a lady visitor,
and myself.
We sat round the table before described, and I placed upon
it a large sheet of dark green tissue paper, in order that the
drops of water might be more easily seen, and in order that
a register of them might be kept by the paper on which the
drops fell. Immediately after we sat down and placed our hands
upon the table several drops of water fell. We then tried the height
at which the water fell by holding a large piece of paper at an
elevation of three feet from the table; no drops fell on it, but
several fell on the paper beneath it. We gradually lowered the
height of the suspended paper, and when it was eighteen
inches from the table drops began to fall, and I think I may
say that all who were present were utterly unable to account
for the falling of the drops of water.
The room was well lighted, it was broad daylight, the
window-blind during part of the proceedings being drawn to
the top of the window, and during the remainder of the time
was half-way down the window, but the raising and lowering
of the blind did not appear to affect the phenomena. I forward
you the names and addresses of the three gentlemen who
accompanied me, not for publication, but as a guarantee of
good faith.
DISCUSSION IN MARYLEBONE ON NATIONAL
ORGANISATION.
On Wednesday evening, last week, there was a discussion
on the subject of the National Association of Spiritualists,
under the auspices of the Marylebone Association of Inquirers
into Spiritualism. The meeting took place at 6, Blandford-
street, Baker-street, London, W., and Mr. Arthur Maltby, one
of the members of the British National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, was unanimously voted into the chair. There was a
Very small attendance.
ME. FEIEHOLD ON NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
Mr. Friehold, in raising the question whether national asso¬
ciation would benefit Spiritualism, said that in the past reli¬
gious associations had always degenerated, and the formation
of creeds and dogmas had resulted, as exemplified in the
Swedenborgian Church and in the Church of England. If
the latter Church loved truth it ought to have been the first
to welcome the facts of Spiritualism, but it rejects them.
If its members were not creed-bound, Spiritualism would be
proclaimed from every pulpit. Spiritualism had made
26,000,000 of converts in twenty-six years, what need, then,
was there for national association, when it got on so well
without it ? He then read a quotation from one of Mrs.
Tappan’s discourses, to the effect that if any organisation
attempted to make a creed to bind men down, its efforts
would not be seconded by the spirit world. He considered
the arguments of Mr. Howitt, Mr. Enmore Jones, and
Mr. Gerald Massey against national organisation, to pos¬
sess great weight; besides, the great body of Spirit¬
ualists had never been consulted in the matter, so had
the right to question the authority of the present National
Association. There was no sympathy with it, because not a
single London local society had joined it. And when the
National Association came before the public, he expected it
would have told them that Spiritualism contained the true
germs for the regeneration of man, and if it had brought the
religious aspects of the question before the nation it would
have done good. But it told them of certain ridiculous
physical manifestations which were reported and commented
upon in the Daily Telegraph and other journals, and these
were the great revelations with which the National Association
had come for the first time before the British public ! He was
of the opinion of Mr. Massey, that there could be no truce
between Spiritualism and theology; indeed, the great mission
of Spiritualism was to combat the Church, and the clergyman
who spoke at the Conference made a great error if he thought
that Spiritualism would ever bow down its head to the Church.
He protested against the British National Association of
Spiritualists, and tendered his warmest thanks to the Spiritual
Institution and its admirable manager, in his brave and noble
straggle for pure and unadulterated Spiritualism.
MISS KISLINGBUEY ON NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
Mr. Charles Hunt, the secretary, next read the following
letter from Miss Kislingbury :—
“ Crickleaze, Combe St. Nicholas, Chard,
Sept. 5th, 1874.
“ To the Secretary Marylebone Society of Inquirers into
Spiritualism.
“ Dear Sib,—As I find from your advertisement in The
Spiritualist (Sept. 4th), that the Marylebone Society has in¬
vited a discussion on National Association, I venture to send
you a few remarks, which I must beg your members (should
you judge fit to make any use of this letter) to receive simply
as the opinions of a private individual, and not in any way as
coming from me in my official capacity as one of the Secre¬
taries of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
The benefits of co-operation on general principles being pro¬
bably acknowledged by all, I will confine myself to that part
of the question which is being elsewhere freely discussed under
the name of “ affiliationbut as this term has been con¬
sidered by some as obnoxious, and likely to offend the feelings
of old-established societies, I will, having regard to these,
substitute the word “ alliance,” to which I think no one could
reasonably object.
“ There are of course many who are convinced of the uses
and benefits of association, not only on general grounds, but
in the case of Spiritualists in particular, for three chief
reasons: 1st. Because our cause is on the whole an un¬
popular one, and therefore requires all the united strength of
its advocates for the better withstanding of opposition,
and for its complete vindication to the world. 2. Because
many of the objects which Spiritualism tends to promote,
can only be effectually carried out by raising large sums of
money, and this can best be attained by persons agreeing to
unite for this end. 3. Because the moral support of mutual
and friendly recognition is in itself the truest source of
strength, as well as of happiness, to all the members of an
Association.
“ Now I say that some of those who are agreed on all these
points, fail to see why there should be any who dissent from
them, and why those who approve of co-operation in every
other concern of life, should refuse to apply the same prin¬
ciple to Spiritualism. But there are difficulties, and I can
myself fully sympathise with those who feel them, but as I
have already said, I will not enter upon ground which has
been already far more ably occupied by others, but will only
state, tentatively, some of what appear to me to be the best
reasons for desiring a friendly alliance between all the Spirit¬
ualist societies in England. (I do not recognise the distinc¬
tion between such and those designated “Inquirers into
Spiritualism,” as that is a mere quibble of words ; there is no
real difference, with all respect to our friends at Dalston.)
“ First, then, I believe that a hearty mutual recognition and
formal alliance between all Spiritualist societies, would be
the great means—at all events, a first step towards healing
the dissensions unhappily so rife among us at present, and
which commencing with individuals, have extended to parties,
but which all, including (I cannot help believing) those who
originated them, would gladly see buried and forgotten.
There is scarcely a Spiritualist in England, who is not, I
think, ready to acknowledge the great services rendered in the
past and in the present to our cause, by individuals as well as
by societies, or who would wish that the mode of working of
the one should in any way interfere with the existence and
mode of working of the other—there is room for both. Spirit¬
ualism is far too wide a field to be exhausted by one class of
workers. Only let us agree to work differently, and by mutual
recognition to render mutual aid.
“ Next to the desirability of not only appearing, but of
being really united, is the much greater power Spiritualists
will be able to exercise, as an important and organised body,
in influencing and aiding reforms of all kinds, besides those
particular ones which Spiritualism teaches us to regard as most
beneficial to society and to future generations : I allude to
, the whole question of marriage and the whole question of in¬
sanity. No single effort can change or influence legislation,
whereas a strong united body may avail something, may gain
a hearing, may do the work of the Puritans oyer again, and
140
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 18, 1874.
become a wide-working power in the State. And if, in the
hope of finally bringing about these great results, the terms
on which the British National Association invites the co-oper¬
ation of kindred societies, be so offensive and so ill-considered
as Mr. B. Pearce has endeavoured to show, then there is the
more reason that we should combine to revise and reform
those regulations, that they may prove less objectionable to
all new societies in future..
“ The moment a society consents to recognise and act with
the British National Association, it has a voice in its councils,
and if the representative be judiciously chosen, one that will
always be listened to wish respect and consideration.
“ I hope I have not overstepped the liberty allowed to non¬
members of your society in thus expressing my views. Had I
been in London, I should have been pleased to attend your
meeting and take part in the discussion; as it is, I must ask
you to use your discretion in making public any part of this
letter.
“I have ordered four dozen copies of Mr. Joy’s answer to Mr.
Howitt to be sent to you for free distribution, if you think fit,
at the meeting on Wednesday.
“With every good wish and friendly feeling, faithfully
yours, Emily Kislingbuby.”
Ohables Hunt, Esq.
ME. HAEEISOIT ON NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
Mr. Hunt next read the following letter :—
“ Herne Hill, Sept. 8th, 1874.
“ Deab Me. Hunt,—You asked me to take part in a debate
of the Marylebone Association to-morrow, on the subject, “ Is
National Association good for Spiritualism ? ” But I am only
a private member of the Association, not authorised to speak
on its behalf; and not being on the Council, have never
attended any of its business meetings; so those more intimately
connected with it can speak better. Further, as I usually
attend meetings as a reporter, as a matter of principle
I rarely say anything, thinking it best to take the position of a
disinterested unbiased spectator. Therefore I do not expect
to speak or vote at your meeting, but shall be glad if you will
read this note.
“ The question you are about to consider was fully discussed
at the Conference at Liverpool, at which official and unofficial
representatives of Spiritualists in all the chief towns in the
United Kingdom, and of all the chief spiritual societies, were
present, and the vote was unanimously in favour of the present
National Association, and of the election of officers annually
by vote by ballot. Unless some new argument can be dis¬
covered, not considered at Liverpool, I do not see what
practical results can flow from the Marylebone Society
reopening the question to-morrow.
“ Already the National Association is by far the strongest
body connected with the movement, and is chiefly composed
of Spiritualists who have fought in the van of the movement
for years, when the work was far more arduous than now, and
long before most of us knew anything of the subject at' all.
Their high character and good motives are unquestionable,
and beyond the reach of the breath of .slander; already they
have done much practical good for Spiritualism, in moving
public opinion by the recent Conference to an extent never
before seen in connection with our movement. I think the
National Association, however, made a mistake by putting a
sentence in its prospectus which might be supposed to have
a theological tinge, and so be a possible sotirce of controversy,
but the error has perhaps been rectified before this.
“ I am rather tired of hearing discussions on the subject, and
take little interest in them, for the whole thing has been
argued out over and over again, and the unanimous vote of
the ninety representative Spiritualists at Liverpool shows the
only common-sense result. Moreover, the Association is
actually formed, and doing good work.—Sincerely yours,
“ William H. Habbison.”
ME. CHAELES HUNT ON NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
Mr. Hunt, the secretary, said that he felt deeply on the
subject of national association, and although so few were
present that evening, he knew that the question, whether the
Marylebone Society should or should not enter into friendly
alliance with the National Association, was then a subject of
considerable interest to the members of the former society.
Many of the members had wrong impressions about the
National Association because they had not obtained any
reliable information about it, and although Mr. Howitt’s letter
against united friendly action had been put before them, he
did not know that they had read eyen the reply to it by Mr.
Joy, which was then lying before them on the table. The
members had been reading everything against national asso¬
ciation in the Medium, instead of the facts of the case in The
Spiritualist. They ought to know the facts of the case cor¬
rectly, and not come to any conclusion before hearing both
sides, as he had done. He felt deeply on the subject, because
he considered that it would be a very good thing that there
should be union among Spiritualists. Mr. Howitt wrote most
inconsistently in favour of local organisations and against
national organisation, arguing that although all the principles
of the one were right, there was a snake lying in the other
ready to throw out its poison — in fact, he seemed
to have been frightened. (Laughter.) If it were good
for a few to unite, why was it not the same for
many? Every combination, large or small, had its evils,
simply because every man had his evil. He took it to
be only common sense to conclude that when individuals
gained a knowledge of any new truth, they ought to band
together on the largest possible scale to disseminate it. All
other persons than Spiritualists did so; the temperance people
had their United Kingdom Alliance, and the Good Templars
had a world-wide alliance. Wesley, in his day, formed an
organisation, but Whitfield did not, and Wesleyans could be
found everywhere now, though it was not so easy to find a
follower of Whitfield. If any body of persons needed friendly
union, certainly Spiritualists did, for they had the church
against them, and science against them, the movement was
unpopular, and the strength necessary to combat all these
antagonistic forces could be best gained by combination. The
dying words of a celebrated and very intellectual secularist to
his followers were, “ Unite! Be not like sheep without a
shepherd.” Union would do good to each individual, and to
the whole cause of Spiritualism.
ME. TILBY ON NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
Mr. Tilby said that he had long held opinions against orga¬
nisation, and that they had prevented him for some time from
joiniug the Marylebone Association. He quite endorsed all
that Mr. Friehold had said. The great thing at the root of
Spiritualism was its facts; without them Spiritualism would
be in the position of the Christianity of the present day,
and he was doubtful whether the manifestations would not
cease if national organisation were adopted. Miss Kisling-
bury had quoted the example of the Puritans; there were many
physical manifestations in Cromwell’s army and very little orga¬
nisation ; one of the chief principles Cromwell uttered to his
followers was—“ Put your trust in God and keep your powder
dry ! ” The downfall of the Jews was caused by their hankering
after power. In the time of Jesus the Christians had no
organisation; the Council of Nice was, if he remembered
rightly, nearly the first attempt at Christian organisation, and
from that period there were very few manifestations. Would
the manifestations continue with organisation ? They had
always ceased in the past when anything like a sect had been
formed. He did not think that organisation would do more
than individual effort in the matter of making converts ;
schools and colleges had been talked of, but he thought that
they were a long way in the future, and that hurrying the
matter would do no good to Spiritualism as it stands. He
was of opinion that there was much in organisation which
would do away with the idea of equality among Spiritualists.
Wesley and his organisation had been spoken of, but where
were the manifestations among the Wesleyans now, like those
which occurred in Wesley’s family ?
Mr. Harrison said that to bring the new hypothesis to an
experimental issue, did Mr. Tilby think that Mr. Morse, who
had been engaged by the National Association to deliver a
trance lecture on the following Sunday, would then be unable
to speak, and that the usual trance manifestation would not
occur ?
Mr; Tilby thought that Mr. Morse would be able to deliver
his trance lecture as usual.
MESSES. PAUL BEOTHEES AND DEAKE ON NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION.
Mr. B. Paul said that Mr. Friehold had objected to the word
“ National,” but not to the title “ Spiritual Institution; ” but
if a conference had been called, and Spiritualists did not
attend, that was not the fault of the Association, but of those
who stood aloof. It had been said, that after a time associa¬
tions failed, but that was the case with everything else, and
was in accordance with the natural order of things.
Mr. Hunt remarked, that as John Wesley himself dis¬
couraged spiritual manifestations when he had them, their
Sept. 18, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
141
absence among the Wesleyans at this day was scarcely an
argument against organisation. Wesley ascribed the noises to
the “ Old Gentleman,” and drove them away—he “ quenched
the spirit ”—and from that time to this Wesleyans had more
or less believed spiritual manifestations to be due to diabolical
agency.
Mr. Drake said that he did not think that Wesley attributed
them all to diabolical agency, because the noises stopped when
requested during the time the family was at prayers; as the
invisible producer of the noises stopped them when requested,
Wesley argued that they were not made by an evil spirit.
Mr. Hunt: That is only one side of the story.
Mr. Drake continued, that the organisation of the Wesleyans
had been mentioned. He had belonged to the Methodist sect
for ten years, and never saw any good feeling among them
(Laughter); they were constantly backbiting each other, and
when a man honestly differs from them in theological opi¬
nions, they wish him to keep away from them altogether.
Once they had a discussion on “ The Goodness of God,” and
when he argued in.accordance with his honest convictions
that God was not good, they did not want him among them
any more. He thought the present National Association
wished to excommunicate those who were free, and that it had
already commenced hurling its hellish darts against those who
were opposed to it. One of the letters just read argued that
there was no necessity for discussion. The Association wanted
to blight free-thought at the present moment, and when it got
power it would trample on all other faiths, and let nobody
have any liberty. Why was organisation necessary ? Was it
because they found weakness ? Unity, they said, was strength—
Mr. Hunt—Hear, hear, hear ! (Laughter.)
Mr. Drake continued that perhaps the Association thought
that Spiritualism was dying out fast, so it wanted to appoint
Popes who were to be infallible in all that they said and did.
A gigantic organisation always killed all liberty ;* it would let
no person act or think for himself. One representative could
not state everything a society wished, and some better plan
than national organisation ought to be brought forward.
Mr. Hunt said that if friendly union would result in the
formation of a creed, he should say good bye to all plans of
organisation for evermore. Mr. Friehold knew very little of
what had been taking place lately in the Spiritual movement,
and had quoted from daily newspaper reports, although he
was well aware that those journals seize any points which
appear to them to be amusing, and keep back the religious
aspects of the subject. It would have been wiser if nothing
had been said at the Conference about pills, but he (Mr.
Hunt) had heard Mr. Friehold state things when describing
phenomena, which he (Mr. Hunt) would blush to repeat.
(Laughter). What actually took place at the Conference had
been fully reported in The Spiritualist, and Mr. Friehold
ought to have based his criticisms upon what actually took
place; yet about the actual proceedings he knew next to
nothing. He found nothing to reply to in Mr. Drake’s speech;
there was no argument in it, but merely a string of assertions
that an organisation elected and supported by themselves,
would bind them all hand and foot, soul and body.
Mr. W. Paul said a person who, like himself, was not a
Spiritualist, would certainly say, “ Have an Association, and
work together unitedly; ” but if an Association would stop the
phenomena, he should say, “ Do not unite,” He did not
think that an Association would stop the phenomena. He
thought that if the newspapers printed ridicule or anything
else about Spiritualism, it helped Spiritualism, because it
made people talk and think on the subject. If there were
26,000,000 of converts without large Associations, there would
have been far more with them.
MR. C. W. PEARCE OET NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
Mr. C. W. Pearce said that he hoped those who had spoken
so strongly against organisation would hear him with a candid
receptivity of mind, the more especially as they had been
misled by information derived from an unreliable source, and
what he had to say was based upon actual knowledge, for he
had attended all the very numerous meetings of the Council
of the National Association but five. He would begin by
quoting the remark of his friend on his left (Mr. Drake), that
the National Association ‘ ‘ was hurling its hellish darts against
* With temporary officers elected by vote by ballot of all the members?
The National Association has a freer constitution than the Marylebone
Association, and there is more liberty under it. For instance, if the mem¬
bers cannot attend the annual meeting to elect the managers for the coming
year, they can all record their votes through the post by voting papers.
But in the Marylebone Association, if the members cannot attend the
meetings, they lose their votes.—Ed.
those who were opposed to ithe thought that repeating the
words would be sufficient, and that Mr. Drake would see that
it was not necessary to make any comment on them. As to
Mr. Friehold, he expected to see him come forward before
long as the champion of organisation instead of disintegration,
and he was much pleased with the candid and conscientious
manner in which Mr. Friehold had opened the discussion. The
very fact of the speakers against organisation being members
of the Marylebone organisation made them contradict their
own arguments by their acts. The Marylebone Society said that
its object was to inquire into Spiritualism, but that stage had
long been passed, and now it was working actively to dis¬
seminate a knowledge of the subject among the general public;
the National Association had the same object in view, and
could do it with more effect, on the same principle
that any fifty men of average ability could draw more attend
tion to their doings than could be done by two or three of
them only. When one man was convinced of ihe truth of
Spiritualism, his first effort was to convince somebody else,
and directly they began to prosecute their researches together
an organisation was formed; their next step was to bring in
other friends and to form a local organisation which could
do more good than a few persons disbanded; and the next
natural step was to form a national organisation to gain the
same advantages in an increased degree. In fact, the last
step generally has to be taken before the public will take
cognisance of the action of individuals. The work they all
desired to do could only be done in part by local societies,
and the local journals, which did not often notice their pro¬
ceedings, had only a limited circle of readers; for instance,
although much that was interesting in Spiritualism had taken
place of late at Newcastle, the general public knew little or
nothing about it. The case was very different with the
recent National Conference; all the daily papers except
the Times reported its proceedings, and the Telegraph,
Standard, and Daily [News had leading articles upon the
same ; every weekly paper, also, with any circulation at
all, published something about the matter, land all the
country papers, as usual, quoted from those printed in
London. National organisation alone could produce results
like these, and common-sense told them that the movement
was correspondingly benefited. It was childish to object to
publicity because the newspapers reported more of the physical
facts of Spiritualism than anything else. These facts, how¬
ever ridiculous some of them might appear to be, did more to
rivet the attention of readers than anything else, and to in¬
duce them to inquire into the subject. He remembered the
time when he argued that he did not believe that the spirits
of the just made perfect” would return to earth to knock
chairs and tables about, still the presentation of these alleged
facts first induced him to inquire into Spiritualism. The very
circumstance of a great association testifying to the truth of
these facts made the general public attach more weight to the
matter than would otherwise be the case. The chief object
of the British National Association of Spiritualists was to
proclaim throughout the length and breadth of the world that
spirits can and do communicate with man, and if they thought
that the object was not good, or that organisation was not
good, then they were bound to dissolve the Marylebone
organisation. If the local associations acted wisely, and
were composed of far-seeing men, they would see that
national organisation was advantageous, and would greatly
strengthen the spiritual movement. If all the local Asso¬
ciations would unite in a national one, and stand
shoulder to shoulder, they would be as strong as the
bundle of sticks once carried by the Boman lictors, and men
like Professor Tyndall would hesitate before telling a great as¬
semblage of scientific men that the religious opinions of such
a powerful and harmonious national body of men and women
were “ degrading.” Mr. Friehold had said that he hoped to
see a true spiritual church; if so, it was no use his arguing
against creeds and dogmas,for churches were prolific inboth. It
was not right to say that there was no Spiritualism in the Church
of England, for nearly all its doctrines were founded on the
teachings of spirits ; he would not advise them not to destroy
the Church, but to carry their Spiritualism into it, but they could
not do so as long as they were disorganised, and broken up
into little bands of twenty here and thirty there, with no con¬
certed or concentrated mode of action. Those who opposed
national, organisation were honest in their opposition, but
their opposition was based upon the misrepresentations of one
who had been made an instrument, as a medium, of spreading
a great deal of knowledge about Spiritualism.
Mr. Pearce then made statements of how Mr. Bums, towards
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 18, 1874.
145
whom he had friendly feelings at heart for the work he had
done, had continuously misrepresented the Association, and
even refused to print its advertisements; he also stated that
when the advertisement of Mr. Morse’s last lecture was offered
to him, Mr. Burns refused it, and said of the National Asso¬
ciation, “ You are a damned lot I Mind you, I’m not swear¬
ing, but I mean that you are all damned ! ” Messrs. Drake
and Tilby then voted that Mr. Pearce should not be allowed
to address the meeting any longer, but the rest of the listeners
voted that Mi^ Pearce should be allowed to go on. Much was
said for and against Mr. Burns, after which all agreed that it
had been a mistake to introduce his name into a discussion
on national organisation.
Mr. C. W. Pearce continued, that if Mr. Friehold had in¬
formed himself as to the constitution and objects of the
National Association, he would see that no creed could arise
out of it; if there were any possibility of that, he would quit
the Association at once. Mr. Friehold had quoted Mrs.
Tappan, but had not fully weighed the bearings of her words,
which were against a creed, but not against organisation; in
fact, she was a member of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, and had subscribed five pounds towards its funds. So
far as he (Mr. Pearce) was individually concerned, he did not
care a snap of his fingers whether the Marylebone Association
joined the National Association or not; the latter had already
got some of the cream of the members of the Marylebone Society
in its ranks, although there were plenty of equally good mem¬
bers still outside; the National Association also had cut out
for itself certain work, which it had the income, the ability,
and the means to carry out. He advocated national organisa¬
tion on broad general principles, and because he regretted to
see Spiritualists so disbanded and so far away from each other,
that their societies could not now reach one another even
when they stretched out their hands to each other. Why
should they hot be as close as the Martello towers round the
coast; no enemy could pass between those towers without
being within shot of one or other of them. Why should they
not band together in love and goodwill instead of being broken
up into sections^ One more fact he had to state before sitting
down, and he hoped they would weigh it well in their own
minds ; if by the time of the next election of members of the
Council of the National Association fifty local societies sent
in their representatives, the representatives of the local socie¬
ties could then outvote all the other members of the Council
in the proportion of two to one; and if, under those circum¬
stances, the local societies could not keep the nose of the
National Association well to the grindstone, it would be their
own fault; nothing but disunion among themselves could
prevent the local societies from controlling the National
Association. (Applause.)
Mr. Tilby moved that discussion be adjourned for a month.
This was seconded and carried unanimously.
Mr. W. Paul moved that at the adjourned meeting Mr.
Pearce should be allowed to conclude his remarks.
This was also seconded and carried unanimously.
Mr. Friehold said that although his reply would come at the
1 end of the discussion, he wished to say a few words before
they separated that evening. A few days ago he had heard
Mr. Bussell speaking in the trance at the Marylebone Music
Hall, on which occasion Mr. Burns asked the listeners to go
and hear Mr. Morse’s address on the following Sunday.
Mr. Pearce—I am glad to hear it.
Mr. Friehold continued that by the phrase “spiritual
church,” he meant that every man should be a law unto him¬
self, and he did not mean a creed-bound church. There was
a remark about Mr. Burns in Mr. Joy’s reply to Mr. Howitt,
that would have made his (Mr. Friehold’s) blood boil had it
been applied to him. The National Association was composed
of Spiritualists who had fallen off from the rest, and called
themselves Christian Spiritualists.
Mr. Harrison remarked that, if they were counted up, the
unorthodox Spiritualists on the Council of the Association
would be found to considerably outnumber the orthodox
members of the Council; not that that circumstance was of
importance, since the Association was formed to promote the
-interests of Spiritualised, and not to quarrel over theological
differences.
Mr..Friehold said that the Marylebone Society had had no
voice in the Liverpool Conference.
Mr. Pearce replied that the Marylebone Society had ap¬
pointed Mr. Burns as its representative man at the Liverpool
Conference, and that Mr. Burns attended in that capacity.
Why did not the Marylebone Association put Mr. Friehold or
Mr, Drake on the Council of the National Association ?
Mr. Friehold and Mr. Drake denied that the Marylebone
Society had appointed Mr. Burns to represent it at the Liver¬
pool Conference.
The Secretary to the Marylebone Society said that he could
produce written evidence that Mr. Burns had been appointed
to represent the Marylebone Association at the Liverpool
Conference.
Mr. Harrison said that he was at the Liverpool Conference,
and heard Mr. Burns announce himself to be the representa¬
tive of the Marylebone Association.
Mr. Friehold—Oh, then that settles the point. I have had
a more powerful opponent than I expected this evening, I
suppose in consequence of Mr. Hunt’s energy.
Mr. Hunt denied that he had invited Mr. Pearce to attend.
After a few more conversational remarks, the discussion was
adjourned for a month.
NATIONAL ORGANISATION.
Mb. T. P, Hinde, one of the most unselfish workers in the
cause of Spiritualism in Yorkshire, has just been elected a
member of the Council of the British National Association of
Spiritualists. The following letter to Mr. Hinde on the sub¬
ject has been sent to us for publication:—
Criokleaze, Oombe, St. Nicholas, Chard, Aug, 27th, 1874.
Deab Mb. Hinde,—I have seen your letter to Mr. Everitt on
the subject of your seat in council, and rejoice to be able to wel¬
come among us one who understands and appreciates our motives
so well as you seem likely to do. After Mr. Richmond’s letter
to The Medium (Aug. 21st) I fear that the opposition in your
Association to affiliation with ours will be stronger than ever,
and I do not think it desirable to try to force the convictions
of any, whether of individuals or of societies.
The policy of the British National Association of Spirit¬
ualists has been throughout, as it will continue to be, that of
peace and good-will to all men; for I need hardly say that
those evil intentions with which we have been credited have
no place in the councils of the British National Association,
and that the reports by which some have slandered ns are
entirely without foundation.
I have attended, in and out of my official capacity, every
council meeting but two, and almost all committee meetings
(with the exception of those on finance) since 24th November
last, when we first met to revise the constitution and rules,
and I have never heard any but the most kindly expressions
of good-will towards Mr. Burns. The members of our council
are not so narrow-minded as to expect that all Spiritualists
should work with us; but while many others besides Mr.
Burns, have preferred to remain independent of the Asso¬
ciation, they have not, therefore, assumed an unfriendly
attitude. I have myself no personal feeling of ill-will
towards Mr. Burns : on the contrary, my relations with
him and Mrs. Burns have remained of the most cordial and
friendly nature; nevertheless I cannot deny that his conduct
towards the British National Association of Spiritualists has
been both unkind and unjust. He has refused to publish our
advertisements, and while inserting entire that which has been
written in our disfavour, besides calling attention thereto in
most discourteous articles, he has rejected our letters of dis¬
claimer or justification, both official and private, or has quoted
from them only for purposes of ridicule.
Nevertheless, in consideration of the great services which
Mr. Bums has rendered to Spiritualism, in popularising and
diffusing its truths, and of the many kindly and self-sacrific¬
ing actions (instances of which are known to me) of both Mr.
and Mrs. Burns towards numbers of individual Spiritualists,
and believing him to be actuated by a love of the cause, which
he thinks can be served in his way only, and not at all in ours,
we are ready to extend to him the hand of fellowship, so soon
as he is willing to accept it.
And for myself, I sincerely hope that the day of reconcilia¬
tion may not be very far distant, when all, forgetting private
animosities in the unselfish love of truth, may be united, if
not in one Association, at all events in good feeling towards
one another, and in the promotion, by their several means, of
that object, from attaining which, all jealousy and dissension
will most surely keep us back.
Please remember, if you should make any use of this letter,
which if you think fit you are at liberty to do, that it is
written on my sole responsibility, and not under the instruc¬
tions, nor with the concurrence of any person or persons
whatever. Emily Kislinobuby,
f Sept. 18, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
143
OTomgpttTJence,
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
TESTING- PHYSICAL MEDIHHSHIP.
Sib,—As one who, after due investigation, has been com¬
pelled to give in my adhesion to Spiritualism, will you kindly
afford me space to make a few remarks with regard to public
media and their seances.
It is customary among some of them—and I believe the
system has been imported from America—to place the sitters,
including a coadjutor, in as compact a circle as possible, the
chairs being pressed together as closely as practicable; each
person, with the exception of the medium, having his or her
hand held, and the medium sitting in the centre. This latter
person tells those present, that in order to assure them that
he has not the use of his hands, he will keep clapping them
together; and further, that one of the company may place
his leg upon his knee, in order to make assurance doubly sure.
Now, sir, this arrangement is commonly but most erroneously
accepted as a satisfactory test, but in reality it affords no gua¬
rantee whatever that the medium “ operator?’’ has not the free
use of his hands and arms, for he has nothing to do but to
stoop his forehead a little, and beat that with one hand, in
order to make those present believe that the clapping is being
regularly performed, and at the same time to do what he likes
with his disengaged arm. Nor is this all, for I recollect that
when travelling in Sweden, a performer at one of the places
of public resort amused us by imitating with his mouth all
sorts of noises; at one time, judging from 'the noise, he
appeared to be sawing wood, at another driving nails into the
walls, &c., &o., and it would have been mere child’s play for
him to have imitated the clapping together of two hands, of
course having his own at perfect liberty. Why, sir, I believe
that if the accomplishment was only worth the trouble of
acquiring, I could master it myself; and by getting a few of
my sceptical friends to form a circle in the dark, and smartly
boxing their ears, while I was “ with my mouth ” giving them
audible evidence that I was fully occupied in clapping my
hands regularly together, I might send them away with the
full, and I may add, painful impression that there was really
something in Spiritualism after all. I am not one of those
Spiritualists—though there are many such—who think that
public media are unmitigated nuisances, doing more harm
than good to the cause of Spiritualism, but I do think that
honest public media should insist upon—or at all events make
no objection to real precautions being taken to guard against
trickery, and I would further suggest that the British National
Association of Spiritualists should form an examining com¬
mittee, whose duty it should be to rigidly test the bona fides
and reality of the pretensions of those aspiring to be public
media, and when satisfied, to give them a diploma or certifi¬
cate to that effect. Of course it would be quite optional for
media to present themselves for examination or not, but rely
upon it the honest and powerful media would eagerly avail
themselves of so fair a method of obtaining such satisfactory
and valuable testimony to their abilities, and we should have
the cause of Spiritualism making more solid progress. As
the matter stands at present, and with the rivalries that exist
between different media, there is a strong temptation for each
medium to supplement his manifestations, in order to equal
the wonders performed by his rivals; but with the possession
of such a diploma as I have described, the value of which
would be recognised by Spiritualists, the temptation would be
very much diminished, and I trust the motto upalmam qui
meruit ferat ” would express the established principle.
B. M. Inman, M.D., Licentiate of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
Brighton, Sept., 1874.
Sib,—Ithink a very good test to prove the truth of incarna¬
tion, would be to lock up the medium in a strong iron cage ;
if then an apparition appeared, you might apply to Mr.
Serjeant Cox for an explanation. Simplex.
Brighton, Sept. 12th.  
SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHY.
Sib,—During a recent visit which I had from my friend
M. A., through whose mediumship have been given the
“ Spirit Teachings,” which from time to time appear in your
pages, I took the opportunity of making some further experi¬
ments in spirit photography, in my own house, and with my
Own apparatus.
On the first occasion M. A. sat with Mr.B., through whose
mediumship, Mr. Beattie and I obtained the photographs
referred to by Mr. Wallace, but we had nothing abnormal
except slight luminous forms. When we next experimented
M. A. and I were alone. At the first exposure I sat, but we
got nothing unusual; M. A. next sat, with a similar result;
but on the third exposure, when he was again the sitter,
besides the normal impression, there appeared a head in
profile. It is hardly strong enough to print from, but is quite
visible as a positive.
The plates were all new; but granting even that this image
was latent on the plate when it came into my possession, it
should have appeared after the first exposure, as the sides of
the plate were coated alternately; and as I sat with my face
directly in front of the lens, it cannot be the remains of the
first impression.
I need scarcely add that during M. A.’s sitting I kept my
eyes on him, and can affirm that he did not move.
Clifton, Sept. 4th, 1874. G. S. Thomson, M.D.
EXPLANATIONS.
Sib,—Lest the truth be hidden in the cloud of words which
appears in your last issue, I, though averse to personal
publicity, reluctantly offer the following remarks.
It is endeavoured to be established, and that too with cer¬
tain sinister imputations, that a commercial connection has
existed betwixt Mr. Burns and myself. To this I take entire
exception, and it is only the want of spiritual perception which
prevents our detractors from seeing the true state of affairs.
In the year 1868, acting under a deep impression of the high
and holy mission of Spiritualism, and with an earnest desire
to take some part in extending its blessings to my fellow-
creatures, I made overtures to Mr. Burns, in whom I then and
ever since, have recognised as a devoted, efficient, and self-
forgetting servant of the truth.
Those who know my circumstances will not need to be told,
that no business or trading motives had anything to do with
these negociations. Mr. Burns, however, not only did not
favour my projects, but most ingenuously pointed to the toils
and slavery of a pioneer in so unpopular a cause as Spirit¬
ualism, and with the utmost candour laid bare the arduous
and uphill future, which in all human probability, awaited
himself and his scheme. Time and further experience have
shown that my fittest sphere lay elsewhere.
Now, had Mr. Burns been actuated by the “ commercial”
motives which are so pertinaciously imputed to him, would
he not have rather encouraged my proposals, and thereby
strengthened his position both personally and pecuniarily ?
During the year named I visited London for the purpose of
conferring with Mr. Burns, and Mr. Everitt—in whose house I
was a guest, and for whom I have ever entertained the
warmest respect and friendship—acted the part of mutual
confidential friend. lam somewhat grieved to find that he
has been induced to assert that the matter was a public and
not a private one. Of Mr. Harrison I know nothing, nor
have I anything whatever to do with his private feelings
towards Mr. Burns. This, however, is true, that by constantly
repeated paragraphs,* The Spiritualist newspaper has omitted
* Not one solitary word of abuse has been uttered against anybody in
this journal; facts only have been stated, which have not and cannot be
denied. In earjy numbers of The Spiritualist Mr. Burns, his work, and
his periodicals, were highly praised for a long time; ihen came an in¬
terval of three years’ silence, during which thousands of pounds—heavy
proportions of which came from Mr. Kilburn, Mr. Swinton, Mr. Mylne,
Mr. Martheze, and others—were used in underselling this journal, and we
worked hard and paid out the consequent heavy losses in complete silence
both in public and private, purely because we believed that the movement
gained some benefit, and that injury to individuals was a minor matter
so long as the interests of Spiritualism were served. Provincial vendors
of spiritual literature can testify that little else than newspaper literature
from Southampton-row has been sold during past years under cost price;
hence the question arises whether a great work has been done for Spirit¬
ualism by expending thousands of pounds belonging to a few individuals
in order that many individuals might be saved an expenditure of a half¬
penny or a penny per week each. The problem as to whether this was
the best way of spending such an enormous amount of capital for the
benefit of the movement, ought to have been publicly considered by elected
disinterested Spiritualists before the expenditure was incurred. If they
decided such a course to be good for the movement, the question should
next have been raised in what manner the capital should be applied and
to what newspapers. We have Kept back this week much that was said at
Maryleboue about Mr. Burns, and some letters, so as to entirely get rid of
the subject, we hope, this week; the facts have only been stated as a
matter of principle, and because they ought to be put on record for
historical purposes, and not out of the slightest trace of personal feeling.
We are all of us more or less the creatures of circumstances; any one man
with the same shaped head and surrounded by the same conditions as any
other man, would commit exactly the same acts under similar circum¬
stances, so we ought to be very charitable to each other.—Eo.
144
THE SPIRITUALIST
Sept. 18, 1874.
no opportunity of damaging Mr. Burns in the eyes of the
people, nor do I ever remember to have seen a solitary ac¬
knowledgment of the world-wide usefulness of the efforts so
faithfully made at Southampton-row. One charge which has
so often been made is that of “ trade interests.” This is so
entirely unfounded as to be either childish or malicious.
Many of Mr. Burns’ friends think that not looking after
“ number one” is his weak point, and wish he had the faculty
a little further developed.
The Spiritualist newspaper also makes some sneering
allusions to Mr. Burns and myself admiring each other in
public.
If I were not a modest man I would say that such a course
is certainly unnecessary, seeing that we are both such favour¬
ites with all who really know us ! But joking apart, what can
this writer mean by making such wanton and baseless assertions ?
A reference to anything which has come from me in this
direction, will show that I have always urged the “ work ” and
not merely the “ man.” It is true, nevertheless, that here, as
elsewhere, the “ survival of the fittest ” is desirable.
Mr. Burns has devoted his life to the spread of truth with
an earnestness and efficiency which is abundantly apparent,
and I have only followed the dictates of my higher nature
when I have urged, as I here again once more most heartily
do, the Spiritualists, to sustain him in his work.
Bishop Auckland, Sept. 14th, 1874. N. Kjlburn, Jun.
THE DOCTBINE OE IMMORTALITY AMONG THE ANCIENT
EGYPTIANS.
Sir,—In the article by M. Constant on The Doctrine of
Immortality among the Ancient Egyptians in your current
number, the word mummery (2nd column, line 15), has, by a
printer’s mistake, been substituted for mummy. Your per¬
mission to call the attention of readers to this error will, in
the interests of the author, greatly oblige
. Crickleaze, Chard, Sept. 12th, 1874. The Translator.
MBS. COBA L. m TAPPAN AT BUEY.
On Wednesday night this lady delivered an “ inspirational
address” in the Co-operative Hall, Knowsley-street, to a
moderate attendance. The Chairman requested the audience
to appoint a committee of five to choose a subject for Mrs.
Tappan to lecture on. Dr. Hale, of Bochdale ; Mr. Amos, Mr.
Robert Kay, Mr. Thomas Slater, Mr. W. Barlow, and Mr. Peter
Seddon were nominated. It was carried almost unanimously
that “ The future of all religion ; will there be only one and
what will it be ? ” should be the subject of the lecture.
The lecturer, towards the close of her remarks said, man
was prone to do with his religion as he had done with his
liberties—barter it away for gold and power, make slaves,
thrones, kings, and empires of it, and if it survived these
it must needs be because it could survive all things and
was of God. The tendency of the youth of the 19th century
was away from any form of worship, while the tendency of
the established forms was to draw closer and closer the lines
that distinguished the distinctive creeds, and allow principles
to escape while the form was being preserved and perpetuated.
The lecturer went on to say that it should be considered a
part of the religion of the 19 th century to see that the
inhabitants of every house were comfortable, that every
family had a loaf of bread, and that every child was pre¬
served from starvation. Such men as Cobden, Bright, and
Peel had done more to Christianise England than all the
preachers together. They believed that those who had
given to England bread free from taxation would in the
future be looked upon as the greatest advancers of
civilisation. If the religion of the future was named
Christianity it would be better to forget the many bloody wars,
terrible devastations, massacre of babes, and other atrocities
which had been done under its name. If some person could
cause those who have a surplus of wealth to give it to those
who are in worse circumstances, and make a poor man the
exception and not the rule, and thus bridge over the chasm
between the classes in the world, he would do a great deal
towards Christianising the people.
Mr. Slater asked if any measures had been taken to secure
the hall for Sundays to hear lectures such as that. He could
subscribe to a religion like that laid down by Mrs. Tappan.
Mr. Ainsworth said the hall was closed against all Sunday
preachers. <
Mr. Slater said if they would send in a requisition to open
it on Sundays, he would push it forward.
Mrs. Tappan then delivered an extemporaneous poem on
* Woman,” a subject chosen by the audience.
The proceedings were then brought to a close with singing
and prayer.—East Lancashire Echo.
The Bury Times of last Saturday contains a long and
well written report of Mrs. Tappan’s lecture in that town.
A Trance Lecture :—Last Sunday Mr. J. J. Morse
delivered his last Sunday evening lecture in London, before
his departure to America, at the Cleveland Hall, under the
auspices of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
The hall was crowded to the doors, and several were unable to
obtain seats. The address dealt with the doctrine of evolu¬
tion, and although there was a great deal in it worthy of
serious consideration, Mr. Morse’s utterance was so rapid that
the thread of his arguments could not be followed. He is a
very good trance medium, and it is to be regretted that most
of a good address should have been thus lost.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Will the author of the letter about Glimpses of a Brighter Land,
and contradictory spirit messages, please send us his name and
address again, as we have a letter for him from the lady who
brought out the book.
M., Northampton—“ Tongues ” and “ songs ” do not rhyme with
each other. “Coming’’and “humming” do rhyme, but it sadly
interferes with the romance of the lines to describe spirits as hum¬
ming by day and night, for the sake of the rhyme.
INSCRUTABLE are the laws that govern the incidence of
some of the greatest calami'ies.—A RAILWAY ACCIDENT is, to
any particular person a (theoretically) remote contingency, but it may
happen, as a matter of fact, the very next jturney undertaken. The risk,
in a pecuniar} sense, may now be covered e uit LIFE by a single small
payment.—Apply for prospectus of the
railway accident mutual assurance company,
Limited,
to
THE MANAGER, 42, POULTRY, LONDON, E.O.,
OE TO
ME. THOMAS BLXTON, AGPNT, 12, HIGH-STREET, BOW,
LONDON, E.
THE “PIONEER OF PROGRESS” PRINTING AND
PUBLISHING COMPANY,
4, KINGSGATE STREET, HOLBORN, LONDON, W.O.
In the Printing Department every arraugement has been made for the
prompt execution of all orders. Printing of all kinds done cheaply and
well. Estimates given.
In the Publishing Department is kept a complete assortment of
Spiritual, Progressive, Reform and Miscellaneous hooks at wholesale and
retail prices. London and country agents supplied with all kinds of
Spiritual Literature in one parcel immediately on publication. Terms:
Cash Payments. Catalogues of books, giving prices, &o., may be had upon
application.  
TO SPIRITUALISTS AND OTHERS.—All who desire
to read the literature of Spiritualism and other progressive move¬
ments, should subscribe to
THE “ PIONEER OF PROGRESS” LIBRARY,
Which contains a large collection of Spiritual and other Progres¬
sive Works. Additions of new and choice books are being made
daily.
Terms: £1 Is. per annum. 10s. 6d. Half-yearly. 2s. Monthly. Cata¬
logues 3d. eadh.
EVERY THURSDAY MORNING.
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS,”
A Weekly Record of Spiritualism, Scientific and Ethical.
And contains articles by Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton, “Fritz,”
Rev. Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes, Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, and other
general information.
ONE PENNY.
Published at 4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn; Wholesale Agent, F. Pitman,
20, Patemoster-row, London, E.O., and can be ordered of any bookseller.
INVESTIGATORS AND ENQUIRERS into Spiritualism may obtain,
gratis, all information concerning the various societies, national and local,
seances, mediums, lecturers, &c.
All communications to be addressed, George Farmer, 4, Kingsgate-street,
Holborn, W.C.
SPIRITUALISM AND REFORM. “ TheBanner of Light”
Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Century. Issued every Saturday, by Oolby and Rich, No. 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, Mass. U.S. Terms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Year, 3,00 dollars. Six Months, 1,50 dollars. Taree Months, 75 cents.
O. & R. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progressive and
Reformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
BEREAVEMENT.—Mr. Lambert, the well-known
medium, has had a serious loss in the death of his brother. His ex¬
penses have been so heavy in maintaining deceased’s wife and numerous
family that he begs Spiritualists to help him. Address—Mr. Lambert, 15,
Sewardstone-road, West, Victoria-park, .F
Sept. 18, 1874,
THE SPIBITUALIST.
in
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
on spiritualists.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Oalder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, 8. W.
Coleman, Benjamin, T, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, "W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21, Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W
Gully, J. M., M.U., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-bill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jeneken, H. !>., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Ross-Church, Mrs. (Florence Marryat), 21, Colville-road, Kensingston-
park, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlaifds, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finohley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thornham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath. S.E.
Davies, Rev. C. Maurice, D.D., 44, Netherwood-road, West Kensington-
park, W.
Dawe, N. F., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road North,
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A.S, 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 6, South-street, Finsbury, a.C.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Dels,mere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphries, H. T, 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-stieet, Hyde-park, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road. Notting-hill, W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-plaee, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex,
Mawson, W. B., 1, Eing’s-square, Goswell-road, E.O.
Meers, W. D., care of T. Everitt, idolders-bill, Hendon.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., United University Club, S.W.
Pearce, C. W., F.S.S, 14. Burnley-road, Stock well, S.W.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29. Dalyell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, M.A.,M.D., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road,'01dKent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Showers, Mrs. Frederika, Hazel Down, Teignmoutb.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietkens, E. A., 18, Oakley-square, N.W.
Wilson, D.. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Olapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square. Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
N. F. Dawe, Esq., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. {Home Corres¬
pondence.)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. {Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary.
Mr. Louis Freeman, York-hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.LM. 1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz bei Potsehach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hummonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor of the Progressive Spiritualist, Melbourne,
Australia.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. Constant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Rue de Rome, Paris.
W. Lindesay Richardson, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Gr. C. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 35, Leipsic.
MISS LOTTIE EOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can be consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
12 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 21, Princes-
street, Hanover- square, two doors from Regent-street.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bernard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended,
Mrs. Woodforde is on a visit in Leicestershire and will be absent
some weeks. Letters addressed as above will be forwarded.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Campden-hill, Kensington.
MR. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several eases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-busht
W. Please write.
ISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER. AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
T V. MANSFIELD, TEST
*3 . Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New Y
Three-cent Stamps.
MEDIUM, answers Sealed
York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Register your Letters.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
VISITORS to LONDON will find Comfortable Bedrooms
and Good Attendance at Mrs. Jackson’s Table dilate. Moderate
Charges. 3, Torrington-street, Torrington-square, London, W.C.
Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d., or with gilt edges 4s.
THE ANGELS.
CONTENTS.
I.—What are Angels ? II.—The Origin of Angels, III.—Seership, IV.—
The Intermediate State. V.—Will the natural body rise ? VI.—What do the
Angels do? (1). For men on earth; (2) For spirits in the world of spirits;
(3) In Heaven.
James Speirs, 36, Bloomsbury-street, London.
SPIRITUALISM
FROM A NEUTRAL STAND-POINT.
A Resume of Evidence-—pro and con.
BY H. VENMAN.
Post-free for 13 Stamps.
Ingle & Co., 20, Pimlico-road, London, S.W.
TO SPIRITUALISTS LIVING NEAR REDHILL.
A married couple wish to enlarge their circle, and would be glad to,
meet with Spiritualists resident in their neighbourhood, of congenial mind,
and desirous of uniting for regular intercourse with friends in the other
life. References expected and given, H. A. A., Post Office, Redhill
Surrey.   '    
THE PROGRESSIVE SPIRITUALIST AND FREE
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman.
Price Threepence. To be had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Libge,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycbologiques,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Soeiete Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
IV
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Sept. 18, 1874,
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows
“ H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., Q-. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. it. Pox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Eev. O. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. 'J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; C. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken,Esq., Barrister-at-law; J.H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceedingfr om
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person. ~
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.'’  
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist .of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
t ouch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the medium ? ” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits, out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person' of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
Tfie best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
AN APPEAL TO SPIRITUALISTS AND FRIENDS.
THE Spiritualists of Sowerby Bridge have, up to the
present time, held their meetings in a cottage at Causeway Head.
This has now been found inadequate, and in order to carry out more pro¬
gressive principles, a new Lyceum has been built to seat about 300 persons in
Hollin’s-lane Sowerby-bridge, along with eight dwellings which are
intended to endow the Lyceum at some future time, when they can be
freed from Mortgage. The Building when complete, will cost above £1,500
of which £1,000 has been obtained on mortgage at the rate of 5 per cent,
per annum, which leaves a debt of over £400. An Appeal to the friends
of Spiritualism is proposed. It is desired that 300 friends will kindly give
£1 each; the remainder will probably be raised at home. Mrs. Cora L.
V. Tappan has kindly consented to open the New Hall, and she heads the
list with a donation of £5. Several friends in the out-district have already
promised £1 each. The Bradford friends are arranging for a benefit of
two Orations to be given by Mr. J. J. Morse, of London, some time in the
month of August.
This is earnestly put before the friends of the movement, as it is impossi¬
ble to borrow money on a School, or Lyceum, owing to the actions of the
School Board. And as this is the first building in the kingdom of Great
Britain, belonging solely to Spiritualism, and as the money will shortly be
due to the various contractors, it is hoped that those who can do something
for the cause will do so. The projectors are all working men, and this is
one of the boldest attempts to carry out the true religion or science of
Spiritualism. It is intended to open the new Lyceum on Sunday,
August 2nd, 1874.
To those who are not in a position to give the amount, smaller sums may
be sent, and to those who cannot give money, tracts, books, spiritual
periodicals, and back numbers of the London Spiritual papers will be thank¬
fully received. As a library is connected with the Institution, those who
can help with books will do good in many Ways. The friends are thankful
for the support and encouragement that have already been given, and
kindly solicit further favour and support.
Donations for this great object can be forwarded to the Secretary,
Henry Lord, Union street. Beech,
July 14th. Sowerby-bridge, Yorkshire
£ s. d.
Amount previously acknowledged towards clearing
the debt off the Sowerby Bridge Progressive
Lyceum    ...  61 5 0
August 9th.—Proceeds of Mr. James Burns’s two
orations   ... 2 2 6
August 16th.—Proceeds of Mr. John Lamont’s two
orations   ...< ...   2 14 4
Thomas Carr   5 0
J. F. C., Glasgow.    5 0
£66 12 4
A parcel of 8 Books and Tracts from James Baistrick, Leeds.
Mr. James Bums has kindly given his services on Sunday, August 9th,
1874, for the benefit of the new Lyceum.
P.S.—The amounts and other gifts will be acknowledged in the London
Spiritualist periodicals.
TO THE READERS OF “ THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to 'William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
op Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.") Published by E. W,
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny.
Animal magnetism and magnetic lucid
SOMNAMBULISM, with Observations and Illustrative Instances of
Analagous Phenomena occurring spontaneously, by Edwin Lee, M.D., etc.
cr. 8vo, cloth new, published at 7s. 6d. Longmans, 1866. Offered for a short
time at 3s. 6d. by Henry Eimpton, 82, High Holbom, London. Other
books on kindred subjects in stock.
In handsome<01oth, price 2s. 6d. post free.
Psychopathy or, the true healing art.
By JOSEPH ASHMAN,
Principal of the Psychopathic Institution, 254, Marylebone-ioad, London,
N.W.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—Introduction.
Dissatisfaction with Ordinary Systems of Medicine—The Nature of
Disease—One primal Principle of Cure—Weakness and Strength—Man
like an Engine—What is Vital Force?—Health, Breath, the Blood—The
Vital Principle beyond these.
Chapter II.—The Vital Principle.
The Stomach—Man a Plant—The Internal Sun—Man a Microcosm-
Caloric—Arterial Combustion—Temperature of the Body—The Nervous
System a Source of Heat—Nerve Force—Diffeience between the Gan¬
glionic and the Cerebral and Cerebro-Spinal Nerves — Office of the
Ganglia and the Cerebellum—Nature of the Vis Nervosa—The Soul
Force.
Chapter III.—On the Nature and Cure op Disease.
The Perfect Magnet—The Healthy Organism—The Source of Vital
Forci—How produced—The Vital Force and Nerve-aura may be Com¬
municated—The Influence of the Old on the Young—The Hand a Psychial
Instrument—The Philosophy of Hand-Shaking.
Chapter IV.—Healing.
Two Vital Fluids—Their Signs—The Vital Magnetic Fluid: Mode of
Applying it—The Power of the Hand over the Temperature of the Body-r
The Nerves the Medium of Influence—Process without Contact—
Healing at a Distance: Marvellous Cures—The Impartation of the Aura
to Water, &c.—Necessity of Passivity and Benevolence—Concluding
Bemarks.
London: J. Burns, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. .W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.C.
