[Registered as a Newspaper,
hi
t 1 ^
iy if iy iy iy
4-
t
SK® joV\\XSi< o^ ^^YdSo^o^id®^ ^dii^Kd^.
^tosppr toii^ ^mtalxsm m Sunt §ntam.
THE SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : 38, Great Russell-street, W.C. (opposite the British Museum), and n, Ave
Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. . LEIPZIG : 2, Lindenstrasse, ROME: The Inter*
national Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES : British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE : 37, Rue Florimont
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK j
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ” Office. MEMPHIS,
U,S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Rearney-street.
No. 190.——(VOL. VIII.—No. 15.) LONDON: FRIDAYj APRIL 14j 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
(Eontents*
Some Chinese Ghost Notions ...   ■ 169
More about Edward Fairfax . ... ...    170
Praise of Sleep ... ... "     171
The Psychological Society of Great Britain:—The Loss of
ihe Strathmore—An Interesting Case of Clairvoyance-
Remarkable Dreams—The Vagaries of the Blanchette—
Supersensous Perception   .... ...   171
A Seance with Mrs. Kate Fox-Jencken  173
Transactions of the National Association of Spiritualists:—
Are We Satisfied with the Moral and Intellectual Status
of Spiritualism ?—Mr. Varley on the Use of Evil Spirits—
The Superiority of Private Spirit Circles—Public Circles
—Original Research in Spiritualism—High and Low
Spirits—Colouring Matter on Spirit Hands—Materialised
Spirits ...'   ... ..*. ... ... 1.. ... ...v ... ... 174
Dew-drops from the Spirit Land   ... ..., ... ... 177
A Lcck of Hair carried from Portsmouth to London by
. Spirits  j    '. ...  177
Provincial News:—UttoxeUr, A Warm Discussion—Liver¬
pool, A Seance with the Bamford Boys; the Psychological
Society ... ... ...  * ...      178
Poetry:—From Night to Morn ...        ..i 179
Correspondence:—New Manifestations in Spiritualism—
Mr. Blackburn’s Seances—Remarkable Manifestations—
Miss Lottie Fowler’s Physical Manifestations—Healing
Mediumship...  .' ...’ ... ,* V..' .:. ... 179
National AssociationSoirea  ... ... 180
Paragraphs:—The Easter Holidays, 170; Levitation in the
Seventeenth Century, 173; New Work on Man, 173;
A Scientific Proposal, 177 ; Spiritualism in Blackfriars,
178; Mr. J. J. Morse in the Provinces ...  180
^Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Half-a-
crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisement* Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street,
London: and orders intended for the Friday s issue should reach the
office not later than by the first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London,
W.O City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
London. E.C. ♦
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
The Second Volume of The Identity of Primitive
Christianity and Modern Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D..
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth,
completes the work.
CONTENTS.
I.—Spirit Writing.
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power.
III. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV, —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
V.—Clairaudience.
VI.—Dreams and Visions.
VII.—Trance and Ecstacy.
VIII.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Contentions.
X.—Prayer.
XT.—The Ministry of Angels.
XII.—Death.
XIII. —The Spirit-World. ‘
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI.—Conclusion.
The above work has just been issued in America, and copies
are now on sale, price 10s 6d. each, at The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.    • -
T> EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
JLV> logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7. Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal,
appears on the 1st and 15th of every month. Price
2d., or 5 francs yearly. Belgium—37, Rue Florimont, Lifege.
London—The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 88, Great
Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
PARIS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist
may obtain it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire dn Kiosque,
246, Boulevard des Capucines, Paris.
Reflexionen aus der GEISTER-
WELT. A Monthly Record of Trance, Spoken, and
Written Communications given at the meetings of the Buda-
Pesth Society of Spiritual Inquirers. Price Is. monthly. Buda-
Pesth: Jocefstadt, 23, ErzherzogAlexandergusse. London:
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
PUBLIC MEETINGS.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances, &c.: Sundays. Healing, at 11 a m.;
Serviceat 7 p.m. Tuesday, Seance at 8 p.m.; is. Friday, Seance at
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class at
8 p.m.; subscribers only.
East London spiritual meetings.—
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Me. Cogman’s
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
Birmingham.—it is proposed to hold a
CONFERENCE and TEA-PARTY at the Athenseum
on Easter. Sunday. Meetings to commence at 11 a.m., 3.0 and
7 p.m. The Spiritualists of Worcester, Coventiy, Leamington,
Wolverhampton, Walsall, Dudley, Bromsgrove, and any other
places in the Midland district, are invited to attend, with the
view of arranging a system of periodic propaganda meetings
at their several localities, including camp meetings during
summer. Those persons who intend to be present are requested
to communicate with the undersigned, in order that arrange¬
ments may be made for dining (with brethren here), and for
the tea-party.—Robert Harper, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
South London association of
INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM. List of meetings
during the week: Sunday, Trance or other Address at Seven ;
Monday, Discussion and Conversational Meeting at Eight;
Tuesday, Developing Circle, at Eight, members only ; Thurs¬
day, Seance at Eight, members only; Fi iday, Seance at Eight,
members only; Saturday, Seance at Eight, • non-members, 3d.
Members Is. per quarter, and 2d. on attending a Seance. Any
further information can be obtained at the rooms on any-
evening. J. Burton, Bon. Secretary.
Price Is. 6|d., post free.
Marriage law injustice. An ex¬
posure of the wrongs sanctioned by the present
Divorce Act, with suggested amendments. By Frederick A.
Binney.
Manchester: Palmer and Howe, 3, Bond-street.
CARDIFF,—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
Of books, and having placed for this purpose the whole of his
private library, consisting of 100 books and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by the
gift or loan of books, assuring them that snch are needed in
Cardiff, where the population is nearly 80,000, and very little
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism. Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berlio, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about animal
magnetism, which has always,elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, hut we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, hut which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.G.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.O.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The
Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of
printing. Estimates forwarded on application.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
The spiritual magazine, edited by
GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Patemoster-
row,
PROFESSOR JAMES REGAN,
PSYCHOPATHIC HEALER,
37, HART STREET, BLOOMSBURY SQUARE,
LONDON, W.C.
Attendance given personally from 12 to 4 daily, Saturdays
excepted. No attendance given on that day. Terms in
accordance with patient’s means. Patients attended at their
own residences by appointment.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends, and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Eveniog.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISE EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
LONDONSlMPKIN, MARSHALL & CO.
MRS. WOODFORDE begs to announce her
CHANGE OF RESIDENCE to 8, Milton-street, Dorset-
square (near Baker-street Station), where she will be glad to
welcome, as of old, all friends and visitors. Physical seances
with two first-class mediums, will be held as usual, every Thurs¬
day and Saturday evenings. Usual manifestations—direct
voice, direct writing, and materialisations (if conditions serve)
of the friends of visitors, also a new materialised musical in¬
strument, played (it is said by Blondel) with remarkable skill
in accompaniment of the musical box. Especial invitations
will be issued for the Saturday evenings, and an introduction
from some well-known Spiritualist is requested fi r the Thurs¬
day evenings. Ail friends who have been in the habit of
attending Mrs. Woodforde’s seance* will always be welcome.
Admission, 5s.
Mrs. Woodfordo is also open to engagements for private
physical seances to be held at her own residence; a few days
previous notice must be given. Names will be received for a
dayligbt seance to be held shortly. With pleasant rooms
open to her visitors, and every effort made to obtain superior
manifestations, Mrs. Woodforde hopes to afford those who
will honour her with their presence, some most agreeable and
satisfactory seances.
gERMONS by T. L. HARRIS.. London Series,
Containing—I.—Modern Spiritualism,
II. —Heart Wants of London.
III. —Christ Incarnate.
IV. —Liberty and Progress.
In limp cloth binding, 6d.; free by post, 7d.
John Thomson,' 39, John-street, Glasgow.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, & GENERAL OUTFITTER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, RE GENT'S PARK.
established, 1833.
Ras a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including
hats, shirts, and umbrellas.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
April 14, 1876,
PRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-stinare, West Brompton, S.W.
'oleman, Benjamin, X, Bernard-viUas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, LUian-villa, Holder s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex^
N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W-
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedrord-mfl, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.B.C.S., 29, Ersklne-street, Islington-sq.^
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwlck-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Kamsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin ft., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.AV.
Speer, StanViope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Helper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W-
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.AV.
Bassett, AV. E., 1, King Edward-st., Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, llichmond-hillj Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Beigate.
Btnney, F. A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinuery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-rond, Holland-road, Kensington, AV.
Colley, Kev. Thos., 11, Belle Yue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D.,38, Great Kussell-street, Bloomsbury.
Cooper, K., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Aranbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, AV.
Dawson, George fl., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Beading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.AV.
Fitton, B , 34, AValnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.AV.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6 Bye-terrace, Peckham Eye, S.E.
Gale, Bichard, 9, AVilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Bobert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Bochdale.
Rinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, AVestbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, II. T., 8, AVest-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, AV.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, AV.
James, Capt.,l, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.AV.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, AV.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 8, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.AV.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, AV. D., Aylsham, Norfolk.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Bichmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C.T., M.B.C.S., 19, Nottingham-place, York-gate, Begent’S
Park., N.AV.
Pearce, Bichard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, E. Dawson. Bose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, M rs. E. Dawson, Bose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
road, S E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Bev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandaie, Central-hill, Upper
* Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G.N., Annandaie, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton. A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. B., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, B. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath,S.E.
Tredwen, B. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
AVilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.AV.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Wifhall, II., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin B. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn AArittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de I’Empereur Bussie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden.
Ahmed Bassim Pacha, Khan de Bassim Pacha a Bahdje Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Bue de Trevise, Paris.
Gregor C. AVittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2c, Leipsic, Germany.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmleld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Bobert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co„New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Bue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 206, West 38th Street, New York,
U.S.A.
A. J. Rikq, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Bev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 13, ViaFatebeneFratelli,Milan.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Bussell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse, 85, Gartenhaus,
Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Bue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
R. Crowell, Egq.l.M.D.|196, Clintou-ayenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A..
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
AV. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 18, Bue d’Acnieres, Paris.
Bev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Bue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Ool. P. Jacoby, 11, Bue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, CayugaCo., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Bue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Bue St. Honore, Paris.
AV. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, AVaitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. AV. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. Hallook, 46, Heretord-roau, Bayswater, W.
Mrs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, AV.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. Lewis
Roberts, 68, Oxford-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirlte etMagnetique. Secretaiy—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Bue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Soiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka Josefstadt, Erzherzog, Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. C. Emery, St. Mary-
street, Cardiff.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association op Spiritualists is formed
to unite Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid
and benefit; to aid students and inquirers in their researches, by
placing at their disposal the means of systematic investigation into
the facts and phenomena,: called Spiritual or Psychic; to make
known the positive results arrived at by careful research; and to
direct attention to the beneficial influence which those results are
calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual con¬
duct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class, whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers
into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in
the year 1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liver¬
pool, at which all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the
Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United Kingdom, were re¬
presented. The amount of the annual subscription to the National
Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year.
Each member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is
eligible for election to all offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wish¬
ing to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss
Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38,
Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury, AV.C.. of whom copies of the Con¬
stitution and Buies may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Wobum-street.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers fob 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. Ainsworth.
Secretary.—"ULr. Lewis Roberts, 68, Oxford Street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Knox.
Committee of Management.—Mr. J. Smith, Mr. James Monk,
Mr. J. Chapman, Mr. G. Brown, Mr. J. Haslam, Mr. Jones,
Mr. William Meredith, Mr. Ainsworth, Mrs. Ainsworth, Miss
Hilton, and Miss Dickson.
ZVustee*.—James Wason, Esq., Mr. John Lamont, Mr. Joseph
Shepherd.
Auditors.—Mx. P. Bretherton, Mr. H, J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation-
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
instruction, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
February, 1875.
THE DUPLEX FUNERAL CAR,
With silvered floral ornaments, violet mouldings, &c., used
(open or closed) at funerals conducted in accordance with the
views of Spiritualists, by
S. HATCHABD AND CO.,
Furnishing Undertakers, Carriage Proprietors, &c
Chief Office: 47, Crawford-street, Bryanston-
SQUARE, W.
Personal attendance at any address on receipt of letter or
telegram.
Art, magic, mundane, sub-mun¬
dane, AND SUPER-MUNDANE SPIRITISM.
The European subscribers to this fine work are respectfully
informed that it has just been sent to press, and will be ready
for delivery on or about the 1st of March. In America, where
the work is published, books can be sent by express, and pay¬
ments collected on delivery. As this plan cannot be pursued in
sending books to Europe without very heavy express charges,
and the secretary, on the author's behalf, does not feel jus died
in sending out such a rare and valuable book unpaid, those
who have not already remitted their subscriptions, and desire
to obtain their copies with the least possible delay, can send
the amount by Post Office Order, cheque, registered letter, or
any other mode most convenient to themselves. The price
of each copy, as before stated, is five dollars, and the postage
(if prepaid) half-a-dollar. Remittances will be immediately
acknowledged, and the book sent by mail (unless otherwise
directed) as soon as ready. — Emma Hardinge Britten,
Secretary for the publication of Art Magic, dec., 206, West 38th-
etreet, New York, America.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb's Oonduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenings (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only; at 8 o'clock each evening.
Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance, healing,
AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing. Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Medinmship. Disorderly Influences
removed. French spoken. At home Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended. Ad¬
dress, 8, Milton-street, Dorset-square.
Notice.—Physical seances, with first-class mediums, held on
Thursday and Saturday evenings of each week. Admission
on Saturdays by special invitation; on Thursdays by introduc¬
tion. No one admitted after eight o’clock. Fee, 5s. Mrs.
Woodforde is also open to engagements for private physical
seances at her own residence; previous notice required; fees
upon arrangement with medium. Address, 8, Milton-street,
Dorset-square (a few doors from Marylebone-road).
JT. RHODES, MEDIUM, is willing to help
• in the formation of Private Circles, and give every
information to Inquirers, within a radius of twenty miles of
Newcastle. Address, SO, Tynemouth-road, Newcastle-on-
Tyne.
MRS. MALTBY, Magnetic Healer, 26,
Southampton-row, Holbom, W.O. Mrs. Maltby
receives patients and others wishing to consult her, daily
between the hours of eleven and five.
-]\/riSS CHANDOS eradicates Consumption,
.ItA Cancer, Insanity, Dypsomania, Nervous and Infantile
Diseases. £1 per visit (within three miles), including specifics.
By post, monthly, £2 2s.
Fall instructions In Mesmerism and Electro-biology, postal
and private, 17, Brunswick square, W.O.
■\TOTICE. — CHANGE OF RESIDENCE. —
JLl Mrs. Olive has removed to 15, Ainger-terrace, Ainger-
road, King Henry’s-road, Primrose-hill, N.W. Three minutes
from Chalk-farm Station; five minutes from omnibus to
Oxford-street or West-end. Seances as usual for clairvoyance,
medical mesmerism, trance, tests, &c. Private seances by
arrangement; public ditto, Tuesdays, 7 p.m., Fridays, 3 p.m.;
admission, 2s. 6d. Visits within ten miles two guineas, in¬
clusive.
PHYSICAL SEANCES, Light and Dark. Mrs. Olive has
arranged for a series of Seances with Mr. Bullock, jnn., on
Mondays at 7 p.m. Admission, 5s. Materialisations and other
interesting phenomena are now constantly produced under test
conditions.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST
AND RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT,
1, Robert street, Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen
by appointment only. Terms on application by letter.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
■VTOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER,
_L v Professor of Curative Mesmerism (80 Years Estab¬
lished), attends patients daily from 2 till 5, at his own resi¬
dence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Oamden Hill, Kensington. Som¬
nambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases, indication of
their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can consult
by letter.
MR. WILLIE EGLINTON, the Physical
Medium being about to make a tour in the Provinces,
desires that all London engagements with him should be made
as soon as possible, as he will probably leave London by the
end of May. He is at liberty to receive engagements during
the day or evening at private houses. Address, Mr. Willie
Eglinton, St. James's House, Walthamstow.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the Great
American Somnambuli it, Spiritual Clairvoyante, and
Test Medium, whose reputation is well-known throughout
Europe and America. Homs, 1 till 8 p.m. Terms, one guinea.
On Fridays and Saturdays, 10s. 6d. To those of limited means
trance seances on Monday evening at 8 p.m., 2s. 6d. Stances for
Spiritualists only on Thursday and Saturday evenings at 8
o'clock, 5s. Miss Fowler does not reply to correspondence,
nor see visitors on Sunday. Address—2, Vernon-place,
Bloomshury-square, London, W.G.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper, branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for 1 Jd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Psychopathic institute for the cure
of Diseases, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church, 74,
Qaeen’s-road, Everton, Liverpool. MR. WALTER ISAAC,
Healing Medium, in attendance daily from 11 a.m. to 4 pm.
Patients treated successfully at a distance. Terms per arrange¬
ment.—J. Coates, Principal.
Psychopathic institution for the
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6d.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price is.; post free Is. Id.—38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.O.; and E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, Pater¬
noster-row, E.O.
jt xil tl j|i| ntfo JSgwi x$ jpIpteSmi
Volume Eiqht. Kumber Fifteen.
LONDON, FRIDAY. APRIL 14th, 1876.
SOME CHINESE GHOST NOTIONS.
(Principally from “ The China Review,” Hongkong, Dec., 1875.)
Amongst the Chinese, whose worship, ritual, and social
habits are largely founded upon ancestral worship or devo¬
tion paid to the spirits of the dead, it is nothing surprising to
find that ghosts and apparitions occupy a greater place in
popular belief than even in Europe. As they themselves say,
“ China is full of ghosts.” There is scarcely a popular play
in which a ghost does not act a conspicuous part, and is usually
the instrument in bringing about dramatic justice. One
peculiarity of Chinese ghosts is that they do not always fully
“ materialise,” but are frequently seen in incomplete form,
the head first becoming visible, then the feet, then the
body, and so on. Another quaint belief is that ghosts have
no chin, and to say to a Cantonese 11 Ni mo ha-pa ”—You’ve
no chin—is equivalent to saying a You’re a ghost.” Like
English ghosts they appear during the hours of darkness, and
are compelled to vanish at cock-crow; but the conven¬
tional white clothing is absent from the Chinese idea. A
ghost in China always appears in the dress he commonly
wore during life, and his advent is announced by candles
burning, not blue, but green; the Greeks called supernatural
u green fear ” A somewhat contemptuous idea seems
to prevail amongst the Chinese regarding the intelligence
possessed by ordinary ghosts. They are usually spoken of as
stupid and easily amenable to the control of those who
remain self-possessed, but as ghosts who have left no rela¬
tions, or whose living kindred are too poor to provide the
usual offerings, are apt to become malicious, cause epidemics,
and do a great deal of harm, on the 17th of the 7th moon a
ceremony is very generally observed, called “ Appeasing the
burning mouths,” which consists in laying out plates filled
with cakes, and bearing above them invitations to the
“ Honourable Homeless Ghosts,” but only disreputable
ghosts thus consent to become pauper spirits and live on
charity. Ghosts of idols are not unknown to the Chinese.
“ Ten years ago, when the rebels infested the country, the
people of Canton reported that the ghost of the idol Kwan-
yin, her body dressed in white and a yak’s tail in her hand,
perambulated the city wall, protecting the rampart,” and a
few years ago the Pekin Gazette officially recorded that the
Mahometans were scared away from besieging the city of
Chang-wei by a terrible vision of ghosts of the gods of the
city “clad in mail, and armed with swords and shields,
drawn up in battle-array, numerous as forest trees, all along
the top of the city wall.” This recalls, but in reverse order,
Longfellow’s verses, in which ghosts were the assistants—
I have read in some old marvellous tale,
Some legend wild and vague;
That a sheeted host of spectres pale
Beleaguered the town of Prague.
Animals also have their ghosts. A resident at Canton,
named Ling, had a very intelligent monkey, which having
been severely whipped for some mischief, became sulky,
refused food, and died. Shortly after the monkey’s ghost
began to haunt the house. Food placed on the tables
mysteriously disappeared, and strange annoyances took
place. At length a fire broke out in the house unaccount¬
ably, and Mr. Ling shifted his residence. But the monkey’s
ghost still followed, and persecuted him. Again he
moved, and again the ghost accompanied him, until as a
last resource he took a room in the Temple of the Five
Hundred Worthies; the monkey-ghost did not dare to face
the gods, and left him in peace. Mr. Ling was still residing
in the Temple last year.
Ghost stories of the ordinary kind are numerous, and the
writer in the Review, who is evidently no Spiritualist, con¬
fesses that “ sometimes they leave a bond fide impression of
the marvellous, which can neither be explained nor rejected.”
Ir Two or three are selected in conclusion. A mandarin met
| his death in the late collision between the Chinese steamer
I Fusing and the British steamer Ocean, The Fusing was
| sunk, and over sixty people drowned. The mandarin’s
| ghost appeared to his wife, who was living in Soochow,
| streaming with water from head to foot. He told her he had
I been drowned, and that he had sent by a certain friend some
il money for her use before he took passage in the Fusing, and
| that the friend would arrive shortly. Two days after the
| friend named arrived with the money, and shortly after came
| the intelligence of the Fusing’s disaster. The commander of
| a Chinese man-of-war belonging to the Foochow Arsenal
I fleet was taken suddenly ill, and died at a friend’s house.
| After his death the friend frequently saw his ghost, and one
| night addressed it, saying, “ You should not lament; it was
| your fate ; you should be satisfied with it.” Thereupon the
| ghost disappeared, and never showed itself again to the same
| party, but continued often to appear to the men on board the
ship he had been commanding, being frequently seen to pace
up and down the deck, as he was wont during his lifetime at
| night, and would sometimes place himself in the attitude of
| drilling the men. A European resident lately received the
! following excuse from his Chinese teacher for some days’
| absence. Three years before, a soldier going to the wars had
| left forty dollars in charge of the teacher’s uncle, and must
| have been killed, nothing having been heard of him since
| “ the day before yesterday.” The teacher continued—“ My
| uncle called us to his bedside, and told us he was about to
| die. The soldier, he said, had appeared to him and insisted
| that my uncle should immediately join him in the under-
j world. No fault had been committed by my uncle. The
I money was all right in a drawer, but he felt the summons
| must be obeyed, and died that day. Of course it was impos-
j sible in such circumstances I could come to your Excellency’s
j place to study.” The foregoing are recent instances,
] printed in the newspapers, and vouched for by the parties
| concerned. They could all be closely matched by European
j examples.
Here is a parallel to the celebrated Berkeley-square story.
| It must be noted that the ghosts of suicides are distinguished
by wearing red silk handkerchiefs. “ Outside the north gate
| at Hang-chow there was a house haunted by evil ghosts,
| where no human being dared reside, of which the doors were
| ever barred and locked. A scholar named Ts’ai bought the
j house ; people all told him he was doing a dangerous thing,
but he did not heed them. None of his family would enter
I the house, so Ts’ai went by himself, opened the doors, lit a
candle, and sat down. In the middle of the night a woman
| slowly approached, with a red silk handkerchief hanging to
| her neck, and having saluted him, fastened a rope to the
| beam of the ceiling, and put her neck in the noose. Ts’ai
| did not in the least change countenance. The woman again
I fastened a rope, and called on Ts’ai to do as she had done,
I but he only lifted his leg, and jpit his foot in the noose. The
| woman said, ‘ You’re wrong.’ Ts’ai laughed and answered,
! 1 On the contrary, it was you who were wrong a long time
i ago, or else you would not have come to this pass.’ The
I ghost cried bitterly, and having bowed to Ts’ai, departed,
| and from that time the house was no longer haunted. This
| Ts’ai was afterwards a very distinguished scholar, known as
I the Provincial Chancellor.” The present writer remembers
| having read some time ago a curiously similar story of a
| police-cell in which a woman had committed suicide by
I hanging herself, after which inmate after inmate continued
j to attempt to do the same, till at last a girl declared that a
| fiendish little old woman appeared in the cell at night, and
I commanded her to hang herself, which she felt irresistibly
| impelled to attempt doing. The cell, it was said, had to be
i closed and abandoned. Another wildly grotesque story runs
April 14, 1876.
170
THE SPIRITUALIST.
thus. At Nanchang, in Kiang-si, lived two literary men
who were close friends, and read together; one was elderly,
the other young. The elder went home and suddenly died;
the younger did not know of it, but continued studying.
One night, when he was in bed, his old friend opened the
bed-curtains, and put his hand on his shoulder, saying,
“ Brother, I left you but ten days since; a sudden sickness,
however, carried me off. I am a ghost; but, remembering
our friendship, I am come to bid adieu.” The young man
was astounded and could not speak, but the old man re¬
assured him, and bade him not fear, adding that he desired
to ask a favour. The young man grew calmer, and at length
agreed to do what the glost might ask, who then requested
him to undertake arranging some matters concerning his
mother, wife, and literary works. The young man assenting
to all this, the dead man stood up and said, u As you have
been kind enough to grant my requests, I will depart.” He
was turning to go, when the young man, who had observed
(and no wonder) that there was a great deal of human
feeling in him, and also that his appearance was much as
usual, lost all fear of the ghost, and desired him to stay
awhile and talk over their old friendship. The dead man
wept, came back, and sat on the bed, and conversed some
time, then again stood up, and said, “ I must now go.” He
stood up but did not move; his eyes stared, and his features
began to change horribly. The young scholar became
frightened, and said, “ Now you had better go,” but the
dead thing stood still and did not depart; the young man
shivered and burst into a cold sweat, still the ghostly guest
wrentnot, but stood glaring by the bed. In horror the young
man sprang out andran away. The ghost ran with him, and the
faster he ran, the faster ran the ghost. After a mile or so of
this fearful race, they came to a wall, over which the young
man vaulted, and fell to the ground. The dead man could
not get over the wall, but leaned across, with his head
hanging over. At day-break some passers by saw and
revived the young man. Meanwhile the family of the dead
man had lost the corpse, and sought vainly for it, but
when they heard the news of a corpse leaning over a wall,
they went there, recognised it as belonging to them, took it
home, and buried it.” Strangely and grimly grotesque as
this story may appear, it is remarkably paralleled by several
tales in Mr. Ralston’s collection of Russian popular stories,
in which dead bodies give chase to mortal men, whose only
refuge is in a chapel. This wild and weird belief extends
from China to Russia and Iceland. In the Saga of Gretter
the Strong, the hardest of all the mighty feats of the gigantic
hero was the subduing and quieting of the murdered thrall
Glam, whose hideous body haunted his master’s house, and
broke the backs of all, men or cattle, who encountered him;
and in mediseval romance, Lancelot of the Lake,
“ In the dim chapel Perilous,
Despising spells and demons’ force,
Holds converse with unhuried corse.”
Again, in the deeply pathetic Scottish ballad, the dead
mother hears her children, ill-treated by a cruel step-mother,
weeping and lamenting in the night, and, leaving her grave
in the lonely churchyard, glides into their chamber, and
plays with and caresses them till cockcrow. The vampire
stories of the Mediterranean seem to be a horrible variation
of the same general idea. Two very dissimilar notions re¬
specting ghosts appear indeed to prevail popularly side by
side. One, the more general, regards them as shadowy, im¬
palpable visions, appearing and vanishing like bubbles.
“ Ghostlike” has become a synonym for airy tenuity. The
other conceives the dead body reanimated in some ghastly
way, or a material double of it somehow mysteriously pro¬
duced, moving and acting again weirdly amongst the living.
Whether this strange idea can have originated from, or be
connected with the phenomena of “ materialisation ” that for
the last few years have excited such astonishment and incre¬
dulity, may perhaps be discussed by inquirers.
The Easter Holidays.—We are requested to call attention to the
fact that the offices of the National Association, at 88, Great Russell-
street, will be closed during the Easter Holidays, from Thursday, 13th,
to Thursday, 20th, inclusive,
MORE ABOUT EDWARD FAIRFAX.
In TAe Spiritualist of April 7th, interesting particu¬
lars are recorded concerning some cases of mediumship in
the Fairfax family. The extracts are made from an old
book entitled A Discourse on Witchcraft as it was Acted in
the Family of Mr. Edward Fairfax ^ of Fuystone, in the County
of York, in the year 1621. The original book was written
(as is stated in The Spiritualist in which the account is
printed) by 11 Edward Fairfax of Fuystone, a relative of Sir
Thomas Fairfax, who was afterwards created Lord Fairfax
and Baron of Cameron by King Charles.” This Edward
Fairfax, it is further stated, u was a gentleman of letters,
and, among other works, wrote a history of Edward the
Black Prince.” The extracts here alluded to were taken
from one of “ a very few copies printed and distributed by
Lord Houghton, which had been lent to the editor.”
In the preceding number of The Spiritualist, I recorded
in the course of the u Spirit Teachings ” a case (one of many
given about two years ago, April 8th, 1874) of personal
identit}r. On opening the book in which these communica¬
tions were written, I found that on April 5th and four fol¬
lowing days a long account of the harmony of various reli¬
gions was written. This I proposed to omit from the
(C Teachings ” for the time being, and I turned to the next
communication, written April 12th, 1874. After some
unimportant replies to questions arising out of previous
messages, on turning over the leaf my eye rested on a
fac-simile signature—“Edward Fairfax.” The fact that
such a spirit had written for me had escaped my memory,
but on reading the message I recalled the fact. I append a
verbatim copy of the communication, which, if only for the
remarkable coincidence of it with the notice of the Fairfax
medium in The Spiritualist of April 7th, is worth careful
noting.
“ We have a new spirit here who will communicate with you. His
name is Edward Fairfax, son of Sir Thomas Fairfax of Denton.
I do not know him. Do If
No ; he will be attached to us for a while. He was a poet in earth-
life, and translated Tasso’s noble poem, Jerusalem Delivered, into
powerful and good verse.
Can he give any particulars of himself t (A question I invariably
asked, and one which was nearly always met by a sort of biography of
the spirit, as it were, by way of introduction.)
There is but little to tell. His elder brother became Lord Fairfax of
Cameron. His two brothers were men of war, soldiers by instinct.
He was a man of peace. Lord Fairfax of Cameron was knighted for
distinguished service before Rouen. He greatly distinguished himself
in the army sent to help Henry the Fourth. His younger brother
gained renown at the siege of Ostend, and at the battle of Newport.
1 hese scraps of information were written out piece by piece, and not
rapidly and consecutively. It was as though the amanuensis ivere record¬
ing facts told by another spirit as they were recollected piecemeal. I
inquired further when and where he lived.
He was born towards the end of the 16th centmy, and passed from
earth about the year 1630. He lived near his elder brother Lord Fair¬
fax at Newhall. He wrote also a metrical life of the Black Prince, as
well as some pastoral poetry.
Here was appended a bold signature—Edward Fairfax—in writing
totally different to that which preceded, and which is that used by the
spirit Rector who usually acts as amanuensis. I enclose an imperfect trac¬
ing of the autograph. Then the usual writing was resumed:—
He writes with pain, but it is he who wrote. -p Rector.
I had no further definite communication from Edward
Fairfax then or since, so far as I can remember, though he was
mentioned as being present sometimes. It was the habit then
to permit such communications as these for the purpose of
confirming my faith in the identity of the communicating
intelligences : and this is one of several cases which I should
not have thought it worth while to print but for the remark*
able manner in which, though written two years ago, it fits
in with the article previously alluded to. It is well to say
that I have never seen or heard (until this morning, when I
read the article) of the book named: that I knew nothing of
any intention to print any account of the Fairfax case in
The Spiritualist, and that I was not aware that Edward
Fairfax had ever been brought in contact with (what we
should now call) Spiritual manifestations.
But now that I do know this fact, it adds one more name
to the list of those who have returned to communicate with
men, and who are known to me either to have possessed the
gift of mediumship during their life on earth, or to have
been brought into contact with that power, or to have taken
an interest in observing its action in others. I have noticed
April 14, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST. 171
this so frequently that it has come to take shape in my mind
as a probable law that mediumship is a property of the
spiritual body, perpetuated after death : and moreover, that
old interests and investigations have a charm for the dis¬
embodied spirit, and suffice to form the attraction which
draws it back to earth: though as a rule they do not long
hold it there. Unless a spirit has a definite work of duty or
affection to discharge, it does not long hover near the sphere
of earth. But its old interests do suffice, I believe, to lure
it downward for a while, stimulating a feeling, perhaps, akin
to curiosity. Nor is it at all improbable in my mind that
the spiritual gift of mediumship may enable the spirit dis¬
embodied to become the vehicle for the communion of other
spirits with us, just as on our side mediums are the links
between us and the world of spirits. It commends itself to
me as a beautiful and suggestive thought that there are
links in the chain on either side, and that (if I may
quote a communication written for me at quite another
time) “ at the edge of the gulf that separates the
world of spirit from the world of matter the inter¬
mediate stand—the spirit incarnate and the spirit dis¬
embodied—and form, with hands entwined, the chain of com¬
munion through which are transmitted the messages of those
who can find no utterance for themselves.” M. A. (Oxon).
April 7th, 1876.
PRAISE OF SLEEP.
( Given through the Inspirational Writing Mediumship of a Lady.')
And let us together praise our Almighty Father, our
Creator, for His wonderful and admirable gift of sleep in its
varied degrees. For sleep hath indeed truly been termed
11 the brother of death,” seeing that sleep, like death, doth
unfold before our senses the glory-roll of future being, as
well as the blazoned chronicle of the cherished past, making
alive that which was dead, and setting free the locked-up
faculties of our latent spiritual being, whereby we can walk
the waters and fly with the winds—can, in the twinkling of
an eye, make the circuit of the globe and fathom the depths
of the ocean, or ascend unto the stars.
Yea, through sleep we may become the peers of kings, of
philosophers, of poets; even consort with saints and behold
the glory of archangels.
Dost thou need enlightenment? Ask of the Father for
wisdom, and lo! He in thy sleep giveth thee to drink from
the crystal cup cf the Divine Sophia, and thy lips shall be
full of the sweetness of her wine when thou again awakenest
into the life of earth.
Dost thou need comfort? Ask of the Father, and lo! in
thy sleep He giveth it unto thee ; for the soft white breast
of the bird of comfort shall be thy pillow, and thou shalt rest
there, and grow strong in peace.
Dost thou need hope? Ask of the Father, and He in thy
sleep will send thee unto the bright-garmented messenger,
His Iris, and the meadows shall glow in thy dreams with the
emerald splendours of the heavenly land, and thou walk
knee-deep in flowers, whilst skies of sapphire, of rose, and
of amber bend over thee, and the horizon stretches around
thee of a glorious, and by thee untrodden land, where youth
fades not, and where the shadows of death and disappoint¬
ment come not anear.
Art thou poor? Art thou bereft of kindred and of friends?
Ask the Father for consolation to thy desolated and weary
heart, and He in thy sleep will build for thee a palace where
thou shalt be clasped in the arms of thy tenderest beloved
ones, and care and sighing and sorrow shall fly far away.
Art thou bowed down with age and with world-weariness ?
Ask of the Father, and lo! in thy sleep thou art filled with
the glow of eternal youth, and thy fair and stalwart body
giveth thee the foretaste of divine strength, and the exulta¬
tion as of a youthful God; the blood runneth rejoicing
through thy veins, and thy nerves and sinews praise the
glory of their Creator, and rejoice in the new circle of labour
His beneficence appointeth for them.
Yea, 0 man! there be no things that are seemly and com¬
fortable, that are brave and of a delightful poesy, that
cometh not from the Father of men to the sleep of men.
If man knew how sleep was the revealer of the mysteries
of death, would man not woo her ?
And if he knew that she were the inspirer of poetry and
of eloquence, and of the fairest and divinest forms of art,
would he not woo her ?
Would he not woo her as the whisperer of the hidden
things of science of all kinds, as the interpreter of the
mystic languages of nature, whose fair and magical garments
are inscribed by the hand of God with runes whose meaning
seems so bitter to the outward senses, but so sweet when
revealed to the spirit of man.
Yea, did man but know how near to the gates of heaven
standeth this wonderously fair and wise virgin, the veiled
angel of sleep, he would nightly, ere he sinks to rest upon
his bed, softly and beseechingly pray that her Creator and
his would bid her be anigh him as his muse, his tutoress
and guide through bis humanity’s childhood, so that in
due order he, as worthy pupil of one so celestial, may, on
awakening out of the long sleep of earthly life, having
graduated as apt and accomplished scholar in her school of
spiritual learning, be fitted to enter the higher and more
blissful life whereto her mightier and yet more occult brother
stands ever at the opal gates as janitor and herald I C.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
On Thursday evening last week, at the ordinary fortnightly meeting
of the Psychological Society, held at 11, Chandos-street, Cavendish-
square, London, Sir John Maxwell presided.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed, and three
new members were elected.
THE LOSS OF THE “ STRATHMORE.”
Mr. Serjeant Cox said that he was not aware during the last meet¬
ing that the lady medium, through whom the statement about the loss
of the Strathmore had been made to those interested, was present on
the occasion, but, having been informed of that circumstance after¬
wards, he asked her what actually took place. She replied that a
gentleman living at Maidenhead had two sons on board the Strathmore^
and, although an utter disbeliever in Spiritualism, he came to consult
her in consequence of the advice of his friends. She replied that
directly he mentioned the loss of the ship, and the circumstance that
his two sons were on board, a picture appeared in her mind of a ship
lying upon a rock, with some human beings upon it. Among these her
attention was specially riveted on one young man, upon which she ex¬
pressed the opinion that one of his sons was saved, and the other
drowned. The inquirer was a great brewer, and directly he received this
information he wrote it down and sent it to the owner of the Strath¬
more, giving the particulars as to how it had been obtained. The
clairvoyant had said that it was a picture in her mind, and that she did
not know how it came there.
AN INTERESTING CASE OF CLAIRVOTANCE.
He had another interesting case to bring under their notice, sent to
him by a surgeon whose prejudices were altogether opposed to the facts
he narrated. Miss A , the subject of the few remarks he was about
to make, was, at the time of the occurrences which he had to set
forth, about nineteen years of age, and had been for three years
frequently attacked by spasmodic hysterical croup of a violent cha¬
racter. She had therefore been bled by his partner some 250 times.
The surgeon who gave the account further narrated that one day
in the absence of his principal he went to see her, and her breathing
was so bad that he heard her when he was two fields distant from the
house. He thought the treatment to which she had been subjected to
be absolutely destructive, so he formally refused to carry it out, con¬
sequently the whole family almost abused him. To remove the bone
of contention from the sick-room he asked them to follow him to the
extreme room of the long house ; between the two rooms there was a
long passage and staircase, with a door at the bottom of the staircase.
In the sitting-room he began to tell her friends that she was much
under the influence of her own will, and was rendered worse by the
treatment to which she had been subjected. Then her mother put
her hands before his mouth, and said that her daughter upstairs
could hear every word he uttered. He therefore collected all
the family, servants included, in the sitting - room, after which
he went to the patient’s apartment, where she was spasmo¬
dically breathing. Then he came downstairs, closing the door between,
and in an ordinary tone of voice denounced the treatment, and said
that she could cure herself by endeavouring to overcome the tendency
to the attacks. Then he returned into the bedroom, finding all the
doors closed as he had left them. When he reached it, Miss A.
repeated word for word all that he had said to her friends in the room
below. She was placed under his treatment, and gradually recovered.
On another occasion she had a dream. His partner went to her across
a town of large extent during a heavy snowstorm, and on returning to
his own house, dispatched a boy with physic; the boy did not reach
his destination, and the snowstorm extinguished all traces of him.
Two weeks after the boy was lost, the patient said to her sister that
she knew where Tom was; that he would be found standing by the
right-hand gatepost of a field with some medicine in his hand, which
was pressed, against his left breast; he was actually found in this
position. The latter fact had been related to him by friends of the
invalid, and he did not doubt its accuracy.
172
THE SPIEITUALIST.
April 14, 1876.
Mr. Wedgwood asked if one of the sons of the Maidenhead brewer
had been saved from the Strathmore.
Mr. Serjeant Cox replied that he did not know.
REMARKABLE BREAMS,
Mr. F. K. Munton remarked that some time since ihe Psychological
Society publicly invited medical men to give it cases of abnormal
psychological facts, which had come within their own experience,
so a medical friend of his residing in London, had contributed the fol¬
lowing, as narrated by a lady friend of his :—She said that in the year
1863 she had many remarkable dreams. She was then head governess
in a large school, and in consequence of having suffered a severe
mental shock she was thrown into a state in which she lived a double
life ; she tried to be a perfect teaching machine, but after getting to
sleep at night, she found herself living among those she had loved and
lost. She saw her body in bed, and would try to re-enter it; the effort
would sometimes wake her. One night about the end of April she
thought that she was paying her usual visit to her London home, and
that her friends were about to remove; then there was an odour of
fallen leaves, and she found herself in an old fashioned house out of
repair. The arrangement of the house was peculiar, and she had an
impression that a grave trouble was coming in the future, to which all
past trials would be as nothing. Some minutes afterwards her sister
told her that she had some news to give her, and the reply was that
they were about to leave their home. The sister asked how she knew
it, to which she replied “Never mind.” When they arrived at the new
house, the smell of fallen leaves awoke her recollection. She recognised
the house of her dream, even to the smallest minute details, but
strangely enough the trouble which darkened her dream, seemed to
have vanished, but it returned some years afterwards.
THE VAGARIES OF THE PLANCHETTE.
The Secretary remarked that he had another communication which
related to the uses of the planchette. Two members of Oxford
University had written to him, telling him how they had tried to use
the planchette in their rooms at Oxford. They composed a chant;
then they ruled lines upon paper, after which the planchette pro¬
ceeded to write the notes ; afterwards at their request it wrote the bass
to accompany the treble, and the two agreed perfectly. It gave the
time and the key perfectly. The friend of the writer of the com¬
munication did not play any instrument, and he himself played only
by ear ; together they were quite incapable of any musical composition.
They asked questions of the planchette about an approaching examina¬
tion, and received a remarkable answer which appeared to be foreign
to their own minds.
M r. C. C. Massey remarked that there was a case in Mr. Crookes’
book in which the intelligence did not seem to come from his own
mind. He put his finger upon a newspaper, thus covering a word, and
asked what it was. The planchette told him that it was the word
“ however,” which was true ; that seemed to dispose of the theories of
Dr. Carpenter.
Mr. Serjeant Cox announced that the society had had a letter from
Colonel Lane Fox, suggesting that it should draw up a list of technical
terms for simultaneous use by two societies, in which the meanings
of such terms should be accurately defined. He suggested that after
it had been drawn up by the Anthropological Institute and the
Psychological Society, it should be referred to the British Association,
and then published by each of the three societies. He (Mr. Serjeant
Cox) saw great difliculties in carrying out the plan; still no science
could make much progress without agreeing upon different terms. It
did not so much matter that those terms were exactly right, as that all
the members of the societies should attach the same meaning to them
when used.
Mr. Stainton Moses asked, supposing the work were done, would
the British Association agree to it ?
Mr. Serjeant Cox replied that he thought that it would not; at the
same time it was as well to bombard them with all the good measures
they could.
Mr. F. K. Munton then read the following letter from Professor
Rothwell—
SUPERSENSUOUS PERCEPTION.
Sir, —About thirty years ago I lived in a capital city of Germany.
My occupation led me forth at 8 o’clock in the morning, and I did not
return till one, my mind during the time being consciously actively em¬
ployed. As soon as I reached my own door, and raised my hand to
ring the bell, I saw all the persons who had called during my absence,
and even the postman with the letters, pass before my mind’s eye as
in a dissolving view, and always in the same order as that in which
they had come. Many of those persons I saw afterwards, but several
of them I never saw in my life, for they never called again, and yet to
this day their faces, dress, &c., are quite clear in my imagination, and
even their apparent ages ; they were all between twenty and twenty-
eight. Of the postman I only saw the dark figure, his person was of
no importance to me, but his hand and the number of letters, one, two,
three, were quite distinct. When this phenomenon occurred to me for
the first or second time, I was quite astonished, and could not account
for it. Some days’ reflection, however, led me to a solution, which was
sufficient for me at least. Socrates says in one of his discourses:—
“ The mind of every person has the power to foresee or foretell events ;
that is, a man thinks with interest of some event, which may or may
nut happen in the future, and the mind holds fast to that which will
really happen.” For instance, there is a warm and angry dispute
between two nations; will it lead to war? A great battle is
expected ; which side will win ? A vessel sails from one port to
another, as the Strathclyde from London to Bombay; will she
arrive safe ? From my own experience I would add that the mind
must solve the question unconsciously, and that it must take a warm
interest in the event. I have no doubt that during my absence from
m1 home from eight to one o’clock, the mind, unknown to me, was occu-
|)j pied with the thought as to whether any person or persons might have
|(i called, and also respecting the postman and the letters, and had formed
jij its conclusion the moment I was about to ring, and hence the apparent
|l’i vision.
j(| In the winter of 1847 two noble Polish families took up their resi-
ji dence in the town in which I then lived. With these families I soon
i| j became intimately acquainted, and in one of them I took great interest.
j|i They were a young couple. Count B  was twenty-one years of
jjj age, the Countess eighteen. The latter was more amiable than beauti-
|) | ful, and her inexperience, candour, and innocence, not frittered away
! I in the stream of gay society, endowed her with a charm which beauty
jjj cannot bestow. One day her cousin, Count Y called to pay me a
||| visit, and after the usual compliments, and remarks about the weather,
! (j the general introduction to many conversations, he asked whether I had
jjj heard what had happened to his cousin? I replied I had not, and hoped
| | it was nothing disagreeable. He then informed me that all his money
| j | had been stolen, and that the circumstance was so much the more un-
||| fortunate as there was no possibility of getting money for some time,
||| as their part of Poland was in a state of revolution. I expressed my
|j| regret, and inquired how much the sum was. He answered 1,500
|j| florins. The conversation then turned on politics, for the Poles are all
Hi great politicians, when they know they may speak their opinions with-
|(j out fear of being denounced. At length Count Y  rose to depart.
| jj On which I asked him whether he should see his cousin that evening ?
iji He replied, “Certainly.” Well, then, give him my compliments, and
i}| tell him not to be uneasy about his money, as he will get it all again,
|ji with the exception of 100 florins, but that is lost.” He regarded me
||| with astonishment, and asked me how I knew that? I replied I could
|(1 not explain to him how, but I knew it, and knew also that the 100
||| florins would never be found, of that there was no doubt.
||| A few days afterwards I paid a visit to Count B . He was not
| j | at home, but the young Countess complained to me of their serious loss
| j| at such a time. I asked whether her cousin had not informed her of
I}] what I had told him, but she had heard nothing of it. I repeated to
| j | her my statement to Count Y , but she seemed to look upon this as
!|j a sort of kind consolation, as all the prophets had been long since
j(j dead.
|j| Three weeks had passed away, and yet no trace of the money; the
!|! police had searched everybody and everywhere, but nothing could be
j(| found. Some persons connected with the family, who had heard of
! j | my positive assertion, and who had given up all hopes of recovering
!|j the lost property, said to me,»“ Well, sir, where’s the money? ” “ The
|(I money,” replied I, “is all safe. I never said when it would be found,
|j| I only asserted it would be found, and of that I am as convinced as
;|! that we are standing here.” The very moment I had uttered these
11 words came the jftrm conviction, and I added—-“ Now I can tell you
ji what I could not before, for in fact I had never thought of the when
jj or where ; the money will be found next Wednesday morning.” And
jj so it was, at nine o’clock, but the 100 florins, as I had foretold, were
jj lost. This may appear rather extraordinary; for me it is quite simple,
|j on the principle of Socrates. From the time Count Y had told me
jj of the loss, my mind was unconsciously occupied with the question
jj whether the money would be found, whether the whole or only a part
jj of it, and the moment he stood up to depart the Jirm conviction was
jj there as above stated.
jj Of an imaginary voice, such as Stokes speaks of, I have had but
ji one instance in the whole course of my experience. In the year 1849,
jj the cholera was very bad in Vienna. The young Princess W , who,
jj with the exception of her own immediate family, had all her dearest
jj relations there, expressed to me her great anxiety for their safety,
jj I gave her that sort of cheap consolation in which every one is more or
jj less rich, and of which people are generally very liberal. Three days after
jj I was occupied writing in my study, when, in the middle of a sentence,
j j a voice, an imaginary one, of course, expressed clearly :—“ None of the
jj relations of the Princess W will die of the cholera in Vienna.” I
jj immediately took a piece of paper, and wrote down the above words,
jj simply adding, “ All right!’’ and continued my occupation. I informed
jj the Princess the next day that she might be perfectly tranquil about
j j the cholera, as none of her relations would die of it; whether they would
j j get the disease or not, was not at that moment in my power to say. I
j i left the town before the question could be decided ; however, in duo
(j time I received in the Pyrenees a letter from the Princess informing
j me that what I had so confidently predicted had turned out perfectly
j true. I can only account for the imaginary voice by supposing that, as
\ j the conscious faculties of the mind were at the time actively employed,
'j the unconscious faculty had to resort to other than the usual means to
[j claim my attention, the same as in telegraphing the bell rings to an-
i j nounce that a telegram is on the way.
'j Two hours after I had read in the papers that the vessel to lay the
[j first telegraphic cable between Europe and America had sailed from
il Queenstown, I had the conviction that the undertaking would succeed ;
j this conviction, however, was one of the weakest, the least defined I
ever had, and I was curious to know the result. The enterprise suc¬
ceeded, but as is well known, it was not a success, and this corre¬
sponded completely with my own feeling about the matter. Two hours
j after I had read that the ship had departed on the second attempt, I was
perfectly convinced that it would not succeed, and one hour after the
Great Eastern sailed on the third attempt, I had the full and sure con-
j viction of complete success.
j In the course of recent years I have had fewer intimations concerning
dubious questions, and cannot exactly say whether this arose from the
circumstance that fewer questions particularly interested me, or from
a weakening of this unconscious faculty or power of the mind, perhaps
from both. The last firm conviction of the kind I have had was in the
year 1866. A family with whom I was very intimate had a son, an
officer in the Austrian army, at that time in Italy, and in this young
April 14, 1876,
THE SHlHlTtl ALIST,
173
man I took particular interest for his own sake, as well as for that of his
family. The news of the great battle of Custozza arrived, stating that
20,000 men had been killed or wounded. A quarter of an hour after I
had read the news, came the fixed conviction, “ Ernest von E—the
name of the young officer, is safe, he is not killed, not even .wounded.
I communicated the good news to his mother, who was quite in de¬
spair, having telegraphed several times without receiving an answer.
I may remark here that I was never deceived in any conviction I
ever had.
Strange to say I could never receive an intimation of anything
concerning myself or family, although there were many things of great
importance to me, which I much desired to know. This I can only
account for by supposing that the conscious wish to know prevailed over
the unconscious action of the mind.
With Socrates I differ so far, that I do believe that every man has
the power to which he alludes. I am tolerably confident that a person
with a robust constitution and strong nerves can never have this feel¬
ing or faculty. If we add to what Socrates asserts that which Plato
says :—“ That the spirit or power of prophecy consists in having a
highly excited nervous system in connection with a more or less diseased
liver,” it will, to a certain degree, help to solve that which we cannot
distinctly explain. Most men of common sense would no doubt prefer
strong nerves and a good appetite to the power of being able to pro¬
phesy, and they are right.
In my intercourse with mankind I have met with only two persons
possessed of this power in a higher or lower degree. One of them is
a lady, the other an old gentleman living at Breslau, Mr. Yon Holtei,
an author well known and highly esteemed in Germany. He touches
upon the subject several times in his autobiography, but does not enter
far into the subject for fear of being misunderstood by “ those wise in
their generation,” or of being looked upon as a conjurer, a dreamer, or
even as one in some way connected with a certain black gentleman
with a curious orthopcedical shoe.
Presentiments, “ the coming events which cast their shadows before,”
I have always found more difficult to explain to my own satisfaction.
I have often been in the midst of gay society, when suddenly, and with¬
out any apparent cause the dark shadow came over my mind. I
shrugged my shoulders in order to shake it off, I drank an extra glass
of wine, but without effect; the sensation ceased for a few minutes,
but returned again and again, and this generally lasted from four to six
hours. Prom that sensation experience taught me that I might expect
something disagreeable within three days; the seriousness of the
latter being always in proportion to the force of the former. On the
other hand, often when I had more or less reason to be sad and serious,
I had a sudden feeling of joy, which caused me to spring up from my
chair and exclaim, What note ? In the Socratic assertion the mind has
simply to decide whether a given event would happen or not, and
how and when. In the presentiment, we have to do with a vague
future of which we can know nothing. It would almost appear that
the mind is supplied with some sort of spiritual antennae, which have
the power of penetrating the future, and of so subtle and delicate a
nature that they feel the influence of the coming shadow when still
far remote. In all cases, happy are those who have no presenti¬
ments, whether of joy or sorrow, for the anticipated pleasure of the
former is sadly counterbalanced by the apprehension of the unknown
but approaching evil.
From what I have stated above, you may perhaps feel a sort of
curiosity to know something of the tendencies of my mind in general.
The following will explain this. From superstition of all kinds I con¬
sider myself perfectly free. In religious matters, I believe all that
Christians are agreed upon. I disbelieve all that Christians differ on ;
or, at least, I explain it my own philosophical way. I believe in won¬
ders, for the whole creation, a simple little flower, or a blade of grass, is
for me a wonder. I hold with Hamlet “ that there are more things
’twixt heaven and earth than we have dreamed of in our philosophy,”
but I don’t believe in miracles, being contrary to the laws of nature,
which are the laws of God. In this matter I am of the opinion of the
philosopher of Fernay (Voltaire), when he asks : “ Qu'est-ce que e’est
qu’un miracle f Un miracle, mon ami, est quelque chose que la nature
ne pent faire, par consequent Vimpossible.—Mais, monsieur, tout est
possible pour Dieu.—0 non, mon ami, ce n’est pas comme cela.—Mais,
monsieur, il faut etre Athdiste pour croire cela; qu’y a-t-il que i)ieu
ne peut faire?—Jamais, mon ami, Dieu n’a pu faire Vabsurde, voild
tout." And yet how many absurdities are still believed in the world!
In my fourteenth year I read the history of the Siege of Rochelle, by
the Italian historian Benzoni, in which he states naively that “God
was at length tired of the resistance of the Huguenots shut up in the
place, and one fine morning he ordered the Atlantic to retire two miles
further out, and to remain out two hours longer than usual, in order
that the soldiers of his Catholic Majesty might enter the city from the
sea-side and put an end to those stiff-necked heretics.”
I do not believe in ghosts or goblins, or any of their numerous rela¬
tions, for I am quite sure that those departed spirits who are in a state
of peace or happiness will have no wish to wander about by night to
frighten poor weak-minded mortals, and that that dark gentleman to
whose care good, pious theologians tell us that most poor souls are con¬
signed, will hardly let them out of his warm domain to air themselves.
But I believe in ghost-seers, for I have known persons who could con¬
scientiously swear they had seen ghosts. I would, however, strongly
advise such persons or their relations to consult their physician imme¬
diately, as the supposed ghost lies in their diseased or feverish imagi¬
nation. But my communication has grown to an undue length, and I
can only hope it will interest your society. J. S. S. Rothwell,
Greisenberg, Ammerseo, Bavaria, 26th Feb., 1876. Professor, &C.
The Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., thought that there was confu¬
sion of mind in the paper, and that if all such facts could be referred
jj to latent powers of thought, psychological investigation would be con-
)! fined to very narrow limits ; papers of the kind just read furnished
| materials for vivisection. These things could scarcely be explained
(\ by the term “ supersensuous perception.” In the instance where Mr.
;b Crookes put his finger on a newspaper and asked what word was
(i beneath it, and the word “ however” was given, how far did Professor
] Rothwell’s ideas serve as an explanation?
)j Mr. C. C. Massey remarked that “unconscious cerebration” could
(i not reveal what would take place in the future.
;! Mr. Coffin thought that there was confusion of thought throughout
)| the whole paper, and that its little “Supersensuous Perception” was
s i altogether irrelevant.
)j • Mr. Serjeant Cox said that the facts tended to show there was some-
(| thing beyond the material mechanism in man. He himself had never
(| seen a well proved case of the foretelling of future events.
)| Mr. Massey asked whether the foretelling of the repayment of the
(| money on the Wednesday morning was not a case in point.
(j Mr. Serjeant Cox thought that it was remarkable, but that it might
): have been coincidence.
Mr. Massey : But how about it being minus the one hundred florins ?
j! Mr. Serjeant Cox replied that that point was certainly remarkable,
; j but it might break down if Professor Rothwell were there to be cross-
(| examined.
Mr. Stainton-Moses wished to know how Mr. Serjeant Cox explained
)i the word “however” obtained by Mr. Crookes.
Mr. Serjeant Cox said that it was an isolated case. They wanted
)! more such to make good evidence.
)i After some further discussion on the subject of planchette writing,
(j the proceedings closed.
A SEANCE WITH MRS. KATE FOX-JENCKEN.
Last Tuesday night a seance was held at the house of Mr.
j H. D. Jencken, M.R.L, through the mediumship of Mrs.
11 Jencken, better known as Kate Fox, the lady in whose pre-
l! sence the manifestations of modern Spiritualism first com-
|| menced in America. Mr. W. H. Harrison was also present.
11 The medium and the two observers sat round the table in a
j good light by which small print could be read, and while all
j their hands were visibly'Jying quietly on the top of the table,
I’| a living hand grasped Mr. Harrison’s knee underneath.
When he then put his hand below the table, which was a
small one, a letter was placed in it, which, on examination,
proved to have been taken out of the pocket of his great
coat downstairs. He felt the fingers of the hand which gave
| him this letter. A few minutes later, he was touched again,
| and one of his gloves was handed to him in the same
| manner. Next the second glove was given to him, and
lastly a printed circular. All these had been taken from his
11 great coat pocket. This was a good test manifestation, for
j something living, with good eyesight and with fingers, was
| evidently underneath that table, although no human being
j in the flesh could, by any possibility, have been there.
(I
Dr. Sexton is at present lecturing in the north of England, under
)| the auspices of the National Association of Spiritualists. His
1 engagements for the remainder of the month of April are as follows:
Thursday, 13th, Blyth, Northumberland ; Good Friday, 14th, Chester-
le-Street; Monday, 17th, Seaham Harbour, Durham. During the
; month of May Dr. Sexton will probably accept engagements under the
same arrangements in the spiritual centres of Lancashire or York-
v | shire.
\\ Levitation in the Seventeenth Century.—In the Fifth Report of
11 the Royal Commission on Historical Manuscripts, just issued, there is
[ a notice of a gentlewoman in Duke-street, Covent-garden, who was
,j reported to be a patient of the levitating sort, and we read: “ There
j have been a college of theologists to make their observations on her, in
j order to consult about a way to restore her.” All they discovered seems
to have been that “ sometimes sitting in her chayre she will be visibly
| lifted up, together with her chayre, a great distance from the ground,
no one touching the same that can be perceived.” Nothing seems to
have come of it all, which was a fortunate result, for the ordinary plan
was to burn some one who had bewitched the victim, but the theologists
did not go that length.
I New "Work on Man.—A comprehensive and elaborate work on the
nature and constitution of man, physical, moral, and intellectual, will
be published next week, by Messrs. Bell and Sons, from the pen of Mr.
G. Harris, F.S.A., Vice-President of the Psychological Society, and of
the Anthropological Institute, on which work he has been for several years
| engaged. Certain topics connected with the spiritual being, and the
| leading opinions on that subject, will be discussed, and an entirely new
| theory of the intellectual system propounded, as also respecting the
distribution, mode of operation, discipline, and cultivation of the mental
j faculties. Eminent authorities on certain of these matters, among them
I some distinguished writers on psychology, physiology, and natural
history, have been in correspondence with the author, by several of whom
notes of much interest and value, on different important and controverted
j points, have been contributed.
174
THE SPIEITUALIST.
April 14, 1876.
TKANSACTIONS OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF ! j
SPIRITUALISTS. - | |
On Monday evening last week, at the ordinary fortnightly meeting of j j j
the members of the British National Association of Spiritualists, held |||
at 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C., Mr. Cromwell Fleetwood i|i
Varley, F.R.S., M.R.I., presided. : -I .|||
ARE WE SATISFIED WITH THE MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL STATUS OF
SPIRITUALISM ? | j|
Mr. E. Dawson Rogers was afraid that the audience would be disap- j j
pointed at what he had to say, seeing that the subject announced was j(j
“ Physical Manifestations,” about which he knew but little. The gen- |j|
tleman who should have taken up that subject had been prevented from i|i
attending, consequently he (Mr. Rogers) had been asked to fill up the i j
gap, and was compelled to fall back upon another subject—a subject j j
nearer to his own heart, namely, “Are we satisfied with the moral and |l|
intellectual status of Spiritualism? ” If they were not so satisfied, what ijl
remedy could be proposed ? He had been a Spiritualist many years, j j j
and well remembered the first excitement of his interest therein. As i|
long as he could remember he had believed in the possibility of com- i(j
munication with the world of spirits, consequently when he heard the j||
modern manifestations talked about it was not with him a question i(|
whether it was possible, but whether the fact could be realised. Al- Hj
though the fact had been realised, he thought that the subsequent |) j
experience of Spiritualists had not usually fulfilled the ideals with if
which they started. He could imagine a mother who was uncertain m
about the reality of a future life, and who did not realise it as Spiritual- i | i
ists do—he could imagine that mother losing her darling child and m
doubtful about its future fate, uncertain even whether it had one at all. i (|
She, hearing for the first time that there were people who undertook to i j j
prove that the child existed and was still burning with love for her, began I I
to inquire and to read upon the subject of Spiritualism. But what j j
• would first meet her sight in the literature of the subject? She would ]||
read about banjo-playing, and the materialised foot of a spirit being i J j
seen at the window of a cabinet; she would also read about i ;
practical jokes by spirits;, she would read of even worse things i/j
than that if she studied the American literature, and might be Hi'
shocked with the indecencies of a portion thereof. He was glad that at !| j
present the English Spiritualistic literature was pure in this respect. ;) i
Mr. Burns’s paper, considering the class to which his journal |(|
was addressed, published nothing offensive in the sense he had just W\
mentioned, and he thought that Mr. Harrison’s journal was absolutely Ifi
free from anything of the kind. The Spiritual Magazine catered for i'lj
another class, and did not print anything objectionable. Still there was j ji
nothing at all in the literature to appeal to those whose hearts were ffj
concerned about another life; although there was plenty which suited jlj
scientific minds, there was almost nothing appealing to the heart. Did ||j
they not want to know what was the nature of that life, and the best I j i
preparation for it ? Judged from this point of view, he thought, upon Hi
the whole, that they were not satisfied with Spiritualism, and if that iji
were the case, the question was, could the objection be remedied ? If m
so, where should a beginning be made? He thought that the spirit Hi
circle was the centre upon which all the phenomenal and mental con- iji
ditions rested, and that if they could get their circles pure, if they
attended them bent upon one object, if they resolved not to encourage i (i
them for mere amusement, and if they attended them in a serious ijj
spirit, the character of the communications would be raised. They all in
held, he believed, that, as human beings, they were subject in the pre- ijj
sent life to influences from the world beyond, that is to say, they were ijj
surrounded by spirits who endeavoured day by day to infuse good jlj
thoughts, evil thoughts, good affections and evil affections into their j (i
minds. This was especially the case at spirit circles, where their minds ijj
were more than ever open to spiritual influx. It was, therefore, im- I j i
portant on such occasions that they should enter upon their duties in a ijj
serious manner. An inquirer who attended a circle for the first time to ijj
inquire about another life frequently heard stupid jokes, and other non- j j j
sense, and listened to light conversation from a spirit of a class which j j j
he would not in the course of its earth life have even spoken to, and j j
near whom in this world ladies would gather up their skirts and pass by j(|
on the other side—not that he by any means approved or recommended iji
that course. It was, therefore, important that at the spirit circle the j j j
conditions should be pure; it was their bounden duty to the medium to jjj
make them so. People sometimes supposed that mediums in the trance j i
did not know what was passing. But it was generally believed that the i j
spirit of the medium was present, and knew the surroundings in which j j i
its material organism had been placed for a time by the members of the ijj
circle. It was true that the medium did not bring that knowledge back j j j
with him into the physical state, still the adverse conditions influenced j :
the manifestations, and the communications left an impression upon the iji
medium’s mind, so that he could feel the general tone and tendency jlj
afterwards. It was also a duty they owed to the spirits that the condi- ijj
tions should be pure. Was it not true that a spirit might improve by jjj
the circumstances in which he found himself to be placed ? When un- j / j
developed spirits were present, the sole object of communion with them iji
ought to be to raise them higher, and if high spirits were present, a low j j j
tone on the part of the circle would tend to drag them down. There- I j j
fore it was a duty to the spirits that the conversation should be of such ijj
a character that all might derive benefit. They were told by seers that ijj
at every circle there was another circle of spirits, higher in order than |(i
those who were actually communicating; that higher band endeavoured jjj
to inspire those below, and to breathe down pure and holy thoughts jjj
upon all concerned. Seers also revealed that there was another circle j(j
below, composed of spirits attracted by the apparent opportunity to put j j j
in a word, and who came for the purpose of learning something. Such ijj
might derive much benefit from the proper conducting of the circle, ijj
He considered it, then, to be a duty to the spirits, to the medium, to i)j
inquirers, and to the sitters, to attempt to raise the general religious
tone at spirit circles. Before sitting down, he wished to say one word
in relation to the scientific aspect of the question. He thought that
good would come from the scientific investigation of the phenomena, but
this phase should be left in the hands of scientific men. The gener¬
ality of men did not go to spirit circles for the purpose of investigating
in that way; they usually went to amuse themselves, or to do and to
get spiritual good. Unless, then, something were done to improve the
tone of spirit circles, the whole movement would drift more and more
into the encouragement of phenomena, which were rather repulsive than
otherwise.
MR. VARLEY ON THE USE OF EVIL SPIRITS.
Mr. C. F. Varley thought they should bear in mind that they were
all very different animals; if they were to analyse themselves they
would find that their modes of thinking were as different as their bodies.
Some people consequently would take hold of Spiritualism as a religion,
others as an exhibition of phenomena of nature which ought to be
treated as a science; thus it would always be differently treated accord¬
ing to the idiosyncrasies of the people investigating. He had rarely
seen frivolity at spirit circles, though he had witnessed jokes. They
all knew the old motto that •• All work and no play makes Jack a dull
boy,” so it was necessary that they should have relaxation, although
not necessarily idleness. For these reasons every civilised country
possessed organised amusements of some description, and he thought
that inquirers into Spiritualism should extend their views to every side
of the question. Even frivolity at spirit circles had its use, since it
showed the nature of the people in another life. An explorer in Africa
always learnt all he could about the people, and he would bring back
but an imperfect account, if he refused to see or to say anything about
those savages who were frivolous. Therefore, men should study all
kinds of spiritual phenomena as works of nature, taking their origin
from the great arc of the universe. There was no sin in play. Even
house-flies, when the sun shone upon them, usually began to play at
cross-touch. Monkeys, who could not be supposed to be sinners, were
fond of mischief, and sailors knew how to make this love of mischief of
use, for by throwing sticks and stones at the monkeys they could make
them throw down cocoa-nuts in return. He thought that inquirers
into Spiritualism should not limit their inquiries in any way whatever,
and should avoid running into narrow-minded grooves; they should
also not treat Spiritualism as a superstition, but attempt to ascertain its
laws. There was no doubt that Spiritualism opened to the contempla¬
tive mind a vaster field than all material nature put together, and he
did not think that they should limit their inquiry by classing one mani¬
festation as bad and another as good. He was, therefore, inclined to
take a broader view than Mr. Rogers in the following respect—he
would say that when Spiritualists called one course of action “ evil ”
and another “ good,” they did so according to a certain limited line
which each man had set up in his own mind; all that was above that
line he called good, and all below it evil; but if they could approximate
nearer to the Creator, possibly they might find that their own line sank
lower and lower, and that that which they called immoral, was only so
relatively to the arbitrary line they had set up; in other words, the
mental and moral position of a man would be seen to be inseparable
from his own then state of development and the influences of the society
by which he was surrounded. Spiritualists, therefore, should not say
to an imperfect spirit, “ Go away, you worker of iniquity,” when possibly
he may have come there for a good purpose. A Pacific Islander who
visited London upon a Sunday morning, would say that the people
walked up and down the streets, and employed themselves frivolously
in getting their photographs taken for threepence each. But an intel¬
ligent man would not look upon it in that light; he would recognise
the fact that photography was one of the greatest blessings given to the
race by science. Although a photograph might appear to the savage to
be a frivolous thing, it had its uses ; it might be sent to a child in order
that he might contemplate the well-known features of a beloved parent,
therefore it would give him comfort, and comforts of civilisation like
this helped a man forward in life. Good things, when looked at from
another point of view, might appear to be evil when they were not so in
reality. The subject that evening was to have been “Physical pheno¬
mena.” That institution, and all Spiritualists, should try to develops
by experiment facts of nature which were just above those already well
understood in physical life, and having mastered that first step, should
gradually build up others until the level was reached of the spirits
themselves. Once he (Mr. Varley) had been associated with spirits of
an unpleasant nature; they teased him greatly; they were spirits who
had committed suicide and murder. Reasoning upon the effect of various
vapours upon the system, it occurred to him to try the effect of nitric
acid vapour in his bedroom, and by its aid he fancied he was freed from
his troublesome opponents. He had speculated in his own mind that
nitrate of ammonia might be connected with materialisation manifesta¬
tions, since the spirits appeared to partly build themselves up of the
elements existing in the atmosphere. In old books ghosts were usually
described as appearing in damp places where the atmosphere was not of
the purest description; they were usually seen in places where the
nitrates of lime and ammonia were common. When an analyst found
nitrate of ammonia in a well, he always took it for granted that there
was a leakage from some churchyard into that well. When children
were brought up in confined courts their moral status was lowered;
they were querulous and unhealthy, and had a tendency to take little
injuries seriously, instead of passing them off in joke. He had found
that nitric acid in a bedroom, being a substance which tended to destroy
the physical substances of which he had spoken, had an influence in
warding off the attacks of imperfect spirits. Once he went to the
clairvoyant medium, Miss Hudson, and while talking to the spirit who
communicated through her, the spirit stated that he (Mr. Varley) was in
a weak condition and troubled by spirits of a low class; but at the same
April 14, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
175
time the clairvoyant saw something which went round him at night like
a cloud, and prevented imperfect spirits from materialising in his
presence. After a time he discovered that what the spirit referred to
was the nitric acid which he used in his bedroom, thereby introducing
oxygen in a very active form into the apartment; the spirit saw this, but
did not know the name of the substance, nor what it was. He should
like to try what influence nitric acid had upon the production of physi¬
cal phenomena; he thought that the presence of ammonia in the room
would help such manifestations. He thought that those who were
troubled by unpleasant spirits at home, would find immediate relief by
pouring one ounce of oil of vitriol upon two ounces of finely powdered
nitre in a saucer, and putting the mixture under the bed.
Mr. Noyes said that he was a medium, and he was informed that,
although materialisations could not be obtained with nitric acid in the
room, the said acid would injure the health of those who lived in the
apartment.
Mr. Valley thought that Mr. Noyes was entirely mistaken, and that
nothing could be healthier than nitric acid vapour in the room. The
purification of the air after a thunderstorm was due to the presence of
nitric acid vapour,
THE SUPERIORITY OF PRIVATE SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Mr. George King thought that Mr. Rogers’ opening remarks were not
inopportune. People were too apt to be content with mere wonders.
When he (Mr. King! first began to investigate Spiritualism, he thought
he was conversing with invisible beings who had passed from this
earth, and who could give him instruction; the spirits gave him good
advice, and he concluded that mortals had less to teach in this matter
than they had to learn, and should make use of what they could get.
The circle was the centre upon which the whole movement turned, and
to which all attention must be directed if it were sought to improve
Spiritualism. He thought that public circles were not for the public
good. Spiritualism tended to lead men back to family life, to the
customs of patriarchal days, and to the customs prevalent at the be¬
ginning of the Christian era, for Paul over and over again spoke of
“ the church in your own house.’’ He thought it should be well known
that for spiritual circles to be of a high tone, they should be held in the
family, and that investigating circles were, generally speaking, a mis¬
take. Great care should be taken as to the components of the circle, as
to who were invited; more care, indeed, should be taken in this matter
than in inviting a party of friends to dinner; in the latter case people
did not ask their acquaintances anyhow, but selected those who would
form a harmonious company, and even greater care should be taken in
building up a circle. There was a good story in Dombey and Son of the
troublesome results which followed from inviting incongenial elements
to a friendly party. When a medium passed into bad health, it was
almost impossible to shake off the disagreeable influences of which Mr.
Varley had spoken. It was impossible to have a sound mind without
a sound body, and Swedenborg, in his writings, had shown the reason
that such was the case.
PUBLIC CIRCLES.
Mr. C. C. Massey, Barrister-at-Law, remarked that a chief object of an
investigating circle should be to ascertain the effect of mental conditions
upon the phenomena. It was often said that like attracted like ; but
his own experience was that at seances spirits gave the tone to the
whole circle. At public circles, for instance, although the company
changed constantly, the spirit was always the same, and was usually a
low and vulgar spirit to whom it was impossible to speak seriously;
consequently to charge a circle with the sins of the spirit, he thought to
be unjust. He thought it to be important to ascertain what mental con¬
ditions produced certain phenomena. Spiritualists had made it a stand¬
ing reproach to scientific men that they had not investigated the sub¬
ject, and did not treat it with justice ; but might not they say, on the
other hand, that there were scientific men in the ranks of Spiritualism
who could not inform them at the present moment under what conditions
the manifestations might be expected to take place ? He hoped that
the conditions would be speedily ascertained.
Mr. Harrison remarked that the primary conditions were already
ascertained. A medium was a warm, impulsive, passionate person,
very sensitive to mesmeric influences, and manifestations took place
through such a medium in congenial circles, where the sensitive felt
thoroughly comfortable and happy. Physicists—he would not say
scientific men, for scientific men recognised truth in all directions, and
not in material nature only—physicists, in forming circles, shut out the
element of affection, consequently they did not usually obtain the
results, except in a poor and weak form, and under exceptional
conditions.
Mr. Dawson Rogers said that he had nothing to say in reply to Mr.
Yarley, for he agreed with every word he had uttered, because Mr.
Yarley had taken up one branch of the subject, while he had taken up
another. Mr. Varley appeared not to fully recognise the distinction
he had drawn between the two branches. There was an investigating
side to Spiritualism; there was a religious side also. Spiritualists
should receive high and good impressions from those above them, but
at the same time try to help those below; and Spiritualists who were
imbued with these religious ideas did not necessarily oppose their
brethren who were investigating another branch of the Subject.. He
did not think that the character of a seance altogether depended upon
the communicating spirit; he believed that if they talked seriously to
any spirit whatever, he could be drawn into a serious vein, and would
thank the sitters for conversing in that way. He believed that like
attracted like.
ORIGINAL RESEARCH IN SPIRITUALISM.
Mr. W. H. Harrison said: I sympathise with the general tenor of
Mr. Rogers’ remarks, and think that Fellows of the Royal Society have
no right to claim that all nature shall be tied down to their physical
'I groove. It is useless to talk of mental things to the savage, for the
\\ mind of the savage cannot stretch far beyond the subjects of physical
i! life; in a higher state of society, as in England, the human mind can
H better grasp mental and moral laws, above these, again, rest those
f which are spiritual. A man may have a great intellect, yet use it in a
' | wrong direction; in fact, good mental and moral characteristics do not
11 always run together, in consequence of which, a very intellectual man
11 and a good physicist may be a scourge to the world, and pass through
11 life guided by the meanest and most contemptible of motives. I am
’ | glad to say that such is not usually the case; at the same time, excep-
il tions are by no means rare. Affection is a fact in nature, yet I do not
»5 believe that the word is to be found from the beginning to the end of
'I The Transactions of the Royal Society ; and this indisputable fact in
\\ nature, which the Royal Society does not recognise, is not a little
! connected with the production of spiritual manifestations. It is the
(j reason why such manifestations are more prevalent in family circles
(j than in business meetings, such as a scientific society either in London
(| or St. Petersburg is likely to organise. Then, again, physicists
(i assume that they know all about the manifestations and have them at
[j their command, whereas the intelligence producing them does not
intend to be at their beck and call, and will not always give them
(] under the conditions imposed; for the power at the root of the
: matter is likely in the long run to command, instead of to obey.
I Before spending energy in any direction to promote the interests of
(| Spiritualism, it may be wise to consider in what direction that energy
I can be exerted to the most advantage. A Chinaman may pass a large
(| portion of his life in carving a few ivory balls, which when finished are
(| of little value to himself or to anybody else, whilst another man in the
I same space of time may expend the same amount of energy in doing
: work which will shower blessings upon his fellows throughout all time,
i Hence before taking any action in Spiritualism advantage may result
[j from the careful consideration beforehand of the course which shall be
(I traversed. There are many who think that the best line of action is to
(j spread among the general public as much knowledge of Spiritualism as
> I that which we ourselves possess. If such a course is good, it can be
ji effected probably by the least expenditure of time, work, and money, by
| advertising for one week in the Daily Telegraph, instructions how to form
i spirit-circles at home; although in the majority of cases such information
| would pass unheeded, in the minority, experiments would be tried and in
j i some cases results obtained. Thus a great number of circles with new
! mediums would spring up all over the land, and each of them prove a
j strong proselytising centre. But is it judicious to do this? Medium-
; ship, especially physical mediumship, has its dangers as well as its
i delights, and at the present time we who are inside the movement are
(| scarcely experienced enough ourselves to be able to tell how to avoid
I the one and to secure the other. Many more converts to Spiritualism
can be obtained by advertising as suggested, than by public lecturing,
and at a hundredth part of the cost. Then, again, if knowledge of
the marvellous phenomena now so prevalent were spread broadcast,
| should we not be in rather a foolish position when the new comers
asked us for a philosophy which will thread all the facts together?
Perhaps the way in which to make the best progress and to win the
respect of those who are not yet in our ranks, would be to devote much
energy to original reseai ch. If the orthodox scientific world were to
take up Spiritualism at once, mediums would find themselves surrounded
by physicists and physiologists who would invite them to their labora¬
tories, where after a few months of experiment they would be able to
|! tell us more about the nature of mediumship than we Spiritualists have
) | unravelled for years. They would find out by noting the volume and
| flow of blood through different parts of the body, also its temperature
> i at different times whilst the manifestations were going on, what was the
(! condition of the medium’s brain at different parts of the seance, and be
(j able to say whether his state bore a close relation to any other condition
)! already well known to medical men, or whether it was altogether ab-
I normal, and outside of the range of their previous knowledge. Further,
having established the physiological conditions under which trance
and physical manifestations occur, they would in future be able to tell
with any new medium by a few simple symptoms whether the trance or
other manifestations were real or feigned, and this without putting him
to any annoyance, or subjecting him to any of the more coarse mecha¬
nical tests which are now sometimes employed. Another thing which
might be done by a very few weeks of original research, would be the
settlement of the question whether under normal conditions or under
the somewhat abnormal states incidental to mediumship, feeble currents
jj of electricity stream from the fingers, head, or other portions of the
; i human body. Experiments in mesmerism could be tried to find out
(i whether the action of the operator upon the sensitive depends entirely
>i upon mental influences and mental impressions, or whether there is an
}| actual transfer of vital energy in some form or other from the one to
(j the other. In short, once get the phenomena in the hands of trained
)i experimentalists, who understand the conditions under which the
) i manifestations occur, and who would treat the mediums in a thoroughly
(i friendly manner, headway would be made in unravelling the laws of
) i mediumship to an extent which has never been witnessed in past years.
)\ This increasing knowledge will be accompanied by uses which at present
\ | cannot be foretold. Incipient mediumship is often mistaken for inci-
j: pient insanity; doctors are frequently dense materialists, and in nearly
b every instance thoroughly ignorant of psychology, consequently they
l\ send the patient to a lunatic asylum, where he is driven mad in real
;j earnest. The Spiritualist, on the other hand, with the knowledge he
/1 could gain by original research, might be able to take the same sensitive
(! in hand and to effect a cure; thus knowledge gives power, and the fact
)| that a Spiritualist could cure where a doctor would kill, could not fail
(j to bring about respect for the movement. The platitude is often uttered
Si that “ truth will prevail; ’’ but experience teaches men that truth does
j! not prevail without help, and that if they sit down idly, error has con-
(i siderable progressive power. The conclusion derivable from these
176
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Apeil 14, 1876.
thoughts is, that instead of waiting for those who have opposed us to
come in to investigate the facts—as they must do before long—and
then make headway that shall put us to the blush, we should take the
wind out of their sails, and he first in the field. We should take im¬
mediate steps to perform the task ourselves. What is wanted is first
of all a laboratory in connection with the spiritual movement, fitted with i
all kinds of appliances for physical and physiological research. Further,
it is necessary that systematic experiments should be carried on, say
under the direction of a committee, and that some one or two persons
should he told off to do the actual work. In addition to the uses
already mentioned of such a line of action, it would give English
Spiritualism a standing which the movement possesses nowhere else:
for as yet in no other country has any work of the kind been under¬
taken. If we do it, all eyes will be turned in this direction, in the eager
desire to know the results from day to day. When application was made
to the Board of Trade for the incorporation of the British National
Association of Spiritualists, one of the strongest arguments advanced in
favour of the recognition of the Association by the Government, was the
statement that it intended to take steps to further experimental re¬
search, such statements being felt by the Council to he evidence that the
facts were in the hands of people who were far from being fools,
fanatics, or religious enthusiasts. In experimental research there are
always many failures to every single discovery of a new fact, hence to
the general public such work is wearisome; but tedious as it may seem,
a few simple new facts thus discovered and thoroughly well established,
would in all probability produce practical advantages of a value that at
present cannot he calculated.
HIGH AND J.OW SPIKIT8. j
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, member of the Society of Telegraph Engi¬
neers, said that he had the honour of being acquainted with one of the fifth
sphere spirits, with several of the fourth sphere, and with three or four |'
who said they belonged to the third, but whom he suspected to belong to I <
the second. In private circles he had obtained very interesting pheno- j ]
mena of a high order, and almost wholly in relation to private matters, ! \
which few who were present would care to see published to the world, h
When his child some few years ago was ill, spirits were rapping with | i
frequency at the head of the bed, and while she was hovering between j]
life and death she spoke of the beautiful flowers and roses before her. | j
Spirits of the higher spheres then stated that she was half-way across !
the border-land, almost in their hands, and that the flowers had been j
taken from a young lady friend of hers. He believed that it was the | j
case generally that these higher phenomena, dealing with the affections, j)
rarely came before the public. Things that were published were usually j (
in connection with circles in which spirits of a lower order manifested. | j
He hoped that the time would soon come when scruples about publishing j)
private revelations would be to some extent overcome. Although he |
appreciated all that the higher spirits had told him he should be very j j
sorry to break off his acquaintance with some of the lower; for instance, i)
his friend “ Peter,” who sometimes spoke to him through the medium- j (
ship of Mr. Williams. The higher spirits had often been asked to jj
materialise a hand, and they seemed to have quite envied the power of j)
those below them who possessed greater influence in this particular ijj
direction; indeed, one Mend of his said he would try to make the i j
acquaintance of John King in order to learn how his desire could be j j
practically carried out. Another spmt told him that he would have to j j]
experiment for himself for a long time before he could materialise a j j
hand. How was it that spirits of a high order could not produce that j(j
which a spirit of a lower order was able to do ? Why was it that the j jj
latter seemed to be disinclined to give to others above them the know- jjj
ledge that they had obtained in this direction ? Although he appreciated j j j
the higher phenomena, he should be sorry to be asked to cease to attend i jj
materialisation seances at which spirits of a lower order manifested, j j
Probably during the next eight or ten years they would obtain informa- j (j
tion from spirits of a lower order—as they were said to be—easier than ijj
from those friends who were trying to lead mortals higher and upward j j
by the promulgation of religious truth. He would warn beginners jjj
against giving themselves airs in the presence of the lower spirits; they jjj
should rather enter into the feelings of the communicating intelligences, j (j
and should avoid at all events giving them the impression that they jjj
considered themselves better than the beings, whatever their moral jjl
qualities might be, who were working so hard to give information about j(j
the life beyond the grave. He had once spoken on this subject to John jjj
King, who said, “Fitz, it all amounts to this; we must do our best, and jjj
we can do no more.” (Applause.) jjj
COLOUKING MATTER ON SPIRIT HANDS. jjj
Mr. Massey remarked that it sometimes happened that the newspapers j j
trumpeted accounts of how colouring matter rubbed upon instruments at j j
spirit circles, was afterwards found upon the hands of the medium. He jji
believed that it was a fact that materialised spirit hands came off the j j j
hands of the medium, and on going back thereto would carry back any j j j
colouring matter they might have contracted. If so, this fact ought to ijj
be well demonstrated by careful experiment, and he thought that it ijj
might be easily done at one of the seances of the National Association of jjj
Spiritualists. The medium should be so secured that there could be no jjj
mistake in the matter.* It might be well not to let the medium or the jjj
spirit know when the experiment was going to be made, for the latter, jjj
being so fond of tricks, might purposely rub the colouring matter upon jjj
the hands of the medium, so as to confuse the inquirers. jjj
Mr. Harrison narrated that some years ago The Banner of Light pub- jjj
lished an account of a seance at which a boy was accused of imposture, jjj
because colouring matter first placed upon the instruments was found jjj
afterwards upon his hands. A gentleman present had previously seen jjj
that boy put his hands under a shawl upon the table, in order to obtain j j j
* It is no use tying a physical medium. The spirits whip him out of jjj
his bonds in the twinkling of an eye.—Ed, . . jjj
partial darkness. Materialised spirit hands then wriggled off the
hands of the boy under the shawl, and came into view a long way
from his real hands, consequently the gentleman who had witnessed this
was not altogether satisfied with the charge of imposture brought by
those who rubbed colouring matter upon the instruments. He, there¬
fore, tried careful experiments with the boy, and discovered that any
colouring matter rubbed upon the instruments was afterwards found
upon different parts of the boy’s body. The spirits said that some of
the colouring matter went inside the boy’s body, therefore, in the ex¬
periments, he was not to use any paint containing verdigris. One night
Mr. Tapp, by permission, rubbed a spot of violet ink, about the size of
half-a-crown, upon the back of the hand of Katie King at one of Miss
Cook’s seances. Everybody who had stained their hands with violet
ink knew how difficult it was to remove the same. When Miss Cook
came out of the cabinet there was no ink on the back of her hand, but
the patch was found upon her arm near the elbow. He (Mr. Harrison)
was not there on the occasion, but Mr. Tapp had told him about it.
Miss Kislingbury said that she was there and saw the experiment. •
MATERIALISED SPIRITS.
Mr. Varley said that Mr. Crookes, in experimenting with Miss Cook,
had experiences of a somewhat similar nature. Once at a seance at
the house of Mr. Luxmoore, Mr. Harrison and Mr. and Mrs. Crookes
were present, and he (Mr. Yarley) for the first time saw Miss Cook’s
Katie King. He tied Miss Cook in the cabinet by means of platinum
wires and sovereigns, and he tested her electrical resistance all through
the stance, just as he would have tested an Atlantic cable. She was
fixed by an electrical current. He saw nothing on that occasion—-and
after thinking over it could see no reason at the present time—to cause
him to doubt the fact that Katie King was a materialised spirit; at all
events the medium was most assuredly inside the cabinet while Katie King
was outside. Afterwards he suggested an experiment which was tried
by Mr. Crookes. The opposite poles of a battery were placed in con¬
nection with two cups of mercury, and the galvanometer and medium
were putin circuit; when Katie King dipped her fingers into these cups
of mercury the electrical resistance was not reduced, and there was no
increased current; but when Miss Cook came out of the cabinet and
dipped her fingers in, there was a strong deflection of the galvanometer
needle. Katie King offered five times more resistance to the passage of
the electrical current than did Miss Cook. Once Mr. Crookes put a
little aniline dye on the top of the mercury; aniline was a powerful
agent in producing stains, and Mr. Crookes’ fingers were marked by it
for a long time afterwards. Katie King dipped her fingers in this, and
Miss Cook’s fingers were not found to be dyed afterwards, but the marks
were upon her arm. Spirits who materialised naturally took substance
from the body of the medium, and afterwards carried back to the same
anything that had been placed upon their temporary organisation.
Very little was known about the nature of matter; for instance, air
which was so yielding to material bodies, was a solid to electricity; and
iron, which was solid to a material body, offered no impediment to the
passage of an electrical current; thus an iron wire hanging in the air
was to electricity like a long hole passing through a solid rock. Mr.
Grove, in his book on The Correlation of Physical Forces, said that
it was not impossible that other bodies might exist in material
creation, so different from our own, that our world might pass through
them, and we know nothing about it. The higher spirits
often said that they could not see mortals, and were able to communicate
with them only by the agency of lower spirits. He very much liked
the idea which Mr. Harrison had thrown out, about advertising in the
Daily Telegraph, because it might be the means of bringing together
a vast mass of new facts. Although he did not agree with hot-headed
materialistic members of the Royal Society, he did not think that
they could be blamed for not taking up this subject, because they were
working very well upon their own ground, and might well leave other
explorers to go over the new ground of Spiritualism. Any one man
was as good as any other man in recording the ordinary phenomena of
Spiritualism.
Mr. George King supposed that no Spiritualist attacked the Royal
Society for not taking up Spiritualism; but what they objected to was
that they should abuse Spiritualists for taking up the subject them¬
selves. (Laughter and Applause.)
Mr. Varley—Hear, hear. (Laughter.)
Mr. King continued, that if Spiritualists showed that they under¬
stood the methods of scientific research, and that they were able to
investigate the subject in a scientific manner, it would bring more
recruits to the movement, and invite more respect from their opponents.
(Applause.) He was in hopes that that meeting would lead to some
practical step in the matter of promoting investigation. He did not
think that the National Association of Spiritualists was a suitable body
to carry on original research. The Royal Society did not carry on
experiments, but the members furnished it with the results of their
private researches. He thought that Spiritualists should show the
scientific world that they could begin investigation for themselves, so he
hoped that before long a committee would be inquiring into disputed
questions in real earnest, and that some of the scientific members of
the Association would take up the idea. In order to investigate pro¬
perly, something more than a mere physicist or a mere Spiritualist
was 'wanted. Somebody was wanted who was competent to keep his
eye upon both aspects of the question. The remark was often made
that electricity had something to do with the production of the pheno¬
mena, whilst, on the other hand, there were people who said it was
folly to make such an assertion. He thought that electricity had
nothing to do with the matter; still, he had heard that at the last
Friday evening lecture at the Royal Institution, Mr. Dewar had argued
that electricity had something to do with the phenomena.
Mr. Varley was afraid that it would be necessary to adjourn the
discussion upon Mr. Harrison’s paper, for the subject raised was too
April 14, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
177
interesting and valuable to be allowed to drop; consequently, the
discussion would be adjourned until Monday evening, April 24th. Mr.
King had asked whether living bodies gave out electricity. He wished
to state that electricity did not radiate outside bodies, but that it was a
thing which emphatically kept inside bodies. For instance, if an
attempt were made to force it to pass through the atmosphere there was
a spark; that spark was not due to the electricity, but to the vapour of
the body through which the electricity had passed, and in a paper
which he had read before the Royal Society he had succeeded in
proving that before electricity could pass through the air it modified
the atmosphere to some extent, and in this operation time was required.
Professor Dewar, at the Royal Institution, had proved, as others had
done before him, that the electrical condition of the inside of a nerve
was different to the electrical condition of the outside of a nerve; conse¬
quently, by putting a wire between the two, a current would pass. He
(Mr. Varley) had tried experiments, aided by the mediumship of Miss
Kate Fox, in America, and could discover no connection between
spiritual and physical forces. All the results were negative, with one
exception; that exception consisted in the spirits being able to tell in
what direction a current of electricity was flowing through a wire. He
had many wires about, and whenever he seized one they told him in
what direction the current passing through it was flowing; he then had
a light struck, and found that they were always right.
Mr. Harrison remarked that he arrived a little late at the lecture of
Mr. Dewar, who was then dipping his fingers into two troughs, and
obtaining a slight deflection of the galvanometer. Was that due to an
actual current from his body, or to the chemical state of the skin of his
hands ?
Mr. Varley replied that he had tried the same experiment, and found
that there was always a current engendered, but instead of its flowing
in one direction, he could get it to flow in any direction he pleased, ac¬
cording as his right or left hand had been first washed in acid or alkali,
while his left hand had been washed with the opposite substance.
Mr. Harrison added that in Mr. Varley’s experiment the whole of his
hand was immersed in the liquid. Did he think that Mr. Dewar
could get the results from the same cause when he merely dipped his
fingers in ?
Mr. Varley—Yes.
Mr. Harrison—Did Mr. Dewar use the most sensitive possible ap¬
paratus ?
Mr. Varley—No.
Mr. Harrison—Has anybody ever used the most sensitive possible
apparatus ?
Mr. Varley—I do not know.
Mr. Harrison—If nobody has done so there is an opening for
immediate practical experiment, if anybody will take up the matter.
Did Mr. Dewar say that the deflection was caused by a current from
the human body, and was he unaware of the fact that it might have come
from the chemical condition of the skin of his hand ?
Mr. Varley—Yes, he made that mistake.
The proceedings then closed with the usual votes of thanks.
DEW-DROPS FROM THE SPIRIT-LAND.
(A Spirit Message.)
u Love demands constant interchange. Quiescence, indifference,
dulness, inertia, or repulsion in heaven is death. There reigns the
activity of love ; outflowing, inflowing ; imparted, received; going
forth, and returning tenfold sweeter, more joy-inspiring, more soul-
satisfying, having gathered to itself the riches of other hearts and minds ;
a vast ocean, bearing on its waves of harmony constantly renewed
freights of soul-wealth, and taking back from whence it came additional
freights; never exhausted, ever new, ever fresh. Love in heaven is the
life-breath of souls, they cannot exist without it; its opposite is spiritual
asphyxia, suffocation, death: its interruption is disease, disorder, dis¬
cord—is incompatible with heaven, and therefore impossible in heaven.
On earth, and amidst spirits out of heaven, the different degrees of the
opposite of love exist, and destroy with an eternal death—the only death,
for life is love. Therefore, love. Open thy heart to receive it largely;
give it forth largely. By giving thou shall receive; and by giving thou
shall increase its power, its greatness, its volume. As each tiny flower
in a garden gives forth thankfully all its little breath of sweetness in
return for what it has taken in from sun, and air, and dew, and earth,
and swells the volume of aromal life-food for its neighbours, and is
bathed and bathes others in the harmonious interchange, so shall thou,
giving, receive, and whilst thou learnest, teach others; thou shall feed
whilst thou art being fed. Cease not to love; cease not to demand;
cease not to give; and thus learn to bring heaven down to earth; to
create it around thee by breathing forth love, fascinating others with
its beauty, when, for very beauty’s sake, they will feel compelled to give
it back. Thus love is sown broadcast; its heavenly seeds, flying from
heart to heart on soft, downy wings, and fastening themselves upon
many a desolate life, cause it at length to blossom forth as a heavenly
garden of beauty, and become transformed from deformity into come¬
liness, from the disease and death of selfishness into the health and life
of love. Feed thyself with love, and live not where thou canst not be
fed with it, for thou shall surely die; thy heaven-seeking soul will perish
as a tender plant starved for want of light, air, and warmth. Love all
things; seek the good in all, and love it. Thus shall thou grow health¬
ful in soul, feeding thyself upon God, reposing upon His broad, sus¬
taining bosom, looking upon His very face—for in all good shall thou
see God—and all the world, and all thy life, shall thus be heaven to
thee, and thou shall be as the angels are.”
A LOCK OF HAIR CARRIED FROM PORTSMOUTH TO
LONDON BY SPIRITS.
A Portsmouth clergyman informs ns that a remarkable
case proving spiritual intercommunion has recently occurred,
a lock of hair being carried from a young lady medium in
private life at Portsmouth to Dr. Monck, at the time in Lon¬
don, the guest of a gentleman resident at Bow. He says:—
From London, immediately after the matter to be nar-
| rated had transpired, Mr. F. writes, “ Early in the evening
I Samuel said, 1 It is time I must be off to Portsmouth.’
| This occurred while I and Dr. Monck were in conversation
| on general subjects foreign to Spiritualism.”
The aspect of the case at Portsmouth relative to this point,
| was that about nine o’clock the same evening, in a very har-
| monious family circle, the young lady referred to became
| entranced, and Samuel first obtained control. He is the
I very same individual through both mediums—voice, manner,
j intonation, modes of address, construction of sentences, mind,
| and cast of thought, and all that go to make up identity.
Well, after the lapse of some twenty minutes, during
| which other familiar controls greeted us and chatted
I pleasantly, Samuel returned and called for a pair of scissors ;
! none were in the room, so a knife was made to serve, with
I which he cut off a little of his medium’s hair, saying he was
! | going to take it to his other medium, Dr. Monck; and so
[| saying he at once left us, and did not return again till
ij towards the close of our prolonged and very successful
| sitting. Then he came laughing gleefully, as though im-
II mensely satisfied with himself, and Daisy, an Indian spirit
| then in control, in broken English, said he (Samuel) was
I astonishingly clever, and had really done what we had
| thought he was only pretending to do in fun.
And judge our surprise when next day by the two o’clock
I post came a short hurried note from Dr. Monck, written the
| over night immediately after the phenomenon had taken
I place, and another account from the gentleman with whom
| Dr. Monck was visiting, part of which has been given. The
| narrative of Mr. F. thus proceeds : “ After the lapse of
| about two hours the medium’s hand was noticed by myself
| and family to be suddenly controlled for writing, and in-
j stantly, while he was talking with us, his eyes away from
| the paper, he wrote the following: i Good evening, I have
II just come from at Portsmouth. I cut off' a piece of her
| hair as a test, and have brought it here. Send and tell her
| father. It has come straight from her head to my medium.
(I Look !—Samuel.’ We raised our eyes towards his head ; the
||] hair enclosed was seen to float from the south-west corner of
i j the room, and to alight upon his head and then fall to the
! | floor, and I picked it up. I may add that all this took place
I i not at a formal seance, but quite unexpectedly, and in full
j j gaslight, and one of my daughters holding the medium’s
m hands securely all the time.”
ijj Comment is unnecessary. Spiritualists will readily appre-
II hend the matter, but for non-Spiritualists and the public at
J large we may say that this account is written by a clergyman
i j of the Church of England, residing at Portsmouth, and inti-
i | mate with the family, privileged to number in their midst
| i a medium so favoured as a channel for spirit communion,
ijj and he will gladly afford further information concerning the
Ijj case to any one desiring it. A timed letter written at the
I one circle should be carried to the other.
Miss Lottie Fowler is about to hold regular evening seances at 2,
Yernon-place, for various phases of mediumship. Thursdays and
Saturdays, she says, will be more especially devoted to the physical
manifestations.
A Scientific Proposal.—The following is said to have been the way
in which a certain eminent man of science proposed to the lady who is
now his wife. “ Saccharine conglomeration of protoplasm! Adorable
combination of matter and force! Rarest product of infinite ages of
evolution! The luminiferous ether is not more responsive to the rays
of light than are my nerve-centres to the mystic influence which ema¬
nates from the photosphere of thy countenance. As the heliocentric
system was evolved from the primordial chaos by the workings of
inexorable law, so is that rarefication of matter which men call my soul
lifted from profound despair by the luminance issuing from thy visual
organs. Deign, O adorable creature, to respect that attraction which
draws me towards thee with a force inversely proportional to the square
of the distance. Grant that we may be made double suns, describing
concentric orbits, which shall touch each other at all points of their
peripheries.”
178
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 14, 1876.
iltnbtnctal fictos.
UTTOXETER.
A WARM DISCUSSION.
The Uttoxeter Journal of April 5th contains a report of a lecture on
Spiritualism, delivered in the Town Hall, Uttoxeter, by Dr. Sexton.
A considerable number of persons were present, all of whom manifested
a lively interest in the proceedings. The chair was filled by Mr. J. i
Spencer. ! ; : ; ■ • i i
Dr. Sexton addressed the meeting for half-an-hour, and began by j
stating how he had been induced by the repeated requests of a friend to
undertake to show that Spiritualism was not in opposition to the teach¬
ings of the Bible. In the first place, if there was any good in the move- ]
ment that good must spring from God; he (the speaker) would presently i
show how good had arisen from the movement, which fact being once j
acknowledged must unquestionably prove that the movement (i.e., ji
Spiritualism) did not owe its origin to evil sources. He (Dr. Sexton) j1
need not point out the fact that every great discovery, every invention, j(
had always been opposed on the same grounds. The printing press fi
when first introduced was said to be the work of the devil, even the in- Ij
vention of table forks was ascribed to the same agency, the common I
congreve matches again took their name “ lucifers ” from the same j
source. Could we then wonder that Spiritualism, casting as it does so new, i
and yet, to those who can understand and accept it, so glorious a light on j
much that we cannot otherwise understand, should be regarded as spring- I
ing from the same origin? Dr. Sexton then drew a comparison between j
modern Spiritualistic phenomena and those related in the Bible, in- jj
stancing “the burning bush, from which God spoke to Moses,” “the jj
voices which spoke to St. Paul,” “the writing at Belshazzar’s feast,” ij
“ the angels giving strength to Daniel,” “ releasing the Apostles from jj
prison,” and again “ the three angels who appeared to Abraham,” not jj
only in a palpable form, but even partaking of food; and yet again Ezekiel j
being taken up by the hair of his head and carried away to confront a jj
number of men who had lived but were then dead. Mr. Lakin would j j
doubtless maintain that Spiritualism was contrary to the Mosaic law, j
which says, “ thou shaft not suffer a witch to live,” but then it would be j
necessary to prove that Spiritualists were witches. j
Mr. Lakin now came forward, and at the same moment three indi- j
viduals among the audience got up and began, amidst loud shouts of “ Sit j
down,” to sing a hymn, which was drowned by uproar which at once jj
arose in the back of the Hall. On the chairman expostulating and j
threatening to dissolve the meeting, one of the aforesaid individuals j
explained that the singing was attempted at the request of Mr. Lakin j
himself, and on the latter’s appeal to the audience to let the meeting jj
proceed, order was at last restored. jj
Mr. Lakin then read from The Medium an account of the appearance jj
of a spirit, professing to be that of Mary, Queen of Scots, adding—Now jj
call this what you please, I call it religious worship (a laugh); no doubt |j
people will not believe it, but that will not alter facts. Scores of people ij
have tested it; there is no trickery; if you don’t believe it, put a £5 ij
note in your pocket, go to London, and see for yourselves. Now this ij
puts the medium in the same position as the woman in the xxvii. chap, i
Samuel; exactly the same phenomenon appears; no man can dispute jjj
it, and what good came of it ? None; only evil, a message of death to jj
Saul himself. Talking about seers, in no place in the Bible, from jj
Genesis to Revelation, can we find an instance where it is commanded jjj
to consult with the dead. The Lord slew Saul because he transgressed jjj
in this respect, which shows that seeking after knowledge in this way j j
was not lawful. Again, our Lord tells us in the parable of the rich jjj
man and Lazarus, that if they “believe not Moses and the prophets, jjj
neither will they be persuaded though one rose from the dead.” Again, j j
we see a medium advertising to give her services at the charge of a jjj
guinea; verily, if she has a master, she must bring him great gain jjj
(applause); if any of you wanted to go to these seances you would jjj
have to get an introduction; they will not admit everybody, they will not j j j
admit a man like me. You see these papers (Spiritualistic journals), jjj
these are their Bibles; and yet the name of Jesus is not mentioned in iji
them five times. They teach that the blood of atonement is opposed to jjj
reason, it is a relic of ancient paganism, and pulpit teaching is the j j
greatest swindle ever invented. (Sensation.) {jj
Dr. Sexton replied : I think all reasonable persons will agree with jjj
me that we have heard no argument against Spiritualism in the speech ij j
of our friend; we have had a rambling statement to the effect that one iji
medium does this, and another does that, and lastly a packet of papers jjj
is held up, which Mr. Lakin calls our Bible; The Medium is a paper jjj
expressing views not mine, and I am not here to defend its opinions, jjj
(At this point a further interruption was made by the audience, which, j j
however, was soon put a stop to, and Dr. Sexton continued.) Why does ij j
Mr. Lakin tell you about what he has never seen ? He says he would j j
not be admitted ; that is untrue ; let him come with me and I will pro- j j
cure him admission to a seance without his having to put his hand in jjj
his pocket. I have indeed heard prayers made at these sittings which jjj
even Mr. Lakin would not object to. :: -r.ljj
In answer to an objection advanced by Mr. Lakin to the effect that it jjj
was not lawful to hold communion with the dead, Dr. Sexton instanced jjj
the vision of Ezekiel before referred to, related in Ezek. vii., maintaining j j:
that these seventy men, being dead, must of necessity have been spirits, jj j
and nobody would venture to say there was anything unlawful in this jjj
affair. The learned speaker then went onto say that these phenomena, jjj
which most unquestionably existed in ancient times, though they had jj j
certainly ceased, on account of the corruptions which bad crept into the ij j
Church, had been common at a far later period than was generally sup- jjj
posed. He spoke of the vision of Polycarp, by which he was warned of the j J i
manner of his death, the voices which spoke to him when on his way to jjj
the stake, and similar well-authenticated instances related q£ Ignatius il l
(bishop of Antioch), Justin, and others. Though these phenomena
certainly had ceased for a time, owing to the corruptions of the Church
before alluded to, yet there was no doubt that God, in His glorious
goodness, had been pleased in these later times to revive them outside
of the Church, in order to lead back many to Christ.
Mr. Lakin quoted several texts to prove that Spiritualism was the
“mystery of iniquity” alluded to that should be in the last days, but
owing, doubtless, to the excitement under which he laboured, he oc¬
casionally wandered a little from his subject, and it was difficult to
understand exactly what he meant.
The proceedings terminated with the singing of the doxology by
nearly all present, at the suggestion of Mr. Spencer.
LIVERPOOL.
A SEANCE WITH THE BAMFORD BOYS.
A seance was held last Sunday evening at the Psychopathic Institute,
with satisfactory results. Among those present were Dr. Hitchman;
Mr. Casson; Mr. Wood, trance medium, from Halifax; Mr. Walter
Isaac, healing medium; Mr. John Fraser; several members of the
Liverpool Psychological Society; and Mr. and Mrs. Coates. Master
Walter Bamford, the medium, was thoroughly secured by Mr. Fraser;
his legs were bound with ropes, his hands, fastened behind him, were
made doubly secure by his coat-sleeves being sewn together by Mrs.
Coates. After the company were satisfied that he was well secured, he
was lifted bodily and enveloped in a sack, which was tied round his
neck, and made fast to the chair he sat upon. His legs were also
secured to the chair, and the ends of the rope laid out of the cabinet and
held by the spectators. A number of interesting manifestations took
place under these rigid test conditions. Dr. Hitchman’s signet ring
was transferred from the medium’s lap to his hands, and thus must
have gone through the sack. It having been found upon his hand, he
was secured again, when the ring was taken off and thrown out of the
cabinet. The cabinet was simply a piece of black calico stretched
across the corner of the room. An accordion was then played, one of
the sitters holding one end outside the cabinet. The accordion was
afterwards played d la Home, by being simply held under the table by
one hand. A large book was placed on the medium’s knees, and the
leaves lifted frequently in the light. Occasionally during the seance the
lad was taken out of the cabinet, and all the fastenings were found
intact. It was a most satisfactory seance.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Liverpool Spiritualists take much interest in Mrs. Scattergood’s
testimonial, Mrs. Scattergood being much liked in that town. Large
audiences are expected next Sunday, at the meeting under the au¬
spices of the Psychological Society, to hear Miss Longbottom deliver
two trance addresses, and Mr. Priest’s oration on “ The Resurrection.”
Large and attentive audiences listened last Sunday to two able
addresses, delivered by Mr. Monck, on “Is the end of all things at
hand ? ” and to Dr. Hitchman.
On Friday last Mr. W. Hitchman, M.R.C.S., delivered a lecture, in
which he pointed out the remedial value of mesmerism. He did not
share the opinions of those who considered it a universal panacea for
all kinds of acute and chronic diseases—a view which he denounced as
quackish, rather than scientific, and one which led to the neglect of a
most useful therapeutic agent in many cases. He said that he had
often witnessed beneficial results flowing from passes made by the hand
of man, when connected with a sound mind in a sound body; that is to
say, the hand of an operator possessed of pure blood, strong nerve, and
good disposition, untainted by alcohol, animal food, and tobacco. The
excitability of brain and nerve in serious maladies was speedily di¬
minished, involuntary contractions ceased, and muscular fibres resumed
the property of obeying the will naturally and effectively.
Many letters are kept over this week from want of space.
The three new members elected at the last meeting of the Psychological
Society were Mr. Oonstantine A. lonides, Mr. H. J. Hood, and Mr. W.
T. Harvey.
The next of the fortnightly winter meetings of the National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists will be held on Monday, April 24th, at 38, Great
Russel]-street, under the presidency of Mr. C. F. Varley, F.R.S.
On Thursday evening last week a meeting was held at the Cambridge
Hall, Newman-street; Oxford-street, London, under the presidency of
Mr. T. Slater, at which about £50 which had been collected in aid of
Mr. Hudson, the spirit photographer, was presented to him.
Dr. Crowell has published in the American Spiritual periodicals
partial evidence that silk placed over the head of a trance medium
tends to prevent his being controlled by spirits. The experiments are
too few in number to be decisive on the point.
Spiritualism in Blackfrtars.—In consequence of the landlord of
71, Stamford-street, objecting to Spiritualists occupying the present
rooms after Saturday, April 15th, the meetings will be discontinued
until a suitable place is found. When found, notice will be given.—
J. BuRToif, Hon. Sec.
Honorary Membership of the Society of Spiriter-Forscher at Buda-
Pesth, of which the Baroness von Yay is the liberal patroness, has lately
been bestowed upon Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Mr. Charles Black¬
burn, Mr. J. N. T. Martheze, Mr. Alexander Calder, Mr. Algernon Joy,
Miss Lottie Fowler, Miss Kislingbury, Mr. Christian Reimers, and
Mr. W. H. Harrison, as an acknowledgment by that society of the
services rendered by the above ladies and gentlemen to the cause of
Spiritualism.
April 14, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
170
liomg.
FROM NIGH I’ TO MORN.
The following lines were given extemporaneously, through, the mediumship
of Mrs, Tappan, at a public meeting:—
I stood on the brow of the hill, to the west
The golden-fleeced clouds were tenderly prest,
And out of the silence of evening’s breast
Flushed a tremulous wave of amethyst,
Mingled with golden and sapphire flame,
Whence sudden pulses of glory came.
Each pulse was a petal of rare delight,
That fluttered and fashion’d itself to my sight,
Having viewless shape and impalpable form,
Yet a presence distinct and a colouring warm,
Till, vibrant with radiant, beautiful power
These petals were wrought into perfected flower.
And my vision grew like the shore of a sea,
As the glory swept ’round and over me,
Like a moving and musical murmuring shore
Where waves upon waves impinge evermore,
The life of its life now became as we,
As waves are waves altho’ merged in the sea,
And its spirit into my spirit has grown
Claiming me, calling me wholly its own.
(But I saw the billows of purple heather,
Like amethyst snows blown over the moor,
The bloom of the earth and the sky blend together,
Lost in lines that converge at the sunset door.
0, wild in my heart sang the- song of their greeting,
Purple bloom of the earth with the sky glory meeting.
Chime out heather bells !)
Then the flower that trembled to life in my bosom
Unfolded and grew to a beautiful blossom ;
Each thought was a petal, my soul was the flower,
Its fragrance was song. 0 magical power !
Had I but a harp I’d sing to the west
Such music as never had flight from my breast!
An angel flew from the west so golden,
Bearing a harp so quaint and so olden,
Its strings with myrtle and olive enfolding;
Flew straight to my spirit and entered its portal,
Enthroned itself there, this rare angel immortal.
Then I sang, and my singing was sacred and tender,
Full of fervour and fire and wonderful splendour;
The harp had a voice like waters in meeting,
Or the rustling of leaves in their kissing and greeting,
Or the pulse of the heart in its audible beating,
Or the rippling of silvery, musical laughter,
When children are playing and echoes run after.
(But I heard, meanwhile, the west wind caressing
The lips of the flowers along the hill side,
And the feet of the evening the heather bells pressing,
Changed the flush of their flood to a silvery tide;
Grey and silver and deep-tinted violet blending
Into shadow and silence and spaces unending.
Chime on heather bells! )
0 harp most tender, 0 spirit most olden,
Bear’st thou a theme in thy fibres so golden,
A mystical charm in thy chords enfolding,
That shall move the world from its mournful madness,
That shall rouse the earth from its slumbering sadness,
And cause it to leap into hope and gladness ?
And the harp and the angel were silent a space
While I earnestly gazed into night’s starlit face,
Aware of the glory, and wonderful grace.
O pitiful heaven! 0 spirit of pleading !
What manifold love is for earth interceding ?
The notes that I hear are the world’s heart a-bleeding!
O harp and 0 heart, what is this that you smother ?
Who is this that is moaning ? O mournfullest mother,
The world’s heart and the harp are the same, and none other!
0 heart, 0 harp, 0 earth, mother so olden,
Thy life shall return, and thy grey hair grow golden.
The wrongs that oppress thee shall ever more cease,
The thorns that have rent thee shall blossom to peace,
Thy fetters shall fall giving hope and release.
(Meanwhile all the amethyst silver grey sheen
Of heather and sky had merged into space,
The line of the distance that slumbered between
Was lighted and thrilled by a wonderful face.
The face of the moon shining o’er the dark moor,
And parting the clouds by the dawn’s distant door.
Chime on heather bells! )
(ttorrespotinence,
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers.]
NEW MANIFESTATIONS IN SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—It is, as you very properly point out, high time that attention
was devoted to exercising some sort of command over the physical
manifestations usually permitted at public circles. Numbers of intelligent
men are anxiously seeking after evidence of the facts laid before them by
Spiritualists. They are deeply interested in the subject, and are (in
many cases) honestly anxious to probe and prove their truth. Two things
repel them on the threshold—dark stances and the wearisome triviality
of the manifestations.
Now I am not about to join in the parrot-cry against all dark seances,
** Punch and Judy boxes,” and the like. Darkness is essential to the
evolution of certain phenomena, and is a material assistance in all; but
Aaxk seances should be held only when the sitters are personally known
to each other, and (in the case of public circles) under perfect test con¬
ditions. It is no use whatever to take a scientific investigator, who has
perhaps been used to the real and demonstrable experiments of the labora¬
tory or observatory, into a room where he meets a dozen people whom he has
never seen before, and to tell him that he must sit helpless in the dark,
and make his observations blindfold. He will ask at once what value
can be attached to such investigations ? The experienced Spiritualist,
who knows his facts, and has proved them elsewhere, may derive some
knowledge from such stances, but assuredly not the man who has never
yet satisfied himself of the truth of the tremendous claims made for
Spiritualism by its friends. To such a man it is essential that he, as the
phrase is, “ should see something in the light,” and few things are more
sure than that very simple care and pains on the part of a good physical
medium would enable him to meet that demand; patient and regular
sitting for one definite purpose will usually succeed. No sooner does one
public medium develope a particular kind of manifestation than all others
round them catch the infection; faces and forms, and (now) moulds of
hands become rife. Apply the principle to elaborating a few simple
experiments (the simpler the better) which can be produced in perfect
light, under any conditions, and in any place; let it be the movement of
small objects on the table, the raising of one above the table and sus¬
pending it there for an appreciable time, or the bringing of objects from
other parts of the room and placing them on the table within the circle.
I feel sure that time and patience would effect these results; but that is
just the difficulty. While the medium was developing his experiments
he would be losing his livelihood. People come day by day wanting
marvels, and usually not very careful about the kind they get—they have
paid their money, and they want their ghost; they would not at all
appreciate the high aims of the medium, and would contemptuously
desert him for some one more sure and less nice. So it comes to pass
that mediumship is prostituted, and no advance is made.
It will probably be in a private circle that the power of demonstrating
the objective phenomena at will is first developed, and a tremendous
gain it will be; for not only shall we then have an answer to the constant
question, Can that experiment of which you tell us be repeated ? not
only shall we be able to appeal (for the first time) on irrefragable grounds
to men of science; but we shall be able to infuse into the ordinary
stance a tone which it sadly lacks, by controlling the vagaries and
elevating the aims of the communicating intelligence.
When shall we have a “ School of the Prophets ” ? Will not the
British National Association of Spiritualists, or some wealthy person,
see to it? The protection of mediums is a tangling subject—too long,
however, for me to deal with it here. M.A. (Oxon).
mr. Blackburn’s seances—remarkable manifestations.
Sir,—There were present on Friday, ?th inst., at the seance with Mr.
Eglinton, at 38, Great Russell-street, Mrs. Everitt, Miss Wing, Mr.
John Day, Mr. J. C. Foulger, Mr. E. Brocard, Mr. C. Atherton, Mr. J.
McBride, Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. E. J. C. Manico, and ourselves
representing the committee.
The seance was a very remarkable one. Mr. Eglinton, the medium,
was carefully bound, his hands being securely tied together and to the
arms of the chair by well-made sailor’s knots, and the tape so placed that
unless it were broken the medium could not rise from his seat. His feet
were also firmly bound together and to the chair legs; but this precaution
proved unnecessary, as they were in view of the audience the whole
time.
He first sat as usual with a dull light, but the controlling spirit said
they wanted to try physical manifestations in total darkness. The gas
was extinguished, and immediately the large musical box which had
been placed on a chair in front of the curtain was removed inside, and
manipulated in an extraordinary manner. The spirits seemed to have
complete control over the barrel, and could make it revolve slowly or
quickly at pleasure. They answered questions by playing the tune in
such funereal time that eachmote served the purpose of the usual spirit
rap. This might possibly be imitated by a person having access to the
fan of the machine, but the next performance was less easily explained.
The spirit said that he would wait till the machine began a new tune,
and then change the air at any instant we liked. This he did. When
one tune had advanced a few bars, it suddenly glided into another with¬
out any perceptible break in the continuity; nor was there the click
whioh is usually heard when the barrel shifts its position. There is no
contrivance in the musical box in question to enable the tune to be
altered at will. Some of the sitters asked for spirit lights, and imme¬
diately beautiful wandering stars played in front of the cabinet.
The gas was now relighted, and the medium’s feet were seen to be
in their original place. The end of the tape attached to his hands had
been brought out into the room and laid along the floor; and during
what followed we observed that it showed no sign of movement within.
Hands small and large, and of various shapes, were projected between
the curtains and from the side windows. At the request of one of the
party, a hand came out at the very top of the cabinet, touching the
roof. Had it been the medium’s hand, he must have stood up, and held
his arm high above his head ; but, from the appearance of his feet, he was
evidently in a sitting posture, and the tape above mentioned proved that
his hands and body were motionless. Some one asked the hour, and
the spirits said they would tell. They then passed the medium’s watch
through one of the side windows to Mr. Everitt. After being handed
backwards and forwards several times, it was retained by one of the
company, and it was several minutes after the termination of the stance
that the medium became aware of his loss. The surprise and excite-
180 THE SPIRITUALIST. April 14, 1876.
ment he evinced were evidently genuine: at least they would have been
very difficult to feign.
We next sat for faces. The nun mentioned in the report last week
appeared. Also a Turk, who gave the name of Abdullah. He wore a
white turban, and was a very handsome fellow, with his long, thick
black whiskers and mustaches, and clear glistening eyes. Mr. King,
who was at the back of the room, begged to be permitted to come for¬
ward, so as to obtain a good view for the purpose of report, and on
assent being given, he sat on the floor, about 30 inches from the cabinet.
Abdullah’s face appeared again about three feet from the ground, and
offered an excellent opportunity for inspection. It was a face full of
life and movement; not an immobile mask. The complexion was very
dark, and the skin seemed of slightly coarser grain than that of the
medium. The features were very different from those of Mr. Eglinton,
and the head in question belonged to a much larger man. Also a face
appeared near the knees of the medium, while Mr. Everitt had his
hand inside the cabinet on the medium’s head; Joey’said it was the face of
the nun before mentioned. The spirits asked for a knife, that they might .
cut off for us some of their drapery, and, on one being handed them,
they returned it, with a gauzy fabric, having the appearance of muslin,
caught between the blade and the heft. This still remains in our
possession.
The spirits wished to give the medium a rest, and we let him out of
the cabinet, but had some difficulty in unloosing him. We had first
to cut the connections with the chair, and then cut all the knots; to
untie them was impossible. After fifteen minutes interval, and a cup of
coffee, Mr. Eglinton re-entered the cabinet. The hour being late and
time precious we dispensed with bonds, and perhaps to this mark of
confidence is due the marvellous success of the second portion of the
seance. Abdullah threw open the curtains and stood before us in full
form, clothed in a flowing white robe. He was a strongly built man of
stately mien, and about five feet eight inches in height. After some
fifteen seconds he retired, but again came forward, this time very much
taller; he must have been about six feet two or three inches, for his
head knocked against the top of the cabinet, though he still appeared to
stand upon the floor. Next time we saw him he was very short, not
more than five feet in height, and yet on each occasion the head appeared
to be of a size to suit the body, though the countenance was always the
same. The medium’s height is about five feet six or seven inches.
Joey also showed himself, being likewise draped in white; his face is
very different from Abdullah’s, much smaller and sharper, and with only
a thick moustache, no beard or whiskers. It is only fair to mention
that during this part of the proceedings no portion of the medium’s
body was visible to us ; but without apparatus and accomplices it was
simply impossible for Mr. Eglinton to manufacture such a performance.
At the close of the seance a deep bass voice spoke through the paste¬
board tube, and thanked the company for complying so faithfully
with the conditions. Joey also, in his shrill tones, sent a special message
to the Council, congratulating them on having brought so harmonious a
circle together.
G-eq8" £RITT’ j ^'or Stance Committee,
88, Great Russell-street, 8th April, 1876.
MISS LOTTIE fowler’s PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS. j)|
Sir,—One evening last week Miss Fowler did me the kindness to Rj
invite me to one of her private seances for physical manifestations, and j)j
as I had an unusually good opportunity of observing, I will record what |)|
took place under test conditions. I)!
The first sitting was for the moulds of hands, of the genuine pro- ijj
duction of which by spirit-power I and all present were perfectly con- i) |
vinced, but I will keep to the task to which I have set myself.
Before sitting for what Miss Fowler calls “the physical,” she re- ijj
quested me to sew her sleeves together behind, which I did with strong ijj
white cotton near the wrists. Miss Fowler wore a black dress, with ijj
white frills at the wrists. I then tied a rope round her neck, from jjj
whence it was passed through the bars of the chair on which she sat; jjj
here it was knotted and passed under Miss Fowler’s arms (which were Lj I
already secured by the sewing of the sleeves), and again tied behind the j/j
chair-back, where I sewed the ends with white cotton. We placed !<j
Miss Fowler behind a pair of curtains hung across the corner of the jjj
room, with her feet and knees in sight of the company. At a short jjj
distance from her, in the recess, was placed a music-stool, on which ju
were two hand-bells, a piece of wood, and a hammer. I remained at ijl
the curtains after the other friends had taken their seats, to pin them ijj
together, as far as Miss Fowler’s knees; on turning my back to walk j j
to my seat, the hammer was thrown out after me. I replaced it on jjj
the stool, and no sooner had I reached my place, than the bells, jjj
hammer, and stool itself were thrust out at the side, where the cur- jyj
tain hung against the wall. The hand and arm were protruded a jji
considerable distance, so as to lay the stool gently on the ground, jjj
but darted back again with the rapidity of lightning. This kind of jjj
thing was repeated several times, sometimes through the front open- jjj
ing, sometimes at the side. Miss Fowler invited me to come and lay jjj
my head upon her lap, where I instantly felt touches of hands and jjj
fingers on my hair, but I could see nothing, my face being turned jjj
downwards. From my seat in the circle, however, I had all along a jjj
very good view of what went on behind the curtain, through the gap jjj
between it and the wall. jjj
The arm and hand which darted to and fro with superhuman jjj
rapidity were, to all appearance, exact of Miss Fowler’s arm and jj j
hand; the same black sleeve, white ruffle, and long, thin hand. More- jjj
over, this double came apparently each time in and out of the ropes, jji
and yet, after each appearance, I was permitted to examine Miss jjj
Fowler’s arms, and found the sleeves still sewn together with the white I j j
cotton, and the ropes tied as before. When this manifestation was over, jjj
Miss Fowler’s arms and hands were perspiring freely. Although quite
conscious, Miss Fowler avers that she cannot see the hands which move
in and out; she only perceives that the objects are removed from their
places.
I have just received from Mr. Hudson a photograph of Miss
Fowler, representing her with six hands, all similar in appearance,
bearing out the duplication theory, which seems the only explanation of
the phenomena related above. Emily Kislingbuby.
38, Great Russell-street.
HEALING MEDIUMSHIP.
Sib,—Knowing the deep interest you take in cases of healing, from
what I have read in your paper, I wish to relate to you the extra¬
ordinary cure effected in me by Professor Regan, so that some of your
suffering readers may know of this healer, and be benefited and cured
in like manner.
When a child two years old I was afflicted with a swelling in the
neck, which continued to enlarge as I grew older, and it became a
serious matter to my parents. When seven years old I was taken to
Dr. Reece, of Walton-on-Thames, who had a great name in that part of
the country. After his examination of my neck he told my mother
that it was a wen—that it was incurable, and would kill me if it was
touched. My mother, not being satisfied with Dr. Reece’s opinion, took
me to several other doctors at Chobham, Surrey, named Webb, Wholly,
and Smith, and Dr. Jacc, of Esher. These saw me at different periods
during the ensuing ten years, but all to no purpose, for they were all of
the same opinion as Dr. Reece, that it was incurable. All hope being
given up, it was then allowed to take its course, and remained in that
condition for over sixteen years (I am now in my nineteenth year), until
the middle of last December, when, fortunately for me, Dr. Mack acci¬
dentally saw my neck, and drew the attention of Professor Regan to it,
remarking at the time that he had the power to cure it. Mr. Regan
kindly undertook my then hopeless case, for I fully thought it was such
at the time; and now I thank God I am able to state that he has
entirely cured me of the goitre that had been in my neck for over
sixteen years, and has fully re-established my health, which had been
very indifferent from childhood. I underwent his regular treatment for
nearly three months. The Professor simply laid his hands on my neck
for about ten minutes every day, or rather every second day, for the first
month, and for the same time every day till I was cured; he gave me a
piece of mesmerised paper every other day, which he ordered me to
wear round my neck under flannel on going to bed at night, and he also
gave me a glass of mesmerised water to drink every day during his course
of treatment. As my neck decreased to half its former size, I grew in
strength and health every day until the cure was completed. In con¬
clusion, I wish to say that, being a domestic servant, I could not afford
to pay any fees whatever, and this is the only way I can express my
deep heartfelt gratitude to Professor Regan for what he has done for
me. I shall be most glad to give any further information to anyone on
the matter. Alice Kiddle.
No. 7, Wilmer-torrace, Grove-road, Battersea, April 10th, 1876.
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION SOIREE.
On Wednesday evening last week a conversazione took place at the
Rooms of the British National Association of Spiritualists, which were
well filled on the occasion by a large assemblage of the friends of the
Spiritual movement, who all appeared to thoroughly enjoy themselves.
The following objects of interest were on view:—Casts of a spirit-
hand, with the impress of a cross on the back, and a cast of the hand
of the medium through whom the above was obtained, presented to the
Association by Mr. Christian Reimers; cast of a spirit-hand, lent by
Mr. Arthur Colman; mould of a spirit-hand obtained the previous night
through the mediumship of Miss Lottie Fowler; an oil-painting of a
spirit appearing surrounded by clouds, executed in the unconscious
trance, by Mr. Arthur Colman; a crayon drawing of a private spirit-
circle at Liverpool, the fully materialised form drawing back the curtain
and showing the medium asleep by a light thrown out by the spirit
from the centre of his own body, lent by Mr. Martheze; two books of
flower-paintings produced through the mediumship of Mrs. Hony-
wood; a number of photographs of drawings by a child of twelve years
of age, some representing the life and growth of the spirit after it leaves
the body, others symbolising spiritual ideas, of most original design and
exquisite conception; these have been lent to the Association by Dr.
Gully, and form a never-ending source of attraction at the monthly
soirees.
The musical programme was opened by Colonel Greek, who performed
a pianoforte solo; this was followed by a duet by Miss Rogers and Mr.
J. H. Andre, who delighted the company several times during the
evening with their singing,
The rooms were decorated with the flowers of the season, and the
cheerful and gay appearance of all present was in itself sufficient
assurance that the soirees of the National Association are appreciated.
Mr. J. J. Morse in the Provinces.—Mr. Morse left town on
Thursday morning for Bishop Auckland, to be present at the Good
Friday festival of the Spiritualists of Bishop Auckland and the vicinity.
On Sunday next, the 16th inst., he will deliver trance addresses in the
Freemason’s Hall, Weir’s-court, Newcastle-on-Tyne; and his other
appointments are—Liverpool, April 23rd; Halifax, April 30th and May
2nd; Ossett, May 3rd, 4th, and 5th; Newcastle, May 7th and 8th;
Manchester, May 14th. Letters to be addressed to him at Warwick
Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
April 14, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
111
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
ON SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF '■'■THE SPIRITUALIST"
NEWSPAPER,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
LONDON, W.O.
(Entrance in Woburn-street).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 0d.
footfalls on the boundary of another
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, thy William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume's “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. Ss. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, bv Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums ,'also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic) Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this hook,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-nublished book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiiitnal-
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com-
ifiete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
jord Lyttleton. 2 Vola, crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man lu the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Antl-Supernaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science: the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Sims; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinbm that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made.by disbelievers that spirit messages are of aitrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. "The Prophecy of Vala,” published
n this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote Iduring the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. 6a.; cheap edition,
7s. 6d. ,
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work.
Is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM. MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d. “
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration¬
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS ; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. CS.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. Gd.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. ed.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 9s.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. Gd.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. Gd.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. 6d.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub, at 7s. 6d.) 4s..
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker.
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
he Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
' - II.
.,111.
IV. „ .
,. V. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health . ■ . . .
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures ....
S. d.
15 0
7
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
3 6
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recom¬
mended by Thb Spiritualist Newspaper . . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .60
History of American Socialismsl(Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . , . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China .to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10i
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge.D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiskc. M. A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind'; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, byJJames Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S’anation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
reams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Ansesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer. M.D. . . ..20
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . '12
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Pam, B. A. . . , .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . ... . . . 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.AS.
Special edition for Schools . , , . .10
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Doten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M
Peebles; 9. Mr. A J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS QF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R
Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
6d.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative Of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation ofl Spiritualism, by
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE .OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “There is in it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” 6d.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
THEODORE PARKER IN SPIRIT LIFE. Given
inspirationally through the mediumship of Dr. F. L. H. Willis.
Is.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young 6d.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. * By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. 6d.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. R. T.
Hallock. 2s.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 14, 1876.
iv
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In atticmce wifh the British National Association of Spiritualists.
President :
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.L
(Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
; COUNCIL:
Mrs. C. Ada Blyton, Mr. Jonathan Tozeland,
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. Thomas Wilks,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. John Rouse.
Honorary Seoreta/ry and Treasurer :—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms:-—iNavarino-road, dalston, London, E.
Extracts from Prospectus.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenti ated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 i>.m. to which Members are admitted, as well
as members of similar Associations which reciprocate similar
privilege. Strangers can |only be admitted to the ordinary seance
held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member- The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted
toispedal seances with professional media, lectures, discussions,
reading of papers, or’narration of experiences of investigators; to
which strangers are admitted under the same regulations as are
enforced on the first Thursday evening in each month. Tickets for
such ordinary meetings as may be of general interest, in connection
with the “ Brixton Psychological Society,” are also placed at the
disposal of Members of the Association by that Society in reciprocity
of the privilege granted by the Association to similar organisations-.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending, the public seances of
several well-known, professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of -which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
The alliance existing between this association and tbe “ British
National Association of Spiritualists ” will greatly assist the mem¬
bers in their inquiries, as amongst the objects for which that
Association was established in 1873 are the following., viz.:
To aid students and inquirers in their researches into certain
phenomena, known as Spiritual or Psychic: to assist in giving
publicity to the results of such researches: to afford information to
inquirers into these subjects, by correspondence and otherwise; and
to collect statistical facts respecting Spiritualism.”
All communications to be addressed to the Honorary Secretary,
at the Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A
stamped addressed envelope should be enclosed in all letters re¬
quiring replies. Copies of the prospectus, rules, circle regulations,
directions “ how to form spirit circles,” and catalogue of books in
ibe library, with any further information, can be obtained on appli¬
cation.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments, are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wohderful experiences of the author, who is pecu-
iarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies,—Boston, U.S.: Colby and Rich. London Spirit¬
ualist Office, 38, Great Russell-Street.
BOARD and RESIDENCE, Upper Norwood.—
A lady, of liberal views, and Nonconformist, desires to
establish in her own house a friendly family party of two or
three ladies. Young orphan ladies would find this a pleasant
home, and those who wish to study will have advantages in
joining the classes now so popular at the Crystal Palace
Schools of Art. Terms—130 guineas per annum, or proper
tionately less for a shorter term. Address—Alpha, 1, Bernard-
yillas, Upper Norwood.  . 
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT-LAND.—Being
Life-Experiences, Scenes, Incidents, and Conditions
illustrative of Spirit-Life and the principles of the Spiritual
Philosophy. Of practical value to any who are anxious to
study the theories of Spiritualists and Mediums, for the purpose
of deducing a consistent system of faith concerning the
future, its rewards and punishments, &c., as it establishes a
basis in reason for its propositions, and asks no blind accep¬
tance of statements, but enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Given inspirationally through Mrs. Maria M. King. Cloth,
5s. 6d. Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-
atreet, Loudon, W.C.    
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, the two
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.S.,and hisassistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d : post free, 6|d. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
ESMERISM, ELECTRO-BIOLOGY,
FASCINATION.
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological
phenomena.
How to know Sensitive Subjects.
How to develop Clairvoyant Media.
How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DR. MOSES RIGG can teach any person efficiently by post.
Pamphlets and testimonials gratis, or by post, Id. stamp.
Address, 9, GranyUle-square, London, W.C. At home daily
from 10 till 5.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. BENJAMIN
COLEMAN.
COMMITTEE:
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Welwyn, Herts.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
William Howitt, Esq., Rome, Italy.
S. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A., 50, Holland-street, E ensington.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington.
Charles Blackburn, Esq., Didsbury, Manchester.
W. M. Wilkinson, Esq., 44, Lincoln's -inn-fields.
A. A. Watts, Esq., 119, Lansdowne-road, Notting-hill, W.
S. Ohinnery, Esq., 142, Strand, London, W.C.
J. Enmore Jones, Esq., Enmore-park, S.E.
C. Townsend Hook, Esq., Snodland, Rochester, Kent.
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq., Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Cornelius Pearson, Esq., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury.
William Tebb, Esq., 7, Albert-road, Gloucester-gate, Regent’s-
park.
A. Leighton, Esq., 16, South Castle-street, Liverpool.
James Wason, Esq., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Queen-street, Grosvenor-square.
Mrs. Tebb, 7, Albert-road, Regen t’s-park, N.W.
Thomas Hayle, Esq., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Thomas Shorter, Esq., 23, Prince of Wales-road, N.W.
Jacob Dixou, Esq., M.D., 8 Great Ormond-street, W.O.
W. H. Harrison, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, W C.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
W. C. Copperthwaite, Esq., Maltou, Yorkshire.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S., 2, Great Winchester-street-
buildings, E.C.
The Hon. J. O’Sullivan, late U.S. Minister to the Court of
Portugal, 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Hay Nisbet, Esq., 219, George-street, Glasgow.
Mrs. Hamilton, York-place, Poriman-square.
John Lament, Esq., Finfleld, Liverpool.
Thomas Slater, Esq., 19, Leamington-road-villas, Westboume-
park.
Andrew Glendinning, Esq., 4, Castle dine-road, Anerly, S.E.
Subscriptions will be received and duly acknowledged by
the Treasurer, Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square,
South Kensington; or by the Hon. Secretary, A. Joy, Esq.,
Junior United Service Club, St. James’s, S. W.
Just Published price 10s. 5d.
THE MECHANISM OF MAN I An Answer
to the Question, “ What am I ? ” A Popular Introduc¬
tion to Psychology and Mental Physiology. By Ed ward W.
Cox, Serjeant-at-Law, President of the Psychological Society
of Great Britain. Vol. I., The Mechanism. Contents—Parti,
Introductory; Part 2, The Mechanism; Part 3, The Forces
that Move and Direct the Mechanism—Life, Mind, Soul.
London: LONGMANS and Co.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38, Great Rub sell-street, London, W.C.
STRANGE VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
SPIRITUAL SCIENTIST, of Boston, Mass.,
IO U.S.A. The most faithful and impartial exponent of
Spiritualism in America. The title, Spiritual Scientist, clearly
indicates the character of the paper. Unlike all other
Spiritual journals, it gathers from the great authors of ancient
time the fruits of their researches into the secrets of nature
and the laws of the Spiritual Universe. On the Occult
Sciences it has many able contributors, and solicits correspon¬
dence.
Published weekly. Scientist Pub. Co., publishers. E. Gerry
Brown, Editor. Offices, 18, Exchange-street, and 24, Devon-
shire-street. The Scientist is now in its fourth volume. Terms
of subscription, in advance, 13s. per annum, including postage.
Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.O.
The debatable land between this
WORLD AND THE NEXT. By Robert Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive proof,
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, jet which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This book affirms that the strongest
of all historical evidences for modern Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
of Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-
street, London.
THE AMERICAN SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE.
Devoted to Spiritualism. Its history, phenomena, and
teachings from a Christian stand-point.—The Editor has been
an Itinerant Methodist Minister for over 36 years, 33 of which
have been spent in Memphis, Tennessee, and vicinity where
the Magazine is published. It belongs to no sect or party, but
is free to discuss all subjects untrammeled, adopting as its
motto— -
“ To seize the truth wherever found,
On Christian or on heathen ground.”
It contains thirty-two pages of reading matter besides the
cover. Published monthly, price 10s. per annum. Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russel! street
London, W.C.
The alpha { or, the first principle
OF THE HUMAN MIN D; A Revelation, but no Mystery,
with Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait of the Author
E. N. Dennys. “ We can call to mind few books fit to be its
fellows.”—Athenieum. “It contains more truth, poetry,
philosophy, and logic, than any work we have ever read;
it is a new revelation, and one of the most remarkable produc¬
tions ever given to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
Also just published, with a beautiful Engraving of the Author
470 pages, on toned paper, handsomely bound, price 3s. 6d.
TPHE RELIGION OF LIFE, AS EXEM-
X PLIFIED BY THE MAN JESUS CHRIST, a Series of
Lectures, by the author of “ Alpha.” A synopsis of the topics
may be obtained free on application.
CONTENTS:—What is Evil? Charity; Poverty—its Evils
and its Mission; The Divinity that Dwells in Man; The Church
of the Future; “Stand up! I myself also am a Man;” The
Path of Righteousness; Trust in God; Self-Trust; What is
Christianity? Thy Kingdom Come! What is Man? The “one
thing” desired by the Psalmist; Pure Religion; Philosophy;
The Childhood of Jesus; Religious Liberty; Election and
Grace; Time; Sin; Law the Regenerator; The Last Judg¬
ment; God is not Mocked; The Unchristian Character of
Riches; Peace; Religion Consists in Action; The Millennium,
and how to obtain it.
The work is also published in nine parts, eight at 4d. each
and one at 6d., done up in neat wrappers.
“THE UNCHRISTIAN CHARACTER OF RICHES” and
“RELIGION CONSISTS IN ACTION” are also published
separately at Id. each.
*** The cordial aid of the friends of education, intellectual
progress, and religious liberty is earnestly solicited to make
these works as widely known as possible. They contain the
most important of all knowledge, by a deep and original
thinker, and will be supplied at cost price for extensive circu¬
lation. They have been brought out in a variety of forms to
suit the means of all classes of readers.
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
First Edition.
IMPORTANT NEW PUBLICATION.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS INTO SPIRIT¬
UALISM.
A PAMPHLET, the full size of The Spiritualist, containing a
large amount of information, compiled especially for inquirers,
will be shortly issued from The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office at 38, Great Russell-street, London, for sale at public
meetings,
PRICE ONE PENNY. 4
There has long been a demand for some such publication
as this, the current spiritual newspapers not always containing
the most suitable or most condensed information for persons
to whom the subject of Spiritualism is a strange one.
Many thousands of copies of the publication will be printed,
and kept on sale by vendors of spiritual literature, and at
spiritual meetings throughout the country.
From the large circulation thus secured, it will be a
VALUABLE CHANNEL FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
To Mediums, Mesmerists, Authors of Spiritual Books, and
others. The charge for advertisements will be One Shilling
for the first twenty-five words, and Sixpence for every addi¬
tional twenty-five words, or portion thereof. Displayed adver¬
tisements Five Shillings per inch.
All advertisements should be sent in as soon as possible, as
the publication will come out in a few weeks’ time.
Special arrangements will be made to supply local societies
with copies at a cheap rate, if ordered in large quantities; the
said societies may thus considerably increase their income by
the profits on sales.
All communications on this subject should be addressed to
the Editor of The Spiritualist, 38, Great Russell-street, Blooms¬
bury, London, W.C.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics ot
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED ’WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-L oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause): Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, the Naturalist: Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wies-
baden): The Countess of Caithness: the Duke of Leuchtenberg;
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent; (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Manrat); Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas JSt. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edin.);
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr.
St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fahyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Bev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ": Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. >H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles !(Unlted States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United;Kingdom, 10s. lod
To residents in the United States, '4 dels. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to “ The Manager
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London
W.C.”
[December, 1876.]
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, Loudon, E.C.
