AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[EEGISTEEED FOE TEANSMIS8I0N ABEOAD.]
No. 81.—(Vol. IV.—No. 11.) LONDON: MARCH 13j 1874. Published Weekly; Price Threepence
Otontentg
M
RS. CORA L. V. TAPPAFS SUNDAY EVENING
INSPIBATIONAL DISOOUESES.
Spirit Teachings ...   121
Other World Order]       123
Visions in Crystals      125
The Eoyal Institution       126
Spiritualism at the Victoria Discussion Society  126
Eyening Concert of the Marylebone Association    128
Correspondence—Internal Eespiration, 129; The Value of Evidence 130
Spiritual Phenomena in America     ... ... 131
Spirit Poetry         132
Paragraphs—The Testimonial to Mr. Ely ton, 125; The London Anthro¬
pological Society, 131; Lunacy Law Eeform, 131; Miss Faithful
and Woman’s Eights    132
Answers to Correspondence     MM   132
Crown 8vo. pp. 126, Cloth 2s. 8d.
HINTS for the “EVIDENCES of SPIRITUALISM.”
By M.P.
London: Triibner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD AEE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice, to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London : Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Beaeees foe 1873.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—'Mi. John Lament.
Secretary.
Mr. John Davidson, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—'Mx. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H. J. Charlton.
New Course.
AT CLEVELAND HALL, CLEVELAND-STEEET, OXFOED-STEEET.
Committee:—
Dr. Gully, M.D., Hill Side, Streatham, Chairman.
N. F. Dawe, Esq., Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
J. T. Hoskins, Esq., 5, Connaught-square, W.
T. H. Noyes, jun., Esq., “United University Club,” Suffolk-street
Pall-mall, S.W.
Thomas Slater, Esq., 136, Euston-road, N.W.
Mrs. Honywood, 52, Warwick-square, S.W., Treasurer.
Webster Glynes, Esq., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C., Hon. Secretary.
At an influential meeting, recently held, the above-mentioned persons
were appointed a working Committee, with power to add to their number,
for inaugurating a further course of 12 Discourses by Mrs. Tappan, on
Sunday evenings.
The lectures commenced on the 18th January, and they will be con
tinned up to the 5th April next. Doors open at 6.15 p.m,, to commence
at 7 precisely.
It is estimated that the expense of holding the course will be £144, or
£12 a night.
Of this amount it is expected that £50 only will be obtained from the
admission of the general public.
The balance of £94 must therefore be procured from other sources.
The Committee make an earnest appeal for support, and solicit liberal
donations from the friends of the movement.
Tickets sold at the doors, also at Chappell’s or Ollivier’s, Bond-street, or
Burns’s, 15, Southampton-row, Holborn.
In order to prevent interruption it is requested that no person leave be¬
fore the conclusion of the service. No admittance after the discourse has
begun.
Donations thankfully received by the Treasurer or Hon. Secretary.
Eeserved seats 2s. and Is. each.
Body of the Hall free.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec-
TUEES giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Eooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISTS.—Sunday Evening- Services are Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o’clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Eules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Eooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
Mr. Archibald Lament.
Mr. William Meredith,
Mr. G. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. E. Casson.
Mr. D. Gay.
Mr. T. B. Griffin.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Eiece.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Casson.
Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. John Lament.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
Mr. Bretherton. | Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of tbis Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
. of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the edueation of children and others, for the purpose
. of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9 th, 1874,
E. Pearoe, Hon. Sec.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and .on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FEANOIS EAVENSCEOFT, Manager.
MRS. CORA L. Y. TAPPAN’S INSPIRATIONAL
DISCOUESES at the Cleveland Hall, Cleveland-street, Oxford-
street. The Committee have arranged for the delivery of these dis¬
courses at 7 o’clock every Sunday evening till April 5th, inclusive.
The expenses are not nearly covered by the sale of tickets and col¬
lections. J
Donations or Subscriptions in aid will be received by the Treasurer,
Mrs. Honywood, 62, Warwick-square, S.W.
Tickets can be had at the doors; also at Chappells; at Oliviers, Bond-
street, and at Burns’s, 15, Southampton-row, Holborn, Reserved seats 2s.
and Is. each. Body of the hall free,
11
THE SPIKITUALIST.
March 13, 1874,
Lately published,
HAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Mental
Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. L The MECHANISM of MAN'
By EDWARD W. OCX, 8erjeant-at-Law. Price 8s, 6d.
Contents.
D ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.)
President.—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
CHAP.
1. Introduction.
2. What am I?
3. The Man. .
4. How we Grow.
6. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
chap;
24. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind.
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the Will.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
31. Soul—Spirit—Anima.
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. The Natural and the Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is:
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery.
45. Conclusions.
Mrs. O. A. Blyton,
Mr, George Blyton,
Mrs. Amelia Corner,
Mrs. Theresa Wood,
Couneil:
Mr. A M. Greene,
Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
A. M. Greene, Secretary, pro. tem.
A DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on hear¬
ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, and in¬
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might be
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 15th September, 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter careful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modern Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations (m'cfe Rule IX). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordi~
nary seawce held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures,-discussicns, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on the first Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Rooms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelope
should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and chftrming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and no
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
Style.—Oxford Herald.
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I ?”—Leicester Mercury
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflectiv readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest.—-/Stowtt Wales Daily News. \
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book, is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
Statement, is worthy of all praise.—Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
London: Longman and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just published,
The second tolume of «what am i ?”
A Popular Introduction to Psychology and Mental Philosophy. By
EDWARD W. COX, Sergeant-at-Law. Price 10s. 6d.
This Volume completes the work. It treats of the Mechanism of Man in
action. The following are the
Contents :—
CHAP.
Preface.
1. Introductory.
2. Of the Intelligent Motive Forces.
3. The Conditions of Existence.
4. The Mechanism in Health. \
5. Of Sleep.
6. Of Dreams.
7. Of some of the Phenomena of
Sleep and Dreams
8. Of Delirium.
9. Of Jnt-anicy.
10. Of Natural Somnambulism.
11. Of Artificial Somnambulism. I.
The Condition.
12. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
II. Clairvoyance.
13. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
III. The Mental Phenomena.
14. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IV. Catalepsy.
15. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
V. Insensibility and Uncon¬
sciousness.
VOL. I. MAY BE
London: LONGMAN &
CHAP.
16. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VI. History.
17. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VII. Healing Power.
18. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VIII. Supersensuous Percep¬
tion.
19. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IX. Thought Reading.
20. Of Trance.
21. Of Unconscious Cerebration.
22. Of Psychic Force.
23. Of Psychic Force. I. The
Proofs.
24. Of Psvcbic Force. II. Its Phy¬
siology.
25. Of Psychic Force. III. The
Directing Inteligence.
26. Other Psychic Phenomena. I.
Communicated.
27. Other Psychic Phenomena. II.
Experiments.
28. The Summing Up
29. The Conclusions.
AD, PRICE 8s* 6d.
Co., Paternoster-row.
The progressive spirithalist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Weekly Journal. Edited by J. Tyebman.
Price Threepence. Tojbe had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
Dalston association of enquirers into
SPIRITUALISM. {Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
Mr. A. M. GREENE, Secretary pro. tem.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
YERY soon after tlie introduction of Modern Spiritualism
into England the subject attracted attention in [Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assocciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hal], 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
Aaron franklin, preserver of birds and
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE. Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’-heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist &od.'kxaAredL
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. AAEON Fbanklin, 100, Suf-
folk-street, Birmingham.  
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &e., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalsfcon, and Kingsland.—Information as
to Local Associations. Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
Price 2s. 6d-
Glimpses of a brighter land.—
Showing the harmony of things spiritual with thiugs material.
“The tone of the book is exceedingly pure and good.”—Christian Spiri¬
tualist.
*** A list of spiritual and mesmeric works on application.
London; Bailliere and Co., King William-street, Strand.
jj{( yrugrm % jltiijttti ntfo
VOJ-UJVIE FOUR. JHUJVIBE^ ELEVEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MARCH 13th, 1874.
S^xntttalbt
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS:—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch
.Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Oorrespondenoe.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. AHen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions :—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of “ The Spiritualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E. C., should always be infoi'med of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N, Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bonrke-street.
„ Mr H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. O. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118 Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Bru nswick-street.,
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road,
Sandridge.—J. T. Seholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-ttreet.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist maybe had by post direct from the London publisher.
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny,
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 10s., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
JjlEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects :—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—i, Fitzroy-square, W,
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
NO. YIH.
There are points of difficulty which I should desire
to have solved. The ideas which you have put forward
seem pure, elevated, and nohle; and the teaching is in
itself, apart from all other considerations, beautiful;
but it at once strikes me as being incompatible with that
received by orthodox Christian churches. In short, it
flatly contradicts Christian teaching, and seems to be in¬
consistent with what Christians have agreed to hold as de
fide. Is not this so ?
That which has been told to you in its outline is so
far correct; but it does not pretend to be a perfect
delineation of truth. It is but a faint outline, blurred
and blotted in many ways, but substantially truthful.
Doubtless it contravenes much which you have been
taught to believe as necessary to salvation. No doubt
it seems to the unprepared spirit new and destructive
of older forms of faith. .But it is not so. In its broad
outlines the spirit creed would be accepted by all who
have thought at all on theological subjects without
trammel of preconceived ideas, and without fear of the
consequences of seeking into the truth. It would be
commendable to all who are not hampered by old pre¬
judices. We said that we must clear away much
rubbish; that the work of destruction must precede
the work of construction; that the old and unservice¬
able must first give place; that, in short, we must
clear before we can build.
Yes ; but the rubbish which you seem to me to be clear¬
ing away is precisely what Christians have agreed in all
ages to consider cardinal doctrines of the faith.
Ne, friend; not quite so. You exaggerate there.
If you will read the records which so imperfectly re¬
cord the earth life of Jesus, you will not find that He
claimed for Himself any such position as the Christian
Church has since forced upon Him. He was more such
as we preach Him than such as the Church called by
His name has made Him.
I cannot think so. And the Atonement: What do
you make of that ?
It is in some sense true. We do not deny it; we do
* In the Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of soma
remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-road, St. John’s-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extracts they gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium, free, to a large extent at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently, the “spirit teachings” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many: each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing, peculiar to the communicating intelligence, is always preserved,
and the individuality remains throughout the same.—Ed,
122
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 13, 1874.
but fight against that crude human view which renders
God contemptible, and makes Him a cruel tyrant who
needed to be propitiated by His Son’s death. We do
not detract from Jesus’ work when we disavow the false
and dishonouring fables which have gathered round
His name, and have obscured the simple grandeur of
His life, the moral purpose of His sacrifice. We shall
have somewhat to say to you hereafter on the growth
of dogma until an assumption becomes established as
de fide, and its rejection or denial has passed for
mortal sin. Were God to leave man to his own ends
it would be held to be a mortal heresy, deserving of
eternal burnings to deny that the Supreme has dele¬
gated to a man one of his own inalienable prerogatives.
One great section of the Christian Church would claim
infallible knowledge for its head, and persecute in life,
and condemn in death, even to everlasting shame and
torment, those who receive it not. This is a dogma of
late growth in your very midst; but so all dogmas have
grown up. So it h&s become difficult, nay impossible,
for unaided human reason to distinguish God’s truth
from man’s glosses upon it. So all who have had the
boldness to clear away the rubbish have been held ac¬
cursed. It has been the story of all time. And we
are not justly chargeable with wrong doing if from our
superior stand-point of knowledge we point out to you
human figments of error, and endeavour to sweep them
jiw&y •
Yes; that may be. But the belief in the Divinity of
Christ, and in His Atonement can scarcely be called
dogmas which are of human growth. You always pre¬
fix to your name the sign of the cross [+ I. S. I).] I
presume, therefore, that in your lifetime on earth you
must have held these dogmas. R., another communicat¬
ing spirit, who also uses the sign of the cross, must almost
if not altogether have died for them. Here then seems
to me to be a contradiction. Suppose the dogmas to be
unnecessary or mistaken truths—suppose them even to
be false—what am I to conclude ? Have you changed
your opinions ? Or were you a Christian whilst you
lived on earth ? or were you not ? If not, why the Cross ?
If you were, why the change of sentiment ? The whole
question intimately concerns your identity, I cannot see
how your teaching coincides with your belief when you
lived on earth. It is pure and beautiful, but surely it
is not Christian. Nor is it the teaching which one who
uses the sign of the Cross would reasonably be expected to
promulgate. So it seems to me. If I speak in ignorance,
enlighten my ignorance. If I seem to be too curious, I
must be excused, seeing that I have no means of judging
you but by your words and deeds. So far as I am able
to judge, your words and deeds are alike noble and
elevated, pure and rational, but not Christian. I only
desire such reasonable ground for forming an opinion as
may satisfy my present doubts and difficulties.
It shall be given in due course. Cease now. [June
16, 1873.]
[June 20, 1873.] I salute, good friend. We would
now give you more information, touching points which
have perplexed and distressed you. You would know
how far the sign of the cross may legitimately be asso¬
ciated with our teaching. We will shew you of this.
Friend, the sign which is emblematic of the life and
work of Jesus the Christ is one that cannot fairly be
prefixed to much that now passes current for His
teaching. The tendency of all classes of religionists
has ever been to make much of the latter and to neglect
the spirit; to dwell at large on expressions drawn from
individual writers, and to neglect the general drift of
teaching. Men have gone with preconceived notions to
search for the truth, and have found that which they
expected. Single words and expressions have been
drawn out of their context by those who have professed
to comment on the texts of your sacred books until they
have been made to bear a meaning which their writers
never intended. Others have gone to the authors
solely to find words to prop up a theory without even
the poor pretence of seeking after the truth; and they,
too, have been able to dig out something which has
served their purpose. And so, by slow degrees, the
edifice has grown, built up laboriously by men who de¬
light to dwell on peculiarities of language and expres¬
sion, and by men who, having evolved for themselves
an idea, strive only that it may be confirmed. Neither
class has any idea beyond the text of the sacred records
which lies before him.
We said before, that much of what we should have
to say to you would turn on what you understand by
Divine inspiration.
Those who are known to you as the orthodox defenders
of the Christian creed tell you that a mysterious person
—one of the three individual persons who compose the
Undivided Trinity—took possession of the minds of cer¬
tain men, and through their organisms gave to your
world a body of truth, which was whole, complete, and
of eternal force: a system of Divine philosophy from
which nothing might be removed under the direst ban;
to which nothing would ever be added; and which was
the immediate word, the very utterance, the mind and
will of God, containing within it the whole body of
truth, actual and potential, contained in divinely worded
phrases and expressions. Not only are the sentiments
of David and Paul, Moses and John, consonant with
the will of the Supreme, but they‘are the very thoughts
of Deity. Not only are the words divinely approved,
but they are the very diction of the Supreme. In short,
the Bible is the very Word of God, both in matter and
form : every word of it Divine, and fit to be studied and
expounded as such, even in that version of it which is
translated into your language by men who, to complete
the marvel, are again supposed to be in their turn the
recipients of Divine truth and guidance in their work
of translation.
Hence, you will see, that doctrines the most [tre¬
mendous, and conclusions the most far-reaching may be
founded upon mere words and expressions, for is not
every word and turn of phrase the revelation of God
divinely preserved from admixture of human error ?
These are they who have grounded a number of
dogmas on phrases picked out at iheir pleasure, neglect¬
ing and passing over all that pleases them not. To such
the Bible is the direct utterance of the Supreme.
Those who have abandoned this view have entered
upon a process of destructive handling of the Bible, the
only termination of which is the view which we shall
put for your acceptance. They revere the sacred re¬
cords which compose your Bible as being the records of
God’s truth revealed to man from age to age, even as it
is still being revealed. They study the records as
showing man’s progressive grasp of knowledge of God
‘and of the destiny of the spirit. They watch the
gradual unfolding of this revelation from times of ig¬
norance and brutal barbarism, when He was known as
the friend of Abraham who ate and conversed at the
tent door, or the Judge who governed His people, or the
King who fought at the head of the armies of Israel,
ME S^IHITUALIST.
123
March 13, 1874.
or the Tyrant revealed through the medium of some
seers, down to the time when He became known in His
truer character of tenderness, and love, and fatherly
kindness and compassion. In all this they see growth,
and they will believe, if they pursue their investiga¬
tions to the end, that such growth has never ceased;
that such progressive revelation has never been closed;
and that man’s knowledge of his God is far from com¬
plete, though his capacity for receiving that knowledge
is ever enlarging his means of satisfying the craving
that is within him. And so the seeker after truth will
be prepared to receive our teaching on this head at
least. To such we address ourselves. To those who
fondly fancy that they possess a perfect knowledge we
say nothing. Before we can deal with them they must
learn to know their ignorance of all that concerns God
and Eevelation. Anything that we could say would
glide off the impenetrable defence of ignorance, self-
conceit, and dogmatism. They must be left to unlearn
hereafter in pain and sorrow that which has so re¬
tarded their spiritual growth, and will be so dire a bar¬
rier to future progress.
We will deal with this question at large hereafter :
showing you of God’s Eevelation, and of our part in it.
OTHER WORLD ORDER.
BY WILLIAM WHITE, AUTHOR OE “ THE LIEE OE
SWEDENBORG.”
Writes a Friend: “ I have read thy last paper, and
fear that thou art too fond of paradox; and paradox I
do not like in serious matters. What dost thou mean,
for instance, in asserting ‘ that Hell is a Kingdom
characterised by the most rigid propriety, where any
infraction of order is severely repressed, and where
manners and morals are developed in most • exquisite
perfection ?’ ”
Perhaps my correspondent may be best answered by
asking. Whether he would be pleased to hear that the
Kingdom of Hell is characterised by universal disorder,
and the violation of every form of decency? Also,
Whether if any good is to be predicated of infernal
life, it is not probable that it should be limited to such
perfection of manners and morals? These questions
may lead to the conclusion that my assertion requires
only a little consideration to lose the paradoxical air
that may hang around it.
The common definition of Hell as a place of eternal
punishment has become incredible, and incredible even
to those who professionally vindicate it. We are
punished to desist from wrong-doing, and everlasting
punishment must therefore stand for everlasting wrong¬
doing, and everlasting inefficiency of punishment. Wow
we all know that any manner of wrong-doing may be
arrested by adequate punishment. Pain has only to
accompany action with due poignancy and persistency
to ensure inaction. A man might be starved if with
every attempt to eat a pang was inflicted in excess of
the satisfaction of his appetite. Hit a wrong-doer in
the peccant spot, hit hard enough and often enough,
and he will behave as desired. Consequently, as we
can see no necessity for everlasting inefficiency, we
cannot believe in everlasting punishment.
The conception of Hell as a place of perpetual tor¬
ture was not unnatural in times when justice was
maintained by terror, when master and slave was the
general social relationship, when prisons and madhouses
were surrendered to cruelty and stupidity, and when
divines described the shrieks of the damned as among
the delights of the blessed. The notions concerning
the future life which oppress us (and which cause many
to feel that, were they true, paternity would be a crime,
and Salvator Mundi some Gengis Khan or Napoleon
who would most rapidly exterminate the human race)
are derived from generations in whom sympathy with
suffering was latent or feeble. The probability like¬
wise is, that their words were in excess of their im¬
aginations, and unending agonies were pronounced as a
bucketful is sometimes described as an ocean, and
scores as millions. Number and quantity are always
exaggerated by children and primitive people in their
ardour for emphasis.
It is the clear sense, begotten of experience wit
criminals, lunatics, and idiots, that all forms of human
nature are amenable to treatment, that compels us,
consciously or unconsciously, to distrust the legend of
a hopeless hell. At the worst we perceive that with
adequate punishments order is practicable anywhere;
but it is an admission made with disdain. Cavoursaid,
“ Anybody can govern in a state of siegeand with a
whip dexterously plied a community of devils might be
turned to good account and preserved in decorum’; but
with service and decorum the whip may be left to rest;
for why should even devils be tortured if they cease to
do evil ? In a prison the governor is content if the
felons pick their oakum with reasonable assiduity; and
need we think of Hell as worse than a model peni¬
tentiary ?
But whilst external constraint is preferable to
anarchy, it is never otherwise than provisional and pre¬
paratory to an inward and more excellent order. We
all occasionally marvel at God’s forbearance, and im¬
plore His intervention; and when we are told that—
Though the mills of God grind slowly, yet they grind exceed¬
ing small;
Though with patience He stands waiting, with exactness grinds
He all;
—yet the query recurs. Why are God’s ways slow? If
sure, might they not likewise be swift ? And to such
inquiries there seems no more rational answer than that
given by Swedenborg, namely, that God creates man to
live as of himself, and that He will do nothing to
violate man’s sensation of independence, for in that
consciousness of independence his humanity consists.
Says Professor Huxley, “ I protest that if some great
Power would agree to make me always think what is
true, and do what is right, on condition of being turned
into a sort of clock, and wound up every morning
before I got out of bed, I would instantly close with
the offer. The only freedom I care about is the free¬
dom to do right; the freedom to do wrong I am ready
to part with on the cheapest terms to any one who will
take it of me.” If not in jest, the Professor prays to
be dehumanised—to live not as of himself, but as a
perfect mechanism driven by “ some great Power.”
Such a conception reverses the springs of human happi¬
ness. It is not merely in being right that we find our
joy, but in being right and from thence aspiring to
further righteousness. Wiser was Lessing, who avowed
that if offered all truth in exchange for the delight that
attends the pursuit thereof, he wpuld decline the satis¬
faction.
No: God will have order, and He visits disorder with
persistent, inevitable and terrible penalties. We may
read His sentence everywhere, “ Fulfil My law, or be
tortured and perish.” But it is His method to secure
124
THE SPIRITUALIST.
His end secretly under cover of our consciousness,
through, us and by us,we feeling all the while that our ac¬
tivities are spontaneous, the outcome of our own inward
judgment and determination. He will, for instance,
grant Huxley’s prayer : not a doubt of it: but He will
do so through Huxley, giving him to feel from first to
last throughout eternity that he, Huxley, is working
out his own righteousness.
That, I repeat, is God’s method; and hence in the
government of Heaven and Hell order is not impressed
from without, but is an efflux from within, whereby
those concerned have all the responsibility and merit of
their own well-doing. Wherefore in asserting “ that
Hell is a Kingdom characterised by the most rigid pro¬
priety,” I mean to say that such propriety is a natural
development from the mind of its inhabitants.
“ But how,” it may be demanded, “ can equity pro¬
ceed from avarice, chastity from lust, truth from deceit,
or mercy from malice ? for when you speak of an orderly
commonwealth of devils, so much has to be accomplished.”
Admitted : so much has to be accomplished ; and so
much, I venture to believe, is accomplished.
And for the sake of illustration let us imagine a
community of thieves, or rather, let me say in phreno¬
logical phrase, a community in which acquisitiveness is
the predominant faculty—(and it is my assumption that
after death all people of kindred character are drawn to¬
gether, and set in their proper place in the Grand Man,
that is, in Universal Humanity). It is obvious that such
a community cannot go on plundering each other. They
would be too sharp to endure such practice : hence our
proverb, “Set a thief to catch a thief.” Out of their
very passion, I argue, must spring their order—an
order of inflexible fair dealing; for every member would
exact his due, and take care that his neighbour had no
more than his due. In this chaotic world, thieves find
their opportunity in the recklessness and confidence of
the honest and indifferent; as indeed we know that
offences against property are most effectually checked
by watchfulness, by scrutiny, and publicity; in a word,
by the removal of temptation and by certainty of de¬
tection.
We have also to remember that the acquisitiveness
which is manifest in the world as theft and extortion is
thus manifest by misdirection. Multitudes ruled by
the love of gain have led useful and decorous lives.
Ruled by the love of gain they might have been rogues
or marauders, but educated and set in kindly circum¬
stances, they gratified their passion in humane service
and industry. What I therefore maintain is, that the
offenders who molest and distress us only require to be
appraised and understood in order to have functions as¬
signed them wherein their special capacities would have
occupation and satisfaction. Criminals are no more
than forces misapplied, to whose utilisation our wisdom
is at present unequal.
And if it were not mere repetition, I might go over
other passions and show that they are mischievous be¬
cause misunderstood, thwarted, misguided or unguided.
And it really is of little consequence with what aber¬
rations of human nature I am confronted, for though I
might be perplexed to account for certain instances, I
should fall back on the principle that all that is abnor¬
mal in man can be referred to its source in what is
normal, and that whatever is normal is useful and
blameless in its proper place and subjection. We are
all of us pieces of Humanity, some larger, some smaller,
and only when set truly in Humanity can any of us
March 13, 1874.
enter into fulness of life and peace. As Mr. Hamerton
observes, “ We cannot be too frequently reminded that
we are nothing of ourselves, and are only something by
the place we hold in the intellectual chain of Humanity
by which electricity is conveyed to us and through
us.”*
But to return to the order and decorum of Hell; I
would ask how much of the order and decorum of this
world is due to the activity of the selfish passions? Who
are the prosecutors of iniquity, the explorers of infamy,
the accusers of infidelity ? Ho one with any discrimi¬
nation will answer the meek, the gentle, the generous.
Does not our wise Swedenborg describe the case with
much accuracy in these words:—
• “ Those who are in self-love see nothing but errors
and perversities in man. It is otherwise with those
who are in truth from love; these observe what is good,
and if they see anything evil and false they excuse it,
and as far as they are able, endeavour to amend it.
Where there is no love, there is self-love, consequently
hatred towards all who do not favour themselves.
Hence it is, that such persons do not see in their neigh¬
bour anything but his evils, and if they observe any¬
thing that is good, they either regard it as nothing,
or construe it into something evil. With such, also,
there dwells a continual contempt of others, or a con¬
tinual derision of others, together with a disposition to
publish their errors whenever occasion offers. With
those who are in charity it is altogether otherwise. And
hereby these two kinds of persons are distinguished, es¬
pecially when they come into the other life. Then, with
those who are in no charity, a spirit of hatred appears in
all they do. They wish to examine everyone, and desire
nothing more earnestly than to discover what is evil, con¬
tinually proposing in their minds to condemn, to punish,
and to torment. But they who are in charity hardly
see another’s evil, but observe all that is good and true
in him, and what is evil and false they strive to con¬
strue into good. Such are all the angels; and this they
have from the Lord, who bends all evil to good.”!
Does not everyone’s experience yield illustrations of
Swedenborg’s statement? How often is the inde¬
fatigable investigator of scandal the very man who,
given opportunity, would have committed what he
denounces ! How frequently are those who ascribe
all duplicity and superstition to Jesuits, themselves
mendacious and credulous! How seldom is a heresy-
hunter really grieved with the error over which he
shrieks! It is to him what a rat is to a terrier. Who
are such sticklers for delicacy, as the impure! Did
not Dr. Johnson hit the fact accurately when he
pronounced—“A man of nice words a man of nasty
ideas ?” Of “ dragons of virtue,” the Rev. F. W.
Robertson wrote :—“ I do believe that a secret leaning
towards the sin, and a secret feeling of provocation and
jealousy towards those who have enjoyed what they
dare not, lies at the bottom of half the censorious zeal
for morality which we hear. I am nearly sure it is so
with women in their virulence against their own sex;
they feel malice because they envy them.” Said an
eminent Nonconformist divine to me, “ The most con¬
tentious and cantankerous Christians I have met have
been proclaiming that religion is nothing but love.” A
platform of the Peace Society has always impressed me
as a platform of gladiators. And, indeed, of reformers
in general, I agree with Henry James in saying, “ They
* The Intellectual Life, Part XII., p. 442.
t Arcana Ccelestia, Nos. 1079 and 1080.
March 13, 1874. THE SPIRITUALIST.
125
are very disagreeable people. They are at it hammer
and tongs day and night, pressing the truth home upon
you in season and out of season, driving you half
demented with a sense of your personal responsibility
for all the evil done under the sun; ‘ morose, impatient,’
as Swedenborg says of Ishmael, ‘ opposing everybody,
viewing all the world as in falsity, urgently rebuking,
chastising, punishing.’ They are the devil, but the
devil divinely rectified, and put to such uses as the
angel could never accomplish.”
The last remark conveys the pregnant hint that Hell
is no superfluity, and still less a blunder; but that
involves a wider question. The point I have tried to
make good is, that the selfish passions contain elements
of order which, fully developed, must make of Hell a
kingdom of propriety.
VISIONS IN CEYSTALS.
A seanc& was held at No. 3, Landsdowne-terrace,
East Western-road, Brighton, in the apartments of Mr.
H. D. Jencken, barrister-at-law, of Goldsmith-build¬
ings, Temple, on Sunday, the 1st of February last—
present, Mr. and Mrs. Jencken; and Mr. James Wason,
solicitor, of Liverpool. The following very remarkable
Spiritual phenomena took place :—
The three observers above named had been requested
by the spirits to hold a seance in the drawing-room on
the first floor of No. 3, Landsdowne-terrace, and no
sooner were they seated than Mrs. Jencken, by writing
mediumship, wrote the following message :—
“ Mr dear Husband,—I have given you this as a
proof that you may know I am with you. You know,
dear James, that Katie is free from all impressions
from your mind. To-morrow I will give you a still
greater proof through this nurse. You must give it to
the world, and write it out in full for the Spiritualist
and Medium. Dear James, we go to your room every
night, and impress you, so while you are here you will
receive new life. We will say no more to-night. Mr.
Jencken, you are on the road to success. We will all
be with you to-morrow.”
Immediately afterwards we were instructed (by
rappings) to go to the bedroom on the same floor, ad¬
joining the drawing-room where we were sitting. The
wet nurse of Mrs. Jencken’s child, who can neither
read nor write, returned with us into the drawing¬
room, carrying a crystal in her hand, and she then
related to us that the crystal had been placed under
the hand of Mr. and Mrs. Jencken’s child, who was in
bed, and asleep at the time; that a luminous glow ap¬
peared to arise from the body of the crystal. The
nurse further stated she now felt a desire to look
into the crystal, and there she said she saw a lady who
described herself by the name of “ Susan.” This lady
(Susan) answers the description of the departed wife of
Mr. Wason—neither the name nor the description of
her person was known to the wet nurse, who had. only
been known to Mr. Wason the day previously to the
day of sitting—a middle aged lady, very nice looking
and kind. The nurse then said she saw in the crystal
another figure, with a high forehead and large blue
eyes, who told her (the nurse) that “ he had been blind,
but could see now.” He said Mr. Jencken would be
very successful with Mr. (giving the name in full,
which was well known to Mr. Jencken) with whom he
was having business transactions of importance.
Immediately after, the nurse stated that another
figure presented itself, who resembled Mr. Jencken, and
stated himself to be his twin brother. Mr. Jencken
had a twin brother who had departed this life many
years ago, about whom the nurse could have known
nothing.
The nurse then stated that another figure appeared
in the crystal, who gave its name “Josephine”—a
departed sister of Mr. Jencken. [N.B. Mr. Jencken
had a sister of that name who in all respects
answered the description given by the nurse.] The
nurse then stated that she saw other figures in the
crystal, but could not describe them.
Mrs. Jencken next took the crystal and looked into
it. She described, firstly, the figure of Dr. Jencken,
father of Mr. H. D. Jencken, and also the twin brother
and sister before-mentioned, which descriptions per¬
fectly accorded with the appearance of-the parties when
on earth.
The drawing-room had only the light of a fire, and
those present could not see the face of the nurse, but
she suddenly asked what was it they were talking about,
and appeared totally to have forgotten all she had seen,
done, and said. She was quite astounded at being told
what she had said she had seen, done, and said. She
had evidently been in a trance-state, and unconscious of
what had been occurring.
Mrs. Jencken again took the crystal into her hand,
and first described the figure of “ Susan.” The crystal
then darkened, and the figures of Dr. Jencken the
twin brother and sister appeared, all of whom Mrs.
Jencken described, and Mr. JenckSn recognised. The
crystal was then snatched out of Mrs. Jencken’s hand
and flung on the floor, and on her resuming it it was
again taken out of her hand and flung on the floor for
the second time. The spirits then by raps told the
sitters to have another seance on the following evening,
when still greater proofs would be afforded:
.On the following evening the same persons again sat
for a seance in the same room. Mrs. Jencken was sud¬
denly impressed to proceed into the nurse’s room.
On entering the landing between the drawing and bed¬
room, a figure met her carrying her child in its arms.
Alarmed to a degree Mrs. Jencken took her child into
her arms from the figure, the figure vanishing as it con¬
signed its charge to Mrs. Jencken. Mrs. and Mr.
Jencken then went into the bedroom where the
nurse was found asleep on her bed; she appeared
to know nothing of .what had happened. This inci¬
dent is of interest as being the first instance of a baby
being carried by spirits.
Spibitttalism is now progressing in Canada more rapidly
than it has done for some years past.
Next Wednesday Mr. Everitt will deliver a lecture to
the Marylebone Association of Spir tualists, at 90, Church-
street, Paddington, in the course o hich he will give long
extracts from his diary, relating to the Spiritual manifesta¬
tions witnessed by him. The lecture will begin at eight
o’clock.
The Testimonial to Me. Beyton.—We have been
requested to state that the subscription list will close on
Monday, the 23rd inst., and that the testimonial will be pre¬
sented to Mr. Blyton at the rooms of the Dalston Association
of Inquirers into Spiritualism, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.,
at eight o’clock on the evening of Thursday, the 26th inst.,
when the attendance of members and friends is respectfully
solicited: The list of subscriptions will be published in the
Spiritualist. Subscriptions should be remitted either to Mrs.
A. Corner, 3, St. Thomas’s-square, Hackney; or, Mr. G. E.
Tapp, 18, Queen Margaret’e-grove, Mildmay-park, London, N.
126
THU SPIHITTJALIST.
March 13, 1874,
THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.
THE MEDIUMSHIP 03? MOHAMMED.
In the course of his third lecture at the Royal Institution
on Mohammed and the Mohammedans, Mr. R. Bosworth
Smith said:—
Endless. assertions as to what the Koran is, and what it is
not, warnings drawn from previous Arabian history, especially
the lost tribes of Ad and Thamud; Jewish or Arab legends of
the heroes of the Old Testament, stories told, and, it must be
added, often spoiled in the telling of them ; laws, ceremonial
and moral, civil and sumptuary; personal apologies; curses
showered upon Abu Lahab or the whole community of the
Jews ; all this alternates with, or rather forms part of, sub¬
lime revelations of the attributes of the Godhead, bursts of
admiration for Christ Himself, though not for the views held
of Him by His so-called followers, flights of poetry, scathing
rebukes of the hypocrite, the ungrateful, the unmerciful.
That the book as a whole is a medley, however it may be
arranged, will seem only natural when we remember the way
in which it was composed, preserved, edited, and stereotyped.
Dictated from time to time by Mohammed to his disciples, it
was by them partly treasured in their memories, partly written
down on shoulder-bones of mutton or oyster-shells, on bits of
wood or tablets of stone, which, being thrown pell-mell into
boxes, and jumbled up together, like the leaves of the Cumsean
Sibyl after a gust of wind, were not put into any shape at all
till after the Prophet’s death by order of Abu Bakr. The
work of the editor consisted simply in arranging the Suras in
the order of their respective lengths, the longest first, the
shortest last; and, though the book once afterwards passed
through the editor’s hands, this is substantially the shape in
which the Koran has come down to us. Various readings,
which would seem, however, to have been of very slight im¬
portance, having crept into the different copies, a revising
committee was appointed by order of the Kaliph Othman,
and, an authorised edition having been thus prepared “ to
prevent the texts differing, like those of the Jews and Chris¬
tians,” all previous copies were collected and burnt.
Allusions to the monotony of the desert; the sun in its
rising brightness ; the moon in its splendour ; are varied in
the Koran by much more vivid mental visions of the Great
Day when men shall be like moths scattered abroad, and the
mountains shall become like carded wool of various colours,
driven by the wind. No wonder that Labyd, the greatest poet
of his time, forbore to enter the poetic lists with Mohammed
when he recited to him the description of the infidels in the
second Sura.
“ They are like one who kindleth a fire, and when it hath
thrown its light on all around him, God taketh away the light
and leaveth them in darkness, and they cannot see.”
“ Deaf, dumb, blind, therefore they shall not retrace their
steps.”
“ They are like those who, when there cometh a storm-
cloud out of heaven big with darkness, thunder and lightning,
thrust their fingers into their ears because of the thunder-clap
for fear of death. God is round about the infidels.”
“ The lightning almost snatcheth away their eyes; so oft as
it gleameth on them, they walk on in it; but when darkness
closeth upon them, they stop ; and if God pleased, of their
ears and of their eyes would He surely deprive them; verily
God is almighty.”
And at the end of the same Sura, which, it is to be remem¬
bered, appeared quite late in the Prophet’s life, at a period
when it might have been expected that the cares of govern¬
ment would dim the brightness of the Prophet’s visions, we
find the sublime description of Him whom it had been the
mission of his life to proclaim, and which is still engraved on
precious stones, and worn by devout Mussulmans.
“ God ! there is no God, but He, the Living, the Eternal.
Slumber doth not overtake Him, neither sleep; to Him be-
longeth all that is in heaven and in earth. Who is he that
can intercede with Him but by His own permission? He
knoweth that which is past and that which is to come unto
them, and they shall not comprehend anything of His know¬
ledge but so far as He pleaseth. His throne is extended over
heaven and earth, and the upholding of both is no burden
unto Him. He is the Lofty and the Great.”
Almost equally well, too, as a proof of his poetic inspira¬
tion, might have Mohammed quoted that other description of
infidelity also produced late in his life, and pronounced by
Sir William Muir and by Dr. Deutsch to be one of the
grandest in the whole Koran.
“ As to the Infidels, their works are like the Serab on the
plain, which the thirsty traveller thinketh to be water, and
then when he cometh thereto, he findeth it to be nothing ; but
he'findeth God about him, and he will fully pay him his ac¬
count ; for swift in taking an account is God ;
“ Or as the darkness over a deep sea, billows riding upon
billows below, and clouds above; one darkness on another
darkness : when a man stretcheth forth his hand he is far
from seeing it; he to whom God doth not grant light,
no light at all hath he.”
Strange and graphic accounts have been preserved to us by
Ayesha of the physical phenomena attending the prophet’s
fits of inspiration. He heard as it were the ringing of a bell;
he fell down as one dead; he sobbed like a camel; he felt as
though he were being rent in pieces, and when he came to
himself he felt as though words had been written on his
heart. And when Abu Bakr, “ he who would have sacrificed
father and mother for Mohammed,” burst into tears at the
sight of the prophet’s whitening hair, “Yes,” said Mohammed,
“ Hud and its sisters, the terrific Suras, have turned it white
before its time.”
Mohammedanism is a system in many respects unique,
but in none more so than in this, that alone of the great
religions of the world it does not, in its authoritative docu¬
ments, rest its claims to reception upon miracles.
In the thirteenth Sura we read,—
“ The unbelievers say, ‘ Unless a sign be sent down with
him from his ;Lord, we will not believe. But thou art a
preacher only, O Mohammed 1’ ”
Mohammed replies, that God alone can work miracles ; and,
after specifying some of them, he says :—
“ God alone knoweth that which is hidden, and that which
is revealed. He is the great and the Most High.”
In the seventh Sura the infidels ask why Mohammed had
not been sent with miracles, like previous prophets?
Because, replied Mohammed, miracles had proved inade¬
quate to convince. Noah had been sent with signs, and with
what effect 1 Where was the lost tribe of Thamud 1 They
had refused to receive the preaching of the prophet Saled
unless he showed them a sign, and caused the rock to bring
forth a living camel. He did what they asked. In scorn they
had cut off the camel’s feet, and then, daring the Prophet to
fulfil his threats of judgment, were found dead in their beds
next morning, stricken by the angel of the Lord. There are
some seventeen places in the Koran in which Mohammed is
challenged to work a sign, and he answers them all to the
same effect.
SPIRITUALISM AT THE YICTORIA DISCUSSION
SOCIETY.
On Wednesday night (last week), a meeting of the Victoria
Discussion Society was held at the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-,
street, Regent-street, to consider the subject of Spiritualism.
The Victoria Discussion Society was formed by Miss Emily
Faithfull, editress of the Victoria Magazine, for the purpose
of enabling ladies to take part publicly in the consideration
of all questions of vital interest to the community; the mem¬
bers also desire to advance all educational and industrial re¬
forms. The Victoria Discussion Society has, in time past,
brought together many influential and earnest workers. Under
the leadership of the Earl of Shaftesbury, Lord Lyttleton,
Lord Houghton, Sir George Grey, Sir Erskine Perry, Dr.
Brewer, M.P., Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell, Mrs. Garrett Anderson,
Miss Downing, and Dr. Drysdale, have given their experiences
respecting the medical education of women; and among the
other subjects discussed, that of emigration was brought
before the society by Mr. Jenkins (author of “ Ginx’sBaby”).
Mr. Herbert Mozley explained the unsatisfactory nature of
the amendments introduced into the Married Woman’s Pro¬
perty Bill. Temperance doctrines were advocated by Miss
Le Geyt. Domestic economy by Mr. Phillips Bevan. Female
Suffrage by Mr. Hoskins. Dr. Lankester insisted on the
necessity of better sanitary arrangements and instruction.
Mrs. St. John treated of the present position of women. Mr.
Fuller on the duty of teaching the people the value of healthful
rational play; and Miss Wallington argued against the old
system of separate education for boys and girls.
Last Wednesday Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan occupied the
chair. Mr. James Thornton Hoskins delivered a short address
for the purpose of opening the discussion, and Miss Emily
Faithfull was also upon the platform.
Mrs. Tappan said that Spiritualism was one of the greatest
questions of the age; that it was not dead in its birthplace,
March 13, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
127
America, as Mr. BradlaugR had stated, but that it was spread¬
ing all over the civilised world with considerable velocity.
At the present time Mr. Gerald Massey, the English poet, was
travelling in America; he was an ardent Spiritualist, and was
drawing large audiences to listen to what he had to say upon
the subject; upon his return he would be able to tell them
whether Spiritualism were really dead there or no. She had
much pleasure in introducing Mr. Hoskins to the meeting.
Mr. James Thornton Hoskins said that Mr. Lewes had as¬
serted that religion at the present day was tending either
towards extinction or alteration ; that it could not be kept
much longer within narrow creeds or within the thirty-nine
articles. He further stated that it must no longer present
mankind with tests which are senseless in science, but must
begin to teach men the supreme importance of human life,
and the grandeur of the human intellect; in short, to meet
the wants of the present age, it must be a religion based upon
facts and not upon speculations. He thought that Spiritualism
—and more particularly Christian Spiritualism—tended to re¬
move the dissensions between science and religion, and that
it met all the requirements of both ; for it proved that men
could, under certain conditions, hold communication with
spirits who had passed out of material life. How was it that
the principles of Spiritualism had spread so slowly ? Modern
Spiritualism was simply the revival of ancient truths, and
since the year 1847, when the rappings and other phenomena
first appeared in the presence of Miss Kate Fox at Hydesville,
New York, it had made remarkable progress, but for all that
it had had comparatively slow growth, considering its import¬
ance. In this country atmospheric or climatic conditions
tended to retard its progress, the drier and more bracing
climate of America being more suitable for the production of
the manifestations. Another hindrance to the rapid progress
of Spiritualism was the too great conservatism of the British
mind; moreover, the prejudices of the clergy against anything
which savoured of novelty or which appeared to be a
new discovery in religion, were not favourable to the progress
of truth. The speaker then entered into certain speculations
as to the nature of matter and spirit; he also made some re¬
marks about magnetism and electricity. Mr. Hoskins
then stated the essential points of difference between Spiri¬
tualists and materialists ; he said that the opinions of the
materialists were by no means original; they had been de¬
molished by Anaxagoras ages ago, for he had brought forth
the theory that mind and not matter governed the universe ;
and Aristotle had argued, that to say that the world made
itself, was as absurd as to state that chance built houses, and
caused the stones and mortar to assume their proper places
without any directing mind having taken any part in the matter.
Epictetus had also demolished the views of the materialist;
he should be sorry to endorse all the hard things that
Epictetus had said, for materialists had their mission to per¬
form, although that mission embraced a very humble part of
the doings of the world. The speaker then uttered some
speculative remarks as to the nature of matter and spirit, in
the course of which he argued that spirit was of necessity
essentially connected with matter, and that the molecules of
matter were grouped into form under the direction of spirit.
He then proceeded to speak of the phenomena of Spiritualism,
and said that the vague vulgar idea that they were all due to
electricity,| had been smashed up byMr. Yarley and others.
He then proceeded to state that Spiritualists were divided into
two classes, and that although he held the utmost respect for
what he would call the radical school of Spiritualists, he was
by conviction and not by faith a Christian Spiritualist; he
acknowledged that the facts and the miracles of the Bible
demanded scientific confirmation, but he asserted that Spiri¬
tualism would give the required proof. Many people pro¬
fessed to believe in the Bible. He said to some of the
believers, “ Do you believe these facts, or do you not ?” “ Do
you believe that the axe floated on the water, or do you not ?”
“ Ob,” they said, “ they did not believe the miracles, but there
was a certain amount of moral truth within them.” But if
the miracles were false, what was the use of founding moral
truth upon a story which was imposture and falsehood ? He
believed that the Bible miracles were true, and not only were
they true, but in the present day they were capable of
scientific confirmation. Spiritualism only would explain the
Christian miracles, including that of Christ walking upon the
water, for—and he said it with reverence—Christ’s body
must have been more fluidic And more etherial than the bodies
of other persons, consequently must have been lighter, and
thus have enabled Him to walk upon the water. To their
everlasting honour the Roman Catholics had never denied the
reality of spiritual gifts, and had retained them in their
church to the present day. He (Mr. Hoskins) did not
believe everything that was told to him by spirits; for
instance, suppose a spirit were to come to him and to say that
the doctrines of Buddha were as good as those of Christ, he
should not believe the spirit, but should take the advice of
St. John, who told Christians not to believe every spirit. He
then proceeded to speak of some of the phenomena of modern
Spiritualism, and said that he went on Saturday, March 29th,
1873, to the studio of the spirit photographer, Mr. Hudson, in
Holloway-road. Mr. T. Herbert Noyes accompanied him, and
watched the photographic manipulations. Mr. Noyes had a
good knowledge of photography, for he had practised it in
Egypt. The medium was Mrs. Olive. He (Mr. Hoskins)
after standing or sitting for several likenesses, obtained one in
which the face of his mother appeared, who had been dead
for some years. This was a startling proof in modern times of
the reality of spirit intercourse. Prince Wittgenstein and
Mr. Crookes had recently been testing the genuineness of the
mediumship of Miss Cook, a young lady who had been most
unjustly maligned, because in her presence spirits were enabled
to make themselves visible. He thought that great credit
was due to Mr. Crookes for coming forward and testifying that
the young girl had been unjustly attacked.
Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan said that ten minutes only could be
allowed to each speaker. She hoped that some present would
give facts rather than opinions, for philosophical speculations
were not of much value among listeners, who were, for the
most part, entirely unacquainted with the subject. It would
be better to give facts than to state opinions. Would Dr.
Davies address the meeting ?
The Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., said that Mrs. Tappan
could not have made a more ^unfortunate selection than
to call upon him to address the meeting. Several years ago,
he read a paper at the Beethoven Rooms, Cavendish-square,
the title of which was, “ Am I a Spiritualist ? ” His attention,
at first, was drawn tp the subject in 1857, and he followed it
up for many years until he delivered the address in the
Beethoven Rooms, in which he stated all that he knew about
Spiritualism; and after he had finished his paper, the assembly
were divided in opinion as to whether he could be called a
Spiritualist or not, and he did not think the question had
been settled down to the present time. He was in a state of
doubt. When he first began to inquire, he knew nothing
whatever about the matter; he laughed at it as many others
had done, and asserted that it could not be true ; but after
inquiring,he came to the conclusion that there was something
in it. He did not think that it was well to trouble the meeting
with the facts which had had so little influence upon his own
mind. He had seen nearly every kind of manifestation,
including those which took place in the presence of Miss
Cook, and all he could say about the latter was that he had
been thoroughly staggered by them, and what was the cause
of them he was really unable to tell.
Mr. Hill said that he was in a nebulous condition about the
phenomena of Spiritualism, and he confessed that, although
he had attempted to follow Mr. Hoskins in his utterances
about the planets, he was in a nebulous condition still. He
should be glad if some lady or gentleman would apply to the
remarks of Mr. Hoskins the same legal questioning which was
applied to witnesses in courts of justice. He had listened with
astonishment to the nature of his discourse about spirit
photographs ; the story had suburban characteristics which
he did not like, and he should have preferred that the scene of
operations had been laid in Albemarle-street, within the
theatre of the Royal Institution, or in the School of Mines ;
he should have been glad if the phenomena had been
examined by persons of experience in physical science. His
friend, Mr. Hoskins, ought to have told the listeners
that Mr. Herbert Noyes was as devout a Spiritualist
as himself, consequently, the testimony of Mr. Noyes was no
more satisfactory than the testimony of Mr. Hoskins; he
would not for a moment dispute the honesty of either gentle¬
man, but he should have preferred that these remarkable
phenomena—phenomena of such a sacred character—had been
witnessed by persons more unbiassed. He had met Miss
Cook. He had sat with her for two hours at a refractory
table, the leg of which was bandaged up ; it certainly moved
in a very mysterious manner, and an Irish family tutor who
had departed this mortal life professed to communicate
through this table to his friends. Many remarkable mes¬
sages were rapped or kicked out; he rather preferred the
word “kicked.” The messages for the most part were unin¬
telligible, and related to New Testament history. Some of
128
'THE SPIRITUALIST.
the messages were certainly remarkable. • But the gentleman
living in the house had given most of his mind to the inter¬
pretation of the New Testament, so it scarcely seemed strange
that the messages should partake of this character, or that
the messages of the spirits should reflect the dominant
ideas of the gentleman who had entertained him. The name
of the medium was Miss Cook, but he could not say that she
was the same Miss Cook of whom Mr. Hoskins had spoken.
Mr. Thomas Shorter said that be was not at all in a nebu¬
lous state about the matter, for he had had eighteen years’
experience in Spiritualism, and had been present at some
hundreds of seances. Pie agreed with Mrs. Tappan that to
uninitiated listeners facts were of more importance than
theories ; and he did not altogether agree with all that Mr.
Hoskins had said. As regarded spirit photographs, he had
been, to Mr. Hudson’s, and had obtained photographs of
spirits, some of which had been recognised by the surviving
relatives; he himself recognised upon 'one of the plates one of
his earliest friends, also a relative well known to him ; this
latter portrait was recognised by the daughter of the spirit,
and no portrait or picture of the lady, besides the one obtained
at Mr. Hudson’s, was in existence; moreover, the lady was
quite unknown to the photographer. Mr. Hill had expressed
his belief that the opinions of Spiritualists were of little
value. Why so ? Who had had so much experience on the
subject as Spiritualists? Spirit photographs had been exa¬
mined by his friend John Beattie, of Bristol, a gentleman
who had actually written against the genuineness of Mr. Hud¬
son’s pictures. Mr. Beattie had been present at Mr. Hudson’s,
and obtained the portrait of a relative which was recognised
by himself and by his brother in Scotland. These were
not exceptional experiences ; once he (Mr. Shorter) pub¬
lished a list of names and addresses of forty persons who
had recognised the spirits upon the photographs; some of these
persons were well-known men, one of them being Mr. W.
Howitt. He had recently been with Dr. Sexton to another
photographer, who had been getting spirit photographs, and
they had obtained likenesses of spirits at times when it was
too dark to obtain likenesses of mortals. Mr. Gledstanes also
had obtained in Paris some very good spirit photographs. He
did not think that much good was done by discussion, the
whole matter being really a question of experiment and
practical experience. Once Professor Huxley had said to Pro¬
fessor Owen, “ What is the use of arguing about the points
of difference between us? Come to my operating room,
and let us settle our differences by an examination of'the
facts.”
After a few words from Mr. Todd, Miss Faithfull asked
Mrs. Tappan.to make a few remarks.
Mrs. Tappan then proceeded to narrate that at the outset
she did not intend to take part in the discussion ; in fact
during the last fifteen years she had. scarcely ever addressed a
public meeting in her normal state. In nearly every case in
which she had spoken in public, she was controlled by some
outside power not her own ; and from her earliest years she
had been subjected to spirit influence ; it came upon her un¬
solicited ; she had never heard of Spiritualism, or trance, or
inspirational mediumship, but wasfdrawn into an unconscious
state, .and made to speak upon subjects of which she had no
knowledge at the time. Since her fifteenth year she had
never studied. She did not say this boastingly, but reverently,
and her experience in this respect had not been singular, for
there were many other trance mediums in America who had
passed through the same ordeal. In England also there were
many trance mediums in private life. They did not expect
an astronomer to know all about the heavenly bodies by look¬
ing once only through a telescope, consequently it was not for
the public to come to conclusions in consequence of ex¬
perience which had been gained at one or two seances
only. If the experience during the last twenty years of some
millions of Spiritualists was not to be taken into account,
then the best thing the public could do, would be to reject
human testimony altogether, for surely those who knew most
about a subject were more competent to speak about it than
anybody else.. She then proceeded to state that in England
a great deal of proof of reality of Spiritual phenomena had
been accumulated ; she referred to the report of the Dialectical
Society, and said that twenty or thirty millions of people in all
parts of the globe who spoke the English language had become
believers, in Spiritualism. She said that from the first, Spiri¬
tualism had given no special favour to any religion or sect,
and it was an important fact that women had been as freely
elected as its advocates as men, and that in speaking before
Spiritualists, they had not been obliged to contend with the
March 13, 1874.
objections made against them by the general public, simply
because they were women. In America women might go un¬
questioned everywhere, and advocate everything except their
own rights. If Spiritualism tended to emancipate any class
of people and to give them more freedom, it ought to be
welcomed.
Mr. Hoskins said that Mr. Hill had asked for evidence
about Spiritualism which would satisfy a court of law. He
submitted that such evidence had been given,' and what was
the use of the other side bringing people to testify that certain
things did not take place after intelligent people had come
forward to demonstrate that they did take place ? Considera¬
tion ought to be given to the quality of the witnesses. He
then proceeded to speak of the value of the testimony of Pro¬
fessor Hare, of Philadelphia; of Governor Talmadge, of
Wisconsin ; and Judge Edmonds, of New York. He added
that once Professor Hare had a seance and sent a message by
his spirit mother to a medium a hundred miles off, telling her
to transact certain business at a neighbouring bank and to
bring back a reply. The medium was sitting at a circle at
the time and receiving a message ; a stoppage occurred in the
message, and then the spirit sent by Professor Hare said what
it had to say; the business was transacted at the
bank, and Professor Hare was informed of the
fact half-an-hour after he had sent the original message. If
such things as these occurred in our own day, it tended to
substantiate the reality of analogous occurrences in ancient
times, for he held that the same laws which governed the
growth of plants in Judea 2,000 years ago, govern the growth
of plants at the present day in Kensington Gardens. The
best guides which the public could find in connection with
the subject of Spiritualism were the Spiritualists.
Miss Faithfull said that a subject had been brought before
the society that evening upon which there were many differ¬
ences of opinion, but she was sure that everybody in the room
would feel much pleasure in returning thanks to Mr. Hoskins
for the temperate manner in which he had brought Spiritual¬
ism forward that night, and that a similar vote of thanks
would be extended with the same cordiality to Mrs. Tappan.
Mrs. Tappan thanked the listeners on behalf of herself and
Mr. Hoskins, and the meeting broke up.
EVENING CONCERT OF THE MARYLEBONE
ASSOCIATION.
The members of the Marylebone Association of Inquirers
into Spiritualism, gave an amateur concert on Wednesday
evening, March 4th, at the Quebec Institute, Seymour-street,
Portman-square.
The programme was well chosen, and the performance was
listened to by a large and highly-respectable audience, who
certainly cannot be said to have been hard to please, since
almost every piece was encored.
Though it would be invidious to make critical distinctions
where all were so kind as to give their services freely for the
public entertainment, we would mention as particularly
pleasing the two songs sung by Mr. Arthur Griffiths, “ One
happy year ago ” (A. S. Gatty), and “ Good-night,” given as
an encore. The part-songs, “ Chough and Crow ” (Bishop),
and “Sweet and low” (Barnby), were also sung with very
good effect, and it would be impossible to decide to which
of the lady soloists the palm of merit should be awarded.
The thanks of all are more especially due to the Misses Maltby
and Miss Claxton, the chief promoters of the performance,
and to Mr. F. Tindall, who played many of the accompani¬
ments, and treated the audience, during the interval between
the parts, to one or two of his own very pretty compositions.
Altogether the concert was a most laudable attempt, and very
successfully carried out, and it is to be hoped the members of
the Marylebone Association will be encouraged to repeat their
efforts, and that their example will be followed by Spiritualists
in other parts,of London.
Among those present were Mr. Cowper, President of the
Association, and Mrs. Cowper.
The prospectus of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, has the following quotations printed upon the
back of its title page :—* ‘ He that answereth a matter before
he heareth it, it is folly and shame unto him.—Proverbs
xviii. 13.” “ In Scripture we are perpetually reminded that
the laws of the spiritual world are, in the highest sense, laws
of nature.—Argyll." “He who asserts that, outside of the
domain of pure mathematics, anything is impossible, lacks a
knowledge of the first principles of logic.—Arago.”
March 13, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
129
aromspontience.
' [Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.}
INTERNAL RESPIRATION.
Sir,—The subject of internal respiration, which has been
recently alluded to in the Spiritualist, is one of the utmost
importance both to Spiritualists and others ; but few seem to
know much about it, or to have read the works of T. L. Harris,
in which its spiritual nature is most fully described. The
object of this communication is therefore to explain as far as
possible its nature, its physical and spiritual phenomena, and
its agreement with the prophetic writings of the Old and
New Testaments; and finally to endeavour by quoting from
Harris’s writings, and commenting on the extracts, to remove
some of the prejudice and misconception which have un¬
doubtedly prevented many from fairly examining his teach¬
ings. Before discussing the phenomena of internal breathing,
1 must define it. What is meant by “ Internal Breathing?”
It is not the breathing of the spirit atmosphere by the spirit
lungs, for this everyone must necessarily possess ; neither is
it that state in which the natural breathing becomes tacit or
temporarily suspended, as in states of deep thought. It is
something far more than this. It is the breathing the atmos¬
phere of heaven not only into the spirit, but into the body also.
To illustrate this more fully, I will endeavour to explain from
Harris’s writings the nature of man. Man is triune, consisting
of (1) a soul germ ; (2) a spirit; (3) a spiritual body ; external
to which latter is of course the material body for the use of
this earth-life only. The creation of man is briefly as
follows: the soul-germ is created by God ; in its descent
through the three heavens it becomes invested with a triune
spirit ; then in its descent to this or some other earth, it
receives through the natural process of generation, a triune
spiritual body (and of course the material body). On the
other earth of the universe, where sin has never entered, man
breathes the breath of heaven not only into the lungs of the
soul and spirit, but into those' of his spiritual body also.
Hence the natural and spiritual senses are all at one, and
whatever is perceived by the latter is perceived by the former
also. On this earth, however, where sin has entered, the case
is different1^ man breathes the spirit-atmosphere into his
spirit only, his body being shut off from it; hence his
natural and spiritual senses are separate. But now a change
is coming. The men of the early world in the Golden Age
possessed internal respiration, which lasted till the event
typified by the* Flood; at which time, on account of their
wickedness, this spiritual gift was taken away to prevent
them becoming utterly infernal by its perversion.* The
purely external condition of respiration thus began and con¬
tinued till the Incarnation,when Jehovah assumed a humanity
which possessed this ancient mode of breathing. Again it
ceased, for the world was not ready for its restoration; then
to Swedenborg it was again given so far as its earlier stages
are concerned, in order to qualify him for his vast and im¬
portant use ; again it ceased for nearly 100 years, till it was
again given to T. L. Harris, and afterwards to many others in
various parts of the world. This is the beginning of the
end; it will spread over the whole world, cutting off as to
this natural life those confirmed in evil, and raising the good
to states of absolute holiness, till this world is purified.
Having thus endeavoured to briefly define and explain the
subjects of my paper, I will now quote a few individual cases
illustrating some of its physical phenomena.
The first case I will quote is that of Harris himself. It is
quoted from p. 364 of Robinson’s Remembrancer and Recorder,
and is an extract from a letter by Dr. J. J. Garth Wilkinson.
He says—“During many medical visits to Mr. Harris, it
became necessary on one occasion to examine his chest ; and
I found it was peculiarly formed. At first sight it appeared
weak and contracted ; in fact, malformed ; great depression
about the sternum ; the lower ribs folded in, and, as it were,
packed away under each other. This was while the lungs
were moving but little. The examination, and direction of
his mind to the subject of the lungs, excited the deeper
respiration ; and now the depressions on the sternum were
expanded, the ribs came forth and opened out, and the chest
swelled to huge proportions. I never saw such capacity of
respiration in any other person.”
The next case is quoted from The New Church Independent,
* The whole tendency of modern research is to teach that the human
race h s as a rule progressed, and that there has never been any general
retrogression from an assumed more advanced state.—Ed.
•1872, pp. 480—1, and is an extract from a book written by
Dr. J. A. Gridley, of Southampton, Mass., U.S., in 1854, con¬
taining his own experience. He says—“ It was by the central
play of the spiritual lungs within the physical, inhaling and
exhaling the Divine atmosphere, which first gave me evidence
of a spiritual organism within the physical. For. several
weeks after the spiritual lungs began to breathe the new
atmosphere, they seemed to expand to such a degree as posi¬
tively to swell the physical lungs with spirit-life, so that the
latter could take in the common atmosphere with the greatest
difficulty, and a suffocating sensation w7as the consequence,
which continued to increase till I was obliged to break off the
communication for several successive days, as I thought, in
order to preserve life. The next day, as I was lying on my
back, surrounded by my family, the same current came again
upon me, and the same suffocating feeling also, but this time
with it the impression that it is God’s work, and He knows
how to modify and control it. My will responded ‘Yes; and
if I die, I shall die ; I will not sever the holy cord.’ For a
couple of minutes every breath seemed my last, and yet
another and another, and still the Divine current increased,
till nearly it seemed that I had drawn the last gasp I should
ever get in this world. At this instant my lungs, ribs, and
the entire chest expanded as quickly and forcibly as if a
blast of gunpowder had exploded within them. Nothing can
make me doubt that the cavity of the chest has been larger
by many cubic inches from that moment, than at any former
period of my life.” The writer of the article in which the
above quotation appears says—“ We are in possession of other
facts which utterly prevent us calling in question those just
stated. This experience is more prevalent at the present
time than most people are aware of, but, for prudence’ sake,
they are withheld from public knowledge.”
The next I will give is the experience of a friend in Australia.
He says in a letter dated 1871—“ Seven years ago the Lord
was pleased to bestow on me the gifts of internal breathing.
I very much wished to have the gift, and prayed to the Lord
if it was His will that I might receive it. For a long time I
used to pray, but somehow my prayers wanted wings, they did
not appear to me to rise, they appeared to have no life; but a
few weeks after I had felt the hands—(these were spirit-hands
which touched her head and clasped her hands in answer to a
prayer that God would show her whether Swedenborg was
right or not)—I had a visitor who stayed rather late. We
had been reading and conversing on spiritual things. I felt
very much impressed with my own unworthiness, and was long¬
ing for her departure that I might pour out my heart before
God. I fell on my face, but could only cry, Mercy, mercy ; I
found I could not articulate the words ; they appeared to be
held back ; I could not respire the words out, but they were held
back ; the breath was held back by a strong power and seemed
to have another sound altogether from my own natural voice.
I afterwards perceived a quickening life-giving power was over
me, a strange lightness as if atmospheric pressure was removed ;
in fact, I was quite startled oil reading Harris’s ‘Apocalypse’ to
read my own experience. When in the world engaged in
business transactions, of course, we are in externals, but in a
moment, if I raise one aspiration, the reply comes to the region
of veneration; .the breast appears to be drawn upwards, the
breathing is deep and flows through the whole frame, expand¬
ing it much ; the head also expands as if the skull yielded to
the pressure within. It is a most delightful state, but a
painful one for some time—at least it was to me—because
every part must be penetrated, which was a very gradual pro¬
cess. You may remember a part in the Apocalypse where
mention is made of the fays fighting and casting out those
monsters which correspond to our evils. He says these mon¬
sters are cast out, and they pass down the nostrils—[see chap,
iii. 522]. This to me was very remarkable, as I had often
felt a large substance being gradually forced down the nos¬
trils, sometimes the right one and sometimes the left; last
week I felt one in the right nostril. But he does not mention
the ears, and almost the first indication was my ears opening
internally. [Harris does mention it under the name of Av/rie
Respiration. See chap, iii., 536.]
“ I am conscious of the presence of spirits; I feel their
presence, and sometimes am touched by them; I feel their
breath over my face. During my devotions 1 loose my clothes
and take off my boots, that is when 1 am in a most interim
state, as the whole frame expands, more sometimes than at
others; there is the more joy; you feel a greater nearness to the
Lord, and a deeper love; you feel as if every part of the
frame was unbound; the state is most delightful, almost
more than you can bear.
130
THE SPIHITTIALIST.
March 13, 1874.
“ When first I received the gift, I could not eat or sleep, sb
great was the change ; all that I could do was to live in the
Divine presence, to meditate in solitude; my frame became
weak and prostrate, and the pain I suffered was intense.
Although I did not know what it could be, I was trustful
looking to the Lord ; I could not speak to anyone; the Lord
was all to me ; but I was greatly assailed by bad spirits, almost
to the extent spoken of in the Apocalypse. I dare say I suf¬
fered more than others may, because I had been for years
afflicted by indigestion and a disease of the womb. Mr. 
said the gift engendered disease ; I am a living witness to the
falseness of the assertion. I suffered for many years ;
the muscles seemed to contract, and I could not raise myself
properly without pain ; the spine was afflicted also ; but now
my body and limbs are as supple as a child’s, and my health
robust, save that I sometimes feel a weakness, after much ex¬
ertion, about the womb and lower part of the spine. I never
suffer now from indigestion or bile, and these were from
childhood my constant companions.”
In another letter, dated May 19th, 1872, she says, “When
I am engaged in business, I do not perceive the slightest dif¬
ference ; but when my mind reflects on holy things, then I
feel at once a change ; I inspire a deep breath, and that one
inspiration appears to penetrate to every part of the body;
first, the lungs expand, then the brain; I do not mean that I
breathe only once, but that I breathe afterwards at intervals,
tacitly. Sometimes the body and head will expand to large
proportions; you feel as if everything was unbound and un¬
loosed ; it is a most delightful state. I often think of those
words, ‘ I will open the windows of heaven, and pour down
a blessing that there shall not he room enough to contain it; ’
that truth has been frequently verified in my own experience.
There are a great many passages in the Apocalypse treating
of internal breathing (pp. 55—100), which will explain much ;
the lightness you speak of was more than in the chest ; I felt
as if the atmospheric pressure was removed; my body
appeared almost I'eady to float in the air at times. I have
been infested by demons, not to the extent as given at
pp. 203—391, but in a great measure. I imagine I have re¬
ceived a new natural soul, but cannot say for certain. At
the beginning of my state, when at my devotions, I used to
feel a strong power over me, and it brought on dreadful perspi¬
ration ; afterwards I was weak, prostrate, and full of pain. I
am not conscious of the breath entering by any other way than
through the lungs. At the beginning it does not appear to pene¬
trate further than the lungs ; little by little, day by day, year by
year, it appears to find its way, attended by great pain and
prostration; but you feel that you can suffer anything for
the Lord. Now I am stronger and better in health than I
have been for a great many years. I have felt my teeth
moving and creaking as when being removed, which startled
me very much at first, but that has not occurred for a very
long time.”
In the Recipient, Yol. I. or II., a case is mentioned which
I can only quote from memory :—A miner fell down a mine,
and was taken up apparently dead; after a while he
recovered ; he said, that though the natural breathing
ceased, the spiritual breathing continued, and he felt that he
had the power to restore the former or not as he pleased.
I have also read a letter from another of the Brotherhood of
the New Life, which I can only quote from memory. In this
case, the breath, if I remember rightly, seemed to enter the
abdomen and flow up to the throat, producing a cool sensation
there, and causing it to swell at each inspiration. The direction
of the breath in this instance seems peculiar, but it is explained
by the following passage in Apocalypse, chap, i., 172, where
Harris says, “ When I respired among the natural angels,
there was a motion imparted to that viscera in the lower
portion of the abdomen; but when I was among the spiritual
angels I respired above this ; and there was, when I inhaled
the aura of the celestial angels, a most interior breathing
higher still.” At p. 39 of The Millennial Age, Harris
writes :—“ I knew a man upon the other continent who, ten
years ago this night, was preaching, according to the highest
of his perception, to a cultured and highly gifted people. He
was taken away from them at the sacrifice of every personal
feeling, and interest, and pride. After undergoing mysterious
experiences, which at that time he could not fathom, and
perhaps in this world never may, he felt all natural respira¬
tion cease; felt the opening of the internal and spiritual
lungs ; felt the descent of the divine fire slowly into the
external degrees of the body, and finally was re-established in
this condition of internal or spiritual respiration, continual
into the natural form. I know this to be a fact, and I also
know it to be a fact that the result of this was the opening of
the internal and spiritual degree of the mind, of the internal
and spiritual sense—the descent of the spiritual influences
from the inmost of the body, to the very feet. I know it to be
a fact, that the Spirit of God, working through that man, has
overpowered demons—cast out evil spirits from persons who
physically, and utterly, and helplessly, were under their
control.”
Another of the physical effects, as I have heard from
several, is the ability to execute a much greater amount of
work than before without fatigue.
One of my patients, who has been for years spontaneously
open to spiritual influences, has lately, on one occasion, felt as
if too much air was flowing into the lungs. Another men¬
tioned that the air has felt lighter, and that during prayer her
breathing became deeper, which latter phenomenon seems to
belong to the inner breathing. (See Breath of God with
Man, pp. II—15.) Another whom I know has not only felt
this deeper breathing during prayer, but has sometimes felt a
breath flow into the lungs when thinking of heavenly matters,
giving him increased strength, and producing at times a
feeling as if he had grown taller. All these latter seem to me
to be the incipient symptoms of internal respiration, so far as
I can judge. I must now conclude this long paper, and in my
next I will give some quotations from Harris’s works, chiefly
the Arcana of Christianity, to illustrate the subject further,
especially as to its spiritual phenomena; the first I will allude
to being the power of the discerning, or testing the character
of spirits. E. W. Berridge, M.B. (Lond.)
THE VALUE OE EVIDENCE.
“ Every one who accepts as facts, merely on the evidence of his own
senses, or on the testimony of others who partake of his own belief, what
common sense tells him to be much more likely the fiction of his own
imagination—even though confirmed by the testimony of hundreds affected
with the same epidemic delusion—must be regarded as the subject of a
‘ diluted insanity.’ ”—Principles of Mental Physiology, by Dr. W. B. Car¬
penter.
Sir,—It is a horrible thought, but there is no further room
for doubt, I am a “diluted maniac.” I not only believe in
things which contradict Dr. Carpenter’s common sense, but I
believe them on the evidence of my own senses, as well as on
the word of thousands of my fellow sufferers from epidemic
delusion. I have seen ; I have heard ; I believe on the same
evidence as that which hangs John Jones the murderer, and
consigns Arthur Orton to Newgate. Nay worse ; not only
hundreds, but thousands, hundreds of thousands, millions of
my fellow sufferers have testified that my eyes are straight and
my mind clear. Therefore what am I ? Serjeant Cox! what
am I? A doubly, trebly, ten-fold “ diluted maniac.” Or
does the progression go the other way ? A maniac I am
clearly; but how far does the diluting extend? One-half,
one-tenth? I cling to the “ diluted.” It is the one crumb of
comfort left. I hope I am moderately diluted, I have seen
terrible things. Not only have tables behaved themselves in
a most improper manner in my presence when I have touched
them—that of course is ideo-motor agency, or unconscious
muscular action—but they have been reckless enough to run
about when no human hand was near them. What am I to
think of that ? Alas, it is too clear. I am a “ diluted
maniac.” I thought I saw. I was biologised. My unfortu¬
nate propensity cropped out, somewhat diluted, but still ram-,
pant. To be sure I was eating my roast mutton at the time,
and it tasted well enough ; but no doubt it was diluted too.
Happy thought. Why have any butcher’s bills at all? Try
the effect of a diluted insanity on mutton as well as tables.
It might pay.
Reaction has set in, and I feel better, I even begin to
think that my senses are as trustworthy as unconscious cere¬
bration and ideo-motor force. I decline altogether to bow to
egotism rampant. When the celebrated gentleman whp has
just enlightened the world on mental physiology was president
of the British Association, it was proposed to create a new
section for his especial behoof. Sections A, B, 0, were occupied,
G and H were full; it was felt that one letter only could
satisfy the conditions, and symbolise the claims of the great
egotist. “ I” was the place for him to dwell at length on the
congenial pronoun which is so often in his mouth. He has
gone accordingly to Section I, and, according to latest advices,
he intends to remain there.
As for me, I must be “ A Diluted Maniac,”
Miss Lottie Fowler is now in Glasgow, but will come
to London in a few days.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
131
Makch 13, 1874.
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA IN AMERICA.
JH'rom the “Banner of Light," February 21s#.
The name of Mr. M. Tubbs, former lessee and landlord of
the National House, Haymarket-square, Boston, is well known
to the readers of The Banner of Light. His brother,
Mr. Russell Tubbs, of Deering, N. H., was recently a transient,
guest at the house, during which time the interview about to
be described took place. Mr. Tubbs is a gentleman somewhat
past middle age, a man of sober judgment and deter¬
mined will, and not in the least given to mesmeric suscepti¬
bility. Therefore the wonders he relates cannot be ascribed
to that source. He also bears among his friends and neigh¬
bours the reputation of a kind friend, good citizen, and
honest man. ...Therefore the hypothesis of intentional deceit
in his case must fall to the ground. The facts related by
him are based upon over one hundred private seances at his
own house, and borne witness to by many of his friends and
neighbours. The mediums are three in number—Neal
Codman, residing at Hillsboro’, N. H., some fifteen miles from
Deering ; the other two, Nathan Peaslee and Luther Buxton,
being citizens of the latter place. They are all young men,
about twenty-three or twenty-four years of age. Some three
years ago these individuals began to be mediumistically
developed} clairvoyance being the primary phase.
Among the feats executed by the invisibles through Mr.
Codman, were the ring and coattests, so well known to those
who have attended the dark seances of Charles Read and
others, with this addition, that while a sceptic, who volun¬
teered to hold Mr. Codman’s coat on, stood grasping both
the medium’s hands in his, the coat of the medium was taken
ofi: and placed upon the sceptic, while his coat was put
upon the medium; at the same time an iron ring was passed
upon the sceptic’s arm. The individual who volunteered in
this case went into the trial very sure that he could prevent
the manifestation, but was obliged to own himself fairly
beaten, and to acknowledge to the company that Mr. Codman
had not stirred a muscle during the strange operation.
The interest extended in the neighbourhood, and Messrs.
Peaslee and Buxton continued their experiments till, like
Mr. Codman, both became developed _in an extraordinary
degree as physical mediums. They would be tied with
extreme severity, and loosened with the utmost celerity, and
solid iron rings, not large enough to pass over their heads,
were repeatedly put around their necks in the dark circle.
Once an iron ox-ring, from a yoke, was put around the neck
of one of these mediums, necessitating several sittings before
the uncomfortable ornament could be removed. The same
style of ring would often be brought by neighbouring farmers,
wishing proof incontestible that nothing of trickery was con¬
nected with the manifestation; and in every instance, where
it was desired, the jnew comer was satisfied by seeing the
ring he had brought put either upon the arm of the particular
medium or upon his own as he held his hands.
The cabinet seances of Messrs. Codman, Peaslee and Buxton
have been interesting in the extreme to those who have been
privileged to attend them, for as yet these mediums have not
sought much publicity.
Mr. Tubbs assured the reporter that he—in company with
many residents of the vicinity—is satisfied, by actual proof,
of the fact that two of these mediums (it being a matter of in¬
difference which two of the three young men are selected for
the experiment), can, by lying down, the one upon one side
the highway and the other on the opposite, and obtaining the
condition of darkness, by placing their faces in their hats, stop
the regular mailcoach on its journey through the town. The
coachman has, on several occasions, become seriously frightened
by the action of his horses when reaching the spot where the
mediums are lying—they refusing to proceed, the wheels
of the vehicle appearing to become suddenly locked, and the
body of the carriage swaying from side to side. When this
occurs the “ boys” become deeply entranced. The same ex¬
periment has been successfully tried by them upon various
teams which passed that way, until the matter has become
a settled fact in the minds of many people even who reject
the spiritual hypothesis for its explanation with ridicule.
Popular rumour ass rts that, in the case of these Granite
State mediums, the spirits controlling them on one occasion
sought in like manner to reach the material sensibilities of a
clergyman in the vicinity who was particularly opposed to the
manifestations, and to exhibit to him in a tangible way an
appeal for justice at his hands. The mediums were impressed
to go to the minister’s residence at night, and to lie down by
its side, on their faces, when they became entranced, and the
material contents of the abode were seriously shaken and dis¬
turbed. To such a degree, indeed, did the unseen power act
in his house, that the clergyman became the subject of
great alarm. The troubles, however, ceased when the mediums
regained their consciousness and went away.
A steel rake-tooth made into a ring was on one occasion
brought to a dark seance held by these mediums by Thomas
Harriman, the stage-driver before referred to, who had had
the implement prepared as a test to satisfy himself. The ring
was deposited in the lap of Mr. Peaslee, the light extin¬
guished, and upon Mr. Buxton’s calling for a light, the ring
was found to be put around the neck of Peaslee. The com¬
pany examined it and found it unharmed, and declared that
no one present could remove it. The medium’s hat was then
placed on his head, and while the stage-driver held the said
hat firmly in its place, the ring was removed by the invisibles
from the neck of Mr. Peaslee, much to the astonishment of all
the party, and particularly that of Mr. Harriman. Handcuffs
have no terrors for the spirits working through these media
(who have jbeen clairvoyantly seen by Dr. Woods, of Wash¬
ington, N. H., and others), but they easily remove them from
the wrists of either of the young men in the dark circles.
Both in the cabinet and dark seances the mediums have
been tested most thoroughly, their feet being marked around
with 'a pencil and pennies placed upon their shoulders and
knees, and in no case could any perceptible movement be
detected.
These young men (Oodman, Peaslee, and Buxton), at
various times during cabinet seances, have been securely tied
by the invisibles, while the ends of the rope were outside the
box and held by a sceptic; and when the door has been
opened all the knots have been discovered to be placed behind
the one so tied. On one or two occasions the person holding
the ends has worked over half an hour to untie the knots,
and then given up the effort as impossible of accomplishment,
when, upon closing the door, the invisible agents, seizing the
opportunity afforded them by the condition of darkness, have
performed the operation of unbinding in an instant of. time.
Sometimes, during the “ spirit tie,” the hand of the medium
operated upon will be found fastened close under his throat ;
at others chairs are introduced among the ropes by the unseen
power, to present conclusive arguments in proof that the
medium has borne no part in the transaction of tying. Cod¬
man is gifted as a test medium, and describes spirits and gives
names with accuracy, in addition to his physical development.
The Londoh Anthropological Society.—Next Tues¬
day evening the following papers will be read before the
new Anthropological Society, at 37, Arundel-street, Strand,
W.C.:—“ Spiritism among Uncultured Peoples compared
with Modern Spiritualism,” by C. S. Wake2. “ Opinions
of the Brahmins respecting Spiritism and Supernatural
Phenomena,” by G. Tagore, Esq., formerly a Brahmin. Spi¬
ritualists who desire to be present should apply at once to
Mr. A. L. Lewis (secretary), 151, Church-road, Essex-road, N.
The proceedings will begin at eight o’clock.
Lehacy Law Reform.—A public meeting in connection
with the Lunacy Law Reform Association was recently held
in the Plymouth Mechanics’ Institute, for the purpose of con¬
sidering certain alleged abuses connected with the Lunacy
Laws and their administration, and to petition Parliament
for an investigation into the same. Mr. E. R. Brown occu¬
pied the chair; Mrs. Lowe, the hon, secretary of the society,
^attended to promote the objects of the Association, and there
was a large attendance. After Mrs. Lowe and others had
addressed the meeting, the Rev. Mr. Freckleton said that he
thought that full cause had been shown for an inquiry, and
he gave instances of the mode of conducting asylums in
America, in which he said they knew of cruelties that were
practised, but in this country they did not know what was
being done. (Hear, hear.) He then gave figures which
showed conclusively that lunacy was on the increase in Eng¬
land. We had not kept pace with science in the cure of
lunatics, and these things showed that the whole system
required remodelling. He then read a petition to the Houses
of Parliament, and moved, “ That this meeting, having heard
the statement of Mrs. Lowe, and the form of the petition to
both Houses of Parliament, resolve that such petition be
adopted by this meeting, and signed on behalf of the meeting
by the chairman, and be forwarded to one of our local mem¬
bers for presentation.” Dr. Skelton seconded this with much
pleasure, and on being put to the meeting it was unanimously
carried. A vote of thanks to the chairman closed the pro¬
ceedings,
132
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Spitit ^oetrg.
ETEBNAL LOVE.
The following lines, given through the trance mediumship
of Mr. T. L. Harris, are quoted from the Lyric of the Golden
Age. Published by John Thomson, 39, John Street,
Glasgow:—
The world needs a new theory of crime
And retribution, based on all the facts,
And fixed in all the reason of the race
As full of hope as Christ’s great heart of love.
Men never yet were hunted into Heaven
By howling devils barking at the rear.
The sheep will follow where the Shepherd leads ;
Christ calls His flock and all shall follow Him.
Men, in the absence of their Christ have sinned,
And, most of all those claiming to be known
As His professed disciples. Hot in vain
He groaned and wept and died and bore our sins,
Through rapport with the universal race.
He flung his own great heart into the scale
Against the ponderous load of human pain,
And conquered the world’s enmity by love.
That one example, that one influence,
That Holy Spirit, felt and realised,
When it hath time to work, must ultimate
In universal righteousness. Ho man
Is mightier in his hate than God in love,
Stronger in falsity than God in truth.
O the divine persuasiveness, the speech
Of e verlasting tenderness, the voice
That is God’s heart, in music running o’er,
Informing all the barren waste of night,
Transforming all its darkness into day,—
Worlds hear it, and they clothe themselves in flowers;
Suns hear it, and grow opulent with worlds;
Heaven hears it, and each angel leaps to song,
And every heart melts in its kindred heart,
And all the universe melts into God,
Reposing in His bosom like a bride.
Ho-man, no spirit can resist that voice,
Renewing and restoring ; yea, though hell
Had made its base all Hature, and its spheres
Of discord like the pebbled beach around
The ocean of immensity, whose drops
Are constellations, still that harmony,
That voice divine, in mild, persuasive speech,
Like rain upon the desert, would transform
Hell into Paradise, and every sphere
Make full of love, as roses of perfume.
Earth is an atom floating in the light
Of summer sunshine with its kindred stars ;
A dew-drop shaken from God’s blossomed thought.
He suffers evil in it for an end ;
This end is like Himself divinely good,
And pure and sweet and infinitely free
Prom pain. All men are parts of one great whole ;
Let but a dust-grain burrow in the eye,
And consciousness is tortured till that eye
Is freed from it, and harmonised again.
Humanity is many minds in one,
And many hearts and many lives in one.
All men and Angels find their place within
The universal human race, that dwell
On every earth, in every spirit-sphere.
Were one world in the universe a hell,
Were one soul in the universe a fiend,
Damned hopelessly to everlasting pain,
’Twould be the torturing atom that inflames
The vision. Every world and every sphere
Would weep in woeful sympathy with woe,
The consciousness of all created life
Would yearn and grieve and anguish. God Himself,
Who in the universal consciousness
Dwells throned and radiant, would receive no joy,
But only grief from His fair universe.
Angels deprived of love would retrogress.
Since every Angel draws his life from God.
An angry God would make man retrogress,
Because His wrath their source of life would be,
March 13, 1874.
And, drawing in the breath of life from hate,
Hate would become the world’s necessity.
A cruel creed makes men, in seeming, fiends ;
A patient, kind, and loving Father makes
His children kind and lovely like himself.
Me. Gebald Massey is now lecturing in the Western
States of America, Chicago being his head-quarters.
Next Monday evening, the Council of the British Na¬
tional Association of Spiritualists will meet at Lawson’s
Booms, Gower-street; there was no meeting last Monday.
Some correspondents have written objecting to an adver¬
tisement in last week’s Spiritualist, which described a
planchette as a means of amusement, but it is not our business
to interfere with the contents of advertisements, except in
extreme cases.
In Sandhurst, Australia, spirit voices, forms, and hands
are now obtained at some of the seances. The spirits who
produce the physical manifestations give the names of John
and Katie King, and “ Peter.”
Miss Paithetjll and Woman’s Rights.—Emily Faith-
full is the youngest daughter of the late Rev. Ferdinand Faith-
full. She was born at Headley Rectory, Surrey, in 1835, and edu¬
cated at a school at Kensington, where she showed that sin¬
gular firmness and independence which have since character¬
ised her. She was presented at Court, and entered for a
time into the gaieties of London life, but becoming interested
in the condition of women, devoted herself to the extension of
their remunerative spheres of labour. In 1860, she collected
a band of female compositors, and, in spite of great diffi¬
culties, founded a typographical establishment, in which
women (as compositors) were employed, and for which she
obtained the approval of Her Majesty. Among many other
specimens of first-rate workmanship produced, is the Victoria
Regia, dedicated, by special permission, to the Queen, who
was pleased to signify her approbation, by giving a warrant,
appointing Miss Faithfull printer and publisher in ordinary
to her Majesty. In May, 1863, Miss Faithfull commenced
The Victoria Magazine, in which the views she seeks to advo¬
cate, and the claims of women to remunerative employment,
are earnestly set forth. In the spring of 1868, Miss Faithfull
published a novel, entitled Change upon Change, which ran
into a second edition within a month of its publication, and
was received with great favour by the press, as“ abounding in
clever pictures of social life of the higher class.” Shortly after
this Miss Faithfull made her debut at the Han over-square
Rooms as a lecturer. She has achieved a marked success in
this capacity, and frequently lectures in our leading literary
and philosophical institutions.—From Routledge's “ Eminent
Men of the Time."
ANSWEES TO COEEE3PONDENTS.
Ly. C.—It is not clear whether you desire us to publish your
requirement or our reply; please send word, that error may be
avoided. You do not give your address in full.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. f 9 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4£d. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
NOETHEEN DEPOT FOE THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
J. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
O Spiritualism in the North, that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c., &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms, cash, postage extra.
E, J, BLAKE (successor to MR. BARKAS),
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
March 13, 1874,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
MISS. LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAERVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Revealing Startling Facts
to the public, can he consulted on either Medical or Business Affairs con¬
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 12 to 5. Terms, One Guinea.
Address, care of Mr. Middleton’s “Waverley Temperance Hotel,’’ 185, Bu-
chanan-street, Glasgow.
UGH McLEOD, M.D., Psychometric, Impressional, and
healing by the laying on of hands; in which departments of Medium-
ship Dr. McLeod is prepared to give the highest references. Terms, 5s.
each person. Visits by arrangement. Hours 10 till 4. 22, Robert-street,
Hampstead-road, N.W.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in "Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bernard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Olampden-hill, Kensington.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
6.s; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
TNSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
JL (Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press.
_ “ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“The prayer over he commenced an eloquent and philosophical address
on modern Spiritualism.”—North-Western Daily Times.
“ The medium then passed into what is termed the trance state, and in
clear and forcible language, with a readiness of expression and fluency of
utterance delivered a discourse on Spiritualism.”—Liverpool Daily A Ibion.
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lecturer, or what¬
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram¬
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature and its Needs’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!”—South Wales Press.
“ Those who are intellectually inclined, and desire to know what Spirit
ualism is as taught by the spirits, will learn more in an hour’s conversation
with Mr. Morse's guides than in months of misdirected seeking.”—Medium
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character. ’—Spiritualist.
“ Mr. Morse is what is called a speaking-medium, of no mean order, for
he kept crowded audiences intently listening each evening for above an hour
and a half to his certainly most powerful and accomplished addresses.”—
Darlington and Richmond Herald.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
R. W. G. SCORE Y, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—194, Oornwall-road, Notting-hill, "W. (Hammersmith line).
Please write.
|R. JOHN HUNTER and DR. MESMER may be
consulted upon all forms of illness, through MR. ROBERT HARPER,
fiom whom Mesmeric Treatment and Eclectic Medicines may be obtained,
at 114, Wardour-street, Oxford-street, W. Fees, 10s. and upwards. Hours,
one to five o'clock daily.
"RS. EMPSON, Medical Clairyoyant and Mag¬
netic Healer, undertakes the Diagnosis and the Cure of Diseases
(if curable). Patients at a distance may obtain diagnosis and advice by
sending magnetic link and fee of 10s. « Address, 114, Wardour-street,
Oxford-street, W. Hours, one to five o’clock daily.
Recently published, in Crown Svo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
WORK BY THE SAME AUTHOR.
An elegant little volume, bound in blue and gold, carmine edges,
Price 4s. 6d.
LYRICS AND BUCOLICS. The Eclogues of Yirgil,
a selection from the Odes of Horace, and the Legend of the Sibyll.
“Mr. Noyes’ qualifications are of no mean order. In the first place, he
has the essential one of thoroughly entering into and appreciating" the true
spirit of his master, and even where, as we have said, he exceeds what
we conceive to be the limits of a translation, we attribute it rather to his
being carried away by his own muse than to his misunderstanding his
author’s. And here we have a second and no less important qualifi¬
cation for success. Mr. Noyes has a genuine poetic vein of his own, and
his lines have almost always the ring of true metal.”—Standard,
April 1th, 1868.
“TJiere is a certain freedom and swing in these translations, which not
only more resembles the brisk spirit aud ringing tone of the original, but
is truly refreshing after the stiff rendering which had been generally made
of Horace’s choicest composition.’1—ioMcfon Review, Feb. 15th, 1868.
“The Translations from Horace are spirited and musical. His light
Epicureanism and gay Stoicism are happily hit oft.’'—Daily News,
March Zd, 1868.
.. “ Mr. Noyes’ Version of Virgil’s Pastorals may fairly take its place by the
side of Mr. Connington’s translation of the JEneid. The lovers of such
poetry have here as pleasant a bouquet as can well be set before them,”—
Speculator, March 1th, 1868.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
• SELLER, STATIONER. AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist. 39. Smallbrook street, Birmingham, Supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals^Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist.
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded, on application.
MR. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
Mr. Morse holds a seance every Friday evening, at 8 o’clock, at 15, Southamp
ton-row, W.C., when he is in London, where letters, &c., may be addressed
or to his private residence, Warwick Cottage, Old Ford, Bow, E.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A MEETING of tbe active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw-up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Association.are:—
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tem., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Richard Fitton, Secretary piyb tem.
HENRY B. BUSH,
(E’rom Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER, LETTER-
PRESS,.COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (pacing the church).
Newspapersand Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Spiritualist Newspaper.
IpOR SALE, PRICE £5,' BREECHES’ BIBLE
(Geneva edition), 1610, black letter, with copious annotations through¬
out. Llus-tra.ted wich plates. In perfect condition. To be seen on applica¬
tion to T Blyton, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, Loudon, E.
T3HOTOGRAPHIC COPIES OF THE ILLUMINATED
JL. ADDRESS to be presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain to
Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRV, 96, Russbll-street, Melbourne!, where The
Spiritualist, and. all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
New aud Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy 8vo.,
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel swedenborg: his life and
WRITINGS. By WILLI AM WHITE. Wherein the History the
Doctrines and the other-world Experinces of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth: also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav¬
ings, by C. H. Jeens—I. Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80.
London; Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Maech 13, 1874,
EVIDENCE THAT .SPERtTHALISM DESERYES
■ INYESTX€PATIOH. ;
Spiritualism deserves mve'stigation beeause within the last twenty years
It has found'its way into a,ll the civilifee^d countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of voliimeiiand hot a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical .Society; Adam-street, Adelphi, under the' pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubljbck, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee .to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows
“ H. Gl. Atkinson, Esq., P.Q-.S., G-. "Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. R. Pox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Penton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.O.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.;* Robert Hannah, Esq., P.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. ’J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Queleh, Esq., O.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; O. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
.“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken,Esq., Barrister-at-law; J.H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., P.R.G.S,;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
. “ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3.. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’    ■ ,
B
RITISH NATIONAL INSURANCE CORPORATION,
LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STERLING.
Read Q$<*».-BEO WN STREET AND MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
FIRE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates * ^
Bonus Returns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be’
returned on the payment of Renewed Premiums;
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other;
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora-'
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.O.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence .
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OE INQUIRERS iKtCtT
SPIRIT DALISM.
Presidents.
Mr. F. Cowper. | Mr. 0. Hunt.
Treasurer.—Mr. Whitley.
Librarian.—Maynard, 103, Lisson-grove.
Secretary.
Mr. 0. White, 4, Gray-street, Manchester-square, W. ■
The Membership Subscription is Is. per Quarter, which admits to full
fellowship, including use of books from the Progressive Library. Seances •
are held weekly, to afford members an opportunity of becoming acquainted-
with the Phenomena. Members are assisted in the formation of new
circles. A public meeting is held every Wednesday evening at theT
Hall of Progress, 90, Church-street, Paddington, at 8 o’clock.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist' of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of, each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of .the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper oh the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
6. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, -will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to' be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are • strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are born of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting- of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
Yrawwra’.—Herbert N. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane.
Offices.—te, BERNERS STREET.
Hon.Sec.—Mrs. Lowe (Louisa)../
TO OWNERS OF HOUSE PROPERTY.
E. BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
11, PARK GROVE, SHEPHERD’S LANE, BREXTON,
T> ESPECTFULLY solicits the patronage of Owners of
JLV House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixton
Road, and near the Railway Station—offering special facilities for the
prompt letting of Houses of every description.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833,
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS. — Handsomely-printed Bine
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion, may be obtained in packets, each containing 400, price 2s. 6d. per
packet. They are especially useful for distribution at public meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, reading-rooms, clubs, and places of
public resort.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, London, E.O.
A NEW ERA IN JOURNALISM!
THE FREE SPEAKER, a High Class Family News¬
paper. Weekly—One Penny.
SPECIAL POLITICAL AND SOCIAL ARTICLES,
BY INDEPENDENT WRITERS.
Full Reports of Home, Foreign, and General News. Law and Police.
FREEDOM OF CORRESPONDENCE. ’
WEEKLY TALES BY THE FIRST WRITERS.
Publishing Office: 126, Fleet-street. Advertisement Office: 106, Shoe-lane.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London, E.O.
