AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 72.—(Vol. IV.—No. 2.) LONDON: JANUARY 9, 1874. Published Weekly; Price Threepence.
tontents.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The Psychology 'of Belief.—The Influence of Mental Training upon
Belief—The Stigmata—Psychological Phenomena among Indian
Devotees—Unpopular Truths—“ Celestial Marvels ” from America 13
The Mystery of Edwin Drood     16
The Liverpool Psychological Society      17
St. John's Association of Spiritualists.—The Progress of Spiritualism
in England—The Progress of Spiritualism in London—Work Done
by the St. John’s Association—Spiritualism in Glasgow—Spirit¬
ualism in Scotland—Mr. Shorter on Spiritualism ...    18
A Lecture on Spiritualism     20
Spiritualism in Edinburgh    21
Literary Notice.—Religion of the World    21
Spirit Identity  21
Correspondence.—“Inner Breathing;" A Vital Phenomenon indicated
by a Physical Instrument; The Unwise Contempt of Matter; Spirit
Forms—Spirit Identity—The Human “ Double ’’    22
The White Lady of Berlin Castle    '24
Patenting a Planchette... ... —     24
Paragraphs.—Witchcraft, 23; The Psychological Society, 24; Mrs. Tap-
pan’s Sunday Discourses  :    ... 24
Crown 8vo. pp. 126, Cloth 2s. 6d.
HINTS for the “EVIDENCES of SPIRITUALISM.”
By M.P.
London: Triibner and Co., 67 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. .
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modern spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits ; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London : Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISTS.—Sunday Evening Services are Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o’clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
R. Pearce, Hon. Sec.
BIRKBECK BANK. ^Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
, any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c„ effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and ,on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr, W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
VERY
into
soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
England the subject attracted attention in Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assocciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Uommittee
Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1873.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Treasurer.—Mr. Joseph Dinsdale. Librarian.—Mr. John Moore.
Committee of Managemen t.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. Ambrose Egerton.
Mr. John Mayle.
Mrs. M. A. Richardson.
Mr. Wm. Richardson.
Mrs. L. A. Lamont.
Mrs. Eliza Clement.
Mrs. S. A. Spring.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. George Shaw.
Mr. John Lamont.
Auditors.
Mr. Edwin Banks. | Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Secretaries.
Financial and Recording Mr. John Chapman, 10, Dunkeld Stree
West Derby Road, Liverpool.
Corresponding Mr. J. Y. Flannery, Mornington Terrace,
Seacombe, near Liverpool.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its m ;mbers for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
D ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members
Subscriptions :—Ordinary. 3s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
THOMAS BLYTON, Secretary and Treasurer
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 9, 1874.
Lately published,
WHAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Mental
Philosophy and Psychology. Yol. L The MECHANISM of MAN
By EDWAKD W. COX, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s. 6d.
Cohtbnts.
CHAP.
1. Introduction.
2. What am I?
3. The Man.
4. How we Grow.
5. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind.
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the Will.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
31. Soul—Spirit—Anima.
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. The Natural and the Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery.
45. Conclusions.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and charming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with ahold, free, and no
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Herald.
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I ?”—Leicester Mercury
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflective readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest.—South Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise. ‘—Norwich Mercury.
• The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
London: Longman and Co., Patemoster-row.
In a few days,
The second volume of “what am i ?”
A Popular Introduction to Psychology and Mental Philosophy. By
EDWARD W. COX, Sergeant-at-Law. Price 10s. Gd.
This Volume completes the work. It treats of the Mechanism of Man in
action. The following are the
CONTHNTS :—
CHAP.
Preface.
1. Introductory.
2. Of the Intelligent Motive Forces.
3. The Conditions of Existence.
4. The Mechanism in Health, j
5. Of Sleep.
6. Of Dreams.
7. Of some of the Phenomena of
Sleep and Dreams
8. Of Delirium.
9. Of Insanity.
10. Of Natural Somnambulism.
11. Of Artificial Somnambulism. I.
The Condition.
12. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
II. Clairvoyance.
13. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
III. The Mental Phenomena.
14. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
TV. Catalepsy.
15. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
V. Insensibility and Uncon¬
sciousness.
CHAP.
16. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VI. History.
17. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VII. Healing Power.
18. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VIII. Supersensuous Percep¬
tion.
19. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IX. Thought Reading.
20. Of Trance.
21. Of Unconscious Cerebration.
22. Of Psychic Force.
23. Of Psychic Force. I. The
Proofs.
24. Of Psychic Force. II. Its Phy¬
siology.
25. Of Psychic Force. III. The
Directing Inteligence.
26. Other Psychic Phenomena. I.
Communi cated.
27. Other Psychic Phenomena. II.
Experiments.
28. The Summing Up
29. The Conclusions.
VOL. I. MAT BE HAD, PRICE 8s. 6d.
London': Longman & Co., Patemoster-row.
mHE PROGRESSIVE SPIRITUALIST AND FREE
JL THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Weekly Journal. Edited by J. Tyrrman.
Price Threepence. To .be had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS IS TO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.)
President.—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
CounciL
Mr. George Blyton, | Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mrs. Amelia Comer, Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mr. E.J. Wilson.
Secretary & Treasurer.—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
A DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on hear¬
ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, and in¬
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might be
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 15th September, 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter careful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modern Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m, to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations (vide Rule IX). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordi¬
nary seance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on the first Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Rooms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelope
should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
74, NAVARINO-ROAD, DALSTON, LONDON.
mHE SEVENTH HALF-YEARLY GENERAL MEET-
A ING of the members of this Association will be held at the above
address on MONDAY evening, the 12th inst., at EIGHT o’clock precisely.
The report of the council, and balance sheet, for the half-year ended 31st.
December, 1873, will be submitted for adoption.
Officers will be elected for the current half year.
A resolution to appoint a “ committee of members for enquiry into
the science of Mesmerism ” will be brought up for discussion.
Motions of members, sent in writing, to the Secretary on or before
Thursday evening, the 8th inst., by not later than 7 p.m., will also be
brought up.
THOMAS BLYTON, Secretary, <bc.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM, (established 1870.)
The Council have much pleasure in announcing to the Public that
MRS. CORA L. V. TAPPAN
(Inspirational Spirit Medium)
WILL DELIVER THE FOURTH ANNUAL PUBLIC LECTURE
ON SPIRITUALISM,
ON TUESDAY EVENING, 20TH JANUARY, 1874,
AT THE LUXEMBOURG HALL.
(Opposite the Dalston Junction Station, North London Railway.)
The chair will be taken by J. O. Luxmoore, Esq.
Doors open at half-past seven o’clock; the Lecture to commence at eight
precisely, previous to which the audience is respectfully requested to be
seated.
ADMISSION.
Reserved Seats   Is.
Body of Hall and Balcony   6d.
Members of the Association   Free.
Tickets can be obtained of Mr. Thomas Wilks, Circulating Library,
Dalston-lane, E.; Mr. Geo. Blyton, 12, Forest-road, Dalston, E.; Mr. Sami.
Gittins, 14, Spurstowe-road, Hackney, E.; Mr. Jos. Stephens, 16, Templar
road, Hackney, E.; Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico,
S.W.; Mr. Thos. Blyton, i2, High-street, Bow, E.; at the Rooms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.; and at the Doors of the Hall
on the evening of the Lecture.
"PHOTOGRAPHIC COPIES OF THE ILLUMINATED
A ADDRESS to be presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain to
Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the yictorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
Aharon franklin, preserver of birds and
ANiMALS, AND DELINEATOR OP NATURE. Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’-heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. Aaron Franklin, 100, Suf-
folk-street, Birmingham.
VOJ-UJVIE FOUR. ]^U^BEI\ TWO.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 9th, 1874.
Cjp Spmtalisf
HARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or fignres
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch
Beduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, hut preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post ta the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of “ The Spiritualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Boehester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Bichard Boberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTBALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Bussell-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London ublisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by emitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny;
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 10s., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF BELIEF.
THE INFLUENCE OF MENTAL BRAINING UPON BELIEF.
The Contemporary Review of last month contains an
article by Dr. W. B. Carpenter on “ The Psychology of
Belief,” in which he urges the present generation for
its own sake and for the sake of its children, to look
well to the, foundation' of its popular beliefs, which he
says are likely soon to be tested by such a wave as has
never before tried their solidity, since new facts, new
modes of interpretation, and new orders of ideas will
bear with unprecedented force against the whole fabric
of doctrine. He recommends that our fabric of thought
should be erected on analogous principles to those which
guided the mind of Smeaton in erecting the Eddystone
Lighthouse, Smeaton’s ideas being based on close ob¬
servation of the operations of nature, a clear recogni- I
tion of the sound principles which those operations un¬
folded, and great ability in putting the knowledge thus
acquired into practice. Smeaton saw in the bole of the
oak, which had stood the blasts of centuries, the shape
that would not only give to his tower the greatest in¬
herent strength,*but would project the impetuous waves
upwards, instead of directly resisting their onward
force. He then used all the resources of his construc¬
tive skill to carry out his sagacious design. In an
analogous manner, argues Dr. Carpenter, should we
erect our own fabric of thought, by placing its founda¬
tions deep in the facts of nature.
He then points out how all minds are differently
constituted, so that the same facts or the same testi¬
mony have different effects upon the consciousness of
different individuals. He calls attention to the manner
in which previous education influences our opinions,
taking as a striking illustration the statement of Robert
Houdin, the conjuror, who told that he had seen a man
dip his hands in molten iron just as if it had been luke¬
warm water. Houdin then imitated the example, took
out a handful of the molten metal, threw it in the air,
and it fell back in a fire shower on the ground, pro¬
ducing the same impression as if he had been handling
“ liquid velvet.” Dr. Carpenter points out how an
ordinary reader would be disposed to look upon this as
some conjuring trick, whereas the man of scientific
education, who knows the laws of the spheroidal state
of bodies and of the action of a temporary cushion of
vapour between the skin of the hand and the molten
metal, will consider the statement to be credible. Here
is an example in which previous education causes a
difference of belief; “ and yet,” says Dr. Carpenter,
“ I suspect that, however strong the mental conviction
as to the safety of the act, there is no one of us who
would venture to hold his hand in a stream of molten
metal until he had seen another person do so with im¬
punity.”
The principles thus laid down by Dr. Carpenter are
seen daily at work in connection with Spiritualism,
which makes such different impressions upon the dif¬
ferent minds to which it is first presented. The hard
man of business who thinks about nothing but money-
grubbing, whose thoughts and aspirations are' chained
down entirely to the material world, who takes every
possible advantage over his neighbours, and thinks it
quite a matter of course they should do the same with
him, very naturally jumps at once to the imposture
theory. He looks upon all mediums as impostors
without any inquiry, and comes to this conclusion,
simply because he has a consciousness that if he him¬
self were placed in what he assumes to be their cir¬
cumstances, he would do the same thing. "When the
news of the reality of communication with the de¬
parted is brought before the average theological mind
of the day, it is received by the materialists inside the
churches as imposture, for the reason just stated, and
14
TECE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 9, 1874.
by the religionists inside the churches, not as imposture,
but as the work of the devil. The latter class of mind,
having been so trained as to accept assumptions as real
facts, and being endowed with little power of appre¬
ciating the value of experimental demonstration, is
ready to believe exceedingly improbable things, on the
slightest possible evidence, and to jump to wrong con¬
clusions with much expedition. In the scientific world
there are also materialists and Spiritualists, the former
with keen intellectual powers, which they use for selfish
ends, for the gratification of personal ambition, for pur¬
poses of self-interest, but with no heart-felt desire to pro¬
mote the happiness and welfare of their fellow beings
by their talents. The scientific Spiritualists, on the other
hand, are those who search out the truths of nature for
their own sake, who care little or nothing for the
applause, or wealth, or honours of the world, but who
early on their researches for the love of God and all
His wonderful works. When the possibility of demon¬
strating the reality of a world beyond the grave, and of
ascertaining something of its laws and nature is brought
under the notice of minds of this stamp, they follow up
the clue with avidity, and become valuable supporters
of the truths of Spiritualism. By clearly appreciating
the effects of these mental influences it is generally
possible to know beforehand what men will become
Spiritualists after the subject is introduced to them, and
to know those who because of v their mental nature
cannot possibly be brought within its pale within any
moderate period of time. People are sometimes brought
to seances whose mental nature is such that until a
considerable time has elapsed they could no more enter
the ranks of Spiritualism than they could plunge into
boiling oil, and a great deal of trouble to sitters at
seances, and of annoyance to the mediums, might be
avoided by not attempting to sow the seed upon
unprepared soil.
THE STIGMATA.
Dr. Carpenter quotes the case of Louise Lateau, a
Belgian peasant girl, who exhibited the curious pheno¬
menon of “ stigmatisation,” that is, a spontaneous
periodical bleeding from the hands, the feet, and the
side, where they were pierced in the crucified Saviour,
although she'* had no actual wounds. He goes on to
say what effect these facts had upon different minds.
Catholics called it a miracle, Protestants denounced it
as imposture, whilst the scientific mind looked upon it
as a mental power producing effects upon the bodily
organs. In a case of this kind the first duty is to ascer¬
tain if the fact itself is true; the numerous and com¬
petent medical witnesses, fully on their guard against
fallacy, determined this to the satisfaction of all reason¬
able people. Dr. Carpenter says that a class of young
women is known by every medical practitioner to be
possessed by morbid ideas, which possession sometimes
manifests itself in a periodical ecstacy, a form of natural
somnambulism. He says that the thoughts and feelings
of Louise Lateau uniformly ran in the direction of the
Saviour’s passion, and that the transudation of blood
from the skin through the orifices of the perspiratory
•ducts because of strong emotional excitement being a
well authenticated physiological fact, there seemed to
him to be nothing in the least degree improbable in the
narrative. Dr. Carpenter argued that the beliefs of the
Catholic in the miraculous theory, of the Protestant in
the cheat theory, and of the Physiologists in the natural
theory, arise from the antecedent mental state which
really settles the value to be assigned to the external
testimony.
PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMEHA AMONG INDIAN DEVOTEES.
Dr. Carpenter next calls attention to what the late
Mr. Braid, of Manchester, termed “ human hyberna^-
tion.” Hindoo devotees are reputed to have the power
of passing at will into a death-like torpor, and of re¬
maining for days, or even weeks, in that condition
without the loss of their vitality, although they may
have been buried securely in a vault during the whole
time, and cut off from supplies of food. Dr. Carpenter
thinks that the matter cannot be explained by the
jugglery theory. He says :—
The narratives which Mr. Braid obtained from witnesses not
only of unimpeachable veracity, but of the fullest competence,
to whom every facility for the most careful scrutiny was ac¬
corded, put the matter in an entirely different light. In one
of these cases, vouched for by Sir Claude Wade, who was long
our political agent at the court of Runjeet Singh, the Fakeer
was buried in an underground cell for six weeks; and having
been twice dug out by Runjeet Singh during that period, was
found1 on each occasion in precisely the same condition of
apparent death as when first buried. In another case, men¬
tioned by Lieutenant Boileau, in his Narrative of a Journey
in Rajrvarra, in 1835, the man who had been buried for ten
days in a grave lined with masonry and covered with large
slabs of stone, and strictly guarded, assured Lieut. B. that he
was ready to submit to an interment of twelve months’ dura¬
tion, if desired. In a third case, cited by Mr. Braid, the trial
was made under the direct supervision of a British officer, a
period of nine days having been stipulated for on the part of
the devotee: but the officer, fearing that he might incur
blame if the result should be fatal, had the Fakeer dug out on
the third day, without any previous notice. In each case we
have the testimony of British medical officers as to the con¬
dition of the body when exhumed ; and in this all the narra¬
tives agree. Its appearance was perfectly corpse-like ; no
pulsation could be detected either in the heart or in the
arteries (there was no stethoscopy in those days); and there
were no perceptible movements of breathing. The means of
restoration employed by the attendants of the saint were just
what we should ourselves employ in a case of “ suspended ani¬
mation ; ” namely, friction of the surface, the application of
warmth, and the administration of stimulants as soon as the
power of swallowing returned.
In explanation of tbis Dr. Carpenter says:—
The scientific physiologist, as in the preceding instance,
sees a clue to the rational explanation of the case of the
buried Fakeers, which leads him to view the testimony given
in regard to them by the cautious, sceptical, and well-informed
witnesses who vouch for them, in a very different light from
that of the wonder-loving traveller of the middle ages.
In the first place, the state of “ suspended animation,” or
“ apparent death,” is one of which the existence cannot be
denied ; since it is continually produced by drowning, and
sometimes occurs spontaneously. And that such a state might
be maintained in India under the circumstances described, for
a much longer period than in this country, may be fairly attri¬
buted to the warmth of the tropical soil, which will prevent
any considerable reduction of the temperature of the body
buried in it, notwithstanding the almost entire suspension of
its internal heat-producing operations. Again, it has been
experimentally ascertained that even warm-blooded animals,
whose hybernation is profound, can be kept under water for
an hour or more without injury ; although, in their ordinary
condition of activity, they would be killed by a submersion of
three or four minutes. And thus there is nothing, in the
almost complete deprivation of air, that militates against the
probability that the buried Fakeer might remain enclosed in
a narrow vault without suffering from the want of if; for the
nearly4complete suspension of all the functions of life will re¬
duce the demand for air, as for food, almost to zero.
But secondly, there is to the well-informed physiologist, no
inherent improbability in the self-induction of this curious
condition. For, in the first place, he, has the standard case of
Colonel Townsend, Which no medical authority has ever
ventured to call in question, so high was the authority of
Dr. Cheyne, the eminent physician, by whom it was recorded,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
15
Jan. 9, 1874.
And Mr. Braid, in the course of his experiments on that form,
of artificial somnambulism, which he termed hypnotism, met
with several cases (of which I myself saw more than one) in
which the self induction of that state produced a marked
lowering of the pulse and respiration; the reduction being
such in one instance as seriously to alarm Mr. Braid, and to
necessitate the immediate termination of the experiment.
A fortnight ago we published a somewhat satirical
account, written by Captain E. F. Burton, of the
curious mesmeric state into which Hindoo devotees
worked themselves by self-mesmerism. Dr. Carpenter,
in dealing with the same subject, says:—
The self-induction of these states, practised by the Hindoo
devotees, is part of a system of religious philosophy, which is
termed the Yoga; and by the kindness of Professor Max
1 Miiller, I possess a very curious account of this philosophy,
printed at Benares twenty-two years ago, by Sub-Assistant
Surgeon Paul, who had carefully studied it. It appears from
this that the object of the whole system is to induce a state of
mystical self-contemplation, tending to the absorption of the
soul of the individual into the supreme soul, the Creator, Pre¬
server, and Destroyer of the World; and that the lower forms
of it consist in the adoption of certain fixed postures, which
seem to act much in the same way with the fixation of the
vision in Mr. Braid’s methods. The first state, Pranayama,
corresponds very closely with that of reverie or abstraction;
the mind being turned in upon itself and entirely given up to
divine meditation, but the sensibility to external impressions
not being altogether suspended. The second state, Pratyahara,
is one in which the external senses being closed, while the mind
is still active, corresponds with some forms of somna/tnbulism.
Those who have attained the power of inducing this con¬
dition, then practise Dharana, a stage of complete quiescence
of body and mind, corresponding with what is known as
catalepsy, the body remaining in any posture in which it may
be placed. From this they pass into the Dhyana, in which
they believe themselves to be surrounded by flashes of external
light or electricity, and thus to be brought into communion
with the universal soul, which endows them with a clair¬
voyant power. And the final state of Samadhi, which they
themselves liken to the hybernation of animals, and in which
the respiratory movements are suspended, is regarded as that
of absolute mental tranquility, which, according to these
mystics, is the highest state which man can attain; the indi¬
vidual being absolutely incapable of committing sin in
thought, act, or speech, and having his thoughts completely
occupied with the idea of Brahma, or the supreme soul, with¬
out any effort of his own mind.
From this point of view, then, the history of the buried
Fakeers presents a new significance; for so far from being an
exceptional phenomenon, this self induced state of suspended
animation is one towards which the whole of their system of
religious philosophy tends, and for which it provides, as it
were, both the physical and the mental education. And the
evidence thus derived from an entirely independent source, of
the inherent probability of occurrences whose narration first
called forth nothing but incredulity, seems now, in my judg¬
ment, sufficient to give a very decided preponderance to the
scale of positive belief.
UNPOPULAR TRUTHS.
From what has been quoted, it will he seen that Dr.
Carpenter is labouring in periodicals of an orthodox
character, to remove erroneous popular impressions as
to the reality of certain psychological facts, whereby
he is undoing to some extent the harm he has done in
past years, in circulating altogether unreliable informa¬
tion among the public in relation to analogous matters,
tq the truth of which Mr. Crookes and Mr. Sargent
Cox had testified. Dr. Carpenter says :—
While the world has been too ready to charge with moral
culpability those who depart from the beaten tracks of re¬
ligious or scientific orthodoxy, independent thinkers seem to
me to have often been unjust as well as unwise in flinging
back the accusation, and in imputing to those whose mental
development has taken place under a particular system, and
whose whole intellectual and moral nature has shaped itself
into conformity with that system, either a wilful blindness to
evidence which at once carries conviction to their own minds,
or an intellectual incapacity to appreciate it.
Dr. Carpenter argues that during the whole period
of growth the brain is shaping itself according to the
mode in which it is exercised, and that the nerve tracks
thus laid down are maintained through life, even
though disused. He says that the influence uncon¬
sciously exerted by the family life, the public opinion
of the school and college, and the views of the.particular
social class of which the youth is a member, have
much to do in building up his fabric of thought, so that
while this fabric is growing up, one room is built after
another, in which respectable beliefs find their proper
places. The recipient never dreams of questioning
their value, because they fit in so perfectly, and so long
as nothing occurs to make him doubt the security of his
walls, he does not experience any special inconvenience
from the antique awkwardness of his furniture.
“ CELESTIAL MARVELS ” EROM AMERICA.
In another part of the article Dr. Carpenter asks his
readers to suppose that an American professor came to
Europe a dozen years ago to announce that he had
made discoveries relating to the sun, proving that it
was surrounded with glowing hydrogen, that fiery
tongues shot from its surface from time to time, and
occasionally to a height of 50,000 miles in a few
minutes. Such propositions would have been received
into the fabric of thought of nobody, and we should
have suspected our American friend of amusing himself
by trying upon us one of those mysterious hoaxes for
which his countrymen have shown a special aptitude.
Dr. Carpenter further supposes that if instead of laying
his claims before an incredulous public, the American
professor had privately brought together some half-
dozen of the most eminent physicists of Europe, and
explained to them how his discovery had been made, he
would have been able to not only satisfy them, but to
erect upon that basis a new and substantial addition to
their fabric of knowledge. He adds that after men of
science had thus tested their visitor’s good faith to a
certain extent, they would have found no difficulty “ in
crediting his accounts of those celestial marvels of rare
occurrence, it would be altogether beyond his power to
reproduce.”
The meaning of Dr. Carpenter’s parable about the
American professor is perfectly clear to the readers of
these pages. Did it never occur to Dr. Carpenter that
if certain celestial marvels came to this country from
America, it might need a celestial order of minds to
receive them, and not a class of mind which can ap¬
preciate nothing but mathematics, and bricks, and
stones, and material facts ? - He should read the de¬
scription of Mr. Gradgrind in Charles Dickens’s “ Hard
Times,” where he will find painted to the life a man of
science, with no eye for beauty, and no appreciation of
affection—a man who hated roses upon his carpets, but
preferred mathematical triangles, who shrank with
horror from a cuckoo clock, and established in its'
place a time piece which beat dead seconds with un¬
swerving regularity, every tick sounding like another
nail hammered into the coffin lid of Time ? Is this
the man to whom American professors should introduce
celestial truths ? Could such truths possibly fit in with
his order of mind? The American professor should
rather bring him some old skulls of dead savages, and
set him to work to study their physical formation, or'
bring him some brickbats from one q the ruined cities
16
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 9, 1874.
of Central America, and let him weigh and measure
them to his heart’s content, but what would be the
good of giving him a celestial truth ? As Dr. Car¬
penter himself explains, his brain works in such a
groove that truths of this kind will not readily fit in
with knowledge previously acquired. So is it with
Spiritualism and the Royal Society. The humble
student of nature who seeks after knowledge and the
truths of God for their own sake, and who is imbued
with love to God and love to man, cannot be kept out
of the Spiritual movement, but as a great majority of
the fellows of the Royal Society, highly intellectual as
they are, do not belong to the order of mind just men¬
tioned, it is a mental impossibility that within the
present generation Spiritualism can make much head¬
way among the majority of its members. It may do
them a little good, and during the past few years has
very considerably modified the utterances of Dr. Car¬
penter in relation to psychological truths, so has im¬
proved him in spite of himself.
THE MYSTERY OP EDWIN DROOD.
The following is another extract from the completed
story of Edwin Drood, alleged to have been given by
the spirit of Charles Dickens, through an American,
writing medium, Mr. T. P. James, of Brattleboro, Yt.
The style of the first and last part of the story is so
much alike that it is difficult to detect the admixture of
any foreign mental element, although here and there,
at very wide intervals, some American expressions may
be found. Dickens was noted for writing humorous
descriptions of drunken scenes, and for painting that
vice in somewhat too lenient colours, and the following
extract from Mr. James’s part of the story, partakes
remarkably of the style of the departed author:—
Taking from a side pocket three or four letters, all
but one being very dirty and crumpled from being
carried a long time, Durdles selects the one that is
quite fresh-looking, and reads:
“ Mr. Peter Peckcraft, Chancery-lane, formerly
Drood and Peckcraft.”
Mr. Stollop, glancing at the superscription, is sur¬
prised to find that the document is intended for his
employer, and proceeds to surprise the other by telling
him the fact, and that he (Stollop) is going directly there.
Durdles regards this as such a remarkable circum-
s' ance, that he invites Stollop to an adjacent public-
house to partake of a mug of ale, and declares that he
never knew anything quite so odd as that he should
tumble into the knowledge of Mr. Peckcraft’s where¬
abouts so suddenly; and this was true, for he had
literally tumbled into it.
The two gentlemen, in a few moments, are seated at
table, waiting for a pint apiece, which Mr. Durdles has
ordered.
“ Ain’t it a little singular,” asks Stollop, as the
waiter appears with the glasses, “ how things come
round ? ”
Mr. Durdles looks at the ale and then at Stollop, not
quite understanding whether the speech has reference
to the beverage or something else. He appears lost for
a moment, and then, taking a long draught from his
own glass, says:
“ What d’ye mean ? ”
“ Why, the way you met me, you knoW, and I being
the one that could take you right to the man you
wanted to see.”
“ I’ve seen things come round more sin’ular nor
that,” is the answer; “ and having seen ’em Durdles
don’t feel took back by this little circumstance. I could
tell you som’at, young man, as would make you think
you never heerd its like. But Durdles knows his
bus’ness, Durdles does, and he ain’t got nothin’ to say
till the time comes. Have another one ? ” meaning ale.
“ Strange deeds will rise, though all the earth o’er-
whelm them, to men’s eyes,” says Stollop, quoting from
his favourite author, and looks very hard at the glass
in his hand, as though he expected to see something
strange rise from that. In fact, Mr. Stollop’s nerves,
at no time very strong, are weaker than usual to-day,
from the shock they had experienced a half-hour since
at Miss Keep’s, and the ale had begun to affect him
almost directly he swallowed it.
Mr. Durdles makes no reply to this last remark, but
turns his attention to the contents of his glass, and,
disposing of half of it, he becomes communicative again,
and says:
“ I spose you wonder, now, what kind of a message
there is in this ’ere letter to your guv’ner, eh?” and
winks at Stollop to indicate that he (Durdles) knows
the secret, but means to keep it.
“You mistake me, Mr. Turtle^,” is the rejoinder.
“ Durdles, if you please,” interrupts that gentleman,
“ Dwr-dells is my name, and I ain’t ashamed of it! ”
“ Excuse me, Mr. Durdles; I was about to say that
you mistook my nature if you thought I would be guilty
of prying into the business of my employer. What he
tells me I hear and keep to myself, and he knows that
nothing could ever draw it from me. No, sir; the
secrets of any man (here he looks very hard at his com¬
panion) confided to me are here,” placing his hand upon
his heart, “ and there they will stay.”
Durdles’ glass being empty, and, noticing his com¬
panion’s to be in a like condition, he says; “That’s
right, Mr. oh, that reminds me; we ain’t on a
even footin’, we ain’t; you’ve got the name of my
father, but I hain’t got a letter o’ yourn yet.”
“ My name is Stollop,” replies that gentleman
modestly, as though he would like to add that if his
companion was not perfectly satisfied with it, he might
call him by any other that he chose.
“ Stol-lop ! ” Durdles repeats very slowly, empha¬
sizing each syllable as though he were storing it away,
a sentence at a time, in the farthest corner of his mind,
the better to remember it. “ All straight now, Stollop,
my boy; we’re on a even footin’ now; nothin’ like an
even footin’ among gentlemen. As you was a sayin’ on
a second ago, you keeps all them air secrets of your
friends here,” striking his own breast in an emphatic
manner; “ now,” he adds, “ suppose, Mr. Stollop, as
you puts somethin’ here,” moving his hand quickly to
the pit of his stomach, “ to keep the other company,
and takes a little gin and water sweetened, and then
we’ll get along to where I can see this ’ere person as is
to have this ’ere letter, and get through with the
bus’ness.”
Mr. Stollop has an idea that he has drank as much
already as he ought to, but is pressed so hard that,
'before he has an opportunity to decline, utterly, Durdles
has ordered the gin, and the two gentlemen are sipping
it in a very happy frame of mind.
Jan. 9, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
17
Now, under ordinary circumstances, Mr. Stollop
would have refused emphatically to drink anything
stronger than the ale;' hut, in the state of mind which
he was labouring under, in consequence of Rosa’s recent
cool treatment of him, he had reached that point where
it was immaterial, he thought, what became of him.
Hence, while Mr. Hurdles was having a glorious time,
and not suffering in consequence, Mr. Stollop was
becoming decidedly drunk.
By the time that the last potation is half exhausted,
he has reached that state of maudlin drunkenness,
which leads him. to believe that Hurdles is the best
friend he ever had, and so tells him.
He holds out his hand, which the other takes, and
with tears streaming down his face, proceeds to' en¬
lighten his companion as to the wretchedness that preys
upon his mind.
“Oh, my excellent friend!” he. says — the tears
streaming down his- cheeks, which resemble the colour of
a sunset sky—“ you do not know the misery by which
I am surrounded. I love a lady, dearly, sir ! ”—here he
refreshes himself by taking a sip of the gin and water,
after which Hurdles, much interested, repeats :
“ Bearly,” as a cue for the other to proceed.
“ Dearly, sir! ” Stollop reiterates emphatically, and
wipes his lips with his coat sleeve.
Mr. Hurdles smiles grimly, and nods for his friend to
proceed.
“ With a passion, sir, that was born in a minute, my
fancy soared—up—up,” describing the flight by raising
the glass in his hand at arm’s length, “ and I felt, for
the first time in my life, that love was a precious
thing, sir!”
Mr. Hurdles nods approval at this last assertion, and
remarks, in a careless tone:
“ If it ain’t a precious thing my name ain’t Hurdles.
That’s where I stand.”
Stollop is so pleased with this proof of his friend’s
coinciding with him, that he finds it desirable to shake
hands again, which is done.
Mr. Stollop now proceeds to enlighten Hurdles con¬
cerning the events wliich had brought Rosa and himself
together; and, while a good portion of the narrative
was interspersed with expressions intended to convey
to the hearer that the narrator’s peace of mind was for¬
ever blasted by the fate which had led him to make the
acquaintance of an angel, Hurdles learned enough to
satisfy himself that the angel in question was no
other than the Miss Rudd who had formerly dwelt at
the Nuns’ House, and whom he remembered in con¬
nection with the missing young man to whom she was
betrothed.
This knowledge seemed to impress him with the im¬
portance of taking a hasty departure, with a view of
delivering the message, which he had for Mr. Peck-
craft, at the earliest moment; so, the glasses being
emptied, he says they must be going.
Mr. Stollop, however, is just sufficiently conscious to
know that he is not in a proper state to appear before
his employer, and exclaims, striking the table with his
glass:
“ Never, sir! I may have lost all my own self-re¬
spect, sir,’ but I will never bring disgrace upon the
house—or, I should say, shop—of Peckcraft. Place
me, sir, in the silent tomb of my ancestors, if their last
resting-place can be found, but never ask me to bring the
grey hairs of Peckcraft to the grave; leave me, sir! ” and
rising, sways to and fro, raising his arm in a theatrical
manner for the other to depart; then reseats himself,
and, with his eyes half closed, stares at Hurdles as
though surveying him through a fog.
Stollop’s allusion to tombs and graves causes Mr.
Hurdles to wonder if the speaker has discovered, by
any sense of sight or smell, that his (Hurdles’) business
is one that brings him in contact with the dead and
and gone Cloisterhamites; and is so disgusted at his
companion’s allusions, that he thinks he should be happy
to have an opportunity to stow him (Stollop) snugly
away in one of the receptacles that he is so anxious to
be placed in. He keeps his thoughts to himself, how¬
ever, and says:
“ Hurdles ain’t one as stands any nonsense, he ain’t.
When he says he’s got to do any thin’ he means it.
Now he’s got to give up this ’ere letter, and he’s got to
take you along with him, the better to know who to
give it up to. H’ye understand.”
Stollop continues to stare at the speaker, and finally
mutters that “ love is a precious thing, sir,” and is so
overcome with this thought that he falls to weeping,
and is shook by the shoulder pretty roughly by Hurdles,
who tells him to get up.
“ Get up, fool! lean on me, and when you get out
in the air you’ll feel better; ” and, supporting Stollop to
his feet, they proceed towards the door, and reach the
pavement, but not before Stollop has stopped one of the
customers standing near him, and endeavoured to per¬
suade him that “ love is a precious thing.”
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Last Friday the Liverpool Psychological Society held its
third anniversary meeting, at the Assembly Rooms, Liver¬
pool. There was a concert and a soiree. A large gathering
was present by seven o’clock, when Mr. John Lament, the
Vice-president of the Society, took the chair, and gave a short
introductory speech. He said he thought that such gatherings
had a tendency to promote good-will and friendship more than
anything else. Then followed a variety of solos, recitations,
and songs, all of which were well rendered.
Mr. Bowen, a professional musician, who presided at the
pianoforte, opened the concert with a sblo composed by him¬
self. Miss Bennett, a young lady of thirteen, sang, “ Kiss me,
mother, kiss your darling,” which called forth rounds of ap¬
plause. A lady, whose name was not given, sang and played
the accompaniment to a piece entitled “ The Ballad Singer.”
Miss Hilton next sang S Tiny Tim ” in splendid style, and re¬
ceived a well merited encore. Mr. Meredith gave a recitation
entitled “ The Bachelor.” An interval of ten minutes fol¬
lowed, during which the company were served with refresh¬
ments. The proceedings were then resumed. Mr. John
Lament, through indisposition, placed his speech in [the
hands of Mr. Morse, trance-medium, who in his normal con¬
dition spoke of the cordial relations subsisting between him¬
self and the Spiritualists of Liverpool. Miss Shepherd
favoured the audience with a song entitled “ Liquid Gem.”
A beautiful little girl, Miss Chatham, aged nine, was then
brought upon the platform, and sang a song entitled “Mild
May” very beautifully. Mr. Meredith gave a second recita¬
tion entitled “ The Oldham Recruit.” Other songs were sung
by persons whose names were not mentioned ; after which
Mr. Morse passed into the trance state and addressed the
meeting under spirit influence. This part of the entertain¬
ment was concluded by the audience singing “Auld Lang
Syne.” Dancing followed, which was carried on with spirit
until nearly twelve o’clock, an hour which brought to a close
a most delightful evening.
At a meeting of the Council of the Dalston Association,
of Inquirers into Spiritualism, held yesterday evening, Mr.
Wm. Oxley, of Manchester, was elected a life member.
18
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 9, 1874.
ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS. ■
' On Thursday night last week, a meeting of the St. John’s
Association pf Spiritualists was held, in the Goswell Hall,
G-oswell-street, under the presidency of Mr. George Sexton,
M.D.
After tea, the proceedings of the evening commenced by
Miss Copley playing the solo, “Jessie’s Dream,” on the
piano.
THE PROGRESS OP, SPIRITUALISM IN ENGLAND.
Dr. Sexton then said: Under the circumstances in which I
am now placed, I think that the chairman should be more
ornamental than useful ; that he should not make a long
speech himself, but should see that the programme is carried
put. I had intended to make a few remarks about Spiritualism
in the provinces, as I have been lecturing much in the country
of late, but, on consideration, 1 will not do that now, but
reserve it for some future occasion, our programme to-night
being a long one. Spiritualism has made great progress in
London during the last twelve months. A year ago only one
series of Sunday meetings was held in London; they took
place at the Cavendish Rooms, where the attendance was, in
general, very scanty. When I first lectured there, we had
large audiences, even though a charge was made. The con¬
jurors, Maskelyne and Cooke, or their agent rather, threatened
us with prosecution for taking money at the doors on Sunday
evenings, so we were obliged to leave off making a charge.
There were large audiences after that, but the coliections were
not large. From the Cavendish Rooms, a change was made
to St. George’s Hall. While the meetings were going on at
St. George’s Hall, this hall in Goswell-street was opened by
me, and Mr. Monck succeeded me the Sunday following. The
fact of your holding regular meetings here now, shows that
progress has been made, and it is just the same in the country.
.1 was in Leeds a short time ago, and I think that no lecture
upon Spiritualism had been delivered there before, except one
by Mr. Peebles, and another by Mr. Cross, of Glasgow, who
now lives in Leeds. Mr. Cross, being a local man, and his
lecture not having been widely advertised, it would be unfair
to contrast mine with bis.1 Mr. Peebles had a very small
audience there, not nearly so many persons being present as
are here to-night. On the first Sunday evening I was there,
a thousand people were in the hall, and hundreds turned
away, who could not get admission. Spiritualism has been
established in Manchester for some time, but it has always
been difficult there to collect people together at lectures, but
at Manchester I had large audiences. In Blackburn about
one thousand people attended my lecture. Next I went, to
Bolton, but before I went there newspapers were sent me,
showing what a noisy reception Mr. Morse had in that town ;
this did not frighten me, I rather like that sort of thing, for I
was born under the planet Mars. (Laughter.) But at Bolton
I had no disturbances, and a great audience. The general
impression conveyed to me by what I have seen of the
progress of Spiritualism, is, that if it is not increasing, an
interest is felt in it by the public to an extent which has never
been the case before ; this interest can scarcely be excited
without converts being made. Large numbers of materialists,
to whose school I belonged for more than twenty years, are
rapidly becoming Spiritualists. When I lectured in Man¬
chester, one of the leaders of the free-thought party, Mr. Ellis,
occupied the chair. He was the ablest man that the secu¬
larists had in Lancaster and Yorkshire, and if leaders like
him come into our body, many of the rank and file are sure
to follow in their footsteps. The last number of the
Quarterly Journal of Science, which I hold in my hand,
contains a long article from Mr. Crookes. He was once
disposed to accept the psychic force theory of Spiritualism,
but in this article he has placed seven theories before his
readers, and leaves them to choose which they please ; at the
same time the facts stated in his article are of such a
character, that no theory but the spiritual theory will cover
them. When we remember he is a fellow of the Royal
Society, and that he began to make his inquiries in the pure
interests of science, having mediums in his own house, re¬
moving everything likely to cause suspicion, and investigating
the whole matter as if it were a question of physics, you will
see that his testimony is very valuable indeed. All this tends
very considerably to strengthen our gratification at the pro¬
gress made by the spiritual movement. There is" an article
by Lord Amberley in the Fortnightly Review, sneering at the
whole thing. Now, you have to contrast Lord Amberley with
Mr. Crookes; the latter is a man of science, but we know
nothing at all about Lord Amberley, except be is the son of
Lord Russell, who is a very small man; so we need not be
frightened when Lord Amberley puts it all down to humbug.
He says that at a seance he and his friend tilted the table
themselves, and signalled messages. If a man could play a
trick like that upon his friends, I hold that his criticisms on
the subject of Spiritualism are not worth a snap of the finger.
(Hear, hear.) I will now call upon Mr. Enmore Jones to
address the meeting.
THE PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN LONDON.
Mr. Enmore Jones said, he felt inclined to lay some whip¬
cord upon the members of the St. John’s Association, because
they had not told the visitors present what the society had
been doing during the past year, and until such information
was given, visitors had nothing to talk about, but were lean
and slippered pantaloons. He considered London, to be the
brain of the world for money-making ; go where they would
in London the cry everywhere was grab, grab, grab—money,
money, money ! The nerves of the merchants were ever at
work, playing chess, all about money. London was certainly
the brain of the world for cash making; London also was the
brain of the political movements of the earth. He would not
say anything about the planets, for he knew nothing about
them ; he would confine his remarks to this little globe. All
great movements in connection with social life had originated
in the metropolis, and afterwards laid hold of leading minds
in America, Australia, and every civilised nation, as well as
influenced many savages. London was the very brain-power
of literature ; its literature streamed through America, and
the best men in Europe were translating the best English
works. The religious brain-power of the world was centred in
London. There were hundreds of sects in the metropolis, and
the more there were the better, because the fact of men
splitting up into sects showed that' the people were thinking.
We were not all made alike, any more than the different
colours of the rainbow ; consequently we saw differently, and
the result was, that all were working in different directions.
London was fast becoming the spiritual brain-power of the
world. America deserved some credit, it was true, for giving
us the first news of Spiritualism, but now English Spiritual¬
ists were going ahead. Spiritualism had laid hold of the
London literary brain, so thac now upon the staff of every
great newspaper there was somebody connected with Spiritual¬
ism ; and these literary men were gradually working, working,
working—putting in a paragraph here and an article there,
and producing a wonderful effect on the public mind.
Spiritualism was becoming so popular that his hearers could
scarcely realise the insults which were showered upon those
who first dared to come forward in London, and state it to be
a truth. An article published years ago upon Spiritualism, in
the Cornhill Magazine, entitled, “ Truth stranger than
Fiction,” had such an effect upon that periodical, that he
believed the circulation of the next number was reduced by
thirty thousand. Things have changed since then. A few
days ago, the Echo had printed a great deal about Lord
Amberley’s nonsense, but it did something better the day
before that meeting, by publishing a truthful report of a
seance, at which a person then at the meeting was present.
Several hundreds of copies of that number of the Echo were
posted to a great many parsons, who, consequently, had
a ghost seance on their tables that very morning. His listeners
should.work in the same way, and help Spiritualism every
time they had a chance ; they should not be afraid of lions ;
on approaching the lions they would be found to be chained,
and it they were not chained, God and His angels were with
those who advanced the truth, and it was better to have angels
than devils at their side. The Association was doing a mighty
work in Clerkenwell. He wanted to see an Association like
that in every district in London, and he hoped that in all the
postal districts Spiritualists would look out for halls. There
were about fifteen or sixteen persons ready to take the plat¬
form, and lecture all round London, and he was ready to help
them, whether he were in,the front or in the rear of the
battle; he did not care where he was placed so that the great
work went on. They should work for Spiritualism, and God
would bless them.
Miss Malvina Claxton then sang a song, entitled
“Yesterday,” with good effect.
WORK DONE BY THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION.
Mr. R. Pearce, secretary, said that in consequence of Mr.
Jones’s desire to know something about the position.of the
St. John’s Association, he rose to say a few words, although
he had prepared no speech or report. The society was the
oldest association of the kind existing in London, and was
THE SPIRITUALIST.
19
Jan. 9, 1874.
founded on the 13fch May, 1869. On that evening a few
friends met at the house of Mr. Steele, in Clerkenwell, and
started the Society. He (Mr. Pearce) had been secretary
from that time until the present, somewhat against his will in
some respects, because the work involved both trouble and
expense, but it had been carried on from a sense of duty. He
also meant to try to work in the same way as long as he saw
any chance of doing good. (Applause.) Among the members
were persons in various positions in life, belonging to all
classes of society, and his experiences had taught him that
whenever Spiritualism entered any family it always did great
good. He had noticed that the.effect of the truths of Spiri¬
tualism upon the minds of individuals, was to increase their
self-respect, and to make them lead better lives. He had
seen how Spiritualism had taught several of the members of
that Association to die. Among other examples, he remem¬
bered well the death of a poor man, in a wretched alley in
Shoreditch; the man had been denied relief by a clergyman,
because he was a Spiritualist. Spiritualism did much good
among the poor, and he (Mr. Pearce) would for many reasons
prefer to work for a poor society rather than a rich one. At
the present time the St. John’s Association had forty-two or
forty-three members on its books, but it was rather in a plight
as regarded funds. Fifteen Sunday meetings had been held
in that hall, and the expenses had exceeded the receipts by
six pounds. The society had also an old debt of four pounds,
so altogether it was ten pounds in arrear. He had never
begged for money, but. he had told people of the position of
the Society, and informed them that he would be glad of aid.
There was a guarantee fund among the members to clear off
debts of this kind, but those members were hard workers, and
should not be left by the public to clear off such a debt by
themselves. Had there not been such a guarantee he should
have thought it wrong to carry on the meetings, as it would
not be right to incur debts without they were sure of being
able to pay'them. If the St. John’s Association should be a
failure, it would be because Spiritualists at large did not give
hard working people more countenance and help. The Asso¬
ciation was the only local society in London which gave free
Sunday meetings. If friends desired to help this Society, he
would rather they should become members than give subscrip¬
tions by way of donation.
Mr. W. J. Griffith then sang a sqpg called <i Emmeline” in
a very beautiful manner.
SPIRITUALISM GLASGOW.
Mr. James Brown, secretary to. the Glasgow Psychological
Society, said—I have often read and heard of the St. John’s
Association, and have had some correspondence with its secre¬
tary, so I feel great pleasure in being present at this meeting
to-night. I have had much to do with Spiritualism in Glas¬
gow. The spiritual movement began to spread in Glasgow
about the year 1863. I know the first gentleman who took up
the subject, but will not mention his name, because it might
injure him ; he is a gentleman who stands very high in muni¬
cipal honours.
The Chairman.—That is getting very near it. (Laughter.)
Mr. Brown.—Well, I did not mention his name, because he
has never identified himself with the movement; but at the
present time he is second in municipal honours, and will prob¬
ably be Lord Provost next year. About the year 1863 he pub¬
lished a little pamphlet for private circulation among his
friends, and some of the Glasgow newspapers reprinted its
contents without his sanction. In that pamphlet he stated
what he had seen in London, through the mediumship of
Mrs. Marshall, and what he had witnessed in Glasgow in his
own family. I was.so struck with the apparent insanity of the
man who could write such an article, that I threw down the
paper, but I took it up again and read the article once more,
then I read it several times over. He was then a town coun¬
cillor, and I could not see what motive he could have for
writing such stuff, nor could I accept the explanation of the
editor of the newspaper, that he must have written it under
the influence of liquor. ' (Laughter.) I told Dr. Colquhoun
about the article, and we discussed the narrative till twelve or
one o’clock in the morning. Shortly afterwards we held a
little seance, and the table began to move at once. That night
I returned home across the Clyde quite happy and delighted
to find that the Glasgow Herald, with all its assumption of
intellectual superiority, was in the wrong. Mr. Nisbet, and
some of his friends, were at that time also investigating Spiri¬
tualism, unknown to us. About this time also, Mr. Barkas,
of Newcastle, visited Glasgow, and gave a lecture on Spiri¬
tualism, at which there was a very poor attendance. Three
years later Mrs. Hardinge had large audiences, which shows
that considerable change may be effected in public opinion in
a short time. But the lecture of Mr. Barkas did good, it
sowed the seed of Spiritualism in Glasgow, and several per¬
sons who were there that night are now confirmed Spiritualists.
Then we amalgamated with Mr. Nisbet’s circle, and after we
had increased our numbers a little we met at a temperance
hotel in Glasgow, and formed a society. I think that thirty
members joined it at first. That society has been working
since 1864, so it is eight or nine years old. At first the society
met every week in the temperance hotel, until we got so
notorious that the temperance man turned us out in the street
one night; the papers vilified us ; we had to shift our meet¬
ings from one place to another. When Mrs. Hardinge came
she lectured in the Trades Hall, which is the second in size in
Glasgow. It was a great success, the hall was crowded to the
doors. About this time Mr. and Mrs. Everitt visited us, and
threw much light on the subject. Many of us in Glasgow
remembered the pleasant evenings spent with them, and the
interesting seances which took place through Mrs. Everitt’s
mediumship. (Applause.) Not long ago Mr. Morse visited
us, and his addresses gave very great satisfaction indeed;
they helped the association very much. I hope that
Spiritualists will give Mr. Morse plenty to do. Dr.
Sexton also did much good in Glasgow, and we hope
to see him soon amongst us again. He is eminently calcu¬
lated to fight the secularists, he having been born under the
planet Mars (Laughter). Mr. Bowman, of Glasgow, who was
once a secularist, is now one of the most generous men we
have connected with our society. He works for the cause,
body, soul, and spirit. Circles are now being held in Glasgow
nearly every night. We have also a place of our own, and no
temperance man can turn us out. We have nice little meet¬
ings every Sunday evening. Sometimes we have had a little
lapse, and sunk into oblivion for six or nine months; there
are often such lapses of organised bodies; at the present
moment we have just gone through one of these ordeals. I
think we have now about a hundred names on our roll of
members, and many persons are making enquiries about the
society and its doings. I think a great mistake is made by
many Spiritualists in not ascending above the mere phenomena,
and in not attempting to grasp the subject in its truly spiritual
sense. I have told them so in Glasgow, so there is no harm in
my stating these peculiar views of mine here. It would be
better to study spiritual truth, than to sit night after night
turning a table in the dark. Spiritualism has done much
social good in Glasgow. Most of our members belong to the
temperance movement, or have belonged to it at one time or
other. They are men of progressive thought. I observe that
Spiritualists generally have been connected with some ad¬
vanced movement, like the temperance movement.
The Chairman—But a temperance man turned you out of
the place. (Laughter).
Mr. Brown—Perhaps he thought we had too much to do with
spirits. (Laughter.) I had great pleasure in shaking hands
this evening with Mr. Shorter, for I do not know a man who
has done more good in the periodical literature of Spiritualism,
than Mr. Shorter, the editor of the Spiritual Magazine. I
wish that journal were better supported than it is. We have
The Spiritualist flourishing, and The Medium flourishing,
—at least, Mr. Burns says so—So I hope the Spiritual
Magazine will be taken up. I desire to thank you very
warmly for the attention with which you have listened to me.
(Applause).
SPIRITUALISM IM SCOTLAND.
The Chairman said, last Sunday I went into the hall at
Glasgow, while Mr. Brown was officiating, and at once he
tried to saddle the speaking upon me, but I only did half the
Work; to-night therefore I made Mr. Brown in return do
some work, by speaking from this platform. As regards the
progress of Spiritualism in Scotland, I have recently been in
Edinburgh and Glasgow. In Edinburgh there is a Psycho¬
logical Society, but many of its members are not Spiritualists.
I had a very large audience there on the Wednesday night,
very much to the surprise of the gentlemen connected with
the society ; the listeners seemed to be pleased, and at the
close of the lecture a member of the audience, who was not a
Spiritualist, rose and asked me if I could come there again ?
I lectured in Edinburgh once more in the following week. In
former years I did much work in Glasgow among the Secu¬
larists ; they are not pleased that I am doing ray present
work ; they do not care about losing my services, but they
are annoyed because I am working on the other side, so that
it counts two instead of one against them. They are there¬
fore sometimes a little noisy at the meetings. At Leeds the
20
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 9, 1874.
other Sunday a noisy person tried to provoke a discussion,
but I. will not have discussions at our religious services on
Sunday evenings, and this gentleman—if he may be called
such—grew so angry that he kicked the money-box out of the
hands of the collector, and spilt the money about the floor.
I have greater hopes of Spiritualism in Scotland than in Eng¬
land. The Scotchman’s head is hard, but if you once get
ideas in, you will never get them out. Mr. Bowman was once
a secularist, but he argues he has never changed sides, “ for,”
says he, “Dr. Sexton was my minister before, and he is my
minister now, so I have not changed.” We want a higher
class of Spiritualism than this phenomenal Spiritualism ; we
do not want to be eternally at this table turning business,
which is useful enough for sceptics, but if spirits cannot tell
me higher and nobler truths than I knew before, or help me
to a higher sphere of thought, there is no use in conversing
with them at all.
Mrs. Lawson then sang with much ability H Sweet Spirit,
hear my Prayer.”
ME. SHOETEE ON SPIEITUALISM.
Mr. Shorter was not prepared to think so highly of the
brain power of London as Mr. Enmore Jones. Mr. Buckle
had said that the Scotch brain was the largest in the world,
so Mr. Brown might be prepared to say something on behalf
of his countrymen. There was a. representative of Germany
present, a representative of the land of philosophical thought,
the land of Goethe and Schiller, so he also might have some¬
thing to say in favour of the brain power of his country.
Then there were Americans present, and, of course, every
American calculated! that Boston was “the hub of the Uni¬
verse.” To America, also, London Spiritualists were indebted
for Mrs. Tappan,who had recently drawn such large audiences
in London. He should like to say a few words about the St.
John’s Association, which was the oldest of the existing
societies of Spiritualists in the metropolis. He thought that
some of the wealthier Spiritualists ought to help such a hard¬
working, well managed association. There were several
associations like that one in London, and beyond London
many had been formed and are forming; some of the pro¬
vincial societies also were better supported than those in
London. Delegates from these societies met in Liverpool last
year, and formed an association of Spiritualists. He would
not say whether such a step was judicious or not; he merely
alluded to it as an instance of the progress of Spiritualism in
England. Although Spiritualism sometimes appeared to be
retarded from without, and had its dissensions within, and
although the results of much labour were sometimes appa¬
rently small, it was well not to be discouraged, but to be
faithful to the truth, and leave the results to a higher wisdom
than our own. This progress was strong presumptive evi¬
dence in favour of the truth of Spiritualism. Spiritualism
had not been- believed merely by the ignorant, but had often
established itself in the face of the strongest scientific and
theological prejudices of the day. He hoped that henceforth
they would cultivate more of the philosophy of Spiritualism,
and appreciate more thoroughly the privilege of spirit com¬
munion. This would lead to the cdltivation of our higher
natures and spiritual being, and make us see more like that
heaven to which we aspired. He hoped that the bells of last
night would have rung out with the old year many old preju¬
dices, and rung in many a new truth.
Mr. F. Sexton, jun., then gave a recitation, entitled “ The
Death of Kufus,’’ after which Miss Claxton sang another song.
Mr. J. J. Morse, trance-medium, then addressed the meeting
under spirit influence, and closed some humorous remarks by
giving a recitation from Shakespeare.
Mr. Griffiths then sang, “ Alice, where art thou?”
Mr. J. Burns said that at the last anniversary meeting the
St. John’s Association had only eight or nine members, and
he was pleased to hear that there was now more than forty.
It was a good society, with a free platform, and ought to be
well supported.
Mr. B. Pearce, secretary, said that he thought the members
should draw around the managing committee a little more.
For the last four years the society had held free Thursday
evening meetings at the St. John’s Hall, Corporation-row,
Clerkenwell, but for the future the Thursday evening meet¬
ings would be for members only, and would be of an educa¬
tion al character. The free meetings would be held on Sunday
evenings. No more meetings would be held in St. John’s
Hall; they would all be held in the Goswell Hall in future.
Mr. R. Barber, president of the Association, said that the
members were under considerable obligation to the proprietor
of the hall. Mr. Brown had stated how in Glasgow, the
Psychological Society had, in its early days, been bandied
from pillar to post, because it dealt with such an unpopular
subject, but the proprietor of the Goswell Hall had kindly
placed it at the disposal of the St. John’s Association on
Sunday evenings, for a very small fee, and it was a generous
thing on his part to do so, the cause being so very unpopular.
As Dr. Sexton had kindly opened the hall for them, by giving
a discourse one Sunday evening, they thought they could not
do better than ask him to come again at the beginning of the
present: year. The Association was doing good work. It was
battling with error and superstition on the one side,
and with materialism and science on the other. Science
had raised the noblest temple which man could erect,
with its foundations deep down in geological facts, and its
pinnacles towering to the highest heavens. But men of
science had forgotten the Great Spirit who dwells within all
temples—the author of the existence of man. So Spiritualism
made war with that scientific materialism which denies the
immortality of the soul. The St. John’s Association wished
its platform to have the broadest possible basis ; they desired
to have no other object than the progress of man. The
Association ought also to be thankful to their spiritual friends
who had done so much by their teachings and their manifesta¬
tions to help the movement along. Next Sunday, Mr. W.
Pearce would lecture at the Gosweli Hall, and on the following
Sunday Dr. Sexton.
Mrs. Lawson then sang “ Happy be thy Dreams,” after
which Mr. Raby gave a piece called “The Bells,” on the
concertina.
Mr. Shorter said there was one way in which the Associa¬
tion might be easily helped. It intended to hold Thursday
evening meetings for the spiritual education of its members,
and such education could be much aided by the reading of
good books on the subject. Many Spiritualists had useful
books which they had read and did not care about
further; they should send such books to the St. John’s
Association, it would be a help. He had much pleasure in
proposing a vote of thanks to the chairman.
This was seconded and carried unanimously, after which
the meeting broke up.
A LECTURE ON SPIRITUALISM.
Me. Venman delivered a lecture on “ Spiritism,” at the
Grosvenor Club, Buckingham Palace-road, on Friday, Dec.
19th. It was the substance of two previous lectures recently
delivered at Pimlico Rooms, the first of which was noticed in
our columns.
The lecturer, in the course of his remarks, observed that a
belief in spirit intercourse not only demanded well-assured
proofs of the reality of the phenomena, but an admission that
the human spirit had not only an unbroken, but a conscious
and active existence, commencing independently of the body
immediately upon dissolution, and there were many professing
Christians who did not believe this, but rather that the soul
slept until the resurrection; quoting the well-known text
that “ there is neither knowledge nor wisdom in 4 Sheol ’ (the
place of departed spirits), whither we go.”
He also remarked that' while spiritists industriously point
out and disseminate the best conditions or means whereby to
“ open the door ” to this “ unknown intelligence,” they do not
definitely indicate any infallible means of closing it, if ob¬
jectionable or injurious manifestations occur, as they them¬
selves admit is frequently the case.
Mt. Venman deplored that our religious teachers did not, as
a rule, enunciate opinions for our guidance. He spoke of
the exciting and attractive nature of the assertion that these
manifestations prove demonstrably that our deceased dear
ones have a conscious existence, and can prove it to us by
visible acts, as not only accounting for the marvellously rapid
spread of the doctrine, but also of the numerous cases of
insanity it had induced in persons of feeble and sensitive
minds, and the unsettling of orthodox religious belief the
result of “teachings,” which many devout persons really
believed were vouchsafed to us as a revelation through the
instrumentality of our lost relatives and other deceased per¬
sons. He said if there were really something to be known
beyond what had been revealed to us by God, if it were
obtained in opposition to a wise decree which drew a veil over
the mysteries of death, the knowledge were best unacquired
and unsought, but if, on the other hand, as Christian Spiri¬
tualists assert, the manifestations were instances of the^opera-
tion of ministering spirits, or guardian angels, as mentioned
in Holy Writ, we had need be careful, “ lest haply we be
THE SPIRITUALIST.
21
Jan. 9, 1874.
found fighting against God.” The various Scriptural prohibi¬
tions (both in the Old and New Testaments), of “seeking
unto the dead, and unto these having a familiar spirit,” were
dealt with at great length.
The lecturer gave a concise but lucid description of the
various theories adduced to refute the spiritist theory, re¬
marking that we had no test that the intelligences were
“human,” and have therefore a right to assume they might
be impersonations by demons or other unclean spirits, “ pos¬
session,’’ having undoubtedly occurred in the days of our
Saviour, and nowhere to his knowledge could we find that
at any period of the world’s history such occurrences were
to be done away with.-
The mesmeric and electro-biological theories only half
met the question, as the spiritists assert that their entranced
“ mediums” are mesmerised by human spirits disincarnated,
while we admit that the same is done by human spirit (or
will), while incarnated, the material body, however, having
no part in it, the phenomena occurring without contact,
and at a distance, hence the mesmeric theory only seems to
beg the question. Again, the sitters at a spirit circle are
conscious of surrounding circumstances, while experiencing
the “ manifestations,” and remember clearly afterwards all
that has occurred ; this is not the case with entranced mes¬
meric subjects, who only remember anything their mes-
meriser impresses them to remember, and are, while en¬
tranced, unconscious of all surroundings, except such as may
be brought under their notice by the mesmeriser, or any
person he places en rapport with himself or his subject. This
argument applies also to the “ mental hallucination” theory.—
West Middlesex Advertiser,
SPIRITUALISM IN EDINBURGH.
The Psychological Society of Edinburgh, having invited Dr.
Sexton to deliver a lecture in that city, he acceded to the re¬
quest. The subject of the lecture, chosen by the Society, was
“ Spiritualism and the Various Theories Offered to Account
for the Phenomena.” The discourse was delivered in the
Waverley Hall on the 17th December, and was of a very
superior order. In considering Dr. Carpenter’s theory of
“ Unconscious Cerebration,” Dr. Sexton so completely smashed
up the whole hypothesis that at least one member of the
British Association was heartily sorry that the Association’s
late president should ever have advanced such nonsense to
scientifically account for spiritualistic phenomena. In giving
to every individual theory its due consideration, Dr. Sexton
demonstrated that the spiritual theory was the only one that
could logically account for all the forms of manifestation, and
in consequence of its covering the whole ground, ought to be
accepted as the only proper explanation of Spiritualism.
At the close of the lecture, the Chairman, Mr. Keith, B.S.A.,
the senior vice-president of the society, intimated that, in
accordance with the advertisements, Dr. Sexton would answer
any questions any of the listeners might desire to put to him.
Several proper questions were put and answered to the satis¬
faction of all; but one speaker insisted on discussing the
whole question of Spiritualism. Dr. Sexton consequently
gave a challenge to meet, in a set discussion, the best man
in the country who was able and willing to debate the subject,
and that he would come to Edinburgh for the purpose. The
Bev. Mr. Brown then rose to express his sympathy with the
sublime teachings of Spiritualism, and stated that, bearing
out Dr. Sexton’s advice to investigate at home, he himself
had seen, within the circle of his own family, far more extra¬
ordinary phenomena than Dr. Sexton had spoken of, and ex¬
pressed his great astonishment that any person entirely igno¬
rant of every form of manifestation should for one moment
take up the valuable time of the audience, as had been done
by one of the speakers. (Great applause followed these few
remarks.)
It may be remarked that very considerable > satisfaction
was given by this lecture. A question put to Dr. Sexton
whether he would give Edinburgh another visit, was practically
answered by his giving a second lecture on “ The Claims of
modern Spiritualism*!© Public Consideration.” This lecture,
delivered in the same Hall, on the 22nd December, under the
chairmanship of Dr. Clark, the president pf the society, was
no less numerously attended, and gave such general satisfac¬
tion, that no doubt Dr. Sexton will soon be in Edinburgh
again, to be followed, perhaps, by Mrs. Tappan, Mrs. Hollis,
and Miss Lottie Fowler.
Hitetarg Kutta*
The Religion of the World, by H. S. Leigh. London :
Triibner and Co.
This book advocates the idea that the leading
religions of the earth are very nearly the same when
stripped of their external surroundings, such as cere¬
monies and creeds, and that religions are elevated
exactly in proportion to the civilisation of the people
who generate them. The writer argues that we should
be Tery tender of our treatment of the religion of our
neighbours when we recollect that it is as true to them
as ours is to us, and as both, in all probability, may be
in the eyes of our great Judge and dear Lather. The
writer is a great admirer of Professor Max Muller, and
took the idea of writing the little book now before us in
consequence of reading Professor Max Muller’s Chips
from a German Workshop. It is a very small book of
only sixty-six pages, but deals with the vital points of
the leading religions with very great ability. All per¬
sons interested in free-thinking speculations upon
theological subjects are sure to be delighted with the
book. The following quotations are given by the writer
of it at the close of his preface ;—
“ Good people show mercy unto all beings, considering how
like they are to themselves.”—Hitopadesa of the JSrah~
manists.
“ Forgive insults, reward not evil for evil. Remember that
all virtues spring from charity. Address ye your words to
caste and to outcast, for salvation is within their reach. Go
forth and preach my doctrines in all places and to all men.”
—Buddha (Eugene Burnouf).
“ Tse-Kung said, | What I do not wish men to do to me, I
also wish not to do men.’ ”— Confueius.
“ Will ye ask good actions of others, while ye forget them
yourselves ? Do ye read the Book (the Koran), and will ye
never comprehend it ? . . . Adore but one God ; do thy duty
to thy father and mother, thy neighbour, the orphan, and the
poor; be kindly of speech to all men ; acquit thyself with
regularity of thy prayers ; give alms.”—The Koran.
“ Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should
do to you, do ye even so to them.”—The Bible.
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
The following extract from a colloquial letter in the Dar¬
lington Times of January 3rd, adds to the great mass of evi¬
dence that revelations are often given through trance mediums
of facts known only to the enquirer, and of circumstances
forgotten by him, and not in his mind. But to get more
absolute proof of departed spirits being at the root of these
psychological results, we should like to receive authenticated
accounts of revelations made respecting facts unknown at the
time or previously, to the medium and to all the members of
the circle. As already published in these pages, Miss Fowler
once revealed in London events then transpiring in South
America. Here is the extract from the Darlington Times :—
“ Hands were joined, and I sat on Miss Fowlei*’s left, with
her hand in mine. Although it is usually considered impudent
to stare at a lady, I certainly stared my hardest at Miss
Fowler. Not a twitch or move escaped my notice. Rapidly
she passed into the trance state, and then starting quickly,
she asked ‘ Who’s Charlie ? Who’s Charlie ? Isn’t yonr
name Charles ?’ I responded that I had the pleasure of own¬
ing that cognomen. ‘ Well,’ she said, ‘ your father who died
years ago in the fall of the year is here, and he wants me
to speak to you for him. ’ The statement as to my father’s
death was correct; all that followed was equally correct. I
cannot in these columns tell all that was told to me. Family
matters, so sacred that those present pledged themselves to
secrecy, were detailed with complete accuracy of dates,
names, and localities. Matters relating to health, religion,
and business, which no one but myself could possibly know,
were mentioned without a single mistake. In one instance
I contradicted the medium. I said the circumstance
mentioned had never happened in my experience; even
if my own father said it had, I would not say that it
22
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 9, 1874.
was so when I knew it was not. The medium said,
“You must not contradict me, Charlie; I tell you it is as I
say 1” and other circumstances were then mentioned which led
me to recognise the event in dispute. Personal habits and
near and dear relatives were familiarly described. And the
future was not forgotten. Events were predicted which have
since been fully realised. I was suddenly directed to take
paper and pencil and write out a remedy for the ailment of a
relative; the medium of course dictating. The recipe has
been applied and found efficacious. Miss Fowler said the
remedy was prescribed by a medical man who was present in
the spirit, and certainly the change was very perceptible.
Hitherto Lottie had spoken in her own voice, but now her
speech was harsh, rough, abrupt. The doctor seemed to
announce himself through her. As I write I find it difficult
to realise this gruff voice speaking through the delicate vocal
organs of a woman. The medium then requested pencil and
paper, and with her face directed in another direction,
attempted to make a cross on the paper, and underneath
wrote in a pretty legible hand, “ From the angel-world and
band. G-od bless Charlie ? ”
Much else I would like to state, but the communication was
so “ strictly private” that I cannot, for obvious reasons, fur¬
ther enlighten my readers. I am quite confident that I did
not give Miss Fowler a word of information ; on the con¬
trary, I misled her in every way I possibly could. At length
she said the spirit of my father wished me for the present
farewell, and my share in the seance was at an end. It was
some time before I recovered from the surprise these revela¬
tions had given me. Two other persons were equally surprised
by the communications made to them, and we all are quite
confident that, whatever table-rapping and the like may be,
Miss Fowler’s trance-mediumship is inexplicable on any other
hypothesis than Spiritualism. At any rate, I have no intention
of running this ism down. The “ believers” were supremely
hospitable. Miss Fowler, on getting out of the trance con¬
dition, asked if she had afforded satisfaction, and seemed
pleased when she was told that the seance had been a most
successful one. By this time it was getting late, and after I
had partaken of a good stiff glass of grog, which was kindly
tendered by the master of the house, I departed in the com¬
pany of a believing brother who generously offered bed and
board. This seems very like bribery and corruption, but when
I say that I do not even know the names of a single member
of the party except Miss Fowler, it will be understood that
the particulars I have supplied are “nothing extenuated,”
nor will I “aught set down in malice.” 'Whether Spiritualism
is true or false others may discuss. For the present I prefer
to be a neutral.’’
(ttaxnspm'iwMZ.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
“ INNER BREATHING.”
Sir,—Of all the various forms of spirit mediumship, that of
the “Inner Breathing” (or “internal respiration”) is the
most mysterious and incomprehensible. Probably the clear
understanding of this especial subject must rather be revealed
spiritually than explained literally. The following extract
from a spirit message* refers so evidently to this condition,
that the quotation may perhaps help to throw a little light
upon it.
“ My children, shrink not from even the saddest training in
earth-life, that shall so chasten the spirit, as to send it up to
communion with the high sphere of spirit-life.
V For it is not at all impossible for man, even on earth, so to
lead a life of holiness, love, and true trust in his Father God,
that his spirit may become most intimate in communion, and,
as it mere, may breathe with his inner breath, the life of
the higher spheres.
“ There are three breaths of life in the three-fold man. The
first is purely bodily, from the immediate atmosphere. The
second, or sub-breath, is the breath of learning (or intellect),
but it is distinct from the third, the interior breath—which is
the spirit-life.,
“ This third breath has nought to do with the immediate
surrounding air, but is borne in upon the spirit, and absorbed
by it, from whichever sphere—higher or lower—is sought by
the spirit-life of the man.
If See Heavsn Opened, Part II., page 30,
“ The time has yet to come, for the full life-consciousness
of the interior breathing, to be fully developed ; and when it
is so, the spirit may become so conscious of the sphere-breath
it is breathing, as to live a conscious life in that sphere, even
whilst the body is leading its own separate and earthy life,
and the scientific wise man, his soul-breath life of learning. .
. . The highest possible development of true life is when the
thrqe breaths, or lives, are all in unison and play.
“ Such perfection cannot be attained until evil is subdued,
and the Kingdom of God established in your earth as it is
in heaven.”
Swedenborg, T. L. Harris, and all who have any knowledge
of the “ Inner Breathing,” speak of the development thereof
as frequently attended with intense suffering, mental, physi¬
cal, or both.
We may suppose it to be, in truth, the “ inbreathing of the
Holy Spirit influence, as distinct from the ordinary spirit in¬
fluence given to us from our loved ones in their spirit home.”
Spiritualism, in all its teachings, points out the positive
necessity for leading a high, pure, holy life. But to all who
may be chosen for this high form of mediumship, this neces¬
sity is, if possible, increased ten-fold.
Great and strong temptations present themselves in every
possible form, often as though all the powers of evil were as¬
sembled to overcome the good. Messages of the most con¬
flicting, distressing, and utterly false character will be given;
then, again, will come words of the highest and holiest import.
Strong spirit impressions, with spirit voices, come to a dis¬
tressing extent, voices sometimes apparently from external
sources, but also often they will be interior, and, as it were,
whispered throughout the whole physical frame.
The letter, signed “ Comfort,” given in Mrs. De Morgan’s
valuable book From Matter to Spirit, contains the most
deeply interesting experiences of one who passed through this
trying ordeal. Nothing but a life of earnest prayer and
simple trust in God the Father, will enable the medium to
gain the victory. But when gained, how bright and beauti¬
ful will all a.ppear. The heaviest trials of earth-life sink into
the merest insignificance in comparison with the heavenly
influence that will pervade the whole life of the one who has
been helped through this spiritual conflict.
Like every other form of medial development, the inner
breathing” is not at all of recent date, but, as we may look
upon the present strong influx of spiritual power as the advent
of Christ’s second coming (spiritually), so we may know that
the experience of the “ inbreathing of the Holy Spirit” will be
poured out more plentifully than ever. Perhaps, at some
future time, I may give some quotations from Swedenborg
and Harris, also some of the interesting phases of spiritual
conflict through which many eminent Christians have passed
(such as Bunyan, George Fox, Madame Guyon, &Q,), which
will be found to correspond very closely with the form of
spirit development called the “inner breathing.” P.
A VITAL phenomenon indicated by a physical instru¬
ment.
Sir,—I think it is a pity that Spiritualists and others do
not make themselves better acquainted with what was done
by the mesmerists. The letters of Professor Gregory, and my
own letters to Miss Martineau, may be regarded together as
the link between the mesmeric era, and the era of modern
Spiritualism, both works having been published Immediately
before our acquaintance with the new phenomena. Now in re¬
gard to what you term “anew discovery in physics,” many years
ago very ingenious gentlemen devised the most delicate in¬
struments to see whether a mesmeriser could produce any
effect upon lifeless material, and I was mostly appealed to for
assistance, having been considered a most powerful and
successful mesmeriser. I was, however, never satisfied that
any real impression had been clearly demonstrated, but now
Mr. Crookes should make his experiment with good mediums.
In. my letter, page 115, may be found a full account of
Matteuci’s experiment, by which it was clearly demonstrated
that contractions are induced in the leg of a dead frog, even
when severed from the body, by excitement produced by
another frog’s leg alongside, and his experiment shows that
the power is not electricity. But even more interesting than
this is the issue of a series of experiments by the venerable
Humboldt, who, in a letter to Arago said, “ Occupied myself
for more than half a century in this class of physiological re¬
search, the discovery which I have announced has for me
a vital interest, It is a phenomenon of life rendered sensible
THE SPIRITUALIST.
23
Jan. 9, 1874.
by a physical instrument.” In his Annals of Chemistry for
June, 1849, Liebig relates a method by which unquestionable
results, bearing upon this discovery, were obtained. In order
to cause a variation of the magnetic needle, sixteen persons
held each other’s moistened hands, and simultaneously con¬
tracted their right arms, and afterwards simultaneously their
left, thus forming a circuit of strong electro-motive power.
The effect on the needle was manifest, and opposite, accord¬
ing as the right or left arm was contracted. The deflection
reached 12°, any accidental influence being overborne by the
intensity of the current. The aged Humboldt was not satisfied
without producing this result by his own volition.* * Notwith¬
standing my advanced years,” he says, “ and the little strength
I have in my arms, the deflections of the needle were very con¬
siderable, but they were naturally more so when the experi¬
ment was performed by Mr. J. Muller, or by M. Helmholtz,
who are younger men and he says, “ the fact is established
beyond all question or doubt ” {Letters, page 117).
Henry G-. Atkinson.
Boulogne-sur-Mer, France, December 15th, 1873.
THE UNWISE CONTEMPT OE MATTER.
Sir,—Our enthusiastic and earnest friend, Mr. Benjamin
Coleman, in his article on the “ double,” says, that “ Let it
once be recognised that spirit is a living entity when separated
from the fleshly body, having a dynamic power over matter,
and the great difficulty which enshrouds the materialistic
mind vanishes.” Now why all this perpetual hammering
against matter ? You may break it to pieces, but you can
destroy neither its magical and spiritual nature, nor its life
eternal. It is the ancient Spiritualism that chiefly denounces
modern Spiritualism. Is it not a scandal that I have to be
insensible to the respect due to mother earth—to the funda¬
mental substance and embodiment of the universe ? Surely
spirit is a material substance, of however rare and subtle a
character. To be sure, a materialist of the hard and fast
line might, in assenting to the existence of an independent,
spirit, assert that it must have been once dependent on the
body, as the body would be on it; perhaps as dependent in
development and growth as the child is upon its mother, but
capable, in due course, of birth and independence. Such
was suggested by a very eminent thinker and materialist—
even Lord Bacon. Spiritualists, in place of this senseless
tilting at materialism, should be proud of the so-called mate¬
rialists who have joined their ranks. In general, a materialist
is a naturist, and denies any possible knowledge of “ the
supernatural,” and will assert, with the naturalist and
Spiritualist, Mr. Wallace, that the spirit is simply a developed
nature. But so long as men will assume these unnatural
divorces in nature, which is, in fact and in effect, one and
indivisible, and suppose essential differences which have no
real existence, we shall continue to waste our tempers, our
feelings, our thoughts, and our time, on vexatious and foolish
questions. F. G-. S.
[Your letters are so illegibly written, as to cause much waste of time and
trouble in the printing-office. Can you kindly remove this cause of delay
in the future ?—Ed.]
SPIRIT POEMS.
Sir,—After reading the highly interesting report in your
last, by Webster Glynes, I think it may be opportune to point
out, that in the letter of Mr. Blackburn, describing a seance
in my house {vide August 1st, Spiritualist), it was stated that
the medium and forms were seen at the same time. To
this I may add, that we had even better remarkable tests—
at least four times previously. On the first occasion, I was
called to the opening of the cabinet, when I saw the medium
sleeping, and the form beside her. I retired, without uttering
a hint of what I saw, and asked one by one to go and
see, without telling their impressions. After we three had
seen this strange manifestation, our descriptions agreed
exactly as to shape and position. Sometimes the forms
resembled clouds, other times the face had a tinge of red, but
there were no sharp outlihes ; when, however, we resumed
our seats, the face came to the aperture very soon, quite
distinct, with all details. If I were allowed to explain the
reasons Why our gifted private medium discontinued these
important seances, it would throw no discredit on spiritual
phenomena, but rather upon our rotten social conditions,
which disturb early progress in any direction, if not supported
by strong noble-minded individuals. Christian Reimers.
spirit identity.
Sir,—I send you an extract from a letter I have just re¬
ceived from a friend in Carlisle, who at my suggestion went
to a seance at Mrs. Hollis’s just before leaving town. He
says :—
“ I heard a spirit voice speaking in loud stentorian tones,
and answering many of my questions. He said, amongst
other things, that he could go to New York in two minutes,
and that he had conversed with many celebrated sages of past
generations. Then, in compliance with my request, he
brought me the spirits of my parents. Now, by way of
showing all fair and disinterested people that there was no
possible humbug nor deception in the thing, I was told by the
spirir, of my mother, that the spirits of my two aunts, Mary
and Elizabeth—who both died since she did—were with her.
Now it is a fact that I had two aunts, Mary and Eliza¬
beth, that they both died since my mother, and only a few
years ago. Mrs. Hollis was a perfect stranger to me, and I
to her. The whole thing was a striking confirmation of the
truth of Spiritualism. Afterwards I asked the spirit of my
mother if she could tell me where a certain brother of mine
died ? Now he died at Buxton in Derbyshire. Well! my
mother’s spirit said that she had forgotten the name of the
town where he died, but that it was near Matlock ! What a
startling confirmation of the truth of Spiritualism was all this.
—J. C. F.”
Now in sending you this extract I may add that I only
made Mr. F.’s acquaintance last spring, and that I had no
knowledge whatever of his relatives.
Herbert Noyes.
United University Club, Jan. 1st., 1874.
THE HUMAN “ DOUBLE.”
SlRj—In reading Mr. Coleman’s paper on the “Human
Double,” the following question occurred to me :—“ Has a
female spirit form ever been developed through the medium-
ship of a male, or, a male spirit form through a female’s
mediumship?” This appears to me rather important, as it
must be impossible for a double to assume the form of its
opposite sex, while if'the forms really are those of departed
spirits, I can see no reason why spirits of the opposite sex to
the medium cannot materialise themselves. W. Richards.
7, Tachbrook-street, S.W., Dec. 22, 1873. .
[When the intelligences known as the regular controlling spirits of the
powerful physical mediums have shown themselves, the external form of
the face has been that of the medium, whatever the professed sex of the
spirit. “Katie" has frequently manifested through the mediumship of
male physical mediums in London. If such phenomena stood alone, it
would be a great question to what extent the spirit of the medium might
produce or take part in the manifestations.—Ed.]
Witchcrapt.—An old Indian woman was, according to
the New York Herald, stoned to death the other day in Pine
Nut Valley, Nevada, for withcraft. Her name was Az-sum
pee-ah-wy-pah, and she was accused of causing the death of
many of her relations by her dark arts. No one could dream
of her without being afflicted by either sickness or death. Her
son-in-law died from the effects of such a dream some five
years ago, and but for the entreaties of a few of her personal
friends, she would then have been hurled from the top of a
lofty cliff. A year ago, a young niece of a distinguished
warrior of her tribe died from the effects of her withcraft, and
she would have been then and there despatched by the
warrior of distinction, but that she sought safety in flight.
Another Indian died at Pyramid Lake from her fatal influence,
and an attempt was made to capture and kill her, but she
eluded the pursuit of the enraged warriors with singular
activity. The matter was then taken up in the grand council
in Pine Nut Valley, and the result was the appointment of a
large detail to stone her to death, which was done by the
unfortunate woman being placed in the centre of a ring
formed by the detail armed with stones. She was soon killed
and left unburied. At first her husband felt somewhat
annoyed, and threatened to “clean out the whole tribe,” but
on the circumstances being more fully explained to him, he
became convinced of the necessity of the step, and joined with
the other relations of the deceased in expressing satisfaction
with the deed—all of them saying that it ought to have been
done long ago.—Daily Telegraph.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
R. W. T.—In our next.
24
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jm 9, 1874.
THE WHITE LADY OF BERLIN CASTLE.
The White Lady has lately been seen at the Castle.
Did you ever hear the legend of the White Lady of
Berlin Castle? Many, many years ago there was a
Hohenzollern Princess, a widow with two children, who
fell in love with—“ became enamoured of ” is perhaps
a more courtly phrase—a foreign Prince, rich, handsome,
and brave. She sent him a proposition of marriage.
But this brave and handsome Prince declined her suit,
explaining that “ four eyes ” stood between him and
acceptance. He referred to his aged parents, whom he
was unwilling to leave, or whose consent he could not
obtain—the versions of the legend vary a little here.
But the Princess understood him to refer to the four
eyes of her two children; to his unwillingness, in fact,
to become a stepfather. So, like Richard the Third,
she promptly suffocated the infant obstacles, and wrote
to her lover that the way was clear. He was stricken
with horror at the cruel deed. He revealed her fatal
mistake to her, and died cursing her blood-thirsty
rashness. The Princess, in her turn, was overwhelmed
with remorse. After lingering a day or two in indes¬
cribable anguish, she, too, died, and was buried under
the old Castle at Berlin. But not to rest quietly .in her
unhappy grave. At rare intervals she appears at mid¬
night, clad in white, gliding ghost-like about the Castle;
and the apparition always forebodes the death of some
member of the Hohenzollern family. The White Lady
has been seen three times within about a year, once
in October last year, just before the death of Prince
Albrecht; last spring again to announce the end of
Prince Adalbert; and the last time while Queen
Elizabeth lay on her death-bed. There is, however,
some doubt about the meaning of the last visit. The
Queen Dowager was not a born Hohenzollern, and the
doctors are not certain that her death can be regarded
as the answer to the White Lady’s appearance. If not,
there is yet another victim to be expected, and the
superstitious know what that means. The professors
of the University are trying to solve this knotty prob¬
lem, and you shall know the result at the earliest
moment.—Daily News, December 31st, 1873.
PATENTING A BLANCHETTE.
(From the “ Banner of Light.”)
It will be seen from the following correspondence,
which explains itself, that the Patent Office at Wash¬
ington has overruled the action of its subordinates, by
which General Lippitt was to be excluded from a patent
for his “ Psychic Stand/’ except under condition that
he should register it as a toy or game. It is evident
that the Patent Office sees that the attempted “ game ”
of its subordinates is a little too despotip and high¬
handed ; and though full and complete justice has not
yet been done, it is in the process of doing, and we
have no fear of the result:—
U. S. Patent Office, Oct. 29th, 1873.
Sie,—Your application for a patent for psychic stand and
detector has been considered by the Examiners-in-Chief, upon
appeal, and they remand the case to the Examiner for the
applicant to prove by demonstration the truth of his asser¬
tions.—-Respectfully, &c., M. D. Leggett,
Commissioner of Patents.
F. J. Lippitt, Esq., Cambridge, Mass.
(In re Psychic Stand.)
Cambridge, Oct. 31st, 1873.
Hon. M. D. Leggett, Commissioner of Patents—
Sir,—I have just received your communication of the 29th
inst., informing me that the Examiners-in-Chief have re¬
manded my case to the Examiner, in order that I may prove
by demonstration the truth of my assertion.
I shall be very glad to comply with this just and proper
requirement. Please inform me whether my personal pre¬
sence, with my stand, Will be required in Washington, or
whether I may exhibit the power of the instrument here or in
Boston, in presence of some person to be named by the Patent
Office, whose report would be accepted by it.
The former course would be at present impracticable, since,
apart from the heavy expense it would involve, I am under an
engagement to leave for Europe at a very short notice.—
Respectfully, Francis J. Lippitt.
IT. S. Patent Office,
Washington. D. 0., November 7th, 1873.
Francis J. Lippitt, Cambridge, Middlesex Co., Mass.
Please find below a communication from the Examiner;
subject-matter, “ Psychic Stand.”—Very respectfully,
M. D. Leggett, Commissioner.
Room No. 5.
Applicant’s letter relating to the application referred to
above, inquiring if his personal presence with the stand will be
required in Washington, was received the 8th inst.
In reply thereto, the demonstration suggested by the Board
of Appeal as necessary, will be required to be made here. As
applicant, however, has two years under the law (Sec. 327),
from the date of the last action by the office, to furnish the
proof required before the application will be held as
abandoned, applicant’s personal presence in Washington, or
that of any agent he may depute for the purpose, can be safely
postponed until after his return from Europe.
A letter from Mr. James Wason, solicitor, of Liverpool,
who looks with indignation upon the recent outrage at Miss
Cook’s seance, has been sent us by Mr. Blackburn. The
letter narrates how Mr. Banks, ex-Vice-President of the
Liverpool Psychological Society, has grasped a materialised
spirit form and felt its solidity, as others have done at seances
given by all the mediums in London who get materialisations.
Mr. Wason says that Mr. Banks’s mother appeared at one of
the Liverpool seances in full form, in the dress she wore in
life. Some of the attempts to throw more discredit upon
Miss Cook, than upon the other mediums who are getting the
same manifestations, are the result of machinations.
The Psychological Society.—Active measures are
being taken for the formation of the Psychological Society
of Great Britain, of which a prospectus was circulated last
year. The new prospectus is short. It states the object to be
the promotion of psychological science by papers and discus¬
sions ; that all theological debate will be strictly excluded; that
the subscription will be two guineas per annum; that it will
be conducted by a president, vice-president, and council, and
that at the beginning the meetings will be held at the houses
of members who have offered their drawing-rooms for this
purpose. Persons desirous to join it are requested to address—
The Psychological Society, at the Chemical News office, Boy-
court, Fleet-street.
Mrs. Tappan’s Sunday Discourses.—The following
committee has been formed to carry out the arrangements
necessary to secure the services of this gifted lady for twelve
more Sundays :—Mrs. Honywood, 52, Warwick-square ; Mr.
J. M. Gully, M.D., Hill-side, Streatham; Mr. N. F. Dawe,
Portman-chambers, Portman-square; Mr. T. Herbert
Noyes, United University Club; Mr. Webster Glynes,
4, Gray’s-inn-square; Mr. J. T. Hoskins, 5, Connaught-
square, and Mr. Slater, 136, Euston-road. The committee is
trying to secure some place more suitable and central than the
Holborn Music Hall, where the late course was delivered.
There will be reserved seats at 2s. each, also seats at lower
rates, but a great portion will be free. Mr. Burns’s accounts
of the late course of fourteen lectures show that they cost'
£188 6s. 4d., or about £13 per lecture ; that the receipts from
the sale of tickets, and collections at the meetings together
amounted to only £97 12s. 7ld., leaving a deficiency of
£90 18s. 8fd., which was only partly made up by subscrip¬
tions. The committee estimates that the proposed course of
twelve can be delivered at a cost of £150 ; that the collections
at the meetings may amount to £60, leaving £90 to be raised
by sale of tickets and by subscriptions, which will gladly be
received by any of the above-named. We are informed that
it is hoped that the first lecture may be delivered next Sunday,
or on the succeeding one.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 9, 1874.
iii
The free ' public Thursday evening meetings, held at
St. John’s Hall, Corporation-row, for four and a half years,
are now discontinued, and in their place, meetings are held on
Thursdays, at Goswell Hall, for members, and for friends in¬
troduced and accompanying members only.—Richard Pearce,
Secretary.
I^TEXT SUNDAY Evening, at Eight o’clock, GEORGE
JJl SEXTON, Esq., M.D., will LEOTUBE at Goswell Hall, 86, Goswell-
road, London. Subject—“ If a man die, shall he live again?”
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A MEETING of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
/ The, Objects of this Association are:—
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths corine cted with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tern., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
BiOhard Fitton, Secretary pro tern.
Now Beady, Price Sixpence.
OD AND IMMORTALITY, viewed in relation
MODEBN SP1BITUALISM.
to
A Discourse delivered in the City Hall Saloon, Glasgow, on Sunday
Evening, February 23rd, 1873, by
GEOBGE SEXTON, M.A., M.D., LL.D., D.SC.,
Honorary Member of L'Accademia Dei Quiriti, at Rome, dx-
BY THE SAME AUTHOB—
Price Threepence,
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF MACBETH.
A Lecture delivered before the Psychological Society of Glasgow, on
May 4th, 1869.
“We advise all playgoers and dramatic readers to give a glance at this
pamphlet; they will be well paid for their trouble, and will see the phases
of Macbeth’s character far better than any actor of the present day can
delineate them.”—Theatrical Journal.
“ The lecture is a full, careful, and philosophical treatisS on the
Shakespearian tragedy. Dr. Sexton makes the most patient analysis of the
character of the Thane; and in his conclusions, generally speaking, the
student will readily acquiesce.—The Era.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLEES, AND NEWSAGENTS.
C. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
SELLEE, STATIONEB. AND PUBLISHEE, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist. 39. Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, Supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBBABY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
Loudon, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingslaud.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
NOETHEEN DEPOT FOB THE SALE OF SPIBITUAL LITEBATUBE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
EJ. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• _ Spiritualism in the North, that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c., &c. Sub-
tcribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Beport at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms, cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to MB. BABKAS),
N e wcas tle-on-Ty ne.
Hugh mcleod, m.d., the psychometrist,
22, Bobert-street, Hampstead-road, N.W. Consultations by letter
or in person, 5s. and stamp for correspondence.
SIBYL, Clairvoyante and Trance Medium, may be consulted
in all matters of ill-health or business. Terms 6s. each person. From
12 till 6. 63, Great Coram-street, Russell-square, W.C.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIEVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Eevealing Startling Facts
to the public, can be consulted on either Medical or Business Affairs con¬
nected with the Living and Dead, Hours 12 to 5. Terms, One Guinea.
Address, care Of Mr. Frederick Everitt, Newgate-street, Bishop Auckland.
MRS. OLIYE, TRANCE MEDIUM, also Medium for
the Cure of various Diseases by Spirit Mesmerism and Prescrip¬
tions. 49, Belmont-street, Chalk-farm-road, London, N.W.
A Public Seance at the above address on Friday Evenings at Seven
o’clock. Admission, 2s. 6d.
MESMEBISM AND CLAIEYOYANOE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—19, Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy-
square.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 6 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5.s; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
HUGH McLEOD, M.D., Psychometric, Impressional, and
healing by the laying on of hands; in which departments of Medium-
ship Dr. McLeod is prepared to give the highest references. Terms, 5s.
each person. Visits by arrangement. Hours 10 till 4. 53, Great Coram-
street, Bussell-square, W.C.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control.' Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bemard-street, Bussell-square. Private Seances attended.
TNSPIRATIONAL
LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“ The prayer over he commenced an eloquent and philosophical address
on modern Spiritualism.”—North-Western Daily Times.
“ The medium then passed into what is termed the trance state, and in
clear and forcible language, with a readiness of expression and fluency of
utterance delivered a discourse on Spiritualism.”—Liverpool Daily A Ibion.
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lecturer, or what
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature and its Needs’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!”—South Wales Press.
“ Those who are intellectually inclined, and desire to know what Spirit¬
ualism is as taught by the spirits, will learn more in an hour’s conversation
with Mr. Morse’s guides than in months of misdirected seeking.”—Medium.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.”—Spiritualist.
“Mr. Morse is what is called a speaking-medium, of no mean order, for
he kept crowded audiences intently listening each evening for above an hour
and a half to his certainly most powerful and accomplished addresses.”—
Darlington and Richmond Herald.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
MR. J. J. MOBSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
Mr. Morse holds a seance every Friday evening, at 8 o’clock, at 15, Southamp¬
ton-row, W.C., when he is in London, where letters, &c., may be addressed,
or to his private residence, Warwick Cottage, Old Ford, Bow, E.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 59 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4Jd. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
HENRY B. BUSH,
(E’rom Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONEB, BOOKSELLER, LETTEE-
PBESS, COPPEE-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Newspaper.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 9, 1874.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
SpTRTTTTA T/rsw deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 20th
January, 188!), as follows:—
“H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.Q-.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte. James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.Q.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J..G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert 'Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph’Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bpbert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq,; C. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and'Drysdale and Mr. Fox Boume declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee Issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported :—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social'
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’   
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES;. ■
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with we]l-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet. known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power, at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be' afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of .the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STEELING.
Read 0#ce«.-BB0WN STEEET and MABSDEN STEEET, MANCHESTER
FIBE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates
Bonus Beturns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Benewed Premiums.
FIDELITY GUABANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust. ig|
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee, f
20, KING WILLIAM STBEET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities
TO OWNEBSOF HOUSE PEOPEBTY.
E. BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
11, PABK GEOYE, SHEPHEBD’S LANE, BEIXTON,
RESPECTFULLY solicits the patronage of Owners of
House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixton
Boad,‘and near the Bail way'Station—offering special facilities for the
prompt letting of Houses of every description.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
. TAJLOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVEE PLACE, PARK BOAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
liberal discount for cash.
SPIRITUAL • LEAFLETS;—Handsomely-printed Blue
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form: Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and' other informa¬
tion,1 may be obtained in packets, each containing 400, price 2s. 6d. per
packet. They acg especially useful for distribution at public,meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, reading-rooms, clubs, and places of
public resort.
I E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, London, E.C.
A NEW ERA IN JOURNALISM!
THE FREE SPEAKER, a High Class Family News¬
paper. Weekly—One Penny.
SPECIAL POLITICAL AND SOCIAL ARTICLES,
BY INDEPENDENT WRITERS.
Full Reports of Home, Foreign, and General News. Law and Police.
. FREEDOM OF CORRESPONDENCE.
WEEKLY TALES BY THE FIRST WRITERS.
Publishing Office: 125, Fleet-street. Advertisement Office: 106, Shoe-lane.
LUNACY LAW REFORM.
ALL PERSONS cognisant of cases of INCARCERATION,
under a false plea of Insanity, or of MALTREATMENT OF
LUNATICS, or who are ready to co-operate in obtaining AMENDMENT
OF THE LUNACY LAWS, are earnestly requested to communicate with
MRS. LOUISA LOWE,
97, BURTON ROAD, BBIXTON.
The following Extract from the “Act to Amend the Law relating to Luna¬
tics” is a fair specimen of Lunacy Legislation :—
“ It shall be lawful for the. Proprietor or Superintendent of any licensed
house with the previous assent in writing of two or more of the Commis¬
sioners, or in the Case of a House licensed by Justices, of two or more of
the Visitors to entertain and keep in such house as a Boarder for such time as
may be specified in the assent, any person who may have been within Five
Years immediately preceding the giving of such assent, a Patient in any
asylum, hospital, or licensed house, or under care as a Single Patient.”—25
& 26 Viet., ch. iii., sec. IS.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London, E.C.
