Eegistebed as a Newspaper,]
O’f f^YdSo^OG^ld^I< 0dli<>fd^.
4T-
C(r£ #Ibtst rntm^lEr toit^ Spntalism ht (&xmt
Irifam.
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON i u, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque, 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK :■ Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religip-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 10x0, Seventh-street.   .
No. 240.——(Vor.. X.—No. 13.) LONDON: FRIDAY, MARCH 30, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
OTontentg.
Occultism        145*
The Power of Thought-Reading 145
Religion and Science. By a Broad Church Clergyman ... 146
Remarkable Examples of Spirit-Writing. By the Hon. J.
L. O’Sullivan, formerly American Minister at the
Court of Portugal   147
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Investigators’
,Seances.  ...   ' ... ... 149
A Seance with Mr. Williams   150
Irrational Martyrdom 150
Easter Eve in 1867. By Mrs. S. C. Hall 150
The Slade Defence Committee   151
Shadowland .     ... 152
Correspondence: — Healing Mediumship—An Unproved
Assertion—^Alterations at the Rooms of the National
Association of Spiritualists—A Seance in Newcastle—
Curious Statements—A Few Questions—A Spectral
Dog at Cardiff—Spiritualism at Home—To Private
Mediums—A New Book on Spiritualism—East-End
Spiritualism—More about the Blomberg Ghost—The
Clairvoyance of the Blind—The Case of Miss Jane
Nichols          153
Private      ...  • ... 155
The Experiences and Opinions of an English Clergyman... 156
Cock-lane at the West-End...      156
Answers to Correspondents     ... 156
Paragraphs:—Honours in Old Age, 147; Lancashire Dis¬
trict Committee of Spiritualists, 149; A New Religious
Society, 149; Death-Bed Repentance. 149; Liverpool
Psychological Society, 151; Mr. J. J. Morse’s Appoint¬
ments, 154; A {[Strange Story, 154; Cui Bono ? {155 ;
Premonitions, 155; Hard to Kill, 155, Spiritualism at
Mile-End, 155 ; Spiritualism in California, 155: False
Ideas of Death a Scarecrow  ... ...  156
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-L oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual
stain all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F- Varley, C.E, F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the "Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;.His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenbergji; Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.;! Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L.O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
inan (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory - the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; C. Carter Blake, Doc. Set,Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital: Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Quin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the "Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.8.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A, LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling
bury; Miss A Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J.' M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United.Kingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States, 4 dols. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to W. H. Harrison,
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 88, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C.  
Publishing Office: 13, Red Lion-court, Fleet-street,
London, E.C.
THE AMATEUR WORLD.—A monthly
journal devoted to non-professional literature, drama,
music, sports, &c. Ohas. L. Wellsden, Editor and Proprietor,
1, Castledine-road, Anerley, S.E.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post tree Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branca Office.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OE SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one book from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, and also of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers have been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained throngh any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will he
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should he addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office,
SEANCES.
Seances for Inquirers are held every Thursday evening at 8
p.m. Seances for Members and Subscribers only every Tuesday
evening at 8 p.m. Tickets, 2s. 6d. Applications for tickets
must always be made in advance.
EASTER CLOSING.
The Offices at 38, Great Russell-street, will be closed for the
Easter Holidays on the 29th of March, and will re-open on
Monday, the 9th of April. 
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OE
SPIRITUALISTS.
SEANCES.
A new series of Free Circles for Inquirers, tickets for which
can he purchased by Members at a nominal charge, are now
held weekly, on Thursdays, at 38, Great Russell-street, {at
8 p.m. precisely.
Private Seances for Members and Subscribers only are held
every Tuesday evening at 8 p.m. Tickets, 2s. 6d. each. Appli¬
cation for tickets must in all cases be made in advance.
 E. KISLINGBURY, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c,, apply
to—
 H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
L_EIGH SPIRITUALISTS’ ASSOCIATION
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The
Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of
Printing. Estimates forwarded on application.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-bulldings, Chancery-lane, W.O.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody qf Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, maybe had on application.
FRANCIS RAYENSCRQfT, Manager. <
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists
President.
HENRY D. JENOKEN, ESQ., M.R.L
{Barrister-at-Law, if ember of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification Of
the Law of Nations.)
"Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
COUNCIL.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr, Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—74, Nayarino-road, Dalston, London, E. .
The objects of this Association,are to collect well-authenticated
acts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.'
Ordinary experimental stances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The last Thursday evening in each month is
devoted-to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus,
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association havelthe privilege of attending, the ‘public, seances ot
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. AH the English SpirituaUst newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and. regulations, directions “for
formation of circles and conduct of seances," and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s, All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively..
Life MembershipPersona approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
EAST LONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven.
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Wednesdays at eight Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seance, 5s. 6d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
OFFICE OF “ LADIES’ DEBATING CLUB,
102, Bath Street, Glasgow.
RS. M. G. PARKER and other Ladies of
Olub are prepared to Lecture on all the social reforms,
particularly the questions of human equality and temperance.
First-class pianists and vocalists. For terms apply to Mrs. M.
G. Parker.
EAL LIFE IN SPIRIT-LAND.—Being
Life-Experiences, Scenes, Incidents, and Conditions
illustrative of Spirit-Life and the principles of the Spiritual
Philosophy. Of practical value to any who are anxious to
study the theories of Spiritualists and Mediums, for the purpose
of deducing a consistent system of faith concerning the
future, its rewards and punishments, &c., as it establishes a
basis in reason for its propositions, and asks no blind accep¬
tance of statements, but enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Given inspirationally through Mrs. Maria M. King. Cloth,
5s. 6d. Spiritualist newspaper branch office.
A NEW REVELATION.
Just Published, price 12s.
ENGLAND AND ISLAM;
Or, the Counsel of Caiphas. By Edward Maitland, Author
of “ The Pilgrim and the Shrine,’’ “ The Keys of the Creeds, &c.
“ The production of this book was accompanied by pheno¬
mena of such a character as to leave no doubt on the minds of
the writer and others who witnessed them, that it contains a
revelation from the spiritual world which is destined to con¬
stitute it one of 'the world’s Bibles. Written under the con¬
trol of a spirit, claiming to he the same that spoke, through the
prophets of the Old and New Testaments, while hs immediate
purpose is to afford a solution of the present European com¬
plication, it sets forth the existence and nature of God and'
the soul, the perfection of the whole of the divine existence,
the purpose and method of creation, and the object and cha ¬
racter of religion. It further points the place of the present,
crisis in the scheme of the world’s development ; the spiritual
relationship between England, Islam, and Israel; the duty of
England in the present crisis; and the high destiny which
awaits her on the fulfilment of that duty.’’—Extract from the
New Preface. -
Tinsley Brothers, Publishers, Oatherine-street.
Purchasers of previous copies can obtain the Preface at the
Publishers.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 30, 1877,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUAWSTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Gaidar, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, West B’rompton, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fltz-Gerald, Mrs. ,19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, War wick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build-
Massey,’C.’ C., Barrister-at-law, 98, Portland-place, W.
Rogers, E. D.. Rose-yilla, Church-end, Finchley.N.W
Smith, Martin It., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-cbmmon, S,W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason. James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool. -
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.:
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper. _  
Armfield, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Eichmond Hill,
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Eev. Thos., 11, Belle vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman- Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd.’J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Beading.
Edmands, T. H., 7. Obersteln-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, B , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G.,M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fltz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 8, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W. .
Glendlnrring, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Bochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Dejamere-crescerit, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E. . .
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton,
lyijney, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W. _
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Bev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Begent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Bichard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Beimers, Christian, 2, JDucle Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, Bose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N„
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Bedcllfle-gardens, West Brompton,
Strawbridge,Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Broinpton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.'
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, B. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Bandolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 81, Queen Anne-St., Cavendish-square, W. i
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds. '
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Poste Restante, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-sqnare, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H„ 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Catlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
j^lartln R. Smith, Esq,, Heatblands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
L,T. H. Andra. Mr. H. Cook. ] Mr. MoreU Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
MUs Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Ills Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg,Russia. ’
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de I’Empereur Bussie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Eassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjg Capoussou,
Constantinople.  
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bel Potschach, Styria,
The Baroness’ Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hoh. Alexandre’ Aksaxof, Bussian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinok-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veb, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mine, de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris. ■
The Hpn. Robert Dale Owen, Lake George, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Oo.,New Jersey,U.SJV.
Mrs. Cora L. Y. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss AnnarBlaekwell, 18, Avenue du Boi de Borne, Paris.'
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Biko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Bev. J. Tyerman, 45, Druinmond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmillan Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.T
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A,
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq.,.M.D.,196, Clinton-aVenue, Brooklyn, New York,
M.F. Olavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,
U.8.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes.Esq., 5, Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.
Samuel Ehinnery, Esq., 2, Rue de Bocroi, Paris.
Bev. Samuel Watsdn,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Moatgomery-place, Boston, U,S,A,
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 87, Rue du Midi,
Brussels
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 80, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,"
London, N.W.
Captain B. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A.R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Bosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Bue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waltzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjea, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Halfock, 54, Denblgh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damlani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 78, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Strata, ModUng, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Coohet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—S. Pride, Esq.,
8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane. Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 181,
Bue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton. S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23.
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. O. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 84, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad’Esplrita Central de la Bepublica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public Offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1877.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—John Priest, Esq.
Secretary.—TAt. Samuel Pride, 8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane,
Liverpool.
Treasurer.—tike. Edward Nock.
Auditors.—TAt. Charlton and Mr. Chatham.
Trustees.—ULt Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Chapman, and
James Wason, Esq.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. Ainsworth, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs. Nos¬
worthy, Mrs. Wharmby, Mr. Ainsworth, Mr. Casson, Mr.
Davies, Mr. Foden, Mr. Fowler. Mr. Jones, Mr. A. Lament,'
Mr. J. Lamont, Mr. Norris, Mr. Richard Nosworthy, and
Mr. Wharmby.
T
HE object of tbis Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
January, 1877.
STRANGE VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Brontd, Riohter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the. first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London; Smart and AUen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 8s.
London:—Simpkin, Maushadl & Co. ”
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Cb. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie"
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes ate likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tayistock-square, w.Q.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctual. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 3 p.m.
are discontinued, hut Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &o.
Established seven years. Residence, 15, Ainger-Terrace, Xing
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to he addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
M
Paris.
DLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 178, Rue St Honors,
MRS. KANE AT HOME Tuesdays, Thurs¬
days, and Saturdays from three to five o’clock.—34,
Guilford-street, Russell-square, London, W.O.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MEDICAL MESMERISM AND GALVAN¬
ISM.—professor ADOLPHE DIDIER (30 Years
established) attends patients, and may he consulted daily at his
residence from 2 till 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Camden-hill,
Kensington.
Brighton. — apartments, pleasant
rooms, may be had, on moderate terms, at the house of
a Spiritualist close to the sea, and near the Aquarium, Chain
Pier, Pavilion, &o. Address, “Spiritualist,’’ 18, Atlingworth-
street, Marine Parade.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is Con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance.
Manager—Mas. A. O. Burke
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for l&d.; or six copies post free
for 8d.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDENTI¬
CAL WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work bn the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
Itwo vols, price 10s. 6d. each ; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
T>EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
JLV logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Socidti
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of soienoe.
Price Is. monthly—Leipsic: Oswald Mutzb. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world l Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., <Stc. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38' Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
WANTED, A SITUATION as CLERK,
ACCOUNTANT, or MANAGER OF SHOP. Good
references; used to the book and newspaper ; by E. W
Wallis, 15 $t. Petei’s-read, Mile-end-road, E.
OCCULTISM.
Some time ago, Colonel Olcott and other similarly good and |
trusted American friends of Spiritualism founded the Theo- j
sophioal Society in New York, and one of the leading tenets j
of those who thus handed themselves together, differs from j
that held by Spiritualists in general in the circumstance |
that it endorses the hypothesis that a portion of the |
psychical phenomena are produced, not by departed human I
beings, but by what the theosophists term 4‘elementary !
spirits.” Another tenet is that these spirits can and ought j
to be commanded—not obeyed. The low kind of intelli- j
gence and morality, and the want of truthfulness in the j
messages connected with certain physical manifestations, are !
ascribed by Occultists to sub-human intelligences. This j
is a fair hypothesis for consideration, the more especially j
that in all ages and among the early Fathers of the Church |
a belief was prevalent in the existence of spirits other than j
human, whose intentions towards mankind were not at all i
of a benevolent nature. In these modern times, when more [
is known about the phenomena of mesmerism and the sub- i
jective nature of the visions of sensitives, not much faith j
is likely to be hurriedly placed in the objective reality of j
nondescript beings perceived by seers, unless their testimony |
be in some way verified by evidence of a more objective |
character. Nevertheless the main theory of the Occultist is j
a fair and proper one to set up, provided it is not idly done, j
but is advanced by those who, after sifting the evidence, are
prepared to give strong logical proof that some of the spirits i
who produce the lower phenomena have never been in
human bodies, and that the lowest intelligence connected i
with the lowest phenomena cannot be ascribed to the spirits |
of departed savages, or of men of the lowest type of civili- j
sation. On what foundation (beyond that of merely rallying j
round the resuscitated idea) the Theosophical Society has
hoisted its standard we do not know, because in its pro¬
spectus-and in the opening address of its president, was no,
evidence tending to show that the spirits now under notice
were not of a low human order ; one of the chief points in
the address was the announcement of some experiments
which a Mr. Felt intended to make in the attempt to raise
elementary spirits by chemical processes, like a magician of
old. We often wonder why the champions of Occultism j
have not brought forward the evidence on which they found |
their opinions, for publication in these pages, thereby j
opening up the whole subject for free consideration, and j
have occasionally suggested to some of those interested in |
the subject that this course should be adopted. As matters j
stand, shortly after the Theosophical Society was formed it
resolved itself into a secret organisation, so that nothing
further has been heard of the success or failure of the experi¬
ments of Mr. Felt; nor have we yet heard the nature of the
evidence on which, as a society, its belief in elementary spirits
is founded. Anybody could merely idly re-start the antiquated
devil theory, or elementary spirit theory, but to do so with
efficiency, it is necessary that he should have devoted much !
hard work to the subject, so as to be able to bring forward j
cogent evidence; he ought also to be well acquainted with j
the modes of thought and modes of expression of ideas by j
savages, also with the difficulties which departed human !
beings have in communicating through mediums, before he |
is able to draw a line between spirits of whom we have some |
knowledge, and those assumed elementaries who appear to |
be a mild kind of devils, sucking devils, devils diluted. The ]
theory is a good one for consideration, and we often wonder .
why no communication on the subject has ever been sent to j
us for publication, and why the Theosophical Society has not j
officially set forth the evidence on which the fundamental j
tenets of its members are based.
THE POWER OF THOUGHT-READING.
The following passages from the late Professor Gregory’s
book on Animal Magnetism show that the mesmeric power of
thought-reading exists, quite independently of the presence
of the spirits of the departed. The phenomena of Spirit¬
ualism can never be thoroughly understood until those of
mesmerism are reproduced by students, and both classes of
facts are studied together :—
Thought-reading presents itself in every possible variety
of form. The sleeper, being placed en rapport with any
person, can often describe, with the greatest accuracy, the
subject that occupies the thoughts of that person. It may be
j an absent friend, or his own house, or that of another, or his
j drawing-room, bedroom, study, and so on. All these things
i the sleeper perceives, as they pass through the mind of the
1 experimenter, and describes with great minuteness and
| accuracy, so as to excite our astonishment.
Or he goes further; he not only perceives the present, but
| the past thoughts of the person en rapport with him; he
I shares his memory. Thus he will mention facts, no longer
| so existing, but remembered by the experimenter.
Nay, he goes still further even than this; for he perceives
| things once known to, and now forgotten by, the experi¬
menter, who very often contradicts the sleeper, and persists
! in maintaining his own opinion, until, on further inquiry, he
not only finds him to be right, but himself is enabled to
recall the fact, which had, as we say, escaped his memory.
We all know that we are apt, at times, to forget facts,
which subsequently recur to the memory. But here it would
I seem that the sleeper sympathises with our past thoughts,
j as to read what we ourselves are for the moment blind to.
I At least, this must be admitted by those who ascribe all
clairvoyance to sympathy; but it is difficult, in many cases,
j to distinguish between sympathetic and direct clairvoyance,
if we admit the possibility of the latter.
For example, the sleeper describes a room, at the request
of the experimenter. He details the form, size, doors,
windows, book-cases, tables, carpet, fireplace, sofas, chairs,
pianoforte, and so on, and, as he goes on, every statement is
I confirmed by the proprietor, who sees the whole in his
j mind’s eye as when he left it. But all at once, perhaps, the
| sleeper speaks of the hangings, or pictures, and says he sees
! the picture of a dog, a horse, or a man, in such or such a
j position, with reference to another object. This is denied;
| but the sleeper is firm. So is the other, and after a long
I dispute each retains his opinion. But on returning home
| the experimenter finds that he has been mistaken, and the
| sleeper right. He now remembers that up to a certain
| period the picture hung where he had said, but that he
! himself, or some one else, had changed its position to that
| described by the sleeper as he himself formerly knew, but
j had forgotten. Similar occurrences are very common. But
| they admit of two explanations.
i In the first place, the sleeper, in many cases, declares that
| he reads the thought of the other party, and certainly does
| so in some cases, even where he is not aware of doing so,
I but thinks he is looking directly at the objects described,
j Now, it may be, and this is the phenomenon properly under
I consideration, that he reads the past thought of the experi-
! menter, and, in some obscure manner, discovers that it is
| true, while the present thought is erroneous.
Or it may be, that when asked to describe the room, the
j sleeper, finding the trace in the questioner’s mind, follows it
I up until he comes into direct communication with the object
] by direct clairvoyance. That this often happens I think
I cannot be doubted, and we shall see further on that the.
] experiment may be so made as to prove it; but I am also
! inclined to believe that the former explanation applies in
i|| of % Jkiimq {mb Jaifttijo of
Volume Teju Kumber Thirteen
LONDON, FRIDAY, MARCH 30th, 1877.
146
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 30, 1877.
some cases, and that, in some instances, the mediate and
immediate modes of perception of distant objects are mixed
or combined.
One frequent form of thought-reading is that of perceiving
the contents of a closed letter, or of a sealed packet, or of a
sealed box. Some sleepers can do this readily if en rapport
with a person who knows these contents, but not otherwise.
But here it must be noted that, in some cases, the rapport
is established without contact, so that it suffices for the
sleeper that one person who knows the contents of the closed
objects should be present. And lastly, it appears that some
subjects, who at one time possess the power of direct or
immediate clairvoyance, at other times are destitute of this,
and have only that of thought-reading.
Of course when it is done by thought-reading failure will
take place, when no one who knows the object to be de¬
scribed is present, while, on the entrance of such a person,
the sleeper succeeds. All these things must be carefully
attended to in our experiments, otherwise our results have
no value whatever,. and only lead to confusion. When a
sleeper, of the sympathetic class, fails at one moment and
succeeds in the next, after a person at first absent has arrived,
the idea of collusion arises in many minds; whereas, if we
were well acquainted with all the facts, and with their
infinite variety, we should see in that result a new proof of
the truth of the fact, and the integrity of the sleeper.
Those who meet with cases in which thought-reading is
found to be the true explanation of the phenomena should
reflect that thought-reading is, in itself, a beautiful and
most wonderful fact; and. should beware also of drawing the
conclusion that, because it applies to' one case, or to many
cases, of apparent vision, at a distance, it is therefore
sufficient to explain all cases, or the only explanation, if it
can be called such, that inadmissible.
It often happens, as I have explained, that the sleeper or
thought-reader is found right as to present facts where he
has been supposed to be wrong. But it also often happens
that he is supposed to be wrong, and is not afterwards shown
to have been right. I There are, in fact, many sources of
error on both sides, which are often difficult of detection.
Thus the thought-reader may be dwelling on some past
event, and be persuaded that it is present. The impressions
of past and of present events are of equal vividness in his
mind, being, in both cases, internal and indirect impressions.
Hence he cannot readily distinguish between them, and may
be quite correct, if we could discover the precise time to
which his sensations refer. This must be carefully attended
to, and our experiments regulated accordingly.
Or, he may receive erroneous impressions from suggested
ideas. So powerful is his sympathy with other minds that
an idea, directly suggested or indirectly introduced, as, for
example) by a leading question, may often produce on his
mind an impression as vivid as that caused by the thoughts
or memory of his questioner, and all three may become
mixed together.
For' this reason all suggestions and leading questions
should be carefully avoided, and the sleeper encouraged to
tell his own story. Nor is the danger of error equally great
in all cases. Many can readily distinguish the different
kinds of impression, and steadily reject suggested ideas,
even while some of them have a difficulty in distinguishing
present from past events, i Some,-again, can do the latter
alsoy and these,, of course, are the best subjects.
It often happens that in early experiments the operator is
so excited by the novelty and interest of the facts that he
does not calmly examine, and involuntarily suggests, by
silent sympathy, his own ideas to his subject. But after a
few sittings he becomes more collected; he has only the
pure desire to hear what the sleeper says ; the sleeper is not
disturbed by involuntary,, suggestions, and his sensations
come out more, pure and less confused.
Besides, his powers improve, and by practice a sleeper, at
first confused and often mistaken, may become, if properly
treated, a very valuable one.
Mr. E. W. Wallis is making a house to house visitation in the East
End of London, volunteering information in each home on the subject
of Spiritualism. .
|| RELIGION AND SCIENCE.
j BY A BROAD CHURCH CLERGYMAN.
There is much which is calculated to interest the student
! of Spiritualism in the recent valedictory address of Dean
I Stanley, at St. Andrew’s. As the typical Broad Churchman,
| Dean Stanley must, of necessity, command the respect of
j those who are certainly the broadest of all Broad Church-
I men; who are gradually elaborating a new meaning for the
| word “ faith” by dissociating it from mere credulity, and
! giving its original idea of belief based upon reasonable
j evidence; and who alone seem „to have succeeded (in
| the words of the Westminster Review for October, 1875)
j in re-establishing, on what, professes to be the ground
jijj of positive evidence, the fading belief in a future
j) life—u not,” continues this pungent writer, “such a
r | future as is dear to the reigning theology, but a
| ! future developed from the present, a continuation under
I! improved conditions of the scheme of things around us.”
| It cannot be too clearly understood, at the present remark-
| able crisis in the history of religious thought, that this is
| what Spiritualism claims to do—the validity of its claim
j being, of course, a matter of evidence—to establish, accord-
| ing to the rules of inductive logic, and as the result of a
| pure dialectical process, those principles of belief in man’s
| immortality which we have hitherto been bidden to take on
j trust from a book, or a church, or an individual teacher.
| Certainly no effort can more thoroughly command the
| sympathies of the honest theologian and the real man of
I science than the endeavour to make the results of logical
| induction and authoritative teaching coalesce, or to point out
| wherein they differ. The method of mere prescription is
j failing in its effect. Men will not accept teaching at second
| without hand and credentials. Why should they—or rather
| how can they—when once private judgment is admitted as a
factor in the process of faith ?
The tendency of looking at matters from a Spiritualistic
point of view is at once to put theology in its proper place
as one of the sciences—the highest, if we like, but still a
science—and amenable to the laws of science, like mathe¬
matics or geology. To this then the pseudo-theologian,
vulgarly so called, objects, and in place of belief based on
evidence, he puts credulity founded on authority. The soi-
disant man of science, so called, equally demurs, because
he says the object matter of theology runs counter to what
he calls the uniformity of the laws of nature, meaning
thereby his knowledge of those laws. You cannot, he
asserts, see, feel, taste, and handle the subjects with which
theology deals. You cannot make it amenable to the laws
of inductive logic; therefore, he concludes, it is no matter
for his investigation.
Spiritualism denies the minor premiss in this case. You
can, it says, see, feel, handle the subjects with which the¬
ology deals. It zs a matter of inductive logic. Very likely
the Spiritualist himself who thus argues arrived at his belief
in Spiritualism by an inductive process. He tried false
guesses (as Dr. Whewell says) to account for phenomena,
and after doing so for a long time, made a better guess, and
so got at the true theory. He tried to solve everything by
assuming charlatanism, which accounted for some things,
but not all; tried to reduce all experiences to imagination,
and found that hypothesis failed to cover his facts; then
after many other guesses he took the unquestioned pheno¬
mena to be due to the source from which they claimed to
emanate—the spiritual world. He tried that hypothesis,
and, using it deductively by way of verification, saw that it
accounted for his facts, and therefore gave him every reason
to believe that his induction was a valid one.
Now, does this process—which is unquestionably scien¬
tific—differ from or square with that of theology—-not the
theology of Little Bethel, but the theology of the New Testa¬
ment ? There is the crucial question for our parsons and our
“ followers.”
If Christ’s miracles meant anything at all beyond simple
thaumaturgy,'their meaning was evidential. When He
wished to prove that the maid was not dead, but sleeping,
what did Christ do ? He woke the maid up, and silenced
the scientific people who laughed His ,£ theory” to scorn,
by a plain, palpable fact. When He attributed disease
March SO, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
147
to evil spirits, He talked to the indwelling demon, and
so proved the possession. He received replies; He even¬
tually drove the spirits away, and so healed the disease.
When He Himself was dead, He came back and showed
Himself to His disciples over and over again, as they sat
in circle. He gave them “signs to follow belief,” bade them
work miracles for conviction, and told them He would
always be with them, not in body, but in spirit, to help
them do this, and to continue that method, of which Pente¬
cost was an imagination. He laid down no sort of limit
for the prevalence of this matter. He did not hint that
this regime was to. last only during the lifetime of the
Apostles, or for three centuries, when recent testimony
rendered it comparatively needless, and that it was then
to die out when it was most wanted. Has it died out?
There is . the question to which modern Spiritualism alone
is ready to make answer with its splendid negative.. This
negation is based on fact, not on theory, and therein differs
from the unscientific theology popularly but most falsely so
called.
Surely, then, as science is adopting a suicidal policy by
denouncing spirituality, Spiritualism would make an exceed¬
ingly unwise concession if it allowed itself to be disassociated
either from science or theology (if we must adopt the popular
distinction) as though they were antagonistic. They are not so;
and (in the view of parsonic people, at all events) it is the
very highest mission of Spiritualism to prove their identity,
and that the New Faith is the revival of Primitive Chris¬
tianity.
Holding such views as these, the clergyman would go into
his oratory just in the same spirit as the chemist into his
laboratory, expecting that, if certain conditions were com¬
plied with, certain results would follow; assured that he
could, by using the proper means, enjoy “ an hour’s com¬
munion with the dead,” now and in London, just as well as
nineteen centuries ago in Jerusalem; that signs would
follow belief in his case just as in the case of the early
church. There was no distinction between natural and super¬
natural then—the two horizons blended—why should the case
be different now ?
The writer of these words is about to put this matter to
practical test. During those very days from Easter to Whit¬
suntide, when he is forced nolens nolens by the course of his
Church duties to commemorate the appearance of the risen
Christ and the outpouring of the Spirit, he proposes to sit
daily at a devotional stance—literally for “ an hour’s Com¬
munion with the Dead.”
Quite accepting Dean Stanley’s position that what is
pretermXwxel need not be supernatural, he believes (rightly or
wrongly as the event will prove) that the adjuncts of worship
are likely to keep off those low influences which undoubtedly
do beset ordinary seances^ and also to lift the sitters into the
possible range of a higher influence than that which science
sees stereotyped in its laws of nature.
He has neither time or inclination for propagandism, and
has had enough of evidence to convince himself. He seeks,
therefore, only the sympathetic co-operation of one or two
congenial persons, and does not solicit even this. He can
work—as he has worked—alone. Curiosity-mongers will
lose their time if they write to him (for has he not a waste¬
basket ?), but those really interested in the matter may
address him under cover to the editor.
Honours in Old Age.—Our readers will remember that Mr. and Mrs.
S. C. Hall recently received literary recognition from Her Majesty the
Queen, worthy alike of royalty, and of the personages in whose honour
the gifts were bestowed. In the course of a recent lengthy letter (ac¬
companying some presents of portraits and poems) to J. T. Markley, of
this city, the “ old man eloquent ” thus writes of himself and his equally
gifted ladyOur close of life cannot be far off., We cannot be here
long before we finish our course ; we hope and pray that there may be
laid up for us a crown of glory. * * * I presume to send you some lines
I wrote to commemorate our fiftieth wedding-day. I have read several
of the poems in your little volume. I find them charming: full of sweet,
overflowing, and pure-heart feeling: graceful also as compositions. My
life, like yours, has been one of intense labour; few have worked harder
than I have worked since the year 1820, when I printed my first book.
But I am thankful to Go‘d,'and hope and trust that I have striven
to advance His glory and the good of my kind. And, surely, if I may
humbly say so much of myself, how forcibly I may say it of the labours
of my beloved wife.”—Peter&orowyA Advertiser, , .; •
. REMARKABLE EXAMPLES OF SPIRIT-WRITING.
BY THE HON. J. L. O’SULLIVAN, FORMERLY AMERICAN. MINISTER AT THE
COURT OF PORTUGAL.
Mrs. Bell Hamann, formerly of Boston, now of San
Francisco, is a very fine medium, as well as a lady of culture,
amiability, and the highest respectability. I was favoured
with many seances with her during a recent visit to California.
The ordinary manifestations of her mediumship consisted of
replies written by her to inquirers, , or to requests penned by
the writer, on pieces of paper, folded several times thick like
ballots or pellets, which he would lay on the table before her,
as many as he pleased at a time, addressed to friends in the
spirit life. These might either be written and folded on the
spot, or brought ready prepared. She would take them up
one by one between her fingers, and sometimes apply them
to her forehead (unopened of course), arid then write the
replies as she would hear them, or have them impressed upon
her. The reply would rarely fail to be from, and signed by,
the spirit to whom it was addressed, and to be apposite and
correct, and often it would contain names and references
to various other persons, either in the spirit or the material
world, known to the spirit and the visitor, though the medium,
as a general rule, would not know the name nor anything
about the latter. I took some friends to her, and numerous
other visitors frequented her stances. This was a medium-
ship like Foster’s, only far better than his, for he gives only
the mere names of the spirits to whom the folded pellets are
addressed. Sometimes the spirit addressed would not be
there. Sometimes spirits not addressed nor thought of by
the visitor, yet known to him, would volunteer communica¬
tions to him.
But within the last three weeks of my stay in San
Francisco this lady became also a slate writer^ and perhaps
the finest I know of, as may be judged from what I am about
to record. This commenced with small beginnings, but
rapidly developed itself. - I had numerous experiences of it ;
and, I may add, simply as a friend, without charge of any
fee. I had by this time become quite intimate with her and
her husband, who is a physician.
The modus operandi was this. The slate (sponged clean
with a small piece of pencil laid upon it, at first like Slade’s,
but afterwards by the direction of the spirits cpnsiderably
bigger) was held under a common table, about a couple of
inches below the table-top, she holding one corner between
her thumb and fingers, and I supporting it. lightly between
mine, at the opposite diagonal corner of the slate. Our other
hands were on the top of the table.. In this situation it is
clear that if she had relaxed her hold, to make any other use
of her fingers, the slate must have dropped instantly to the
ground, so light was the support contributed to it by me.
Nay more—I having once asked to have my hand touched,
there was then written on the slate that I should place my
entire hand on the top of the slate, which I did, so that the
slate was then held up solely by her thumb and fingers at
one corner of it. My hand was then copiously touched,
stroked and patted, and a ring on the little finger taken off,
at my request, dropped audibly on the slate, and again put
on, with some little difficulty in pushing it over the thick¬
ness of the joint.
Sometimes too she laid the slate on the open palm of her
hand, and then directed me to place my hand under hers, so
that the entire back of her hand rested on the palm of mine,
both hands, thus uniting in holding the slate up to within an
inch or two of the under side of the table top. Both of these
modes of holding the slate certainly constituted the most
complete of test conditions as to the point that the medium’s
hand could not possibly have had anything to do either with
the touching mine and taking off the ring or with the copious
writing on the slate, which would take place as will be seen
below. These things were certainly done by no mortal hand.
She and I were alone in the room; the table was a common
everyday one, standing on an unbroken spread of carpet:
will Dr. Carpenter consider that they come within the reach
of “ unconscious cerebration?”
Another point as to the modus operandit which differs
from the experiences ■ with Dr. Slade. While the slate was
being held under the table, we would not hear the scratching
of the pencil in the act of writing, but a steady stream as.
148
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 30, 1877. |
of rapid little ticks on the slate, for all the world like the
sound of a stream of electric sparks. We would then hear
three loud ticks and the sound of the pencil dropping on
the slate, as a signal that it was done. We would then
withdraw the slate, and there would be the message, always
distinctly written. And yet, on my once remarking on this
circumstance as being different from what occurred at Dr.
Slade’s, and also with Mrs. Francis (another slate-writing
medium at San Francisco), the next time we heard, first
the flow of the stream of ticks, and then the scratching
sound of writing with a slate pencil, as though to show that
they could do that too if they chose.
It was also to be noted that a communication of some
length would be given in broken parts, even a sentence
being sometimes broken off in the middle. The signal
for stopping would be given, as though for rest and
recuperation of the force. This will be illustrated below.
Seldom would more than twenty or twenty-five words be
given consecutively without such an intermission, long enough
for me to read, copy, expunge, and rub the slate, and again
restore it to its position under the table. It seemed as though
some force analogous to electricity flowed down the medium’s
arm, so as to charge the slate and pencil with some spiritual
power, so as to establish the conditions under which the
spirit hands were able to act. That no mortal hands were,
or could possibly have been there was, I repeat, absolutely
certain.
Having thus explained the truly test conditions under
which the writing would take place, I now proceed to give two
remarkable communications from two remarkable persons,
both eminent in the religious world, which I received, in
the way described, on the 21st and 22nd January, a day or
two before my departure from San Francisco. They were
Archbishop Hughes, of New York, and Theodore Parker, of
Boston—the one a zealous and ardent prelate of the Roman
Catholic Church, the other a Unitarian minister of far-famed
eloquence and power, who, while glowing with a strong
religious fervour, yet carried a philosophical rationalism
into his interpretations of the Bible so far and so deep
that orthodoxy generally denounced it as infidelity.
Had they been found to adhere still each to his own former
doctrine it would not have been surprising to the experienced
Spiritualist, familiar with cases in which the continued
personality and identity of the disembodied spirit are found
to manifest themselves, not only in unchanged traits of
character, likes and dislikes, but also in creed and doctrine,
religious and philosophical, if not entirely unchanged yet not
more than only modified, for at least a time more or less
protracted after that change in the conditions and modes of
living which we call death. But when we find a Theodore
Parker to have now come to be at one with an Archbishop
Hughes on such a point as the preternatural, or rather
abnormal, conception of Christ by a virgin mother—Theodore
Parker, who in his own pulpit has spoken of that mother as
“ that honest wife of the Nazarene carpenter ”—it is certainly
a striking fact, implying a new enlightenment or advance in
knowledge, now candidly avowed by so noble an intellect and
so grand a soul. Nor is the fact less striking that so eminent
a dignitary in the Catholic hierarchy as Archbishop Hughes
should, while speaking of that point of doctrine as still
believed in by him, and while evidently clinging strongly still
to his character of a “ true Catholic,” yet speak in a way so
widely different from what he would have employed in this
life, or what his Church would sanction or tolerate from the
lips or pen of any of its living prelates.
But my object is not to comment, only to narrate; and in
so doing to discharge what seems to have been imposed on
me as a duty.
On the 21st January, after various communications from
different friends in the spirit world, given on the slate in the
manner above described. The last words written on the slate
by one of them (who had died in my arms of cholera, in
Lisbon) wereT—“ I am, weak, 1 feel as though I were just
awakened from sleep” and I was pressing him to answer
another question, when there was written on the slate:—
<£ Pax> vobiscum +.”
“ Is that from some Catholic priest I have known, who
means to make the sign of the Cross ? If so, please write the
name?”
u Hughes +.”
Now, I had known in Lisbon a young priest of that name
(though no Catholic myself), a man learned, bright and
good; and supposing it to be him, I spoke to him as
“ Father Hughes,” and remarked that I had not known that
he had left this life, and begged him to proceed. Then came
11 Hughes y Archbishop.”
Not till then did the thought occur to me of Archbishop
Hughes, with whom more than a quarter of a century ago I
had had pleasant friendly relations. I exclaimed, £c Can this
be indeed Archbishop Hughes, of New York ? ” Three loud
raps on the table answered, “ Yes.” The thought then
passed through my mind, that though his church generally
opposed our Spiritualism, he now had found it out to be true,
and did not disapprove it. Then came this striking response
to my (unuttered) thought:—
“ Yes, Christ is risen from the dead in this faith.”
u The stone is rolled away, all may enter in.” [There was
never any punctuation; I have added it.]
“ Or emus [let us pray] that this may become a recognised
religion^
“ Every true Catholic may worship his Saviour and keep
the Blessed Virgin also in veneration.”
“ Jesus was conceived by a flow of astral fluid; she was a
pure virgin ; the conception was entirely spiritual^
fl The same astral fluid that permeates the whole universe.”
I here said: “ Which I take to be that all-pervading
spiritual force which is an emanation from, and universal
agent for, the execution of the will of that ineffable and
inconceivable Supreme Creator and Father whom we call
God.”
“ YeS) and whom we shall all one day see and know [he,
then, has not yet done so, any more than we], and whom we
all intuitively now know in the ”
“ Hearts of all good men still in the material body.”
u It is full of love and peace and comfort inexpressible the
belief ”
“ This belief in ministering angels.”
<l It is full of grand and holy truths ; it can be made THE
[trebly underscored] religion, and at the present time it is
made to subserve too many unholy purposes.”
u I shall come again, Vale ” [farewell].
The above illustrates the point above stated of the broken
sentences in which these communications were given.
Then came the following (your readers may remember
about an ancient Roman spirit named Glaucus, of 1,800
years ago, whom I have seen materialised, and heard from,
in Paris over a hundred times, and who said once of himself
that he was one “ who had looked upon the face of Him
who preached to the men of Athens”):
“ This is true spiritual religion, Glaucus.”
After this followed some other writings from other spirits
of my deceased friends, when this was written:
“ Every Catholic is a Spiritualist in embryo read the creed
of the English Church, also Hughes.”
u I believe in the communion of saints” (evidently quoting
from the Apostle’s Creed as used by the English, and indeed
all the Protestant churches.)
u We are strong for the fight; the dead lips must speak.”
(I have ventured to emphasize in the print the striking con¬
cluding words).
This was on the 21st. I returned on the 22nd, and found
there two Grangers, a lady and gentleman, who got very
little, though the former was anxious to have a good mani¬
festation of this spirit-writing given to her friend. They
soon perceived that I had the appointment, and took their
departure. The medium and I then took the slate as before,
her husband having this time joined us, and sitting by.
This was then written :
££ The woman is too anxious, and seems to put us on our
good behaviour.”
“ Grand and glorious is this truth; too grand to be made a
matter of speculation.”,
“ Now let us write you a long letter, and tell you how we
can come on such a day as this to you. If you could only see
our loving arms about you our gentle . . . you have interrupted
me” (I had in fact done so unintentionally, but the writing
presently was resumed):
u Our gentle kisses on your face and our silent language in
March 30, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
149
your inmost hearts for this is too pure a faith to be made to j j
satisfy the simply curious. Theodore Parker” (The medium i j
and her husband had been frequent attendants on his preach- I |
ing in Boston, and it was of course to them that his affec- |||
tionate language was.addressed; I never saw him). j j
“ She (evidently referring to the lady who had been there) j j
troubled the waters of the pool and the waters become muddy j j
me could not give you to drink.” j j
“ Your (as I copied it) elder brother is a most bring spirit j j
and is ever engaged in working for the good of humanity.” ! j
I expressed some surprise at this, having of course in my j 1
mind my long deceased elder brother. j j
It, You made a mistake I wrote our (underscored) elder j !
brother Jesus, not your William, he is a muscular spirit.” ju
I then said something about my elder brother; the next com- j j
municationwas signed “ William,'> ’ and was correct and charac- j j
teristic of him. He was indeed “muscular” in the flesh, a great j I
champion with his fists at Westminster, in 1825, where he jj
often defended his weakly younger brother, who in return j j
often wrote his exercises for him. j j
I then addressed Theodore Parker, telling him what Arch- j j
bishop Hughes had written the day before about the concep- jjj
tion and birth of Christ, and said that I should greatly like j j
to know his present opinion or knowledge on that point. He j j
wrote:— j
II It was a purely spiritual conception?' j l
I expressed the wish that if it were possible Dr. Channing j j
(whom I had known well in my youth) might also come, after j j
Theodore Parker should have concluded, though I begged the j j
latter to continue. He only added:— j j
“ I have ended my discourse the text was this now is Christ jj|
risen from the dead and become the first fruits of them that j i
slept.” ' ! 1
When the slate was again put under the table a com- j j
munication then came signed, “ W. Ellery Channing, D.D.” j j
(but it did not touch on the point of the birth of Christ), and j j
also other communications from others. But I will not j j
lengthen this article still further. I will only add to j j
it that on the following day (23rd), in the midst of j j
other communications, Archbishop Hughes again announced j l
himself with 11 Pax vobiscum.” He probably knew that I j j
wished to say something to him. I then told him that there jjj
was a lady of my acquaintance, a strong Catholic, who knew j j
the truth and reality of the phenomena of Spiritualism, yet 11
upon whose mind an influence adverse to it was exercised by j j
the fact that her church disapproved of it, and that the priests j j
generally attributed the communications to Satanic influences j j
through lying spirits ; and I asked him what I might say to jj
her from him with a view to tranquillise her mind on the j j
subject. He replied as follows :— j j
“ Tell her that all true children of the Church are those jjj
who believe in ministering angels.” ' jjj
“ To the pure in heart only the holy Spirits come.” j j
And again later, after I had been speaking of my starting j j
for Europe:— j j
u Pax vobiscum +. When you return I will return to you j j
often. Hughes.” I j
In another letter I will give you a little more, though this I I
is all having any religious bearing. One thing is apparent j j
from the above, that while still adhering to the Church of j j
which he was a vehement champion as well as a high j j
dignitary, the Catholicism of Archbishop Hughes is now that j j
esoteric Christianity which is at the root, and is the life and j j
heart of all the sects, and indeed of all the religions, and j j
which is simply what Christ himself taught, viz., the im- j I
mortality of the soul, the fatherhood of God, and the brother- j j
hood of men, in other words, jfi our Spiritualism.”
On the Atlantic, March 17. i I
Lancaskihe District Committee oe Spiritualists.—This committee
intends holding public meetings in connection with Spiritualism at the
following times and placesBolton Reform Rooms, April 1st, Mr. John¬
son, speaker; Oldham Temperance Hall, April 22nd; New Mills Spiritual
Institute, April 15th, Mr. Taylor, speaker; Manchester Conference
Meeting, May 6th. A good meeting was held at New Mills, on Sunday,
the 18th inst., Mr. Johnson, of Hyde, speaker. Owing to the labour
and energies of Messrs. Lithgow and Wright, of Hayfield and New Mills,
a Spiritual Institute has been formed in the latter town, where regular
meetings will henceforth be held.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
investigator’s seances.
On Thursday, the 22nd inst., the usual seance for investi¬
gators was held at 38, Great Russell-street, in. the presence
of nine persons, the chief of whom were inquirers. Mr.
Eglinton was the medium. The test adopted was the follow¬
ing :—A pair of dark-coloured, almost black, gloves belonging
to a gentleman in the circle, were placed on the medium’s
hands; a piece of tape was passed through the button-hole
and through a slit made for the purpose on the other side of
the glove beyond the button. The tape was tied in a firm
knot and the ends laid back upon the coat-sleeves, and sealed
in two places. Mr. Eglinton was seated only partly behind
the curtain which covers the front of the cabinet, with his
feet and knees in full view of the sitters. The “ fairy bells ”
served as a table across his knees, on which were placed a
book and a small hand-bell.
A voice asked the sitters whether, in the case of white
hands being projected through the curtains, they should con¬
sider that an absolute test. They replied that they should
be quite satisfied, provided the seals were afterwards found
intact.
In course of time, a white hand was waved through the
curtains over Mr. Eglinton’s head, and a gentleman present
was invited to place his hand inside the curtain and to feel
the fingers. Later on a lady was asked to put her hand in
at the little window in the side of the cabinet, and she also
testified to feeling *■ an ungloved hand. The same thing
happened to myself.
During the whole operation the medium was heard to sigh
and groan repeatedly, and hearing Mr. Eglinton say in low
distressed tones, “ Oh, don’t! don’t!” I asked him
whether he were awake ; he replied in a half dreamy manner,
“ Yes, thank you.” A spirit voice rebuked me for speaking
to the medium while under influence, and said it was
against the rules, which I did not know before.
At the qloseof the seance, the seals were found intact, and
the black gloves sticking fast to the hands of the medium.
All present were satisfied of the completeness of the test.
Mr. Eglinton was very much exhausted, and he told me
that he always felt great loss of power whenever the glove
test was applied. This statement accords with the unusual
amount of sighing and groaning, which were painful to hear.
The fairy bells and other objects were not removed from his
knees during the whole stance, an additional proof that Mr.
Eglinton did not leave his seat, or move about much in his
chair.
The seances will now be suspended until the week after
Easter. E. Kislingbuby,
Secretary to the British National Association of Spiritualists.
A New Religious Society.—A circus company, on its way to Aus¬
tralia, recently stopped to see one of the Fiji Islands. While wandering
about, one of the members of the company turned a somersault, at
which the natives were astounded. Thereafter, the circus men, dis¬
cerning a rare opportunity for fun, varied their walk by ground tumbling
and skilful contortions, maintaining all the time the utmost gravity of
demeanour. Multitudes followed them, believing them to be the fore¬
runners of some new religion, in which somersaults were part of the
service.—Investigator.
Death-Bed Repentance.—It appears from the New York Sun, that
“ Cheating the Devil” was the subject of a sermon in Unity Chapel,
Harlem, New York, by the Rev. William T. Clark. He said that the
prevalent idea of Christianity is that an elaborate trick is played on the
devil in the interests of its believers; that one may sell himself to the
devil, and take pay in the pleasures and prizes of the world, and when
sick of the bargain escape from its obligations by repentance; roll the
sweet bait of wickedness under the tongue until satiated, and then spit
out the hook, and leave the devil with his rod and line; buy the devil’s
goods on a long credit, without paying a penny for them, and then take
the benefit of the theological bankrupt act, and leave him to whistle for
his recompense. This piece of theological trickery is a substratum for
the frauds of business and the chicanery of politics. Bank directors
who have squandered the savings of the poor, judges who rob the
orphans of trust money, municipal thieves, Congress men and Cabinet
Ministers whose hands are full of bribes : all are following the doctrine
of cheating the devil* Even among the educated people there are
hundreds who sympathise with the man who always took off his hat
when the devil was mentioned, not out of respect, but because he did
not know what might happen. The idea that a man can cheat and lie
until all virtue is squeezed out of his soul like the juice from a pressed
orange, and then shuffle off all the effects by some process of spiritual
legerdemain, and come out heroic, happy, and holy, is an insult to
intelligence.
150
THE SPIRITUALIST. March 30, 1877.
A SEANCE WITH MR. WILLIAMS.
On Thursday night, last week, a public dark stance with
Mr. C. E. Williams as medium, took place at 61, Lamb’s
Conduit-street, London. The most remarkable circumstance
in connection with it was the evidence given of the great
extent to which the spirit voices have developed of late
through his mediumship. Six sitters were seated round the
table, holding each other’s hands, those next to Mr. Williams
holding both his hands. Under these conditions two spirits
kept up a conversation with each other at opposite sides,
and from various parts of the room. One strong voice
sometimes was about two feet behind Mr. Williams, whilst
another was at the back of the sitters opposite to him;
occasionally a third voice very near the ceiling would join in.
Sometimes the voices came from under the table. The in¬
visible owners of these voices moved freely to all parts of
the room, high and low, and occasionally accompanied the
musical instruments, which flew about the room like bats.
; Some of these instruments were heavy, such, for instance,
as the large musical box, which' went whirling round over
the heads of the sitters, and was sometimes placed on the
floor at the back of the medium. Once while a partially
materialised' spirit showed its strong muscular power by
winding up the musical box when it was on the floor behind
Mr. Williams, another spirit was hammering the wall at the
; back of the sitters opposite to Mr. Williams with another
musical instrument. The seance gave conclusive evidence
of the performance of physical acts by partly materialised
spirits, while the medium was accounted for by being held
by the' sitters ; and these results seem to be fatal to any
theory ascribing the phenomena to double consciousness on
the part of the medium or to . some powers not yet under¬
stood connected with the human body. If such a theory
could in any case account for the production of one intelli¬
gence apparently independent of the medium, it could
scarcely account for the evolution of three.
IRRATIONAL MARTYRDOM.
Among Spiritualists are a few enthusiastic and excitable,
yet truth-loving persons, who are permanent sources of
irritation to the public and of anxiety to their friends. On
the false assumption that what is good for themselves must
be acceptable to everybody else at any stage of moral or
religious growth, they attempt to force Spiritualism upon
persons unprepared to receive it, and to whose modes of
thought and early preconceptions it is so foreign that if they
could be made to take it in, it would infallibly land them
ere long in a lunatic asylum. As men dislike to have that
forced upon them which they do not want, those so treated
break all conditions at the spirit circles into which they
ought never to have been almost forcibly thrust; they worry
the medium at the time, and afterwards do what they can to
persecute all those with whom they have been thus in¬
judiciously forced into contact. Not content with stirring
up all this unnecessary inharmony and antagonism while
animated with the best intentions, our enthusiastic friends
sometimes neglect those daily occupations in the performance
of which they were formerly rendering good service to the
world, or as the Catechism says, “ doing their duty in that
.state of life in which it has pleased God to call them.” By
showing themselves to have become unfitted for the
duties and responsibilities of this life, they furnish opponents
with a damaging argumentative weapon, which is effectively
used against Spiritualism, and at the same time they greatly
increase the anxieties of those who take a friendly interest
in their welfare. Martyrdom in a good cause is the most
heroic, the most noble of all acts, but the man who courts
the said martyrdom over a trifling thing is to be censured
rather than admired. What merit, for instance, would there
have been in the days of old, in being burnt at the stake
over a dispute as to what was the colour of the light which
appeared to the disciples on the Mount of Transfiguration ?
Lana tics in all ages have heaped great sufferings upon them¬
selves by doing battle over trifling and never-to-be-decided
points such as this. ■ Spiritualism is plenty strong enough to
take care of itself without calling for the irrational martyr-
' dom of any of its votaries over points of detail; and its
followers are better employed in strengthening it within,
than in needlessly irritating ignorant adversaries without.
Those numerous Spiritualists who are surrounded On all sides
• by an uncongenial population of hard materialists, ought not
to be encouraged when they persist in injuring themselves
and benefiting nobody by violently knocking their heads
against a brick wall; they are simply irrational to ’ attempt
that which is beyofid their strength, and unwise to try to
force another man to accept that which it is impossible that
his mental nature can take in. Some of the best meaning
and most faithful of our brethren, after months of this folly
—ending in failure which a little forethought should have
clearly shown them must come in the end—sit down in
tribulation, and believe that
The bottom’s out o’ the Universe
’Cos their own milk-jug leaks.
j j EASTER EVE—IN 1867.
| j | BY MRS. S. C. HALL.
The near approach of, perhaps, the happiest of our
| I Festivals sends my memory back to, I think, the most
jjj marvellous of all my experiences in Spiritualism: there
||| may be among your readers some who will thank me for
| j preserving and publishing a record of it.
f j I did not write concerning it at the time it occurred ;
jjj yet I can recall vividly every one of the remarkable inci-
j dents : they are as fresh in my mind to-day as they were ten
jjj years ago, for they “happened” on the Easter Eve of the
jjj year 1867: and the Easter Eve of 1877 is now nigh at
! j hand.
Although my recollection of the scene and circumstances
j j is very vivid, I remembered that my friend Mrs. Henry Senior
jjj (the widow of Colonel Senior) had made some notes con-
j j cerning them. I wrote to her on the subject, and the letter
j she has written in reply I ask you to, print in the number
j of your publication that you will issue on the Easier Eve
j of the present year.
j j • . I need do little more than endorse, which I do, every
j sentence in her letter. I have had more startling experiences
jj in Spiritualism; but none at once so wonderful and .so
j beautiful, so intensely convincing, so happy in comforting
j j assurance of its holy truth, thoroughly upholding and con-
j j firming the faith that has, thank God, been my blessing
j . through the whole of a long life.
j I feel impelled to publish this statement; for over the theme
j there now hangs a cloud of deep darkness; it is sunk very
j low in the Slough of. Despond, and there are among believers
I in Spiritualism not a few who, frightened at the hideous aspect
j j it is sometimes made to assume, think the higher and holier
j j duty calls upon them to discourage, and not to encourage, it,
j as an evil delusion rather than a Divine light,
j I hold with my honoured and esteemed friend William
j Howitt that—
j The true mission of Spiritualism—and it is a great and magnificent
j ! mission—is to recall to the knowledge, and restore to the consciousness
) j of mankind, the Christian faith, with all its divine and supernatural
j j power. Its business is to exhibit the reality of its connection with God,
j j and His angels, with the life and spirit of the Divine Word, and to open
j i our earth-dimmed eyes to perceive all the wealth of celestial wisdom in
j the Christian revelation.
j I can have little hope that my feeble voice will be heard
j when there are so many loud preachers of a very opposite
j faith; but I think and feel that I ought to raise it none the
j less in protest against a teaching that leads very far away
j from the paths of righteousness into which Spiritualism,
j j rightly understood, and rightly guided^ cannot fail to conduct
j j us. It is to Spiritualism as the usher to Christianity, or its
j sustainer, advocate, and propagator, that I refer, when I
j describe Spiritualism as sent of God to impede the progress
j of “ rationalism,” and to destroy the materialistic spirit that
jj “science, falsely so called,” is labouring to spread among
i all classes of human kind.
! I might go far more largely into this branch of a large
j subject, but that I have already trespassed too much on
j your pages.
j I will only add that our faith in our friend Daniel Home
j has never diminished from that day—^indeed, from a date
j many years anterior to it—to this day. We believe him
w now, as we believed him then, utterly incapable of fraud,
March 30, 18^7,
151
THE SPiftlTUAtlST.
And we know that on the occasion about to be described | j
fraud was impossible. ' ^ j
It was not a dark sitting: Mr. Home rarely sate with us |
in darkness; but the light was subdued, and for a few i |
minutes entirely excluded, when an absolute blaze of light j i
filled the conservatory. We saw shadows (but having forms) j
pass and repass repeatedly, brought out into distinctness by , ! j
the brilliancy of the light. When Mr. Home was “ raised” j j
(as he was twice) the gas in the chandelier was lit: although ..j
reduced, it was quite strong enough to mark his gradual pro- j
gress upwards from the chair to the ceiling. ' | j
5, Prince of Wales’s-terrace, Tuesday. i j
Last Saturday (Easter Eve) we had a most wonderful and beautiful j'!
seance at Mr. Hall’s. X had long been telling him that I was convinced j [ i
that allowing scoffers and unbelievers to come to our seances spoiled j j
them, and that if he would but harden his kind heart for once, and allow j
us to have a selfish seance, I was sure it would be good—and last week I j |
he said to me laughingly that I should have my wish before I returned i j
to Ireland, that Daniel had promised to come to them on Saturday, | !
and that there should be no one asked but myself and Lady Dunsany j 11
—and so it was arranged. Lady Dunsany called for me on her way. j I
We found Mr. and Mrs. Hall alone^but Daniel arrived soon after, and j
said when he entered the room that he had a very bad headache, which 11
would, he feared, spoil our seance ; however, he sat down and chatted a j j
little, and I then asked him to come over to the piano and “ croon,” as j j
I called it, as I had observed that his doing so always gave ua a good j)
seance. He and I went over (we had all been sitting round the fire), ij
He played and sang several things, and then Lady Dunsany asked him ||
for a soft Hussian air of his wife’s. He had not been playing it more j
than a minute, when a chair, which was at some distance from the 11
piano, slid up to it and placed itself beside him. I was sitting close to j
the piano on the other side, and saw it move before he did—“ Oh!” he ||
said—“Here is Sacha” (his wife, who had left earth), and I felt that ||
we should have a good seance. Mr. and Mrs. Hall and Lady Dunsany j j
then came over, and he went on playing some time longer, though
his hands became perfectly stiff, and it was evident that they j|
were not moved by his own volition. After a time his hands ||
were withdrawn from the piano, and he became entranced, :)
turned round the piano stool, and knelt down, and with hands ij
clasped, poured forth, a most beautiful prayer, begging that God would |j
in His great mercy keep evil spirits from us, and send the good to help j
us, that He would give us love, patience, and charity, and all that would j
make us acceptable in His sight, for the sake of His Son Jesus Christ. ] j
Mr. Home then came out of his trance, saying that his headache was j
quite gone; he looked quite refreshed and pleased, and asked us to sit |
down at the table, which at once began to vibrate and “ tremble,” and j
very loud and heavy knocks were heard upon it, and upon the floor and |
the furniture. Presently the accordion was touched, and the alphabet j j
asked for, and they spelt out. “ \Ve will play the earth-life of one who j j
was not of earth.” Mr. Hall said “ That’s nonsense,” but I answered, j
“ It must be our Lord’s life,” and so it proved. First we had sweet, j
soft, simple music, like a lullaby, for a few minutes, then it became j
intensely sad for some time, and then we distinctly heard through the j j
music the regular tramp of a body of men marching, and we exclaimed ! j
“ The march to Calvary.” Then the tapping sound of a hammer on a |
nail, the ringing sound of metal upon metal, then a pause, and after- j
wards came a crash, and a burst of wailing, which seemed to fill the i
room and the house; it was followed by the most glorious triumphal j j
music we any of us had ever heard; it thrilled to all our hearts, and we j j
were in tears when it .was over—it certainly was not of earth. It ij
evidently meant the resurrection of our Lord. We still sat at the table, j j
but nothing more was done for some time; then the curtains—the ij
muslin ones—were draped round Mr. Home, and [he was raised from |
the ground in them; then the spirits spelled out “ See what earth j j
does,” and the silk curtains were drawn over the muslin ones, and all |
was made dark. I should have said that the lights had been put out j
after our Lord’s life had been played, as we hoped to see spirit-lights, j
which we did; but we had a dim light from a lamp in the conservatory, i j
Then Mr. Hall’s face and chest shone like silver, and they spelled out, i
“ He who giveth shall receive light.’’ The accordion was carried round j
the circle, played on Mr. Hall’s head, then placed on my shoulder next j
it, and went to Mrs. Hall, on my right hand, and played on her head; i j
then played in the air round the circle (Mr. Home’s hand not being I j
near the instrument) “ The Last Rose of Summer,” and several other I)
airs. Afterwards a great deal of martial music was played by a cousin ! j
of Lady Dunsany’s, who had been in the Dragoons, and who had ij
“ passed away” in India, and who always comes to her. After this the |)
spirit of a child, whose mother had sent Mrs. Hall flowers that morning, | j
came and gave us each a flower. Mr. Home was then lifted to the jj
ceiling. We heard his nail against it, and he said, “ Oh, I wish I had j)
a pencil to make a mark.” However, he then came down, and Mr. Hall jj
handed him a pencil, in case he should be again raised; and five j
minutes afterwards he was again lifted up, and made a mark on the j j
ceiling, which will remain there as a proof of what was done. When jj
Mr. Home returned to the table we were all touched by hands on our j
brows and on our hands. Sacha gave each of us her peculiar little j j
pinch, and I was touched by both H—— and E , and Lady ij
Dunsany’s cousin flipped all our hands with a flower. Mr. and Mrs. j
Hall had repeatedly said to each other during the evening, “We never jj
have had anything like this before,” and they certainly have seen more j j
wonders in Spiritualism than almost any one. After a little time the j j
spirits spelled out, “We can do no more. Good night. God bless jj
you;” and we heard the knocks and sounds die away in the distance jj
out of doors, and we felt that it was all over. We were all beyond 1
measure grateful for being allowed to witness what we could never
.forget as long as our lives lasted. That burst of music was still thrilling
in all our hearts—-nothing composed by mortal could ever touch it. I
should have said that just before Mr. Home was lifted up to the ceiling
the first time, his face and his chest shone with a silvery light, as Mr.
Hall’s had done. But, indeed, I have not told many of the minor
things that took place. It was an evening of wonders.
THE SLADE DEFENCE COMMITTEE.
Now that the labours of the Slade Defence Committee are drawing to
a close, it is only right to publicly acknowledge what arduous and
responsible work its members have done for Spiritualists at large, and
for the promotion of the cause of science. When the outrageous step
was taken of attempting to get scientific questions decided in a police
court, the care and anxiety thrown upon those volunteers who advocated
the cause of truth in the face of popular ignorance and prejudice, can
scarcely be understood by those who took no part therein. To two
members of the committee especial thanks are due, namely, Mr. C. C.
Massey and Dr. Wyld, because, unlike the numerous weak-kneed people
who run away in times of danger, these two gentlemen voluntarily con¬
nected themselves publicly with the movement, and put in an appear¬
ance from day to day in the police court when things were at their worst,
although previously they had not been taking public action in connection
with Spiritualism. They came forward at the most critical of moments
to attach their high professional reputations to an unpopular but most
honourable cause.
Further still, it should not be forgotten how earnestly tia.Q Banner of
Light newspaper, and Mr. Epes Sargent, of Boston, worked to raise
funds in America; had this not been done the public interests of the
movement would not have been nearly so well represented as was
actually the case, consequently Spiritualists all the world over are in¬
debted to the Banner of Light for its public action in the matter. So
far as Dr. Slade was concerned, his frequently expressed desire was that
no aid should be given him by Spiritualists; he felt that, under the
circumstances, it was no disgrace to go to prison, and he had the know¬
ledge that no Spiritualist would accept the adverse conclusions of his
uninformed prosecutors; he, therefore, frequently said that he would
rather go to prison, to save expense and trouble to Spiritualists, and to
save himself the anxiety of persecution in police-courts. Of course,
this position could not be accepted by the movement at large; it would
have been a general disgrace to Spiritualism to stand idly looking on
while Dr. Slade was being locked up in prison. The practical effect of the
attempt of the uninformed to settle a scientific question in a police-court
has been to raise him up hosts of fresh friends in Europe and America,
and to render Spiritualism a subject of conversation everywhere, so that
information about it is becoming more general, and a considerable num¬
ber of new circles have been formed in private life.
Mr. J. M. Peebles has been invited to give a series of lectures on
Spiritualism in Calcutta. The Harbinger of Light, Melbourne, speaks
of his expected early arrival in that town.
The Lancashire District Committee of Spiritualists has brought out
a penny Spiritualistic hymn book, likely to be useful at the Sunday
meetings occasionally held under its auspices in various towns.
A new medium has jumped into public notice in one of the Western
States. She is a dramatic improvisatrice. Coming before an audience,
a subject is requested from it, and then the play proceeds. The medium
impersonates each character. It is said that spirits take the parts, and
each stands ready to take possession of the medium when the preceding
character has finished.—i?osfo» (U.S.) Herald. :
Liverpool Psychological Society.—On Sunday evening, the 25th
inst., the audience of Spiritualists and others at Meyerbeer Hall, Liver¬
pool, was addressed by Dr. William Hitchman, who gave them a
philosophical lecture on the “ Science of Safety,” or the natural aspects
of human salvation. . The lecturer desired to remind the seekers after
truth universal, of the urgent necessity for a review of first principles.
He said that it was simply impossible to take a single step in the temple
of truth without exercising the “ comparative ’’ faculty. Indeed, the
value of psychology and Spiritualism, as of all other sciences, must rest
on orderly arrangements arising therefrom, together with consequent
philosophical classification, scientific axioms, religious formulas, and
the whole process of logic and reason, by which we deduce a conclusive
inference in each department of natural and spiritual knowledge. Puri¬
fication of human nature, without true science of safety, he thought, must
be relegated to Utopia and Greek calends. In order to solve the
problem of “ What must we do to be saved?” it was necessary to appeal
to the veracity of universal nature, and every form of existence. Moral
philosophy could not ignore the facts of physiology and pathology,
without injustice, since the salvation of mankind, in its highest and best
sense, is not to be put off, with impunity, to the last day of judgment,
the second advent of Christ, or any possible saviour of Spiritualism that
may yet be vouchsafed, in the providence of God, for the amelioration of
humanity. We must really do, or die, in flesh and blood—salvation
belonging, as it certainly does, as much to the material life on earth as
to the spiritual conditions of heaven. It is not a mere compact with the
creeds of Christendom, faith in the state-ecclesiastical, or a bargain, in
the name of Jesus of Nazareth, that shall take effect at the general
resurrection. True and present deliverance of all races of men from the
bondage of error, or thraldom of evil, involves a wise appreciation of
natural laws; self-culture must no longer be ideal; scientific knowledge,
rightly practised, in love, in association with purity of heart and mind,
must be suitably adapted to the religion of life in every clime ; in the
absence of which, mythology knows no end.
152
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March SO, 1877.
SHADOWLAND. |
At the Conference of Spiritualists in February last, a paper |
was read upon “ The Identity of Communicating Spirits,” |J
and much ingenious and cogent reasoning used to show that j1
the intelligences which manifest their presence in circles are |
mostly, at least, identical with the departed human beings jj
they profess to represent. Absolute and convincing proof, ij
it was allowed, could not be had, but faith and strong pro- j<
bability must be admitted to have a large preponderance in jj
determining belief in things seen much more than in things js
unseen. There has never been wanting abundance of ex- jj
perience and speculations as to the nature and relation of the jj
more usual class of apparitions, and ghosts, warning voices, j
and the like, have in all ages been unhesitatingly connected j
with the dead persons from whom they professed to emanate, j
But there is another class of apparitions arguing spiritual j
identity of another and stronger sort; and that is the doubles j
or doppel gangers as the Germans call them, of persons still i
living. Instances are very numerous. Mrs. Crowe’s well- j
known work adduces many, and in the discussion on the paper j
above referred to, two striking cases were related within the j
personal knowledge of the speakers. More than one instance j
is known to the present writer. Very often these appearances j
precede and seem to (intimate the death of 'the person whom j
they represent, and are hence popularly regarded as of evil j
omen. But in many cases nothing has followed them. It j
is a very strange phenomenon, and difficult to account for j
in any probable way. Much has been written about the j
various supposed entities that go to make up a human j
personality, soul-spirit, nerve-spirit, astral-spirit, aura, umbra, !
and so on, one of which is supposed to be projected out, and !
assume the shape of the person “ in his habit as he lived.” j j
These theories regard all these diverse essences as bound to- lj
gether in one personality, and one of them detached under j
certain unknown conditions. Some very ancient specula- j
tions, however, conceived the idea of this world, and all that j
it inherits, animate and inanimate, human and brute, existing, j
double and separate, in some unspeakable, indefinable way j
and region, and carrying on a dim shadowy counterpart of j
all that exists and is d one upon earth. In the grand opening of j
his Prometheus CTw&owwd Shelley, with spiritual vision, has !
sublimely embodied this conception j
Ere Babylon was dust, j j
The Magus Zoroaster, Earth’s dead child,
Met his own image Walking in the garden 5
Eor know there are two works of life and death ; jj
One that which thou beholdest 5 but the other
Is underneath the grave, where do inhabit
The shadows of all forms that think and live
Till death unite them and they part no more;
Breams and the light imaginings of men,
And all that faith creates or love desires,
Terrible, strange, sublime, and beauteous shapes.
* * all the gods
Are there, and till the powers of nameless worlds,
Vast sceptred phantoms i heroes, men, and beasts ;
And Demagorgon, and a tremendous gloom.
All things of the upper earth are there in strange phantas- jjj
magoric existence, and there all actions are repeated, as j j
though reflected in a mirror, and it would not be wonderful |
if one of the denizens of that shadow-land might sometimes j
be revealed to the eyes of its antitype in this world.
Certain mystical writers have further declared that the j
dwellers in the shadow-land have a more piercing vision j
into futurity than the heavier eyes of their earthly selves j
can obtain : hence the warnings that often accompany their j
appearance: and moreover, that in the cases of mighty and, j
in platonic phrase, demonic men, on whom destiny has laid I
great issues, their under-world shapes are apocalyptically j
clothed with symbols of their minds and actions. Last year j
in the rooms of the Burlington Fine Arts Society there was j
displayed a very wonderful collection of the works of that 1 j
special seer of, and converser with, spirits, William Blake, j j
Many of the pictures there had strange and eloquent mean- | j
ings to the eyes of a Spiritualist. But there were two pic- j j
tures that puzzled the critics prodigiously, who could only j j
pronounce them incomprehensible. One was the “ Spiritual j j
Form of Napoleon,” No. 90 in the catalogue. It was, in- j j
deed, a picture dark in every sense, and only by close scan- jjj
ning could be descerned the shape of a mighty man with Hi
stern, fixed face, his head crowned with dark rays. He
seemed striving to rise, but his feet were chained down.
One hand rested on an eclipsed sun, the other seemed to
hold up by the heels an indistinct figure ending in an eagle’s
head ; a dead body lay prone beneath, and on each side, like
warders, stood an angel form, one looking sadly down, with
hands resting on a closed book, the other looking upward
with a face of calm confidence; by her side hung a huge key:
both were winged, and the wings were full of eyes. The
other picture (No. 201) was entitled 11 The Spiritual Form
of William Pitt guiding Behemoth,” and still darker and more
indistinct in outline than the other. A divine angelic form
stands upon a huge dimly-indicated serpent, the head and eyes
of which have a diabolically malignant expression. The right
hand of the form holds a rein that guides the serpent, its
left hand points downward, and streams of light issue from
the finger tips: its head is surrounded with a broad, many-
coloured composite halo. Above, oh each side, stands a
figure, one stern-visaged, holding a plough-share directed
downwards; the other uplifting a sickle: above them are
eclipsed planets and falling stars: under and around the
group are confused throngs of fleeing, horrified forms, and
under the serpent a dim crowd of figures hold up hands as
for deliverance. These compositions, which are of con¬
siderable size, were painted during the lifetime of the great
men concerned: incomprehensible then, and incomprehen¬
sible now, who can read their riddle, unless, haply, they
were revelations to the spirit-painter of the co-existing
apocalyptic forms of his subjects in Shadowland ?
But these unearthly speculations are closely connected
with the eternal miracle of existence. “ Life, the great
miracle, we admire not, because it is so miraculous. The
mist of familiarity obscures from us the wonder of our
being. Thoughts and feelings arise with or without our
will, and we employ words to express them. We are born,
and our birth is unrCmembered : we live on, and in living
we lose the apprehension of life. How vain it is to think
that words can penetrate the mystery of our being! For
what are we ? Whence do we come ? and whither do we go?
Is birth the beginning? is death the end of our being?
What is birth and death?” Such thoughts weighed upon
Shelley, whose spiritual vision was immeasurably keener
than that of other men; and they lead from this mystery of
concurrent existence still a step further back into the urn
known—to that other mystery of pre-existence on which so
many ancient faiths and philosophies are founded. It is
one with the transmigration of souls, which to this day
regulates the creed and practise of millions. Vague and
dark is that world of concurrent double existences, but
vaguer and darker still the world of former existences—
lives run and spent before—deeds wrought in long past
states of being. Theologians have struggled much to con¬
ceive when, at what point of time, and how, the sentient
soul, as distinguished from mere brute vitality, is infused
into the embryo or child—that vital spark of heavenly flame
is something distinct from vitality, and need not begin with
it. When, how, or whence is it added, so that man may
become a living soul ? It may be, as has been held in re¬
motest antiquity by men to whom much may have been un¬
folded—men like Pythagoras and the Egyptian and Indian
Sages—that it came from and is a continuation of a former
life, and that
As old mythologies relate,
Some draught of Lethe may await,
The slipping thro’ from state to state.
Perhaps in the realms of ante-natal being there may be
mourning over an intelligence passing from it to be born
into earth-life as amongst us there is lamentation when a
spirit “hath forsook her mansion in this fleshly nook.”
The idea of a former existence seems, at one time at least,
to have much haunted the mind of the Laureate* What¬
ever may be his present opinions respecting Spiritualism, a
poem of his, published first more than forty years ago,
would now probably subject him to the charge of un¬
scientific, unprofitable speculation. In “The Two Voices”
he broaches the thought that to begin implies to end, and
that because he has no memory of anything to the contrary
he cannot hold for certain that he “ was first in human
mould.” For as we remember nothing of our first year of
THE SPIRITUALIST.
153
Makch 30, 1877.
existence, so may an existence preceding that be also a
blank
Moreover something is or seems,
That touches me with mystic gleams,
Like glimpses of forgotten dreams—
Of something felt like something here ;
Of something done, I know not where;
Such as no language may declare.
No, nor perhaps in truth is it good to vex ourselves with
thoughts beyond the reach of our souls—of our souls in
their present sphere, which they cannot transcend, however
unfortunately they may strive to look before and after. One
thought we may at least hold fast—that existence—miracle
of miracles, and mystery of mysteries—comprehends all times
and modes of being. Life before birth and life after death,
if such there be, are but some of its many phases, but its
secret will never be known. Man may rise higher than the
angels, and wrest all her secrets from the earth, but the
secret of life will rest for ever in the bosom of God.
The highest mounted soul be’t said,
Still sees the sacred morning spread,
* The silent summit overhead.”
iKorresponXrence,
[Great freedom, is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot he returned j
copies should be kept by the writers.']
HEALING- MECIUMSHIP.
Sib,—I desire, through the mediumship of your valuable journal, to
return my sincere thanks to Mr. Hawkins, healing medium, for having
cured me of an internal complaint from which I have suffered during the
last twelve months. I attended St. Mark’s Hospital, City-road, all last
summer without obtaining relief, so I gave it up last November; since
then I tried various remedies, which had no effect. Last Sunday three
weeks I called at 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end, where Mr. Hawkins
was healing. I seated myself on a chair opposite him. He grasped my
hands; presently I felt the warm blood rush through my veins, and after
three sittings of about five minutes’ duration each, I felt myself perfectly
cured. Since then I have had no return of the complaint. Can Dr.
Carpenter or Professor Lankester explain the trickery at work here ?
Mr. Hawkins, although a bricklayer, refuses all remuneration, he being
only too anxious to benefit suffering humanity. Jas. Cain.
143, Burdett-road, Bow, E., March 19, 1877.
AN UNPROVED ASSERTION.
Sm,—I had the pleasure oi hearing an interesting lecture by Professor
Barrett on “ Mesmerism and Spiritualism,” at Perry Barr Institute,
lately, in which he urged the careful investigation of phenomena which
are too apparent to be set aside, or extinguished by ridicule.
In relating the incident of the floating of Mr. Home out of the open
window of one room into another, he gave an account differing in one
particular from any which I have before read or heard of the matter,
viz., that one of the four persons present at that time, and who gave
their testimony as to what happened, declared that he “ never saw the
occurrence which the others say they witnessed.”
Professor Barrett’s conclusion from these facts was that what is
termed “ biological influence ” would explain the whole.
Can you, or any of your ^readers, clear up this point, about there
being one of the party present who declares that he saw no such phe¬
nomena as the floating of the medium ? The truth, or otherwise, of
this has an important bearing.on the case.. Candour.
Birmingham, March 27th. ———
ALTERATIONS AT THE ROOMS OP THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP SPIRITUALISTS.
Sir,—In consequence of overcrowding at soirees and other meetings
of the National Association of Spiritualists, it has been determined to
make an alteration in the arrangement of1 the rooms which will ensure
greater comfort in future. This will be carried out during the Easter
recess, the premises being closed, as announced elsewhere, from the
29 th March till the 9th April. In order to assist the incidental
expenses, it has been resolved to give a grand musical and dramatic
entertainment, several friends of the Association, eminent artistes,
having kindly offered their services. Particulars as to the date and
programme will be made known in due course, but as some evening
towards the end of April will probably be chosen, the ordinary soirie at
the beginning of the month will not be held as usual.
E. Kislingbury.
A SEANCE IN NEWCASTLE.
SiR,—Mr. Ashton’s letter, entitled “ A Remarkable Seance in New¬
castle-upon-Tyne,” reminds me that I have a similar duty to perform
towards Miss Pairlamb and the public as himself. On the 10th of Dec.
last, through the kindness of the president of the Newcastle Society of
Spiritualists, I was admitted to a seance with Miss Fairlamb, at which
some ten or a dozen gentlemen were present. The sitters formed them*
selves into a horse-shoe circle and the medium, who was the only lady
present, sat in front of them—not in the cabinet, which was in front of
herself, and, which was formed in the way which Mr. Ashton has already
described. To say that there was no one in the cabinet would be super¬
fluous. After we were comfortably seated, the gas was turned down,
leaving a sufficiency of light to enable the sitters to see through the
whole room. A hymn was sung, and almost instantly materialisation
commenced in our presence, and in less than ten minutes the ma¬
terialised form of a lady-spirit emerged as if out of nothing, and stood in
full view of those present. Having turned her face and given an earnest
look towards myself, and finding herself recognised, she walked around the
medium and then dematerialised. She then rematerialised herself, again
walked around the medium, and into the cabinet, drew the curtains back
with her hands, came out again and again, dematerialised in our
presence. The time occupied was about thirty minutes. Now, sir, let me
say that the lady-spirit who thus assumed material form, was an entire
stranger to all present, except myself, and that I myself had only known
her beforehand through psychrometric revelations, the substance of
which was published in the Spiritual Magazine for November last in a
paper headed “ A Collier’s Vision.’’
The phenomenon, as a matter of course, was a proof to me of two
things, viz., 1. That spirits exist, and can appear under given conditions
in tangible forms; 2. That in a psychometric vision we can get a true
reflex of both of what has existed and of what does exist.
Joseph Ssipsey.
Ashington Colliery, near Morpeth, Northumberland,
March 18th, 1877.
CURIOUS STATEMENTS.
Sir,—About two years since, at our family circle, an intelligence
manifested itself, and through the table told us its name Was “Love,”
and that it came to tell us of man’s immortality; that its place of
residence was the planet Saturn} that that planet was inhabited as
this is. The intelligence said that it was neither male nor female;
that there were occupations there as here. (No description given of
them.) It was remarked that all other spirit friends went away im¬
mediately the planetary one came, and on being subsequently asked
the reason, said that they did it from reverence. I have made these
extracts from memoranda written at the time, and place them unre¬
servedly at your service, X.
Plymouth. —
A PEW QUESTIONS.
Sir,—I’see advertised in the public prints two books, of which I feel
doubtful, like many others. The one is The Day After Death; or, The
Future Life as Revealed by Science, by Eiguier. The other, Modern
Magic, by Hauffman. As I am precluded by a tedious illness from
seeing them at the publishers, can any of your readers oblige me, and
others who may be tempted by the titles of these volumes, by saying
whether they run in the Spiritualistic line, or the Materialistic? I
should be sorry to lose money in any publications of the latter class on
these subjects.
I wish also to add that I have had my own share of experience in
such manifestations in my own house, being alone therein, as “ E. G-.”
has had, only not so violent, and if acceptable I will relate them at a
future time. I should also be most grateful to any one who would
inform me of any “ magic circle ” in this city (London) where the higher
spirits are invoked with the ancient rites and ceremonies, and phenomena
produced at will by well-disciplined psychics. B. A. (Dub).
A SPECTRAL DOG AT CARDIFF.
Sir,—There is a tradition here relating to the occasional apparition
of a dog, which used to appear lying in the middle of one of the old turn¬
pike roads, just outside the town. The gentleman from whom I obtained
the story, an old inhabitant of Cardiff, and a Spiritualist, states that he
himself witnessed the phenomenon more than once, when a young man.
The dog was a very large one, and it was notorious that no dog so large
was to be found in the town (at that time a small place), or the immediate
neighbourhood.
Among other attempted solutions of the mystery, it has been suggested
by one of the controls at our circle, that on the spot thus haunted some
person had been worried to death by a dog, and passing over in this
violent way, and with the idea of the animal fixed upon the mind to the
exclusion of all else, the result would probably be that the spiritual
body would for a time (greater or less, I presume, according to the intel¬
ligence of the individual), assume a form resembling that of the animal
causing death.
I do not know whether this solution will be considered a probable
one, but it may afford those interested in this department of spiritual
phenomena something worth pondering over. We have since learned
that the tract of land (on which are the remains of a forest), immediately
adjoining the road in question, was at one time the resort of numbers of
wolves. A. J. Smart.
Cardiff.  —
SPIRITUALISM AT HOME*
Sir,—I have long been one of the most enthusiastic Spiritualists in
America. My husband opposed me for many years, and said that he
was sorry I believed in anything so silly, but a little more than a year
ago he became convinced of the truth of Spiritualism, and is now de*
veloping as a healing medium. Our little girl, aged fourteen, has been
a medium for more than a year, and has eight phases of mediumship.
She is clairvoyant and clair-audient, also is a mechanical writer; she
improvises and sings; plays spirit music on the piano or organ, and,
when entranced, talks like one advanced in wisdom. I wish I could
describe to you what she sees at our seances t the tests that she gives us
are really astonishing. Not long since she described an old-fashioned
man in our circle. She said he had on a three-cornered hat, a velvet
coat, a pair of short breeches, knee buckles, and long white stockings.
I told her I never had any acquaintances who dressed in that style;
such persons must have lived more than one hundred years ago. She
still persisted in saying he came to see me. I was told that I must
guess who he was, and when I called the right name they would tell
lo4
THE StlRlTUAlilST.
MARes 30, 187?.
me. At last I called the name of “ General George Washington.” The
spirit then took off his hat, made a low bow, and said that he had met
me at the Centennial, and was happy to he recognised. We are very
careful of our little daughter; but few of our friends know of her
wonderful gifts. Her spirit guides tell us that they can do almost any¬
thing with her, and that she is destined to do good work. Previous to
the development of her mediumship she was a little frail being, but now
she is well and hearty, with red cheeks and bright eyes, and is controlled
to talk almost every evening, and also in the morning before she goes
to school.
I am glad to know that the Spiritualists of England are doing such a
noble work. Every hour does my heart go out in thankfulness, for the
light that is now shedding its bright rays across the pathway of man¬
kind. This angelic doctrine is now much needed to raise humanity to a
higher plane of life; for does not Spiritualism teach us that every good
act, every pure thought and aspiration, lays a stone in the foundation of
our heaven hereafter ? . M. A. Merrell.
, Kent, Portage Co., Ohio, U.S.A., March 11th, 1877.
TO PRIVATE MEDIUMS.
Sir,—The experience of the last few months has shown me that a
large amount of mediumship exists everywhere in private life, which
lies undeveloped for want of judicious culture. Never in the history
of the Spiritual movement in this country has it been more desirable
than at this crisis to foster spiritual gifts in the family circle,' by which
means truth may be most widely extended and securely established. In
brief, Spiritualism will work its brightest triumphs in our homes.
Many of the visitors to the home-centre at No. 8, Upper Bedford-
Place, Russell-square, have been anxious to carry back into their pro¬
vincial districts the means of practically illustrating spiritual truth by
personal experimental manifestations. To encourage this I am desirous
of entering into correspondence with private mediums, ladies or gentle¬
men, with a view to the formation of seances for the development of
various phases of mediumship, trance, inspiration, test, healing, clair¬
voyance, and the higher physical phenomena, and shall be glad of com¬
munication from Mends in sympathy with these ideas.. ,
A. C. Burkes
8, Upper Bedford-place, Russell-square, March 26.
A NEW BOOK ON SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,-—Will you allow me to say, in referenco to your obliging notice
of my forthcoming work, that the book cannot, under any circumstances,
be ready before the autumn; and that the designation “ Essays and
Reviews ” was not intended to be a permanent title, but only to give
some idea of the contents of the work ? M. A. (Oxon.)
March 24th. ———
, EAST-^ND SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—May I again call the attention of your readers to the case of
Mr. E. W. Wallis and his work at the East End of London ? • Giving
his services so freely as he does in the cause of Spiritualism, he should
not be left to support the pecuniary burden as well. The fund
started to liquidate the debt of £13 stands thus at present:—National
Association of Spiritualists, £2 2s.; Mr. Martin Smith, £l Is.; Mr.
W. C. Pickersgill, £1 Is.; Mrs. Lowe, £1. I shall be happy to receive
further contributions. E. Kislingbury. 1
38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury.
MORE ABOUT THE BLOMBERG GHOST.
Sir,—My attention has been drawn to a passage in your paper, 23rd
. March, wherein it is suggested that I may perhaps know something
about the “ Blomberg ghost story,” as being a relative of Major Charles
Torriano, killed at Toulon in 1793, who, according to the narrative
quoted by you, was connected with the apparition. There was a Captain
Charles Torriano, my collateral relative, who was killed in action at
Toulon, but I know no tradition in my branch of the family relating to
Dr. Blomberg. Some years ago, however, I heard the ghost story,
though differing from your version, from two canons of St. Paul’s, both
now deceased. I will give you the narrative as they gave it to me, pre¬
mising that I do not believe in Spiritualism, dreams, or supernatural
communications from deceased parties.
According to the narrative of these my personal friends—both
acquainted with Dr. Blomberg, who was a Canon Residentiary of St.
Paul’s, and one of whom said he had heard Dr. Blomberg speak upon
the subject—the facts were the following:—The father of Dr. Blomberg
was Captain Blomberg, of the Hanoverian service. Captain Blomberg
came from Hanover to England on temporary leave of absence, leaving
, his son, then a child, under charge of a brother officer, name unknown
to me, whom we will call X. The time for the return of Captain Blom¬
berg had expired,, when one evening X., sitting in a room adjoining and
opening into the regimental mess-room in Hanover, was occupied in
examining some maps lying before him.' He happened to raise his eyes
from the maps, and saw Captain Blomberg in military uniform standing
on the opposite side of the table. “ Ah, Blomberg,” said X., “ I am
glad to see you back. Your boy is well.” Captain Blomberg replied,
“ You will never see me more.” “ Oh, nonsense,” said X., “ come and
breakfast with me to-morrow at nine, and you shall1 meet your boy.’’
X. then resumed his study of the maps. When he again raised his
eyes Captain Blomberg had disappeared. Next morning X. and young
Blomberg were in the mess-roOm ready to receive Captain Blomberg,
breakfast being laid for three persons, but he did not come. Thereupon
X. inquired of some brother officers then in the mess-room whether
they had seen Captain Blomberg the preceding night. They answered,
“ Some one in uniform passed through the mess-room into the room
where you were, but we did not observe whether he was Blomberg or
not.” After the lapse of some short time intelligence was received at
Hanover that the ship in which Captain Blomberg had sailed from
England was lost at sea. Subsequently young Blomberg was brought
to England. Somehow—probably from the close connection of the king
with the State of Hanover—George III. heard the story, and, in his
quick way, said to the queen, “ Charlotte, Charlotte, this is a strange
story; we must have the boy and do something for him.” Accordingly
young Blomberg was received into the royal family, and brought up
with the princes, with whom in after life he was always more or less
intimate. In process of time he entered the church, and also held the
appointment of Clerk of the Royal Closet, worth about three hundred
per annum, the whole of which sum he devoted to the poor, so long as
he held the office. I can give no dates, and no more precise information,
and do not personally vouch for anything, except that I have told as I
was told. You will perceive that my version differs in several particulars
and in the scene of action from your version.
Wm. Harcourt Torriano.
26th March, 1877.  
THE CLAIRVOYANCE OF THE BLIND.—THE CASE OF MISS JANE NICHOLS.
Sir,—In a paper on “Prophetic Dreams,” by the Rev. W. Stainton*
Moses, M.A., read at a meeting of the Psychological Society, reported
in The Spiritualist, the author says:—“It was once mooted in a dis*-
cussion of this society whether it was possible to dream of using senses
which the dreamer in his waking state did not possess, and never had.
Harriet Martineau tells of an old lady, blind from her birth, who yet
saw in her sleep, and described accurately. in her waking state the
clothing of individuals.” The case was not related by Miss Martineau,
but my myself, see Letters to Miss Martineau, p. 104 and 151, for a full
account of the case and argument thereon.
The lady was one of three sisters all blind from birth. She was at
the time of my report forty years of age, and not only could see in her
sleep—a matter long known to her family—but she was also clairvoyant
and prophetic. I do not give the particulars, because the editor can
take the account from the work if he think it well to do so. In respect
to this case, Miss Martineau says: “It seems to me that the most
significant thing you have ever written to me—a thing as significant as
anyone ever wrote to anybody—is that your blind Mend, blind from
birth, has proved that she sees in her sleep by having been actually
prevoyante of visible incidents. If you can establish this, if proof or
sufficient testimony of it can be duly recorded during her lifetime, it
surely will be as vast a contribution to the science of mind and of man
as has ever been afforded by any age.” I think I have very clearly
proved it, both by facts and arguments.
That Bacon believed in prophetic dreams is clear from the account of
what occurred to himself; he says: “There be many reports in history
that, upon the death of persons in near relationship, men have had an
inward feeling of it. I myself remember that, being in Paris, and my
father dying in London, two or three days before my father’s death I
had a dream, which I told to divers English gentlemen, that my father’s
house in the country was plastered all over with black mortar,” and we
may be sure that Bacon would not have related this had he not been
satisfied that it could not have occurred from any suggestion, or have
been a mere coincidence. We may fairly, I think, trust to that in
respect to such a thinker as Lord Bacon, and the report is given later in
life in The Natural History, Cent X., sec. 986.
In the memorials appended to Miss Martineau’s autobiography by that
noble woman, and her beloved friend, Mrs. Maria Weston Chapman,
are the details of two cases qf clairvoyance (p. 354, 703). The one
case as relating to myself and my own house I can vouch for being
accurate in every respect, and it is no use Mr. Cox, or any other,
denying facts which competent investigators know to be true, and what
all history shows to have been true in all ages, as may be seen in the
instance given by Lord Bacon. Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S.
Boulogne-sur-Mer, France.
Mr. J. L. O’Sullivan has jhst arrived in London from San Francisco.
Mr.?J. J. Morse’s Appointments.—Newcastle-on-Tyne, Sunday, April
1st, Freemasons’ (Old) Hall, Weir’s-court, Newgate-street; evening at
7, subject—“Supernaturalism.” Monday, April 2nd, afternoon at 3,
local conference; evening at 8, subject—“ Spiritualism in Relation to
Modern Thought.”—Sunderland, Wednesday and Thursday, 4th and
5th.—Keighley, Sunday, April 8th.—Liverpool, Monday, April 9th.—
Birmingham, Sunday and Monday, April 22nd and 23rd.—London,
Sunday, April 29th.
A Strange Story.—In connection with the above observations on
“Dual Consciousness,” might be noticed a strange story, which is said
to have appeared in the Revue Medical, Paris, France. It is to the
effect that M. le Docteur Bussy d’Alembert, a noted French surgeon
and physician, has long held that life might be prolonged indefinitely
in some classes of patients. He has boldly proclaimed his ability to
even create life, or, more properly, revivify a body that has been
deprived of life from this cause. He found a suitable patient in a Mr.
Isaacs. He had the body packed in ice and removed to his office.
Here, in the presence of Drs. Dupuy, Dion, Etienne, and Ricord (the
two latter members of the Academy of Sciences), he had the body
removed from the box. His process is minutely described, it being, in
short, a treatment with electricity. The symptoms each hour are given
verbatim from the diary of Dr. d’Alembert. The narrative goes on to
say that, although Mr. Isaacs recovered his intellect with the renewal of
his life, yet his moral faculties were entirely dormant. A postscript
adds that the blasphemies and obscene conduct and conversation of Mr.
Isaacs having become too horrible, it was determined to discontinue
stimulus and disconnect the battery. This being done, the fatal sign of
hiccoughing began, and in thirty minutes the animal heat and all signs
of life had disappeared.—Boston Herald ( XJ.Si), „
THE SPIKITUALIST.
155
March 30, 1877.
PRIVATE SEANCES.
Last Sunday afternoon, at a stance at the house of Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory* 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, London, Mr. Williams
and Mr. Eglinton were the mediums. The observers present were Mrs.
Gregory, Lady Colquhoun, Mr. and Mrs. Moseley, Mrs. Wiseman, Mrs.
Ramsay, and Mr. W. H. Harrison. The stance was intended to he a
dark one, but very feeble daylight found its way into portions of the
room through the shutters. The sitters were placed round a table, with
their hands interlinked, .those of both of the mediums being thus held.
Under these conditions a small table \yent over the heads of the sitters,
and was deposited on the top of the large one, and several small articles
were in like manner placed in front of the sitters. Direct spirit-voices
were heard. Because of the small amount of diffused light in the room,
the outlines of one or two draped forms were indistinctly seen when
they came between the eye and one of the windows; one of these forms
leant upon the shoulder of Mrs. Ramsay; it seemed to emanate in
some way from the person of Mr. Williams. Perhaps by practice these
manifestations can be obtained in time in moderate light, several minor
phenomena being now obtained in daylight, which in the early days of
Spiritualism were produced only in darkness.
Mr. Harrison says: “ Last Sunday night I attended a private seance
at the house of a gentleman, the members of whose family have been
developing medial powers among themselves for some time past. The
sitting took place in the dark, and small objects were moved about near
the floor; they rose in some rare instances to the level of the under-side
of the table. This shows that the power is normally stronger near the
floor than in the neighbourhood of the knees of the sitters, perhaps
because it is given off most freely from the hands and feet. This idea is
still further corroborated by the circumstance that the spirits were able
to move small objects on the surface of the table. Variations in the
amount of light had nothing to do with, the distribution of power just
mentioned, the whole room being in total darkness. I remarked that
these movements of objects were made by partly materialised hands, and.
that the next stage of development was ordinarily the direct spirit voice.
In reply to my question whether they could speak to us, they replied
‘ No ’ several times; nevertheless, I urged them to try; they then began
to gently move a small roll of cardboard on the table, and at last a voice
was heard to feebly speak through it; after several attempts the voice
became stronger, but never rose to much more than a whisper. The
medium, as usual, under such circumstances, complained of a choking
sensation, since the spirits always take power from the organs of voice
of the sensitive; he said that the feeling was that he had no strength
left to govern the muscles of his own throat, which, moreover, became
dry while the spirits were talking. I asked the spirits whether their
speaking was the result merely of an effort of will, or due to the adop¬
tion of carefully devised means; they replied that they had made no
special preparations to speak, and were able to do so merely by the exer¬
cise of. an effort of will. As the power gets stronger the members of
this circle will sometimes see the materialised hands thrust out from
under the table, or any place near the medium where there is partial
darkness; and when, still further on, they see the face which does the
speaking, it will be found to be to a large extent the duplicate of the
face of the medium. The spirits appear to be divorced from material
conditions, and to be able to take on such conditions only as they find
connected with the living instrument through which they act.”
Tbance seances are occasionally held at 18, Atlingworth-street,
Brighton, and an attempt is being made to form a local Spiritualistic
society.
Cux Bono ?—The idle question is often put, “ What is the good of
spiritual manifestations ?” The summary answer is, that truth is its
own good; that to know is a divine satisfaction; and that facts of any
sort can never be indifferent to a philosophic mind. “ But, then, mani¬
festations are so undignified, so very undignified, so unworthy of
immortal beings.” And, pray, where was it learnt that immortal beings
had any regard for the fancy article we call dignity ? It is plain the
Creator has none, and why should his creatures P Physical manifesta¬
tions have little charm for advanced Spiritualists. .. . but this, at least,
may be said in their defence—they are eminently useful in compelling
the attention of a generation which, like Thomas, will not believe unless
they can see and handle. Although we live in a Christian land, where
it might be supposed that a life beyond this life was, of all ideas, the
most familiar, one has only to penetrate beneath the surface to find what
brutish and heathenish ideas of death are entertained.—Wm. White,
“ Reflections,
Premonitions.—The New Jersey Messenger (Swedenborgian), in
speaking of premonitions, says: ‘‘They are caused by spirits who are
always present with man, and are constantly exerting an influence upon
him. This influence is generally inappreciable. It does not take away
man’s freedom. It is not a casual and special instance of Providential
care, as the Bible abundantly testifies. If we were more susceptible to
their influence, they would keep us from natural and moral danger much
more frequently than they do now. The aversions and attractions, and
the unaccountable misgivings or confidence which we sometimes expe¬
rience, are due to their influence. We are subject to both good and
evil influences from this source; and we come more fully under the
good or evil, according to our character. As we shun evil, and live
according to the commandments, we come more fully under the power of
the angels, who can protect us from danger and lead us to good. Some
persons are more easily impressed by their influence than others, and
there may be times when we come more fully under their power than at
others. But the angels and good spirits always do the best they can for
us. We are always in their presence, and as men advance in spiritual
life they will be led more entirely by the Lord, by means of His word
and the messengers He sends to us.” ,
[• • A letter just received by us from the Rev. Thomas Colley, chaplain
[} of H.M.S. J/aZoSar,’Malta, states that he has been giving attention
\\ while in the East to feats of “ Indian jugglery,” due in some cases to a
11 species of mediumship.
I “ Let us look and see whether any and what help can be derived from
! the spiritual philosophy, as made out by Swedenborg. And here I may
say, in passing, that I am not what is termed a Swedenborgian; but a
| peculiar psychical experience made me gravitate towards him, to hold
up my facts in his'light, to see what we could make of them. This has
led me to look up to him as to one of the most specially illuminated
minds since the advent of Christ—one who has done more than any
other to make the world of spirit solid ground for men to tread.”—
Gerald Massey, Concerning Spiritualism.
Hard to Kill.—It provokes thought as well as mirth, this solemn
procession of defunct theories, culled from the very sanctums of science
j and religion, wending, their way to the world’s “receptacle for dry
rubbish.” Is there not profound significance in the fact that the thing
will not be killed ? Whole asylums of the reputed insane have been
hurled at its head. All the usual means heretofore so effective in send¬
ing the devil to the right-about have been applied in vain. Newspaper
bullets have been fired at it from every rampart that could conceal a
| foe, and the heavy ordnance of science and sectarianism, loaded with
I twenty-four pound theories, crammed to the muzzle with the grape
| and canister of ridicule, slander, and denunciation, have been brought
to bear against it in the open field, and all to no purpose, save to injure
| the leaders of this furious onslaught, by the recoil of their own artillery.
Surely this defeat is not without suggestion. It indicates a Rubicon
which Materialism cannot pass, which all exploring science must, in
order to find the true cause of its invincibility, its perpetual life and
I growth.—The Road to Spiritualism (Hallock).
Spiritualism at Mile End.—On Sunday last Miss Kislingbury
i lectured to a large meeting of working men, members of the East End
| Radical Club, Beaumont-square, on “ The Spiritualist Persecutions,”
I and “ What is Spiritualism?” The room was crowded to the doors,
over one hundred and fifty persons being present. In the first part of
the lecture Miss Kislingbury showed how Spiritualism had been mis¬
represented by the press, giving some of the facts of the Slade case, and
then comparing them with the statements in the daily papers. After
i i this she gave a short summary of the manner in which Spiritualism can
I be tested by all who wish to know the facts, by personal investigation.
[ A rather stormy discussion followed, during which Mr. J. W. Lawrence
,| spoke with good effect of his own experiences. His prosecutor, Mr.
II Hulbert, and two other objectors, also addressed the meeting, and were
[| answered by Mrs. Lowe and another speaker, who told how he had been
! | converted to Spiritualism by the phenomena he had witnessed in the
»I presence of his wife and family. Besides these only two Spiritualists
were present. At the close of the meeting there was a great demand
i i for papers and tracts, a large number of which were distributed after a
I i vote of thanks had been passed to the lecturer and chairman.
f[ Spiritualism in California.—The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan writes:^—
I! “I have somewhat delayed sending you the result of the trial which took
i place in San Francisco of the mediums there, though I informed you of
! the beginning of 'it. The only point at issue was whether they were
j liable to pay the license fee, imposed by a city ordinance (fifty dollars a
|| quarter), upon “astrologers, seers, fortune-tellers, and clairvoyants.”
[ i The particular individual in whose person the cases were tried, in a
ji police-court, was Dr. Mathews, who is a good materialisation medium,
i j but whose advertisements, and sign over his door, announced him as a
'j “ clairvoyant.” He refused to pay the license fee, on the ground that it
[J involved a violation of the constitutional principle of the “ freedom of
ij religion.” The case may ultimately go up to the Supreme Court of the
'I United States. We knew beforehand that the decision must be against
II us in the lower court. But the trial was a moral triumph for us, though
11 Dr. Mathews was sentenced to pay the license fee, and the trifle of £5
'( fine (though under the ordinance liable to one thousand dollars fine and
| a year’s imprisdhment), against which he appealed. The principal
11 witnesses on our side were Dr. Peebles and myself. As I was examined
I j first, my testimony went over the whole ground that Spiritualism was a
! i religion for its believers. Dr. Peebles had not much more to do than to
II confirm that position, with his far higher authority. We had to show
I how it was a religion. We showed that it proved that which the
\ | churches simply assert, namely—the immortality of the soul, the
II fatherhood of God, and the brotherhood of man—the relations of men to
| i the life beyond the grave. Our testimony was listened to with profound
11 attention and the utmost respect. There was no ridicule nor scoffing,
11 even by the adverse counsel. The silence through the court was
breathless. Some of the jury said afterwards that if that was Spifit-
11 ualism they wanted to know more about it. The judge charged that it
i was shown to be a religion, and that mediums seemed to perform a
||' function analogous to that of the ministers of religion, in presenting the
11 evidences of that which constituted the basis of all religion, viz., the
I j immortality of the soul. But he said that the city authorities had the
| i power, for the purposes of necessary municipal revenue,' to enforce a
II license fee on all ministers of religion who received salaries or charged
'I fees for their ministrations. At the same time he expressed his satis-
11 faction that the case was to go to a higher tribunal. I think the judge
11 was quite right, and the whole was quite satisfactory to us. The only
'I practical effect has been that the public mediums in San Francisco (of
[ I whom there are many) no longer style themselves “ clairvoyants,” so as
i i to keep out of the scope of the literal application of the city ordinance. I
11 hardly think it was worth while for Dr. Mathews to appeal against such a
11 verdict and sentence, but in point of fact he did so, and the other cases
'I stand over to abide the result of that appeal. The contrast was striking
11 between the manner in which the whole subject was dealt with there,
i! and what passed in your police-court in the Slade affair.”
.156 THE SPIRITUALIST. Maech 30, 1877.
THE EXPERIENCES AND OPINIONS OF AN ENGLISH
CLERGYMAN.
■At.t. my life I have been conscious of sights and sounds which I never
liked to speak of, ; because I could not explain them. From a child I
felt an earnest desire to be holy, and loved to go away by myself
and pray.
Soon after my ordination I had a large and difficult parish, and felt
overburdened with my own weakness and incapacity. One night when I
had been specially troubled in mind, I was awakened by a bright light
in the room, and a radiant being came and kissed me on the forehead.
This was the first time I had quite distinctly seen a form, and I knew
from that moment that my Divine Lord would give me every help I
needed.
From strong conviction I joined the Church of Rome, and remained
in her communion for fourteen years. I was never happy or entirely
satisfied. One night, in Rome, I was awakened by hearing my name
very loudly called. I sat up in bed and listened. The voice
seemed to be at a distance, and I was on the point of getting up and (
looking out, when nearer and more distinctly I heard these words:— !
p Dear child, it is not the will of your Heavenly Father that you should !
remain in the Church of Rome.”
The next day I went to my confessor and told him. He assured me
it was a temptation of the devil, and that I must resist it with all my
might. i
Again and again these words were said to me, and each time more j1
earnestly. At last one night the voice said, “ Take care how you resist i,
any longer. You have been granted a blessed gift to hear and to see j1
what is not allowed to others. If you cast away this blessing from you, i]
your responsibility will be heavy, and the result great unhappiness.” I (
Then I seemed to be left in a horrible desert place, surrounded by forms j<
of misery and despair. I tried to cry for help, but could not breathe a ij
prayer for some time. I lay quite powerless, and unable to rise or I
speak. Presently the same voice said—^ Jesus said, ‘ Come unto Me j
all ye who are weary and heavy laden, and I will refresh you ’—-Arise i
and pray.” Then power was restored to me, and I rose and prayed as |
for my lifei Soon a most glorious sight presented itself. I saw a |
dazzling light, and from the midst of it a bright figure came towards jj
me. As he stood close to me, I saw that he was weeping, and he said j)
he was mourning at my hesitation. The next morning I did not go to j (
mass, and my mind was filled With an overpowering sense of peace and ij
happiness. I could no longer doubt that it was God’s will, and I left the i)
Romish communion. j{
After my return to England, I was one Sunday in St. Andrew’s |j
Church, "Well-street. During the service a voice beside me said, ]|
“ Will you do me a very great kindness ?” I answered, “ If it is God’s jy
will.” The voice said, “ I ask you in our dear Lord’s name, pray for | j
me, that I may advance in the knowledge of God.”
As the service proceeded, I distinctly heard the voice joining in all the j y
responses with the utmost earnestness. i j
. Some time after this I felt very anxious to know something of the 11
belief and practice of those calling themselves Spiritualists, and went i y
with two friends to a public seance. There were some thirty or forty j j
people present. With the exception of my two friends, I was unknown I j
to any in the room, and my name was never mentioned. There appeared i y
at the other end of the room a shadowy figure with a very noble coun- j j
tenance; he was seen by every one. He called to me by name to come |
close to him. I did so, and he told me it was he who had asked me for | y
my prayers in St. Andrew’s Church. He overwhelmed me with thanks, I j
and asked me to let him hold my hand. I could plainly feel his grasp, i (
Then he said, “ If you give me a piece of paper I think I could write.’’ j y
I gave him a visiting card out of my pocket, and he wrote on it, “ May j
God bless you.” I have this card now, and also a sketch of him, which \l
one of my friends took while he was talking to me. He told me that if j j
it would help any doubting friend of mine to believe in the fact of j)
another world, he would come to my room any evening I liked to speak ] y
to them, but that I should provide a speaking trumpet, as his voice j j
might not be able to reach their ears uuless physically formed as mine j
for hearing a spirit’s voice. if
I would never go to another seance. I felt a great dislike to the j j
whole thing: Indeed, I have been told by my spiritual guide never to !
go again. i
These are the first droppings of the shower that is at hand. I have ! j
been told that the end is very near, and that the veil is being lifted i j
between us and the invisible, as the time of our Lord’s coming draws I (
near. A terrible time of trial is coming, and there is great danger and j
evil mixed up with this wonderful power. Many poor ignorant people !)
with pure simple souls, have this power, but do not understand it, and (y
get led into the company of the frivolous and evil, both men and spirits. ! j
All men seem to have their “affinities” in the unseen world, and j
spirits like-minded with themselves are always near them. j y
We should thankfully receive any message our Lord sends to us ij
by whomsoever He chooses to send it, but it is very wrong to try and i)
call spirits to us. j)
False Ideas of Death a Scarecrow.—Spiritualism is no new problem |
which ought to have taken the disciples of science by surprise; it has jy
rapped at the door of every thinker throughout the ages for a solution, jj
Wanting it, the popular thought, misdirected by a theology that was jy
stone blind, and which remains so, has invested the immortality of its jy
own faith with grave-clothes, and converted it into a scarecrow—trans- jj
forming the most beautiful and sublime process whereby humanity is jy
glorified, into a ghastly skeleton, which its ignorance has named death, jy
and converted it into an object of the profoundest horror. It was for jj
science to strip these rags from the immortal spirit. Why has it not i)
been dope?—The Road to Spiritualism (JELki^ocvl), ' jfj
COCK-LANE AT THE WEST-END.
From 11 The Morning Post,'* March 20th.
Since the troubles which recently afflicted E. G. have driven him
from his home, there have been fresh instances of liveliness in new
directions on the part of the spirits. The most notable, certainly, is a
phantom brougham which plies between Albert-gate and Hyde-park-
corner. The joke it indulges in is less practical than those of which
E. G. was the victim, for the brougham neither smashes itself nor any
other vehicle. Its strange career is enlivened by constantly playing on
the nerves of passers-by, who have witnessed it, in most determined
form, charging and apparently annihilating persons who are in the act
of crossing the road. These persons, however, are none the worse for
the spiritual assaults, and are, indeed, unconscious of the peril so visible
to others. This new mystery will no doubt furnish a fair amount of that
pleasing excitement which those addicted to the careful investigation of
Spiritualistic phenomena so rejoice to indulge in. We subjoin a com¬
munication from E. G., with some last particulars of his recent visitation.
To the Editor of 11 The Morning Post.'*
Sir,—I beg to thank you for forwarding me the letter of a corre¬
spondent on tiie subject of “ Cock-lane at Kensington ” (as you pleased
to term it), which was from a scientific gentleman who has for sometime
past been engaged in examining the alleged phenomena of Spiritualism, *
but has hitherto met with great difficulties owing to all the available
professional “ mediums ” requiring darkness as a condition sine qua non.
I have replied to this gentleman privately, and shall be only too glad to
give him every opportunity in my power to investigate my “ghostly
experiences,” provided that I can obtain the necessary consent of my late
landlord, who is naturally averse to too much publicity on the subject,
as detrimental to letting, &c.; I, on the other hand, of course, am only
too anxious to get a solution of the phenomena, by any means and on
any terms whatever.
I must add that I quitted the house on the 10th inst,, and so have no
further power of my own to show it to visitors; but some forty or fifty
gentlemen have already well inspected it. Should the gentlemen
referred to as anxious to investigate the case come to any conclusion, I
shall be most happy that he or I communicate the result to you.
I append a list of occurrences, some of which I omitted to send to
you before, in my hurry and excitement, and others which have
happened since my letter to you of the 5th inst.—I am, sir, your
obedient servant, E. G.
March 19th. —* 
When I ascended with my friend to the bedrooms after the rush of
the bedstead, &c., I was brought to a halt on the top landing (as far as
Which I had rushed as quickly as my legs could carry me) by seeing all
the linen out of the press and strewed over the floor, the doors of the
press being wide open, which were previously locked. When, after
this, we had inspected the rooms and the loft, we returned to the
“ study,” but had only been there a few moments when another bedstead
and child’s cot overturned in the bedroom opposite the one to which I
have referred. Again we could trace no agent. On Saturday afternoon,
March 8rd, the bell again began ringing violently, while two visitors
were in the house; they ran to the*window, I to the door, but, as usual,
we could see nothing extraordinary. The same afternoon, soon after¬
wards, we heard a noise below; we went to the kitchen, from whence
proceeded the screams of my wife and a servant, who happened to be
there, and who witnessed a table overturn of itself, and in so doing'
broke off one of its legs. A curious fact came under my own eyes. A
servant was putting some Brunswick black on the fire-grate; she had
for that purpose two round brushes (such as are used for black lead),
which she placed in a saucer. All at once she cried out, “ Oh, look,
sir! ” I went quickly, and found the brushes performing a circular
quick motion, just above the saucer, in the air. On Saturday, March
10th, my wife was packing up some things previous to her departure,
when she missed her sponges, which she had only just placed close by
her, and on searching for them she suddenly espied them up the
chimney; how they got there no one knows. Again, a child’s worsted
sock would not remain on a table on which it was placed, but con¬
tinually concealed itself behind a box in the “ study.” A dressing-table
in my wife’s bedroom walked out, so to speak, from the wall before her
eyes, about half a yard, and a chest of drawers on the other side of the
room moved of itself. This same dressing-table a day or two later over¬
turned and smashed the ornaments, &c., which were upon it. A shovel
also was found with the scoop bent at right angles to the handle, and
then broke when touched. From a bookcase in the study some eight or
nine books, on more than one occasion, projected themselves one after
the other in quick succession on to the floor before me and two others.
This bookcase was well examined by several gentlemen, who could
trace no clue in this matter or in any other.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
The readers of this journal would do well to put a stop to the trade tricks of
one or two wholesale newsagents in London, who from political or theological
motives quietly impede the circulation of journals connected with new or
reform movements, by the non-execution or delayed execution of orders
received for the same. The remedy is to take away the custom of country
booksellers who support such agents; this can be done by transferring
orders for books and literature of all .kinds to another local newsagent who
does not employ and encourage a London firm addicted to the tricks just
mentioned, and which have a practical though little known influence on
the dissemination of knowledge throughout Great Britain. The Spiritualist
is published in London on Thursday evening every week, and should be
obtainable anywhere in the provinces on the Saturday. The most expe¬
ditious method of getting it is to have it posted direct from 38, Great
Russell-street, by which method it can be received nearly everywhere in
England on the Friday,
March 30, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
hi
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS on the boundary of another
WORLD, by Robert Bale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging "the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
. tile physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE'i OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Bpes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
Of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3i. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,{also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
mostremarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. . The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newlyjmblished book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritnal-
sm to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols.. crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given, through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This bo’ok professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to nian m the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they Will 'not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
, who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rale, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND - PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-8upomaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatoiogy; Miracles
and Science; the Spirit: and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Superaatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and .the Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals Iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 248..; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a|trumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Alien
Poe. is better than shy which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. 6d.; cheap edition,
7s. Od. .
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poeiUs. 7s. fid.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S, Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Orookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book censists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at tneir seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORMIMIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. fid. Z
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M, King. 7s. fid.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. fid.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. fid. *
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. fid.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), fid.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Parttwo), fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair-
. voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. OONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. fid. . , _ u
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENOE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 16s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving inforaiation about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Bev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIBITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Bev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record of Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
5s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. 0. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By 0. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. fid.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gamed the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. Od.) 4s.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. -James Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vpis.j 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Sees'."
Nature’s Divine Revelations . .
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Hannonia ..
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. „ HI, „ • ,
The Reformer. „ IV. » . »
The Thinker. V. - „ . . ■
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis .
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land .
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. _ .
Answers to Ever-reourring Questions from the^Peopie
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . . . •
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health , .
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves .
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures .....
s. d.
. 15 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
..7 6
. 7 6
.76
. 7 6
I 3 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 fi
. 2 0
. 3 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 2 6
. 3 fi
. 7 6
.60
. 7 6
. 7 6
, 6 0
. 6 0
. 2 6
. 3 0
. 7 0
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . ..50
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) j . . .60
History of American Socialisms i(Noyes) . , . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . , , . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 C
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China ito India (400 a. d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A^ Tnn. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
ter the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . ..... 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M. A . 10 fi
Awas-I-Hindii or, A Voice from the Ganges, byhn Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life. Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . ...20
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation.of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . . 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B. A . . ,36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . , . . . ■ . 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into" English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . 10 6
The ChUdhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S.
Special edition for Schools . , , .10
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds: 2; Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Doten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each,
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM ,.>ENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard, fid.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard,
fid.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM,; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religions Culture, is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE .OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds »ys of
this little pamphlet: “ There is in it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” - fid.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. fid.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young fid.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D. Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr . T.
Hallock. 2s.
iv
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits,. and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Oloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions op the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, be appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Yarley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
, “ At the outset of his.booklet Mr, Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for¬
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
NeiVSr'
Limp cloth, red edges. Brice Is. Id., post free,
w. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
By Royal Letters Patent
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR,
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Oharing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
■ It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about animal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do.. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s,
Inland Pcstag -4d. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible iden¬
tical WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modern Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury/London, W.O.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE : described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, .11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
THE ; SPIKITUALIST.
Ma$ch 30, 1877.
SPIRITUALISM::
New Works on its Phenomena, Philosophy, and
Present Position.
THE SPIRITUALIST FUND.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION FOR 1877 AND 1878.
BY “M.A. (OXON.)
I HAVE been frequently asked to publish a book on Spirit¬
ualism; The facilities which I have' enjoyed for personal
investigation, my acquaintance with the literature of the
subject and with prominent workers in it, and the attention
that I have paid to the investigation, of its various phases, have
seemed to many to fit me for such a duty.
It is easier asked than done. A book on Spiritualism, if it
did but sketch the! subject, should be very voluminous; and,
when written, it would be found to omit more than it dis¬
cussed or recorded. I cannot write such a book; nor do I
think it desirable that any such attempt should be made in the
present state of our knowledge.
But I do think it very important that any person who has
special facilities for observation should ’ use them, and record
their results as best he can. In this belief, I have kept careful
records of what I have seen, and from time to time have pub¬
lished Essays and Reviews on the published opinions of others.
I have also printed a number of chapters of Personal Research
in the Phenomena and Philosophy of Spiritualism, and have
selected, from a mass that have been automatically written out,
certain Spirit-teachings.
I propose to collect and complete these works.
First, I wish to print a volume of Essays and Reviews.
It will contain, in addition to a number of Reviews of works
of standard American authors—Olcott, Sargent, Tuttle,
Crowell, and others—and a long Essay on the Transcorporeal
Action of Spirit, which have already appeared, much original
matter not yet published. A special feature of the book will
be the introduction to general readers of the best books on
Modern Spiritualism.
The volume will be published at 10s. if sufficient names are
enrolled as subscribers to show that such a book is wanted,
and will pay expenses. I decline pecuniary risk.
I propose hereafter (but not now) to issue two other works,
—one “ Spirit Teachings,” dealing with the religious aspect
of the question; the other, “ Researches in the Phenomena
and Philosophy of Spiritualism,” dealing with the whole
subject in its experimental phases, and with the theory and
philosophy of it. These will come in due time if they find
a place.
For the present I put forward only “Essays and Reviews.”
The following friends have kindly formed themselves into a
committee with a view of carrying out business arrangements.
Those to whose name * is prefixed will receive names of
Subscribers, and Mr. Percival,. the Treasurer, will receive
subscriptions as they become due.
Details of publication will be given when it becomes clear
that the book will meet a demand. Unless a sufficient number
of copies—about 500—be subscribed for I shall consider that
it is not wise to print
I respectfully beg that no business letters may be sent to
me, as my time is already overtaxed.
“ M.A. (OXON.)."
i Names of Committee.
*Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-sq., W.
Mrs. Fitz-gerald, 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde Park, W.
♦Mrs. Tebb, 7, Albert-road, Regent’s Park, N.W.
*S. T. Speer, Esq., 13, Alexandra-road, N.W.
*C. O. Massey, Esq., 96, Portland-plaoe, W,
T. Shorter, Esq, 23, Prince of Wales’-road, N.W.
*B. Coleman, Esq., 1, Bernard-villas, Central-hill, Upper
Norwood,
F. W. Percival, Esq., 15, Conduit-street, Bond-street, W.,
Treasurer,1 to whom all Names are to be sent in,
together with all subscriptions when payable.
Subscribers who do not wish their names to be published,
should inform Mr. Percival to that effect.
HOW. TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing me.dial powers without knowing it
are to be found*in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the -
manifestations.
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is 'under¬
stood.- If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal .every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established. .
Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ? ” Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “Who is the medium?” When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the failings of humanity.
Le Comte de Bullet 
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq 
Martin R. Smith, Esq..................
Alexander Tod, Esq, 
Charles Blackburn, Esq 
Alexander Calder, Esq 
N. F. Dawe, Esq.   
G. O. Joad, Esq.../     
The Hon. A. Aksakof   
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D 
Sir Charles Isham, Bart    
M. R. I   
James Mylne, Esq.   
X 
B   
C. T   
George Sutherland, Esq  
T. E. Partridge, Esq... 
Thomas C-rant,' Esq  
The Countess of Caithness  
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun    
A Friend 
B.        
Mrs, E. Dixon  
The Rev. W. Whitear   
Dr. Baikie.....   
Miss Whitear  
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., M.R.I.
Mrs. Lowe  '.  
S. J. H.  
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S 
W. C. Pickersgill, Esq. 
w.   i
G. V.  
S. T. Speer, Esq., M.D 
W. M. Buchanan, Esq., M.D  
A. Yacher, Esq.   / 
Colonel Olcott.... 
The Baroness von Vay  
George Lee, Esq 
G. R. Tapp, Esq    
Mrs. Maltby 
B. W. Pycock, Esq.    ?
Mrs. Nosworthy ...,
C. T. Hook, Esq. ;  
Major Menars   
A. Glendinning, Esq   
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S   
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq., M.S.TeLE 
Mrs. Hennings  
Dr. George Wyld  
Miss Allen   
W. P. Adshead, Esq 
John Mould, Esq 
J. P. Turner, Esq 
J. T. Dodd, Esq 
Mrs. Jeffreys  
Miss Douglas   
John Scott, Esq 
J. C. Ferguson, Esq 
A. C. Swinton, Esq.  
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory
Mrs. Tyndall   
Lieut.-Col. Jacoby 
John Chapman, Esq 
G. F. Green, Esq 
Mrs. E. K. Beeby  
R. Catling 
E. R  
J. Hare, Esq   
M. J. WalhousS, Esq 
A Friend   
A Friend   
T. H    
Miss Pearce 
J. T. M    
£ s. d.
50 0 0
20 0 0
20 0 0
15 0 O
10 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
6 6 0
6 6 0
6 5 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
3 0 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
2 0 0
2 0 0
2 0 0
2 0 0
2 0 0
2 0 0
2 0 0
1 10 0
110
110
110
110
110
110
110
110
110
110
110
110
1 10
110
110
110
1 1 0
1 10
10 0
10 0
10 0
10 0
10 0
1'0 0
10 0
10 0
0 10 6
0 10 6
0 10 6
0 10 6
0 10 0
0 10 0
0 10 0
0 10 0
0 10 0
0 5 0
0 5 0
Subscriptions to this Fund should be remitted to W. H
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologiea di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
WANTED.—A LADY MEDICAL CLAIR-
VOYANTE, for the Diagnosis of Disease. Apply to
Mrs. Burke, 8, Upper Bedford-place, Russell-square, W.O.
A GENTLEMAN, a powerful developing
MEDIUM, is now open to receive ladies and gentlemen
of position for private development for the various phases of
mediumship. For terms apply, injflrst instance, by letter only,
with real name and address, to C. James, 2, Vernon-place,
Bloomsbury-square, London, W.C., :
CJre Spmtalxsi Ifotoappr*
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :-Half-a-
crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisement s Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“The Spiritualist” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usuallv torn up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street,
London; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue.should reach the
office not later than by the first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address Within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lod.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s. I, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.C. .
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. ALLEN, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O,
