[Registered as a Newstape •.
SK® 0 ^ ^^YdSO^OG^lCS^ $dis$H^.
S^to^ppr rjcmmdieb' foiifr Spirifualbrn in (&xmi §riiain.
THE “ SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places LONDON ! it, Ave Maria-lane, St, Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : 246, Boulevard
des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja> opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, RusselLstreet, SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
NO. 199. (Vol. VIII.—No. 24.)
LONDON: FMDAYj JUNE Ibj 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
©omenta.
Poetical Inspiration:—The Angel’s Visit—Resurgam—The
Forest—Death    277
Remarkable Test Seances in Manchester:—A Pencil, moved
by Invisible Agency, Writing before the Eyes of Ob¬
servers. By William Oxley 278
A Love Beycnd that of Earth   279
Solid Objects Floating and Moving in the Light. By Hens-
leigh Wedgwood      280
A Test Seance at the Stockport Mechanics’ Institution ... 280
The Psychological Phenomena of the Shakers Critically
Examined 281
Death-Bed Visions of Christians    ... 281
Mr. Blackburn’s Seances:—Remarkable Production of Ma¬
terialised Spirit Hands under Test Conditions. By Miss
Kislingbury ...   282
Mr. Blackburn’s Seances:—Miss Fowler under Strict Test
Conditions. By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sc  282
The Testimonial to Mr. Coleman     283
A Five Minutes’ Resolution   283
Correspondence:—The Reincarnation Doctrine—The Great
Names assumed by Certain Spirits—The Education of
the Children of Spiritualists—Further Remarkable
Seances in Manchester—Spirit Communications in Vari¬
ous Languages, including one from the Spirit of a King 284
A Spiritualistic Sermon  287
A Conference at Newcastle-on-Tyne  288
Answers to Correspondents  288
Paragraphs:—Dr. Monck at Leigh, 283; Mrs. Burke’s Spi¬
ritualistic Establishment, 283; Spiritualistic Soiree, 283;
Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, 283;
Seance at Dalston, 287; Dementia, 288; A Conjuror Re¬
buked  288
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
vj crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisement* Five
(Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ’’ is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertiser’s desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover; the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street
London ; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the! first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.O. 
T> EVUE SPIMTE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
JLw logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Soditi
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Eveniog.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application..
 FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
TO LET, FURNISHED, a Pretty Semi¬
detached Villa, with drawing, dining, and fine bedrooms
and dressing-room, kitchen, scullery, beer-closet, and pantry;
water up and down stairs; bed and table linen and plate. 64
guineas a week for four months. References given and re¬
quired. A. B., Post-office, Sandown, Isle of Wight.
Three copies post free for 6d.
The writings of emanuel Sweden¬
borg. DO THEY ENCOURAGE ADULTERY AND
ITS KINDRED VICES ? By Thomas Robinson.
Also other works by the same Author.
Address—H. Barlow and Son, Stationers, &c., Oldham-road,
Newtonheatb, near Manchester.  
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTI8MO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
■XTOTICE.—The Materialisation Seances adver-
JL31 tised for Wednesday evening at 829, Kentish-town-road
will not take place. A developing circle will be held at eight
as usual. Admission, Is,—W. Wallace,
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists,
President
HENRY D. JENOKEN, ESQ., M.R.L
Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Asso elation for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Council
Mrs. C. Ada Blyton, Mr. Jonathan Tozeland,
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. Thomas Wilks,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. John Rouse.
Honorary Secretary and Treasurer :—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms:—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E,
Extracts from Prospectus.
The objects of thi Association are to collect well-authentkat id
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by varieus means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenmgs, at 7.45 p.m. to which Members are admitted, as well
as members of similar Associations which reciprocate similar
privilege. Strangers can !only be admitted to the ordinary seance
held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted
to special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions,
reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to
which strangers are admitted under the same regulations as are
enforced on the first Thursday evening in each month. Tickets for
such ordinary meetings as may be of general interest, in connection
with the “ Brixton Psychological Society,” are also placed at the
disposal of Members of the Association by that Society m reciprocity
of the privilege granted by the Association to similar organisations.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending, the public seances ot
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can he ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. AlUthe English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines ar
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
The alliance existing between this association and the “ British
National Association of Spiritualists ” will greatly assist the mem¬
bers in their inquiries, as amongst the objects for which that
Association was established in 1873 are the following,, viz.:
To aid students and inquirers in their researches into certain
phenomena, known as Spiritual or Psychic: to assist in giving
publicity to the results of such researches: to afford Information to
inquirers into these subjects, by correspondence and otherwise: and
to collect statistical facts respecting Spiritualism.”
All communications to he addressed to tho Honorary Secretary,
at the Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A
stamped addressed envelope should be enclosed in all letters re¬
quiring replies. Copies of the prospectus, rules, circle regulations,
directions “ how to form spirit circles,” and catalogue of books in
the library, with any further information, can be obtained on appli¬
cation.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
THE ALPHA ; OR, the first principle
OF THE HUMAN MIND; A Revelation, but no Mystery,
with Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait of the Author
E. N. Dennys. “ We can call to mind few hooks fit to he its
fellows.’’—Athenxum. “It contains more truth, poetry,
philosophy, and logic, than any work we have ever read;
it is a new revelation, and one of the most remarkable produc¬
tions ever given to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
Also just published, witha beautiful Engraving of the Author
470 pages, on toned paper, handsomely bound, price 3s. 6d.
rPHE RELIGION OF LIFE, AS EXEM-
J. PLIFIED BY THE MAN JESUS CHRIST, a Series of
Lectures, by the author of “ Alpha.” A synopsis of the topics
may be obtained free on application.
CONTENTS:—What is Evil? Charity; Poverty—its Evils
and its Mission; The Divinity that Dwells in Man; The Church
of the Future; “Stand up! I myself also am a Man;” The
Path of Righteousness; Trust in God; Self-Trust; What is
Christianity ? Thy Kingdom Come! What is Man ? The “ one
thing” desired by the Psalmist; Pure Religion; Philosophy;
The Childhood of Jesus; Religious Liberty; Election and
Grace; Time; Sin; Law the Begenerator; The Last Judg¬
ment; God is not Mocked; The Unchristian Character of
Riches ; Peace; Religion Consists in Action; The Millennium,
and how to obtain it.
The work is also published in nine parts, eight at 4d. each
and one at 6d., done up in neat wrappers.
‘ THE UNCHRISTIAN CHARACTER OF RICHES” and
“RELIGION CONSISTS IN ACTION’’ are also published
separately at Id. each.
*** The cordial aid of the friends of education, intellectual
progress, and religious liberty is earnestly solicited to make
these works as widely known as possible. They contain the
most important of all knowledge, by a deep and original
thinker, and will he supplied at cost price for extensive circu¬
lation. They have been brought out in a variety of forms to
suit the means of all classes of readers.
Published by E, W. Allen, Aye Maria-lane, London, E.O. ■*
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.,
Entrance in Woburn Street.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relatipg to Sp ritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journal.*,
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Loading
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half a-Guiuea
a year includes membership, and one book from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, but not of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers have been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained through any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may he hired ou moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Sph Dualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident seere-
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38. Great Ru«se’l-'sti eat, W.C.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Ilussell-strcet
Post-offiee.
East London spiritual meetings.—
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’u
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
Spiritualism in east London.—The
QUARTERLY TEA MEETING in aid of Mr. B.
Cogman’s work in Spiritualism at the East End of London,
will he held on Sunday, June 25th, at five o’clock, at 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end, E. Tickets, Is. each.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances, &o.: Sundays, Healing, at 11 a m.,
Service at 7 p.m. Tuesday, Seance at 8 p.m.; Is. Fi iday, Seance at
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Glass at
8 p.m.; subscribers only.
SPECIAL SEANCES FOR 1NVES-
GATORS. A series of seances are to - be held on the
Tuesday afternoons of every week until further notice at tho
residence of Mrs. Woodforde, 90, Great Russell-sti eet. Usual
phenomena. Movement of objects in the light. Medium, Mr.
Arthur Coleman, who has kindly offered his services for this
especial purpose. Seances will begin at 3 p.m., punctua’ly.
Fee, 5s.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of hooks, and having placed for this purpose the whole of his
private library, consisting of 100 hooks and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by tho
gift or loan of books, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the population is nearly 80,00o, and very littlo
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism. Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
Leigh spiritualists* association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly Acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
Dr. sexton at the cavendish
ROOMS.—On Sunday evening next, at tho Cavendish
Rooms, Mortimer-street, Regent-street, Dr. Sexton will com¬
mence, by special request, a series of three discou: srs on the
“ Fallacies of Secularism.” The topics are arranged as follows:
June 4th, “Secularism, the Creed of Negations; ” 11th, “Secu¬
larism Destitute of a Moral Code;” 18th, ‘’Secularism In¬
capable of Supplying the Demands of the Intellect or the Wauls
of the Heart.” Service at seven o’clock.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, & GENERAL OUTFITTER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
established, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including
hats, shirts, a,nd umbrellas.
31
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 16, 1876.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISES.
(Established 1873.) -
President.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1,- Hereford-square, West Brompton, S .W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex*
N.W.
Eitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hiil, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.E.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq.,
Liverpool.
. Hollywood, Mrs., 52, War wick-square, S.W.
. Jencken, Henry D., M.lt.I., Ban-ister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, TV.
Rogers, E. D.,Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley,N.W
Smith, Martin R., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Tern pieman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
read, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd.,New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bennett, Edward X., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F, A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel. 4, Eisham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen's-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
, Cook, Keningale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall,Richmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K., Nightingale Hall, Richmond-hill.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Orosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. X., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, X. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Hook, C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 8, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Mansell, F. W., The Hawthorns, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
road, S.E.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, South Ken- ‘
sington, S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G.N.,Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., St. Paul’s College, Stony Stratford.
Tapp, G. R.., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
.Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withali, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin K. Smith, Esq., Heatblands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Mr. J. H. Andre,
Auditors*
Mr. H. Cook.1
Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
PrinceEmile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de I’Empereur Russie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden.
; Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bel Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Yeh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co„New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A. mm
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Gennany.
W. Lmdesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Ruasell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Numberger Strasse, 35, Gartenhaus,
Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq.,M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-ayenue, Brooklyn, New York,
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson,Esq., M.D., Albany, Mew York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., '2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A. ■
Mrs. J. M. Snear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., -5, Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennes$ee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-plane, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de TUnion, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Coli P. Jacoby, 11, Rue die Vienne, Brussels; ‘
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Rayswatef, W.
Mrs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary— George Browne,
Esq., 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
L’ Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot..
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The British Nationai. Association of Spiritualists isfomed
to unite Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid
and benefit; to aid students and inquirers in their researches, by
placing at their disposal the means of systematic investigation into
the facts and phenomena, icalled Spiritual or Psychic; to make
known the positive results arrived at by careful research; and to
direct attention to the beneficial influence which those results are
calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual con¬
duct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class, whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers
into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in
the year 1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liver¬
pool, at which all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the
Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United Kingdom, were re¬
presented. The amount of the annual subscription to the National
Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year.
Each member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is
eligible for election to all offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wish¬
ing to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss
Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38,
Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C., of whom copies of the Con¬
stitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Wobum-street.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers4 for 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.R.C.S.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr, Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Committee of Management. — Mr. J ones, Mr. J. Haslin, Mr.
William Meridith, Mrs. Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, and Miss
Dickson.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charleton, Mr. James Monk.
THE object of this Association, is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society* seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
instruction, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
February, 1875.
THE DUPLEX FUNERAL CAR,
With silvered floral ornaments, violet mouldings, &c., used
(open or closed) at funerals conducted in accordance with the
views of Spiritualists, by
S. HATOHARD AND CO.,
Furnishing Undertakhrs, Carriage Proprietors, &o
Chief Office: 47, Crawpord-street, Bryanston-
square, W.
Personal attendance at any address on receipt of letter or
telegram.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
rriHE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
 row.  
Just Published. Price 2s.
/CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London :—Simpkin, marshail a Co.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m.
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenings (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only'; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
'RS. WbODFORDE, TRANCE, HEALING,
AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing, Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship French spoken. At
home Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays.
Private Seances attended.
Notice.—Physical secmces;.with first-class mediums, held on
Thursday and Saturday evenings of each week. Admission
on Saturdays by special invitation; on Thursdays by introduc¬
tion. No one admitted after eight o’clock Fee, 5s. Mrs.
Woodforde is also open to engagements for private physical
seances at her own residence; previous notice required; fees
upon arrangement with medium.
T T. RHODES, MEDIUM, is willing to help
© in the formation of Private Circles, and give every
information to Inquirers, within a radius of twenty miles of
Newcastle. Address, 30, Tynemouth-road, Newcastle-on-
Tyne.
"ISS CHANDOS eradicates Consumption,
. Cancer, Insanity, Dypsomauia, Nervous and Infantile
Diseases. £1 per visit (within threa miles), including specifics.
By post,, monthly, £2 2s.
Full instructions in Mesmerism and Electro-biology, postal
and private, .17, Brunswick square, W.O.
l^TOTICE. — CHANGE OF RESIDENCE. —
x Mrs. Olive has removed to 15, Ainger-terrace, Ainger-
road, King Henry’s-road, Primrose-hill, N.W. Three minutes
from Chalk-farm Station; five minutes from omnibus to
Oxford-street or West-end. Seances as usual for clairvoyance,
medical mesmerism, trance, tests, &c. Private seances by
arrangement; public ditto, Tuesdays, 7 p.m., Fridays, 3 p.m.;
admission, 2s. 6d. Visits within ten miles two guineas, in¬
clusive.
PHYSICAL SEANCES, Light and Dark. Mrs. Olive has
arranged for a series of Seances with Mr. Bullock, jun., on
Mondays at 7 p.m. Admission, 5s. Materialisations and other
interesting phenomena are now constantly produced under test
conditions.
ISS GODFREY, CURATIYE MESMERIST
AND RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT,
1, Robert street, Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen
by appointment only. Terms on application by letter.
R. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
Notice.—monsieur adolphe didier,
Professor of Curative Mesmerism (80 Years Estab¬
lished), attends patients daily from 2 till 5, at his own resi¬
dence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden Hill, Kensington. Som¬
nambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases, indication of
their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can consult
by letter.
R. WILLIE EGLINTON, MEDIUM,
can be engaged for seances, morning or evening. Ad¬
dress, Mr. Willie Eglinton, St. James’s House, Waltham¬
stow.
lyflSS LOTTIE FOWLER, the Great
-Lv_I_ American Somnambuli ,t, Spiritual Clairvoyante, and
Test Medium, whose reputation is well-known throughout
Europe and America. Homs, 1 till 8 p.m. Terms, one guinea.
On Fridays and Saturdays, 10s. 6d. To those of limited means
trance seances on Monday evening at 8 p.m., 2s. Cd. Physical
seances for Spiritualists only on Thursday and Saturday evenings
at 8 o’clock, 5s. Miss Fowler does not reply to correspon¬
dence, nor see visitors on Sunday. Address—2, Vernon-place,
Bloomsbury-square, London, W.C.
jVTEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
-i-v-IL VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for fid.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTION FOR THE
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington, A good “ Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. fid.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
Seances at kentish-town.—Mr. w.
Wallace, formerly known as the Missionary Medium
has made arrangements for a Seance every Wednesday evening,
at which Mr. Bullock, jun., will assist as medium. 7.30 for 8
precisely; 329, Kentish-town-road, N.W. (a few doors from
the Midland Railway Station). Omnibuses pass the door
Admission, 2s. fid.
SUSIE FLETCHER, the great American
Trance Medium and Magnetic Healer, has taken rooms
at No. 2, Vernon-place, Bloomsbury-square, London, W.O.,
where, during the month of June, she may be consulted .
Terms, one guinea. Treatment to the poor on Saturday morn¬
ings free. Will answer calls to lecture.
A LADY of Culture, having passed a hospital,
jljL. is anxious to obtain an engagement as MONTHLY
NURSE, where no menial work is required. Reference to
Medical man. Terms five guineas a month, or according to
circumstances. Apply to the Secretary, British National
Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
WANTED by a Young Lady a situation as
COMPANION to a Lady Medium and Clairvoyant.
Would not object to trance.—T.Y.,‘T6, Stafford-street, Maryle-
bone-road, W.
$f yjjtrtal
Volume JEJiqht. K
ntfo iif
UMBER TWENTY-FOUR.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JUNE 16th, 1876.
POETICAL INSPIRATION.
The poet has long been supposed to live nearer to heaven
than others; to breathe a purer, a diviner air, and to live by-
inspiration from the realms above. Spiritualism furnishes
evidence that this opinion as to the source whence all
inspiration comes is true, and that the poetical gift consti¬
tutes one of the highest kinds of what may be called u normal
mediumship.” All persons who possess strong medial gifts
are impulsive and passionate in a high degree, and those of
them whose aspirations tend to grow more in an animal than
a spiritual direction, are most able to exhibit those
tangible proofs of spirit-power which are known as physical
manifestations. As the love of the medium for the things of
earth departs, and the aspiration for the things of heaven
gains the ascendency, so do the physical manifestations dis¬
appear, and while all the emotional characteristics of the
medium remain, the life of the individual is passed upon a
higher plane, and the revelations given through him from
the world above are of a higher order.
There appear to be two kinds of poetical mediumship. In
the one the individual passes into a state of trance, and in
the other he remains in the normal condition ; in the latter
case the utterances given through his organism from the
world above, are subjected to the criticism of his judgment
before they are allowed to pass under the notice of the public;
in the first case there is no such restriction. The barrier
dividing these two conditions of the poetical mind appears|
to be a narrow one. Goethe, when writing his poems, would
occasionally pass into an almost unconscious state, and his
pen, like that of a writing medium, would sometimes be
driven without the effort of his will. Coleridge, again, who
usually wrote in his normal state, composed and committed
to paper one of his finest poems, “ Kublai Khan,” while in
a somnambulic sleep. The poetic gift is thus one of the
truest and highest forms of inspiration, and as such is
inseparably connected with Spiritualism. In recognition of
this fact we, some years ago, invited amateur poets in the
ranks of Spiritualism to send us short specimen contribu¬
tions, with the result that a few were received, but not of
such quality as to be worth printing. Within the last few
days, however, we have discovered a young lady (aged six¬
teen), who possesses rare poetical gifts, and as a specimen
of her work the following lines, which were written by her
when thirteen years of age, may be quoted :—
THE ANGEL’S VISIT.
As the angry wind came sweeping
O’er the heaving ocean wild,
Sat a mother sadly weeping
By the death-bed of her child ;
And she cried in bitter sorrow,
“ Oh, my Father, hear my prayer,
Grant me that a brighter morrow
Dawn npon my dark despair.”
When lo! a voice said slowly,
“ I have brought a message holy
From the God whom mortals love,
Through the starry courts of Heaven,
Down the purple mists of even,
Have I borne it from above.”
And the weary mother raising
Her sad eyes, and upward gazing,
Saw an angel pure and bright—
Though his face was pale as .marble
And his flowing robe was sable
Fringed with rays of silver light.
Then her bitter tears fell faster,
With a grief she could not master,
And more heavy grew her heart;
Seemed the angel’s eyes to glisten
As he spake, “ Oh, sad one, listen,]
Whilst God’s message I impart.
(t From the far Islands of the Blest,
At His dread word I come,
To give unto the weary rest,
To lead the wanderer home.
/1 In heaven nothing stirs the calm
(i That gives worn souls relief,
y ]; And kindred spirits bear a balm
r|: To.comfort every grief.
y ] r . “ For, in those wond’rous halls and bowers
) j Where gently fall the crystal showers,
|i; And swiftly fly the golden hours
(I In love and light away,
Our joyful Allelujah’s ring,1
) I And angel choirs for ever sing
; | Hosanna to the Living King
(| For ever and for aye.
(| § Let me bear thy tender blossom
(i Far away upon my bosom,
v;j Through the clear blue morning skies.
Let him be as one immortal,
) i Passing through the golden portal,
(i -To the mystic paradise.
\ | If on this cold earth he lingers,
) I Soon will sorrow’s heavy fingers
) I Leave their traces on his brow;
u Yes, 0 sad one, thou shalt meet him—
) j As a radjant saint shalt greet him,
) i And though all despairing now,
i j Still thy child shall watch above thee,
(j More than all things else to love thee,
) ] Tenderly still guiding thee
) i To a blest eternity.”
) j Even as the words were spoken
) I 1 )id the angel raise the child,
(j And the mother, nigh heart broken,
(| Spake in accents low and wild',—
j I “ Gome and soothe this mourning heart:
) I Speak, beloved, ere we part! ”
(] Rose the child-voice faint, yet clear—
\! u Gome and kiss me, mother dear.”
f j   High and higher still ascending,
(j As the summer day was dawning,
j! ’Mid the clouds their pathway wending,
) | In the glory, of the morning,
( | Through the happy azure skies
y i Till, beyond the golden portal,
j i They had reached the land immortal—
) | Reached the mystic paradise.
The following is another of her poems, written more
j recently, and displaying more concentration of style :—
( ! BESUBGAM.
c! The winter is drawing nearer,
\ 1 The autumn is almost done,
) j The ruddy fruits in the orchard
) j Hang ripe in the golden sun.
(| The trees are arrayed in glory,
(j And softly the faint winds creep ;
j! Yet Nature is silently waiting,
/ j Her season of tranquil sleep.
j | The swallows—glad heralds of summer—
) j Fly forth on their passage again,
/! The flowers lie dead in the valley,
(j No blossoms are found in the glen ;
> | And the stream in its sleepy murmur,
) j O’er meadow, and upland, and lea,
(I Seems to know that with winter is coming
\ i The loss of its liberty.
(j And I, too, .•am silently waiting ;
\! The daylight is waning, I know;
j ] The shadows of night are falling,
) i Death cometh with footsteps slow.
l \ Yet surely, surely he cometh,
j j ! And I from the world must part;
) I Even now I feel that his fingers
) I Are busy around my heart.
) | I shall not sleep less securely
) | That I bear not a wreath of fame,
( ; And that all I can carry with me
(j Is a pure, unsullied name ;
> j I feel no pang at the parting—
) ] Life’s waves are so hard to breast;
| (j The battle is all for the mighty,
i (] I am weary, and longing for rest.
| ( ] When the spring-time of earth is returning
i \ I The land will awaken again ;
]) I The trees will put forth fresh branches,
j) I And the river will burst its chain ;
] ( | The swallows will come o’er the ocean,
] (I The violet will hide in the shade ;
i J I The cowslip and delicate primrose
1 (j Will bud in the sheltering glad*.
278
THE SPIEITUALIST.
June 16, 1876.
And I—I too shall awaken,
And the gates of the tomb be riven ;
Jly spirit will then mount upward
To the beautiful Courts of Heaven.
I shall pass through the “many mansions,”
And kneel at the Grand White Throne,
And surrounded by countless angels
Shall worship the Great Unknown.
I shall walk in a land of glory,
And out in the golden gleam ;
I shall see the face of the Master,
Of which I so often dream.
And I know though the flowers be waving
All over my long last bed,
I shall live in the hearts that love me—
To them I shall ne’er be dead.
The foregoing' poem somewhat resembles, in genius and
in style, those by the late Alice Carey. For the purpose of
comparison, the following lines by Alice Carey may be
quoted :—
THE FOREST.
I once had a little brother,
With eyes that were dark and deep,
And there in that dim old forest,
He lieth in peace asleep ;
Light as the down on the thistle,
Free as the winds that blow,
We roamed there the beautiful summers,
The summers of long ago.
But his feet on the hills grew weary,
Till one of the Autumn eves,
I made for my little brother
A bed of the yellow leaves j
Sweetly his pale arms folded,
My neck in a meek embrace,
As the light of immortal beauty,
Silently covered his face.
And when the arrows of sunset
Lodged in the treetops bright,
He fell in his saint-like beauty
Asleep by the gates of light.
Therefore of all the pictures
That hang on Memory’s wall,
The one of the dim old forest
Seemeth the best of all.
In conclusion, we quote one more specimen of the genius
of the youthful poetess, who wishes to be known only by her
initials, C. A. B.:—
HEATH.
Why should we call Death cruel ? rather say
Good Death and kind, who comes to take away
The load we cannot bear,
Who leads the wounded from the battle fray
With tender, loving care.
Magical Death, who calms the wildest heart,
Who calls the mourner from his bitter part,
And gives the toiler rest;
We must await his hand in patience, and not start
When it invades our breast.
Wonderful Death; strong arm to bear us on,
Far beyond planet and glad shining sun,
Where soft white clouds are riven,
Whither our loved ones are already gone
To the fair Courts of Heaven.
Pitiful Death; more pitiful than Life,
Who leads us into paths where thorns are rife
To tear all tender feet;
Thou guid’st us from the tumult and the strife
To peace and rest complete.
And if we rise not—to a solemn sleep.
Unutterably motionless and deep,
Which nought can ever break,
From which if wild storms rave, or soft winds sweep,
We shall no more awake.
Full many pass, in all their early prime,
In youth’s glad spring to that fair clime,
Released from earthly woes,
Whilst others must grow grey and sere with time,
Ere they may find repose.
Strange mystery; yet still the round world rolls,
Guarded and guided, it is God controls,
Who gives us life and breath ;
May we so live that we may yield pure souls
To the strong arms of Death.
Parted asunder, we shall meet again
Suffering, yet shall we live untouched by pain
On yonder love-lit shore,
Where Death comes not, but perfect Life will reign
For aye and evermore.
Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld attended the ordinary weekly siance
of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism on Thursday
evening last week, when he presented some copies of his pamphlet,
Spiritualism; its Causes and Effects, for distribution, and also a copy of
his photograph for the album of the Association.
| | REMARKABLE TEST SEANCES IN MANCHESTER.
j (I A PENCIL, MOVED BT INVISIBLE AGENCY, WRITING BEFORE THE EYES OF
| v] OBSERVERS.
l l’l BY WILLIAM OXLEY.
jij As u tests p seem to be vested with peculiar charms in the
m minds of a critical observers” of Spiritualistic phenomena,
| |j I give the particulars under which the three following seances
jfj occurred; but I wish to observe, the u tests ” were proposed
! j by the invisible operating agency. The result of my obser-
iij vations is to show that, as a rule, the same power which
I j causes the manifestations can and does (except in especial
| | instances) neutralise the value of many tests proposed and
| | applied by the sceptical mind. All investigators will, I am
| | sure, endorse the truth of this by their own experience, in
I*! the feeling of doubt still existing even after the application
I I of the most severe tests, that there was some point over-
I j looked, or some loophole left unguarded, or something still
i i unsatisfactory.
Now, what is the reason for all this uncertainty, unless
|]l itself is a standing testimony to the worthlessness of mere
| | tests of the natural mind, when applied to the discovery of
I j spiritual action and spiritual laws? For it must end as the
I | vain effort to discover the soul in the material body. The
| | soul or spirit has given abundant proof that it can act
I j independently of all known natural (so-called) laws; to
I | arrive at anything like a correct knowledge of spiritual
| I laws and operation, there must be the cultivation of spiritual
I j states within the minds of investigators; at least, such is
| | the result of my experience, and careful and thoughtful
| | observations. I have invariably found that by following
I I the instructions, and not dictating to the controlling forces
I | or spirits, the most satisfactory tests or proofs of intelligent
I I outside operators have been given. Now for the par-
||| ticulars :—
| On Wednesday evening, June 7 th, I called on Dr. Monck
m at his lodgings, 81, Bury New-road, Manchester, with no
i jl intention of having u a sitting.” After conversing together
I I for some time, I proposed that we two should have a sitting
I | alone, to which he consented at once. After turning down
| | the gas-light a little, but leaving sufficient to see clearly
| | every object in the room, his controlling spirit, r, Samuel,”
j j soon made his presence known, and congratulated me on the
| I fact of my being alone with him, saying also that he would give
I | me proof of spiritual power. Dr. Monck, in a semi-trance
I | state, then took a white lawn handkerchief out of his pocket,
| | and folding a sheet of note-paper, new and quite clean, and
| free from any marks, placed it on the table between us (he
| ! sitting on one side, and I on the other opposite), with my
I ; Mordan’s ivory pencil on the paper. Then he put the kerchief
| | over both, and in a few seconds I saw the pencil project
II itself outside the kerchief, about two inches of the end being
j : visible; it then commenced to write, and moved three
| I times across the surface of the paper, evidently in
I j the act of writing (our four hands being thirty inches away
j | from the pencil); the pencil then dropped, and, taking up
| I the kerchief, the paper was found with three lines of good
II writing, containing a message of congratulation for myself.
| j Samuel” then said, “Take hold of my medium’s hands,
| | ‘and don’t leave go till I tell you, but first shut off the light.”
I I He then said, “A strange spirit wants to come, who says
|| his name is ‘Joey,’ and he wants me to come and help his
I I medium, as he is in trouble, some evil spirits having obtained
| I power to gain possession. But mind what I say. They are
| | evil—or unprogressed—spirits, and I wish you to testify to
| | this.” I immediately recognised Joey as the controlling
i | spirit of a gifted medium, and replied, “ Let him come, for
1 | he has come for a special purpose.” Joey then (drawing
| | power from the medium—as Samuel said) commenced
| | operations by taking the small musical box, which was on
|jl another table about eight feet from that at which we were
jjl sitting, and floating it about the room, winding it up as it
| | was being floated. It played for a few minutes, and finally
Ijl came down on the table between us. The large musical
| | box was then forcibly thrust against my left arm, and pushed
|| between our hands; then a chair was put on the top of the
j|j table, and before saying if Good night,” Joey ransacked the
| | papers and letters of Dr. Monck, and spread them in different
| y parts of the room. Finally, he said that he would smash the
June 16, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
279
sma llmusical box case, but would not injure tbe musical j
part; the case was afterwards found in five parts, in as many |
different places. I then lighted the gas, when a scene of j
disorder presented itself; the coats, rugs, chairs and papers, ||
&c., were found in a state of utter confusion. j
All the above, and more besides, occurred while I had firm |
hold of both Dr. Monck’shands, and if this is not sufficient. |
test, then I know not what would be clearer evidence. !
Last evening, June 8th, we had & seance at which there j
were seven present, exclusive of the medium; one gentle- j
man had not been at a before. We had a repetition j
of the writing phenomenon precisely the same as narrated |
before, which all distinctly saw and testified to. A small !
slate was then given to me to clean. Dr. Monck then took j
it, and holding it with one finger and thumb under the !
table, a message was written out in three seconds in a beau- j
tifully clear hand, totally unlike the medium’s hand-writing, j
Mr. Reimers was then told to sit on the table (which was a j
four-legged one), when it was lifted about four inches from j
the floor, and put down again, all the legs being raised, j
This experiment was afterwards repeated with me. (Mr. j
Reimers weighs sixteen stone, and I weigh ten and a half.) ||
All this occurred in good light. Then an astounding pheno- j
menon occurred in the same light. The medium asked me |
for my pencil, and taking it in his right hand he put it on j
the top of the large musical box, which was lying on the j
table, and said, u Look at your pencil. Is it all right ?” I j
then found the catch of the slide was wanting, to which he j
replied, “ It is perhaps inside.” On opening the lid of the j
box, on the top of the glass cover of the musical parts, there j
lay the screw-catch and a small piece of the lead. Here |
was a clear case, in a good light, of solid matter passing j
through solid matter before our very eyes.
The medium then told the sitters on his right and j
left hand to put their hands on his, leaving the circle intact j
by the touch of their other hands, thus having four hands j
on each of his, when the large musical box was wound up j
and floated round the heads of the sitters (this box weighs j
16 lbs.). Then placing itself on the table in obedience to |
my request, it played quarter, half-three-quarter, full and !
double full time, stopping between each at my request, j
Three hand-bells were then taken up and rung all together, |
also the two tambourines; and finally, in answer to a re- |
quest of one of the sitters, a luminous hand appeared, and, i
taking hold of the large musical box, started it, and then i
floated it in the air, the hand being distinctly seen grasping |
the box. A stranger then announced his presence, and ad- i
dressing one of the sitters by name, said he was “ Charles j
Drawbridge,” who in earth life was a somewhat eccentric j
man and Baptist preacher at Wellingboro’, in Northampton- j
shire. He gave many proofs of his identity by reminding |
the gentleman to whom he addressed himself of several of i
his sayings and eccentricities, some of which the sitter had j
quite forgotten, but remembered them when reminded by !
the spirit; he also gave two tests in reference to which the |
gentleman was to make inquiries, and he would thus prove I
the genuineness of the appearance. He lastly gave us an i
address, and told us he was still human, and had all to un- j
learn of what he in earth life had believed and preached as |
truth. He had, he said, to come back again to the earth, j
and by so doing he would be able the sooner to ascend to |
higher spheres. j
Thus ended this remarkable seance. Many other things j
occurred which your space forbids me to enumerate, but I |{
have stated sufficient to prove, I think, that the absence of li
tests on our part is the surest way to obtain the most satis- I!
factory results. |
Another phase of Dr. Monck’s mediumship is the gift of I
healing with which he is invested. 1 can testify to at least j
two coming under my own personal knowledge. Both j
patients were my own workmen, good steady men. One was j
off his work two or three weeks, suffering from neuralgia of j
the brain nerves, and in addition had been blind three days |
from the effect of a stroke on the eye by a piece of iron ; j
the other was suffering from bronchitis, which had troubled |
him all the winter, and which threatened to become fatal.
His brother died from same complaint three weeks ago.
Both these men went to Dr. Monck, who described their j
symptoms as soon as he saw them, they not having spoken
to him concerning their ailments. In about three days both
these men were perfectly restored, and are quite willing to
testify to the reality of their diseases and their cures, i
On Saturday evening, June 10th, I and Mr. Marsh called
on Dr. Monck, and had a short sitting. On turning off the
gas I took the left hand of the medium between both mine,
Mr. Marsh doing the same with the medium’s right hand,
my left foot and Mr. Marsh’s right foot being placed on the
medium’s feet; we were both then touched by the spirit
hands on the face and head, and lightly pinched about our
legs. The large musical box was then floated off the table
and carried about six feet away, and the lever which winds
up the barrel was taken off and came down on the table,
when Samuel said to me, “We have taken the lever off, and
you will not be able to fix it after, and start the box.” This
was true, as I found the ratchet and other parts had been so
altered that I could not properly replace them. Three tunes
were then played, which were not in the box at, all, but
which the operator improvised; in other words, they were
tunes which formed no part of the six tunes which the box
is made to play ; the music also stopped and played at
different speeds at my request.
The spirit Bertie, who materialises through another
medium (who was not present with us) then made her
presence known by a peculiar chink of her silver gilt cross.
This small cross was presented to Bertie by Mr. Rierners
some months ago, and she declares he is not to have it re¬
turned to him, but that she intends to keep it, and will
never part with it. Being desirous of testing the reality of
this I requested that Bertie would touch me with it, when
actually she laid it on my hand and drew it across my face
three times, doing the same to Mr. Marsh. All this was
done while the medium was held by us in the manner above
described, so that here was a most complete test; none but
our three selves were in the room, and the door was locked
with the key inside the lock. We had then seven distinct
spirit voices speaking through a roll of paper, which ap¬
peared to be six feet away from where we were sitting ; all
these voices were well known to us.
“ Truth is stranger than fiction.”
Higher Broughton, Manchester, June 9th, 1876.
A LOVE BEYOND THAT OF EARTH.
The following spirit message was given through the
writing mediumship of a lady:—
“ In heaven love joins all in softest bonds ; no element of
discord is known or could be endured for an instant; it
would send a jar painful in the extreme through the whole of
heaven. As, when a single nerve of the body is subjected to
violence, the whole system responds with an exquisitely pain¬
ful sympathy, so in heaven a single thought or emotion
discordant to the general harmony of love, would send a
thrill of agony through every breast. Souls then must be
trained to that state of harmonious response which will
enable them to belong to the company of the brighter beings
who form heaven, and this is brought about by degrees
through states of trial, whereby all the old earthly inhar¬
monious conditions are put off, and the soul gradually
grows into the harmony of love, and by self-exertion con¬
stantly preserves that harmony in perfection, as man
instinctively strives for health on earth. This effected, a
soul is fitted to enter heaven, being no longer repugnant to
its life ; and it enters, giving forth, as flowers their perfume,
those exquisite auras, those soul-fragrances which are the
outbreathings of a purified nature, which clothe it around
with celestial glory, and with god-like comeliness. Sending
itself out before itself, the approach of such a being would
be felt as surpassing rapture. The higher the state, the
nearer to god-like perfection, the more overpowering is
the entrancing sweetness, inducing worship upon inferior
souls, who prostrate themselves in delighted adoration,
drinking in the new revelations of divinity possessed and
given forth by the glorious one, and raised by the very pre¬
sence into a higher state for all eternity. No man lost in a
transport of admiration of the beauty and sweetness of a
perfect woman given for the first time to his gaze, but feels
that he has been lifted into a higher state by the new reve¬
lation made to his mind, and senses. His spirit bends in
280
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 16, 1876.
blissful worship, and never, to all eternity, is the uplifting ||
effect of the few short moments of ecstasy lost to him. j j
Such is the effect of visits from the higher angels to their i||
brethren occupying lower grades of existence; but how j i
much greater is the worshipping rapture of souls so trans- j j
parent in their purity that they may gaze upon the effulgence j j
of divinity. This is indeed to see God; thus doth He give j j
Himself to His beloved. ! j
It is folly to suppose a soul recently risen from earth-life j j
can attain to this state of super-excellence instantaneously, j j
Even in souls of the highest training on earth, there exist j j
certain peculiarities of discord which have to be discovered j j
and eliminated. As an experienced tuner will strike a | |
note again and again, subjecting it to repeated modifications | I
until it rises to the proper pitch of harmony with other notes, j i
so even the most elevated soul from the earth, feeling its j |
discordance painful, puts off from itself with continued j j
efforts all inharmonious elements, until it rises into the i j
heaven of perfect love, when, bathed in its own aromas of | j
celestial sweetness, it soon finds its allotted place amongst |||
souls affinitised to itself, and becomes conjoined with them j j
by indissoluble links of harmony. t
Heaven is one in the perfection of harmony—love makes I j
that oneness, that harmony. Counterparts of souls are j j
blended in complete oneness, and brother and sister souls j j
in fraternal interchange of interior excellences. No soul j(j
thinks itself complete without the perfect correspondence of m
other souls, hence no soul can possess anything for itself j |
alone ; receiving, it longs to give. No beauty, no excellence, | |
no divine outbreathing is received by a soul which is not imme- i |
diately imparted, going forth as an effluence throughout the jij
whole of heaven; and as these effluences proceed from myriads jd
of souls, constantly receiving, according to their capacities, |>i
from the Fountain Source of excellence, so there is an infinite j |
variety in the beauty, excellence, and consequent delight of j j
heaven. Id
Elevated thus into the very bosom of God, filled by the j|j
divine inflowing—pure, unobstructing, transparent—an angel j |
becomes the embodiment of the Spirit of God, and is to lower jSj
ones a divine presence, wearing the likeness of God; a being j(j
of love, beneficence, and almost omnipotence, and God-like j|j
action, and existence. As all heaven is one, all angels are jjj
one, by the very perfection of harmony, correspondence, jd
love ; and as one angel, so myriads of angels, moved on by jd
the Divine Will—obedient as a body to a mind, or spirit— j|j
may proceed through the universe, forming new worlds for j<|
human residence, governing them, and eventually raising jcj
the inhabitants, incarned souls, to angelic glory.”
^ . j(i
SOLID OBJECTS FLOATING AND MOVING IN THE LIGHT. Ij
BY HENSLEIGH WEDGWOOD.
I attended a seance of Mr. Clarence at 15, Southampton- jij
row, on Friday, and the attendance was so meagre that I |(|
think it cannot be generally known how striking are the j(j
phenomena exhibited under his mediumship.' The other j(j
sitters were only Mr. Swinburne, Mr. Williams, and another jj]
gentleman, a stranger to me, I holding Mr. Clarence’s hand j(j
firmly the whole time. The phenomena of the dark stance jjj
began immediately and went on without interruption, argu- j j
ing the simultaneous action of several operators. Both Mr. j j
Clarence and Mr. Williams were floated in the air, which j>j
seemed to make Mr. Clarence very nervous, and on his call- j(j
ing for a light the matchbox was found to have been spirited jij
away, but the gentleman opposite me mentioning that he jjj
had one in his pocket I requested the spirits to bring it m
me. I immediately felt a small matchbox put into the j|j
hand by which I was holding Mr. Clarence; Mr. Williams Hj
was lying entranced on the table supported on a large j(j
mattress, which had been brought from the sofa. As soon j/j
as he came to himself we sat in the light, the gas only a jj!
little turned down, and all the furniture in the room seemed ||
alive. A chair flew over the table from one side to the other, j j
striking the gentleman opposite me in its fall. Then the j j
table floated, waving to and fro, next began to move, push- jjj
ing Mr. Williams backwards till he was jammed up against m
the wall, we all standing up following, and one of the chairs }|j
also following, no one touching it. Different things were jjj
thrown about. Mr, Swinburne put a book down on the ^
table in the middle of us, requesting them to move it so that
we might all see the commencement of motion. It was left
for some time, but when we were not observing it was
whisked away and thrown into the fender. It was brought
back again to the same place, and lay there till the seance
broke up, but just as we were standing up and going away
it came again flying through the air and struck me on the
arm. Mr. Clarence pressed us to go, and led the way, but
while we were looking up our things in the front]room, and
even in the shop downstairs, things kept being thrown down.
I was the last to leave, and was just beginning to descend
the stairs when I heard a slight noise behind me, and look¬
ing back I saw that the shutter used to darken the window,
which might be about five feet high by nearly three feet wide,
had been brought after me, and was standing on the landing
place against the bannister, blocking up the way between
me and the door through which I had just come out.
31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, June 10th, 1876.
A TEST SEANCE AT THE STOCKPORT MECHANICS’
INSTITUTION.
From *;The Stockport Advertiser”
When Mr. Bamford, of Macclesfield, gave the seance at the Stockport
Mechanics’ Institution three weeks ago, and of which we published a
detailed account, from personal observation, only a limited number of
persons was permitted to be present, but an undertaking was given
that another seance should follow before a larger audience as soon as
convenient. Since then, the committee of non-believers in Spiritualism
have been in communication with Mr. Bamford and other Spiritualists,
and another seance was arranged for Tuesday night, at the Mechanics’
Institution. Invitations were issued to about a couple of dozen non-
Spiritualists, and some half-dozen Spiritualists were present, in addition
to Mr. Bamford and his two sons. As on the last occasion, a committee
of four—in fact, the same individuals, with one exception—undertook to
test the “manifestations’’ through Mr. Bamford’s two little boys, and,
if possible, fathom the mystery which hung over the last seance.
One of Mr. Bamford’s sons, having been bound by the legs to a chair,
first tried to obtain music from an accordion (which had been previously
examined to see that there was no secret mechanism about it) by
holding it with one hand under the table; but the spirits did not appear
to be in a musical mood. His arms and legs were then more firmly
secured, his hands being strongly fastened behind him by means of
tapes securely and tightly stitched, and every precaution having been
used by the committee wliich ingenuity could suggest to prevent trickery,
the lights were turned low, and the company, seated round the room,
waited in breathless expectation for a “manifestation;” but there came
none, and, in answer to inquiries, the spirits intimated by knocks that
the conditions were not suitable. A different process of pinioning was
therefore adopted, and the boy was enveloped up to the neck in a black
calico bag, the same precautions being used by the committee as before.
Still, with no better success. Two or three of the company being
inclined to turn the affair to ridicule, the spirits, by tapping, spelt out
the words: “ Let the man go out.” Several efforts were made to
ascertain who was the objectionable person, and, the proceedings
becoming rather tedious, and a number of the audience, believing there
would be no “ manifestation,” then left the room. No sooner had they
gone, however, than the spirits began in earnest, and a mouth-organ,
which had been placed on the boy’s knee (he being behind the screen),
was dashed with considerable force to the floor. This was followed by
the ringing of a bell such as milkmen use : yet, when the curtain was
raised quickly, the boy was found seated as left, securely stitched and
tied: a precaution which was taken by the committee after each “mani¬
festation.” A gentleman’s ring was placed on the boy’s knee, and in
three-quarters of a minute it was “ spirited ” through the bag on to his
finger; and a watch disappeared in the same way into his waistcoat
pocket. A hat and a zinc bucket, placed on his knees, found their way
on to his head; and a mouth-organ, placed in the same position, was heard
giving forth musical sounds, such as would be produced by the instru¬
ment being moved quickly backwards and forwards before his mouth,
and, on the curtain being raised, was found in the boy’s mouth. In the
same mysterious manner writing was executed, both in a book and on a
slate; yet, when the boy was taken out of the bag and subjected to close
scrutiny, his fetters did not appear to have been disturbed in the least.
As a final “manifestation,” it was decided again to try the accordion
under the table, and, although the boy kept one hand in view of the
company, and held the instrument at the wind end, it began to play in
good time the tune usually associated with the hymn, “ Shall we gather
at the river ?” and concluded with “ God save the Queen.” The party
had every opportunity afforded them for satisfying themselves that the
boy was securely tied, and had no apparent means of using either his
arms, hands, or legs; and, sceptical as most were about the spirit-
power, they could offer no solution of the mystery.
Two gentlemen holding public offices in the town expressed their
inability to account for the phenomena, and one moved a resolution to
the effect that what they had witnessed was totally inexplicable to their
comprehension. The motion, having been seconded, was unanimously
agreed to.
Mr. Reimers suggests that Mr. Binney should send the paraffin
moulds of different colour, which he obtained in the presence of Mr.
Eglinton, to the National Association of Spiritualists,
June 16, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
281
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA OF THE SHAKERS
CRITICALLY EXAMINED.
(From the Isle of Wight u Earwig
That mesmerism does not furnish an elucidation of the Shaker
mystery has been, we consider, conclusively established by a well-known
clergyman in a neighbouring town, who visited the Shaker party pri¬
vately during their stay at Portsmouth. From the published account
of his visit we extract the following:—
“ During the early part of the singing, one of the sisters was noticed
to be under influence. With eyes closed, and a quiet, rapt, and beau¬
tiful expression of face, she began to speak—mirabile dictu—in Hebrew.
She then made signals to another sister, who came over to her, and,
standing embraced at one time, and kneeling at another, this sister soon
came under influence, and began to interpret what the other uttered.
Then, after a time, the order was reversed, and the second sister began
to speak in Italian, while the first translated for her; and one was
voluble in French, who, as I afterwards ascertained, knew no French in
her normal state, and who, while speaking, was characteristically
French all over. And so prayers, quotations of Scripture, and sweet
sisterly, tender, and playful conversations on spiritual things took place
between them in various tongues, together with a little singing of
exquisite sweetness—weird and spiritual on the part of one—in what to
me appeared like Hindostanee.
“ After a time Mrs. Girling herself came under influence, and began
to talk in verse or rhyme, for her speech ran in couplets, and there was
much ingenuity in making the words jingle. I also found that in her
ecstacy she had the power of mind-reading, since she somewhat, and
rhythmically, set forth various matters that were uppermost in my
thoughts. Much that she said was utter nonsense, of course, but all
that was said was said in rhyme, rapidly and with considerable action,
which, after a little space, culminated in a positive dance, or easy round¬
about jump—arms waving, and lips prodigal of verse at the same
time.”
The Rev. Thomas Colley has done good and important service to the
Shakers, though we suspect the publication of his letter has led them to
look upon him somewhat as one who entered their society as a spy.
His scholarly training has qualified him to explode the mesmeric theory
that the whole community are poor biologised subjects of the “ designing
and wicked mother.” His visit to the Shakers has scarcely, however,
as we think, established a close similitude between their trance pheno¬
mena and those obtained through the acknowledged spirit medium.
There is, so to speak, a uniqueness about the former—certain constant
distinctive features differing from the ordinary spiritual phenomena;
such, for instance, as the beyond measure strange phrase called “passing
from life to death, and from death to life,” during which, we are assured,
the vital functions are often to all appearance completely suspended,
and a horrible odour of death emanates from the body, though con¬
sciousness is in a measure retained. Again, the spirit mediums, nearly
one and all, declare that the exercise of their medial powers has a very
exhausting tendency. The Shakers, on the contrary, constantly assure
us that the influence of the spirit which controls them is in the highest
degree conducive to bodily health, and that they feel strengthened and
refreshed even after one or two hours of continuous dancing; this state¬
ment is certainly substantiated by the healthful condition of the family
under conditions which would have killed or invalided for life, at least,
one half of one hundred and twenty persons taken at haphazard from
amongst us. But there are further differences to perplex and mystify
us. We have often heard of the controlling intelligence at spirit circles
personating Christ, and even the “ Holy Spirit,” but we do not remember
to have ever heard of the case of a medium who was obsessed by but
one spirit only; other spirits invariably intrude, and say their say. On
the contrary the Shakers present the astonishing fact of a hundred or
more mediums drawn together by some occult influence, all acted upon,
as they distinctly assert, solely by an intelligent power that sinks all
other individuahty in the “ Holy Spirit.” The singularity of the Shaker
phenomena does not, however, end even here. The ordinary spiritual
medium is a very different person in physical, mental, and moral ten¬
dencies to the New Forest Shaker ; at least, as far as we can discover.
There is the authority of the editor of the Spiritual newspaper for the
statement, that a proportion of physical mediums are, either from natural
predisposition, or made so by the tyrannical action of the degraded
spirits who sometimes surround them, most unlimited liars—the cunning
fabricators of complete dramas of malicious fictions, and are the slaves
of an abnormal jealousy of each other, so strangely fierce as to have no
parallel in anything ever witnessed among average mortals. This state¬
ment is made to apply to mediums who obtain strong physical manifes¬
tations, but we have grounds for the opinion that among mediums for the
higher intellectual phenomena, there exists a prevalence of moral
idiosyncrasies that are often not of an elevating or unselfish character.
Now, we have certainly not been able to detect the least evidence of
this shocking deceitfulness and intense selfishness, or other minor moral
weaknesses, among these Hordle mediums. It is true that some points of
resemblance may be discovered between the Shaker phenomena and
those witnessed in ecstatics and convulsionaries, vast waves of which
strange influence swept over Morzine, on the borders of France, and over
Madagascar a few years since, violently affecting immense numbers of
their populations; and some still closer points of resemblance can be
traced in the revivals and “ Twirling Glory’s” of our own country.
After all, however, there is about the Hordle revival outbreak a
constant, lofty, practical purpose cropping out of its seemingly ridi¬
culous and weird mysteries, which, together with the abnormal power
of endurance it confers, has puzzled men of deep thought and wide
experience. The Rev. A. Clissold, an ordained clergyman, and, more¬
over, a Swedenborgian, and therefore more familiar with ecstatic
spiritual phenomena, after watching them with almost persecuting
! tenacity, acknowledges himself beaten. Mr. Auberon Herbert, another
neighbour (a man of wide reputation as a powerful and unconventional
thinker), cannot believe in the imposture theory, seeing that he is
willing to give them anything they may require if they will but ask
him for it—a severe test to people very often with empty bellies and an
empty purse. Mr. Cowper Temple, “ the son of Earl Cowper, nephew
of Lord Melbourne, brother-in-law to the Earl of Shaftesbury, step-son
I of Lord Palmerston, and inheritor of his name and estates,” can
scarcely be a man likely to lend his interest to a set of “ disgusting and
blaspheming impostors.” They must have fully secured his respect and
his confidence in their moral quahties, if nothing more, before he would
I have permitted one of them to escort Mrs. Cowper Temple into dinner.
And it was such as these whom the intelligent Christian people of the
Island sought to wipe their feet upon.
Supreme as is the contempt in which the Shakers are held alike by
| the “Liberal” and the Conservative working-classes, and hated and
! scorned as they are by nearly all professing Christians, they present to
us the much-needed, highly instructive example of a community of all
i ages and of both sexes holding their property in common; living to-
| gether amicably, without jars or wrangling, under the noble principle
|* embodied in their motto—“each for all and all for each;” bound
| together by bonds of attachment, seemingly of almost superhuman
strength, supporting them under privations, which, to recount, would
read more like extravagant fiction than actual human experiences.
In short, Shakerism seems veiled in deeper mystery than either
! mesmerism or Spiritualism. Its religious aspect is wholly beyond our
apprehension, but the outcome which it presents—a party of industrious
communists, cruelly deprived of their means of support, who avow
| their determination to starve, if need be, rather than become chained
I slaves to fill the coffers of the Mammonites—challenges our respect and
j admiration.
DEATH-BED VISIONS OF CHRISTIANS.
(Abridged from “The Christian Herald.'”)
A minister’s wife, upon whose brow there was already the cold per¬
spiration of death, exclaimed, in a clear but unearthly tone of voice,
j “Oh, how dazzling! oh, how dazzling 1 oh, how dazzling! There are
angels, angels, angels ! Oh, the multitudes, the multitudes 1 And there
is Jesus, whom I now see for the first time.. Who are those arrayed in
white? Oh, how dazzling! how dazzling! And there is a crown of
! glory for me, and a palm of victory! All for the sake of Jesus ! All
through the merits of my dear Redeemer 1 Oh, the angels ! the angels!
How dazzling! how dazzling! But it is dark ; it is more than my eyes
I can bear.” After a little time her beautiful spirit entered heaven,
ij; A clergyman, dying in the south of England, said to those around
j) I him, “ Oh, had I strength to speak, I could tell you such news as would
11 i rejoice your very soul. I have had such views of heaven.” Here his
\{ \ efforts to say more were drowned in death.
I) “I see things unutterable,” said another dying servant of God.
i I Elizabeth Drinker, a Quakeress, when dying, seemed much supported
js | above the last conflict, and with an animated countenance said—“Oh,
|) | the beauty! the excellent beauty! What a beautiful view I have of the
j( | hosts of heaven! ”
I | Near Whitby, in Yorkshire, there lived a pious man, named Sinclair.
i| | He had a family of children, and it was his great concern, and unceasing
|j] prayer, that they might be saved. Christopher, his son, when but
] j twelve years old, felt a strong inchnation for a seafaring life. Accord-
i j ] ingly, he served an apprenticeship under the master of a ship ; but soon
|j ] afterwards had some of his ribs dislocated, a misfortune from which he
ijl never recovered.
j) His father told him that there was no expectation of his being rej
]j| stored, yet they wished to ease him of his pain. “Pain!” said the
]) ] young Christian, “ I have no pain; I am all in a flame of love.”
j j Early in the morning of the day on which he died, he said to his
jj ] father, “ This has been the happiest night I have ever had ; and now the
] | blessed morning has come in which I shall go to Jesus.” When his
i i speech failed he smiled, and looked up to heaven. He then took hold
ijj of his father’s hand, looked upwards, and seemed as though he would
]) i point to some object. He tried to speak, but could only say, “ Ob, see !
]ji see!” Suddenly his face shone, as if a divine ray of heavenly light
i) i rested upon him. This continued for more than five minutes, after
]) i which he exclaimed, “ I have seen Jesus and angels.'n
j j i His uncle, who had been sent for, came in at the time, and to him the
] i dying young saint said, “ I have seen heaven—the angels-—I can speak
|jl no more.” The uncle felt that there was a presence in that chamber
|j ] beyond mortal creatures. He knelt down, and whilst praying that a
|j| convoy of angels might carry the disembodied spirit to Paradise, the
m happy soul passed through death triumphant home. For some days
ij; afterwards his friends talked to each other of the sudden appearance of
|j] the heavenly beam of light which they recognised just before the young
ijj man died, and of the awe, yet peaceful feeling, they had of a gracious
i j | spiritual presence.
Ijj Not far from Wellingborough, the amiable daughter of a Christian
] i woman was laid on her death-bed. Not long before her departure her
hi mother was much distressed in mind, owing to the sufferings of her
jj i daughter. In a few moments she exclaimed, with an ecstacy of joy,
! | “ Mother, pray for my release. They are coming ! they are coming! I
jj i shall soon be in heaven! ” Her eyes caught a glimpse of the heavenly
i) ] squadrons that welcome and guard the disembodied spirit to Paradise ;
|| and then, after one tender look at an affectionate mother, this youthful
follower of Christ passed through death triumphant home.
] “ There is one come now,” said a departing saint, near York, in 1852,
alluding, it was supposed, to a guardian angel who was commissioned to
escort his disembodied spirit to the better land. And in a few moments
he exclaimed, in a holy ecstasy, “ They are all here now! I am going
i now! ” and then his spirit fled.
282
THE SPIRITUALIST.
MR. BLACKBURN’S SEANCES.
REMAKKAlLE PRODUCTIOK OF MATERIALISED SPIRIT HANDS UNDER TEST
CONDITIONS.
BIf EMILY KISLINGBURY.
One of the most satisfactory test seances it has ever been
m.y good fortune to witness took place on Friday evening
last, at 38, Great Russell-street, through the mediumship of
Mr. W. Eglinton.
An inquirer who was present on the previous Friday had
suggested that the medium’s hands should be placed outside
the curtain, in the light, and in full view of all present.
This was done, as related by Mrs. Wiseman in your last
number, the sleeves of Mr. Eglinton’s coat being sewn at
the wrists to the knees of his trousers. No hands were pro¬
jected on that occasion, and the presiding intelligence ex¬
plained that the test was an unusually severe one, as the^
substance with which the spirit hand is clothed in order to
render it visible to ordinary mortal vision has to be ab¬
stracted from the hand of the medium, and that this ex¬
ceedingly subtle chemical process is carried on with far more
difficulty in the light, and under the eye of man, than in the
still darkness of the closed cabinet.
This time, however, the spirit himself proposed that the
same test should be tried again, as he was ambitious of
accomplishing the feat; he further remarked that he and
his medium were much indebted to the managers of these
seances tor allowing and encouraging new manifestations
under strict test conditions ; they were somewhat tedious to
develope, but were of the greatest benefit to the cause.
The efforts were attended with success. Hands came out
freely at the height of a foot or more above the medium’s
hands; also several times at the side of the curtain, to
which facts Dr. Carter Blake, who sat nearest the corner of
the cabinet, gives the following testimony:—
I certify that when Mr. Eglinton’s hands were sewn to his knees, and
in view of the circle, a naked right hand and arm, to above the elbow-
joint, was seen by me through the crevice of the curtains; and that this
hand, after ringing the “toy-gong,” placed it in my own hand. The
arm seemed to proceed from a body behind Mr. Eglinton, and his right
hand sewn to his knee was seen by me and others at the same time.
C. Carter Blake.
The toy-gong is a little instrument with a whistle at one
end and something resembling a gong at the other, which a
friend brought in just before the seance began. Mr.
Eglinton was seen to make convulsive movements with his
arms and legs during these proceedings, and was heard to
breathe deeply, but his hands were never out of sight of the
sitters; and the sewing, which had been done by Mr. Col-
lingwood, and which must have been effectual, was found
intact when the spirits ordered an interval for refreshment.
The second test was quite as satisfactory as the first, and
altogether novel. Mr. Eglinton’s coat-sleeves were sewn
together, and to his coat behind his back; the coat was also
sewn together in front near the throat, this time by Miss
Collingwood, who was the greatest stranger present. The
following attestation explains what took place, at the pro¬
posal of the spirit:—
We, the undersigned, entered the cabinet during the seance with Mr.
Eglinton, and stood behind him during several minutes. In this period
of time, according to the statement of the sitters outside, hands were
seen, and several objects were moved about by these hands, which we
certify were not those of the medium, since we satisfied ourselves on this
point by keeping our hands on his shoulders during the occurrence of
the phenomena.
C. Fjtz-Gerald, 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
John James, Tottenham.
Marion Collingwood.
Miss Collingwood also placed her hands, by request, on
Mr. Eglinton’s head while the above was taking place.
The objects which were moved by the hand, or hands,
were placed on the little stringed instrument known as the
Oxford Chimes, which was laid inverted on Mr. Eglinton’s
knees. The strings of this were struck at times, and a book
which was placed upon it was opened and shut repeatedly,
sometimes a hand was seen to touch the book: sometimes it
appeared to open and shut alone. In any case, the hands
were not Mr. Eglinton’s hands, as is proved below :—
We, the undersigned, entered the cabinet in which Mr. Eglinton was
seated, examined the sewing which secured the medium’s hands behind
his back, and found it intact. Immediately before and after this exami-
Jtjne 16, 1876.
i nation various phenomena occurred, and hands were exhibited at the
i aperture of the cabinet. Marion Collingwood.
Emmeline Collingwood.
The friends present at the seance were Mrs. Fitz-Gerald,
Captain James, Mr. R. Pearce, Signor P. Pizzi, Mr. J.
Sparrow, Mrs. Lewis, Mr. J. F. Collingwood, Miss E. Col-
| lingwood, Miss A. M. Collingwood, Dr. C. Carter Blake,
Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, on behalf of the seance committee of
j the National Association of Spiritualists, and myself. All
| concurred in the verdict of “ quite satisfactory.”
38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
MR. BLACKBURN’S SEANCES.
MISS FOWLER UNDER STRICT TEST CONDITIONS.
BY C. CARTER BLAKE, DOC. SC.
On Monday, the 12th June, the first seance held by Miss
Lottie Fowler, at the rooms of the National Association of
Spiritualists, took place. The circle consisted of Mr. C. C.
Massey, Mr. A. J. Duflfield, Mr. W. H. Coffin, Mr. J. F.
Collingwood, F.G.S., Captain Rolleston, Mrs. D. Fitz¬
Gerald, Mr. H. J. Hood, Mrs. Lewis, Miss Kislingbury, Mr.
Desmond G. Fitz-Gerald (representing the seance com¬
mittee), and myself.
The medium was securely sewn both by her cuffs and
sleeves, her hands being placed behind her back, and very
elaborately tied by Mr. Coffin, with her head to the back of
the chair, and separate knots at recorded distances marking
intervals in the tapes which secured the limbs. She was
then placed in the cabinet, so as to expose her knees and feet
to view, and the curtains drawn over her face and thorax. In
two minutes a strong convulsion of the knees took place,
! s| after which the conditions of light not being satisfactory to
11| the medium, the shutters were closed. Raps were then
I I heard, and the medium, who had complained that the knot
||| round the neck was disagreeable to her, had the tape,
i j though firmly tied, lengthened, and attached to a longer
j)j piece of tape passing from her neck through the window of
| | j the cabinet (where it was pinned), and the end of which was
I j held by Mr. C. C. Massey. The medium then signified that
111 there was some unpleasant influence in the circle, and after
111 interrogation of each individual, it was agreed that a small
I j feather pillow which was behind her back, and which caused
| | her to exhibit great irritation, should be removed. One
| u minute after this took place, the voice termed that of
j j Pinkey was heard, the toy whistle blown, the bells rung at
h! a higher level than that of the medium’s head or hands, and
I u the table, on which had been placed the tambourine and
I )| other objects, forcibly thrown to the middle of the room.
I )| Two gentlemen at once entered the cabinet, and satisfied
I (i themselves that the knots were intact, and that Miss Fowler
| was asleep. A pasteboard tube was then handed out from
I jj between the curtains, and taken by one of the circle, from
| i whom it was snatched at the edge of the curtains by a force
| j which pulled from above, e’.e., about a foot above the
| j medium’s head. An attempt was then made to produce
i \ \ some manifestation with the trumpet at the desire of
I jj Pinkey. Mr. W. H. Coffin, and Mr. Duffield, who was a
j (j stranger to these seances, then entered the cabinet with Miss
| <| Fowler. I received after the seance the following statement
I jj. by Mr. Duffield:—
While outside the cabinet, I saw the curtain drawn aside and the
: (| medium sitting as she was placed, away from all contact with the
| )j curtain. Inside the cabinet I had one hand on the medium’s knees,
| (| and my other, the left, on the arm of the medium’s chair. My left hand,
i (j in response to a call from the medium, was touched, apparently, with a
i) | human finger. A second time I received two or three smart raps with
| (i the whole of a hand, and this was marked by a friendly touch. A third
j (| was a formal touch, as if in mere obedience to a call. I may say, that
| )| the second rap was distinctly heard, not only by myself, but by the
| (i medium and a gentleman who was also with me in the cabinet,
j j “ (Signed) A. J. Duffield.
Mr. Coffin corroborates this verbally by adding that neither
I could the medium, nor did he, produce these touches.
It then being very late, and the atmosphere in the seance
| room being insupportable, it was suggested to Miss Fowler
I (I that the seance he terminated. To this she demurred witli
j jj considerable vivacity. The book experiment was then made
j)j on her lap, and some of the company (including myself)
ill were permitted one at a time, to be within six inches of the
THE SPIRITUALIST.
JtNB 16, 1876.
medium, and to inspect the free motion of the cover and
leaves of the book. Pinkey then expressed her willing¬
ness to show hands. A right hand, of a darker complexion,
and much larger than Miss Fowler’s, was projected ap¬
parently out of the right side of the medium, and in full
sight for two minutes. Others saw more, and others less,
but I restrict myself to my own personal observation.
On examination of the sewing and tying afterwards, all
the knots and thread were found to be intact.
Although the atmospheric conditions were unfavourable to
careful experiment, and the medium exhibited much irrita¬
tion at the novelty of the surroundings, the seance held by
Miss Fowler may be considered as a good commencement.
THE TESTIMONIAL TO MR. COLEMAN.
The subscription list of the testimonial to Mr. Coleman is
about to be closed, consequently those who wish to contribute
towards this object are requested to send word at once to Mr.
Alexander Calder, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton,
London. Attention has already been called in these pages
to the unflinching way in which Mr. Coleman has publicly
advocated the truths of Spiritualism in times of difficulty
and of danger, when to do so involved more unpopularity and
more abuse than is the case at present, for the movement
is gradually gaining ground, and becoming even popular
and fashionable, more especially in London. In these days
of comparative prosperity, the advocacy of Mr. Coleman
and others in times of difficulty should not be forgotten,
consequently all who intend to recognise the work which he
has done, should enrol their names at once amongst the-con¬
tributors to the present testimonial.
283
A FIYE-MINUTES’ RESOLUTION.
Mb. Algernon Jot, late honorary secretary to the National Association
of Spiritualists, has left London for Switzerland, and will return in a
fortnight. The words “ late honorary secretary ” will take every reader
of these pages by surprise. They will remember how, when the Asso¬
ciation was first formed, when all kinds of difficulties were in its path,
the honorary secretaryship was accepted by Mr. Joy, a gentleman of
ability and experience, one who has travelled much, an accomplished
linguist, and a member of the Institution of Civil Engineers. At times
he did all the heavy work of secretary without assistance, and after¬
wards he took control of a clerk paid by the Association; he also per¬
mitted the Association to have its letters addressed to his rooms, before
it had offices of its own; he has further continuously watched over the
interests of the Association at home and abroad. More recently, when
the paid secretary has needed advice, the honorary secretary has been
consulted, as usual imder similar circumstances in all the numerous
organisations possessing both a paid and an honorary secretary. At the
Council meeting of the Association last Tuesday, when the election of
officers for the year was taking place, a member rose and moved—to
quote the exact words—“ that the luxury of an honorary secretary be dis¬
pensed withthis was seconded, and one of the arguments was that
it was altogether without precedent that an organisation should have
both an honorary and a paid secretary. This bold assertion was not
denied, and seemed to be generally accepted. The facts are just the
reverse. Nearly all efficient organisations for analogous purposes have
both honorary and paid secretaries; such is the case with the British
Association, with the Royal Institution, and with nearly, if not quite,
every learned society in London. Somebody at the Council meeting
next pointed out that there would be no necessity to abolish the office
by resolution, if nobody proposed the election of an honorary secretary
for the year; and on this understanding the motion was withdrawn.
Thus the faithful and tried worker, Mr. Joy, has ceased to be one of
the working officers of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
All this was done without any previous notice, in less than five minutes,
and a vote of thanks for past services was awarded to him, couched in
about the same phraseology as would have been a vote of thanks to a per¬
son who had merely given the Association a five-shilling book. In this
sudden action we believe the public interests of the National Association
to have suffered. The post of honorary secretary having been once,
rightly or wrongly, recognised by the Council, it was certainly contrary
to the spirit, and perhaps, also, to the letter of the rules, to make such a
great change in the constitution of the Association without the members
of the Council and the public receiving the usual one month’s notice of
the important coming business. In the second place, the services of
Mr. Joy have been so great that, had the Council not been taken by
surprise, it would not only not have acted with a precipitancy uninten¬
tionally savouring of want of courtesy, but would probably have done
something to specially denote the indebtedness it feels to Mr. Joy for
what he has done. Indeed, if good reasons had been given why the
post should be abolished, the last soiree of the Association might have
been held in honour of Mr. Joy, to allow an opportunity for the expres¬
sion of that gratitude to him which is so widely felt. Few gentlemen of
his standing would have worked and committed their names to Spirit¬
ualism as he has done. During the coming autumnal vacation of the
secretary, Mr. Joy, who lives in Great Russell-street, and helps her
very much when required, would probably, as honorary secretary, have
been asked to perform her duties a few hours per day. Under present
conditions we do not see who can and will then supply his place, with¬
out the public drawing invidious comparisons. "Visitors from the Con¬
tinent call with great frequency at the Rooms, and in place of Mr. Joy,
who would receive them with his accustomed grace, and converse with
them in their own languages, they may meet a well-meaning substitute
who can respond to their queries only by shrug and grimace, and they
will be obliged to leave the premises no wiser than when they entered.
The question of the abolition of the honorary secretaryship ought not to
have been sprung suddenly upon the Council, and carried in five
minutes ; the usual one month’s notice should have been given, and if
substantial reasons for the abolition were then brought forward, Mr.
Joy should have been made to know the deep debt of gratitude to him
felt both by the National Association and the Spiritual movement at
large. The Council might inquire whether the promoters of this line
of action informed Mr. Joy of the steps they intended to take, or
whether his office was also suddenly abolished without any previous
consultation with him. Another effect of last Tuesday’s action will be
that if in the future the Association should desire, like other organisa¬
tions of the kind, to appoint an honorary secretary, no gentleman of
Mr. Joy’s calibre will accept the office, but will point to the “ five-minutes’
resolution” of the past. A year ago, Mr. Joy several times resigned
office, but the Council knew his assistance to be of such value that they
would not hear of his leaving. If the sudden action of last Tuesday was
legal, the whole of the Vice-Presidents may next year be struck off at
five minutes’ notice, without themselves or the 75 per cent, of absent
members of the Council, being aware of the manoeuvre.
Mr. Barkas will lecture on Sunday next before the Newcastle
Spiritual Society, subject: “ The Mysterious in Nature.”
Mr. Eglinton will leave London in a day or two for Somersetshire,
and says he is prepared to enter into engagements to give seances in the
West of England and South Wales.
Dr. Monck at Leigh.—“ On Sunday last a stance was given by Dr.
Monck at Leigh, Lancashire; there were present, besides some of the
local Spiritualists, several gentlemen of high standing and repute in
the town. The stance was in every way highly successful, and, I be¬
lieve, will be the means of gaining some powerful friends and sympa¬
thisers for the cause in this district.—George F. Furner, Brown-street,
Leigh, Lancashire.”
Mrs. Burke’s Spiritualistic Establishment.—Mrs. Burke has
started a metropolitan boarding-house for Spiritualists at 8, Upper
Bedford-place, Russell-square, and last Monday she gave a public re¬
ception to Spiritualists at that address, in order that they might see the
establishment, and receive information as to its objects. In the course
of the evening a short discussion about the use and prospects of the
undertaking took place, under the presidency of Mr. Linton. The
general expression of opinion was to the effect that the undertaking
was calculated to meet a public want, and that not a few Spiritualists
came to London who would rather go to a boarding-house frequented
by Spiritualists only, than to a public or private hotel. It was further¬
more agreed that Mrs. Burke was well qualified in all respects to
manage such an establishment as that which she had started. The
friends separated at a late hour.
Spiritualistic Soiree.—On Wednesday, last week, the closing
monthly soiree for the session of the British National Association of
Spiritualists took place at 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London.
There was a good attendance, and among the friends present were
Baron Holmfeld, Mrs. George Neville, Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe, Mrs. St.
Claire, and many others, too numerous to mention. In the course of
the evening Mr. Algernon Joy and others made a few remarks about
the boarding-house for Spiritualists which had just been established at
8, Upper Bedford-place, Russell-square, by Mrs. Burke. The speakers
recommended it as a sensible undertaking, calculated to benefit Spirit¬
ualism, and worthy of all support. As usual at these soirees, there was
not much public speaking, most of the time being devoted to friendly
conversation and music, in which the Misses Withall, Miss Gillies, and
Miss Sexton, were the chief performers.
Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism.—On Thursday
evening, last week, the monthly session of the Council of this Associa¬
tion was held at its Rooms, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, under
the presidency of Mr. John Rouse. The other members present were :
—Mrs. Corner, Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, and Mr. Thos. Blyton. The
minutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed. Letters of
general interest were read from Mr. Alex. Calder, Mr. S. C. Hall,
F.S.A., Mr. Wra. Tebb, Mr. Wm. Oxley, Mr. F. Wayland-Smith, and
Mr. James Burns; also some correspondence with Mr. John Nevil
Maskelyne. Presentation books were laid upon the table, and accepted
with a vote of thanks to the respective donors, viz., Mrs. Catherine
Berry, Mr. M. Pardo, Mr. John Nevil Maskelyne, and Mr. F. Way-
land-Smith. A letter was read from Mrs. Berry, enclosing a donation;
Mrs. Berry was then unanimously elected a life member. Letters from
Miss Anna Blackwell, and Mr. and Mrs. Thos. Everitt were read, ac¬
cepting the invitations for honorary membership, and they were accord¬
ingly elected. A letter from Mr. Richard Pearce was read, offering to
contribute a paper in July next on “Local Spiritualist Societies; What
should be their objects, and how can they be best carried out?”
It was resolved that Mr. Pearce be requested to submit the paper for
acceptance to the next session of the Council. The hon. secretary re¬
ported arrangements for a “Narration of Experiences of Members and
other Investigators,” for Thursday evening, the 29th instant, on which
occasion papers will be read by Mr. W. E. Bassett, Mr. R. Cocker, and
others, to be followed by discussion thereon. The arrangements were
approved. Instructions were given for drafting the half-yearly report,
and Mr. John Rouse was appointed to act in conjunction with another
member of the Association, to audit the accounts for the half-year ending
the 30th instant.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 16, 1876.
284
arumsponxience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers.]
THE REINCARNATION DOCTRINE.
Sir,—In The Spiritualist of the 2nd of June, M. Damiani, of Naples,
reproves my having compared (in The Spiritualist of the 12th of May)
the faith of the Zulus in the transmigration of souls to the theory of the
reincarnationists, and my having called both of these creeds “ crude,”
but the latter more c‘ absurd ” than the other.
The distinction I made in the application of these terms may easily be
justified. When a rude herdsman, in contemplating the fixed stars,
declares them to be little lamps fixed in the lofty expanse, or, perhaps,
little holes through which luminous beings shine forth, his belief certainly
is both crude and absurd. But when a scientific contemplator of the
starry heavens adheres to such views, we are justified in calling his
views quite as crude, but more absurd than those of the simple herds¬
man. I think it a pity that men of so much natural refinement as are
often met with among reincarnationists should adhere to opinions which
are only corruptions of old and true religious doctrines, according to
which those who leave this terrestrial abode either descend into an
animal nature or ascend in the scale of spiritual progression, and that
my opponents should substitute for the law of never-ceasing develop¬
ment one of physical remoulding into another individual. Spiritualism
teaches the immortality of the internal spiritual man, who is and
remains conscious of his personal individuality; the reincarnation
doctrine destroys this faith in conscious immortality, and is worse than
the wanton theory of successive evolution through sexual selection.
Dirckinck-Holmfeld.
London, June 6th, 1876.
THE GREAT NAMES ASSUMED BY CERTAIN SPIRITS.
Sir,—Permit me briefly to suggest a probable solution of the difficulty
of your correspondent “ D ” on this important point, important because
a right understanding of the matter would prevent many discourage¬
ments to those engaged in the study of spiritual phenomena on the in¬
tellectual plane.
I cannot do better than quote the following from the work of Judge
Edmonds and Dr. Dexter on Spiritualism (p. 369), it being a portion of
a spirit communication received through the mediumship of the latter
gentleman.
After stating that various classes of spirits, impelled by varying
motives, are able to commune through the channel now opened, the
message goes on to say:—
“ But many found this difficulty. Mankind had so long been in the
habit of bowing to the authority of names, that neither mediums nor
persons in the flesh communicating through them, were willing to re¬
ceive communications unless they bore the sanction of some great or
distinguished name, or some name which would of itself have influence
upon medium or interrogator.
“ How often have you yourselves seen, when a spirit has attempted
to communicate, that the first question was, ‘ Who are you V not * What
do you teach ?’ but, who are you ? And how often have you seen when
an unknown name has been given, that the spirit has been repelled, and
not permitted to commune at all! Now, this has been observed in the
spirit-world over and over again, and the knowledge of it extends all
through and among those who have attempted to have communion. And
those who have had either a name that was odious among men, or one
obscure and unknown, have found that by this deep-seated propensity
of man to worship the authority of name, they were to be entirely
excluded from the privilege of intercourse if they attempted to do so
in their own name. And this privilege, so much more highly prized
by them than by you, they were to be deprived of by your perverse¬
ness, if they truly told you who they were. It is not strange, there¬
fore, that very many, either from an over anxiety to commune, or
from a careless disregard of what they deem a trivial falsehood, assume
false names.
“ Let it not be supposed, however, that all those who thus falsely
assume great names intend to teach falsehood, or to make a statement
in any other respedt untrue. They perceive that the price they must
pay for communing is this false personation, apparently harmless to
them, for they cannot help asking themselves, why do men care so
much more for name than for substance? But they intend in all
things else to teach truthfully so far as they know.
“ But there are some who, for mischievous purposes, assume a false
character and teach false doctrine to deceive and mislead.”
The above I believe to contain a complete key to the mystery your
correspondent complains of. It is but too true that numbers of those
who attend circles are constantly on the look-out for great personages,
and in a feverish state of anxiety to hear from Plato or Socrates, or
from “ Adam ” himself, or from some other individual celebrated in
Ihe annals of fame. The consequence is that the very atmosphere of
the circle where such unreasonable people are, of itself invites decep¬
tion, and even exerts so powerful an influence as almost to compel
those spirits who come there to announce themselves as individuals
famous when on earth for something or other.
But if John Jones, or William Smith, or some spirit who in earth-
life bore an equally ordinary appellation, announced himself as desir¬
ous of communicating, he is too frequently given the cold shoulder,
although he may have gems of wisdom to impart.
This is a great vice, which those who enter upon spiritual research
should rid themselves of at the threshold. It exerts an influence so
low as actually to repel from the circle those in the other world who are
truly great, not by reason of their earth-names, but because of the
wisdom they have attained, and which they would willingly impart if
welcomed in a right spirit. It was the kind of influence, I should say,
which procured the absurd array of names that appeared in a communi¬
cation from Italy, printed in the columns of a contemporary a few weeks
ago (not vouched tor, I was glad to see, by the editor), and which in¬
cluded a perfect string of Old and New Testament worthies, including
Christ himself.
Our only safeguard is to cultivate a contrary spirit to that condemned.
To be anxious, not for great names, but for great truths, without mind¬
ing the source. And, to quote again from Judge Edmonds, “we have
but one guide, but one protector against the errors which may mislead
us. That guide is the free, unbiassed, candid exercise of our reason;
that protector is purity of intention, holiness of thought, and a firm
reliance upon the providence of God.” A. J. S.
Cardiff, South Wales, June 9th, 1876.
THE EDUCATION OP THE CHILDREN OP SPIRITUALISTS.
Sir,—Though I think the time is not yet ripe for putting into execu¬
tion any plan for the education of the children of Spiritualists, I agree
with you that it may be useful to discuss the various aspects of the
question, and to elicit the opinions of those who have given time and
thought to the subject, or who have had practical experience in the
work, with a view to seeing how far an attempt to establish schools for
Spiritualists may be practicable or desirable at some future time.
It is doubtless of great importance that Spiritualists should endeavour
to save their children from spending the best years of life in learning
lessons which it may take the remaining portion of that life to unlearn.
It is also natural that they, having on the whole arrived at a belief in
the falseness of existing religious systems and schools of thought, should
make strenuous efforts to prevent their children from acquiring the habit
of assenting with their lips to that which heart and reason alike reject,
or from having their minds warped by the theological views of any
particular teacher.
But there is less danger of this taking place in our best educational
establishments, since the public debates on the enacting of the School
Board Acts have paved the way for the separation of secular from
religious instruction; and unless Spiritualists were to determine that
the' school teaching of their children shall be confined to secular
subjects, they would have to encounter the far greater dangers of de-
nominationalism and sectarianism, found to be always in greater force
where those holding peculiar religious views are educated apart from
the rest of the world.
But supposing all religious teaching to be set on one side, the chief
object in establishing schools for Spiritualists would be to introduce an
improved curriculum of studies, in which, as you rightly say, natural
11 philosophy should take the first, instead of, as at present in our public
|i schools, the last place, and to insist on a system of objective teaching,
the aim of which is to train the observing powers and to exercise the
| j mind, to excite thought rather than to encumber the memory, and to
send children from school with “ a wish for knowledge and the power of
j acquiring it,” instead of with a dislike for study, and a lack of any
j method of self-instruction.
Those, however, who have watched the progress of reform in educa-
| tion during the last ten years, will know that a great improvement has
., | been effected in this respect, and of late more particularly in the high
|) i schools for girls, now being opened in various parts of the United King-
| | dom under the auspices of the Women’s Education Union, and the
I i able advocacy of Mrs. William Grey, the late Professor Payne, Sir
1)1 James Kay Shuttleworth, and others. Two principles in particular are
](! recognised in these schools—thoroughness in work, and the necessity
i \I for home influence. That is to say, the subjects of study are few, the
j/i teachers must be duly certificated and approved by the Council of the
]<i Union, and the schools are day schools only. There is a class for re-
|)j ligious instruction, but a conscience clause is admitted. I quote those
j)| schools in particular, because they have come under my own personal
I (| knowledge; but we know that the reform movement in education has
i) | worked in other directions, especially since the impetus given to it by
II the revelations of the Endowed Schools Commissioners. Enormous
| sums of money are already being expended in providing cheap and
improved methods of education, and in placing them within the reach
| of the less wealthy portion of the community. The simplest elements
of science or art, and even the most elementary subjects of study, can
! only be properly taught by highly-educated professors and well-trained
I teachers, and such teaching is, as it ought to be, excessively costly.
|) | The question with Spiritualists is, therefore, whether they will avail
j)j themselves of the great educational advantages already existing, with
| (I some attendant evils, or whether they are able to create a radically
i improved system of their own, without the assistance of endowments.
|(l If the latter plan should appear to be practicable, I shall have a great
Ideal more to say on the subject, but for the present I will only add a
few remarks on what I think should be the principal and immediate aim
| in view.
All Spiritualists are, I believe, agreed that they hold one fundamen
| tal truth, that a large proportion, and that the most thinking portion, of
| the world is fast losing from its grasp. But they should be determined
| so to train their children that this truth be not represented in an age of
culture by a race of men and women who are in any respect below the
highest standard of their age. Spiritualism presents problems with
which only the keenest, most unprejudiced, and best trained intellects
are fit to deal; minds trained to accurate observation, to careful com¬
parison, to strict reasoning, possessed of a knowledge of words and
things, able to distinguish between the domain of the senses and that of
the imagination. The education that is the best means to this end is
that which Spiritualists should desire to procure for their children. I
should say that the movement is not yet sufficiently strong in numbers
and in material resources for the successful accomplishment of such a
1 task, and that any attempt in that direction at present would suffer from
June 16, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
285
too great an admixture of denominational mediocrity. But I may be
mistaken, and I should be glad to hear the opinions of others on the
subject. E. Kislingbury.
FURTHER REMARKABLE SEANCES IN MANCHESTER. \l\
Sir,—The recording of new facts begins to be painful to me, as I j ? I
find that many important or at least interesting items have to be ignored j \;
for want of space, in the face of increasing contributions from other !) i
quarters; but this is highly salutary and gratifying to the cause at i j
large, it being due to the swelling accumulation of valuable facts at the | (:
doors of The Spiritualist. Being thus compelled to pick out of my j)j
rich basket of facts, I may be permitted to place before the readers j(|
some incidents which demonstrate the coming to close quarters of m
modern Spiritualism with its antagonist, modern Materialism, the ugly jjj
paws of the latter occasionally cutting through their glace gloves, and |||
presenting long nails invitingly to our scissors. jjj
The most startling manifestation I have to relate requires a little jjj
introduction by way of explanation. When I contemplated inducing j j j
our gifted medium to come here, a gentleman of great medial power, but jjj
one rather afraid of public opinion, encouraged me by his expressed ij!
intention to aid me in carrying out the plan in a manner which would j J1
reduce the material sacrifice considerably. I formed a circle, and the I j j
decided signs of power apparent soon after the arrival of our sadly- j j j
troubled medium, left nothing but fair hopes. As the first sitting with j i
the new circle was very poor, and some weak trifles occurred only near j j j
the medium, the easily-excited suspicion of my friend was set in full jjj
blaze, and the other members caught sparks of it. The same gentle- j j
man long ago creditably apologised in my presence to this medium, after jjj
his accusation was proved a freak of the imagination; and it may be jjj
noted here, as an important psychological observation, that true Spirit- j j j
ualists rest their assertions on crucially tested evidence, whilst sceptics j j j
impose upon us by sheer imagination. Of course the circle was broken j j j
up, but one young gentleman followed my advice, and sat alone with his j j j
brother; he obtained some manifestations, but did not come again, i j j
Several weeks ago, I heard from another gentleman of the first circle j j i
that there had been a suspicious discovery, and that the young man j j j
just mentioned intended to call upon me to explain. I lost no time, and jjj
soon met my sceptic, who agreed to a rendezvous at the medium’s house jjj
to bring matters to a point. Accordingly he came, and scarcely had we jjj
begun to converse before knocks at the door were heard, and, without jjj
waiting for “ Come in,” were followed by Dr. Monck’s agitated entrance, jjj
“ What do you want me for?” he said, excitedly. “Bertie [our con- jjj
trolling spirit] told me to come. Here’s something wrong!” No clue jjj
whatever could have reached him from us in this matter; he lived at jjj
the other end of the town, and no time had elapsed to give him any jjj
possible chance of hearing of the rendezvous; he was, further, altogether j j j
disconnected from this party. I confessed my astonishment, and said jjj
that it was true there was something amiss. He sat down somewhat jjj
perplexed, and was told of the suspicious circumstance of a small jjj
bundle of working material, pieces of linen, &c., having dropped from jjj
his pocket, and showed at the bottom of the curtain. In the end, ample jjj
fair apology was oflered by the troubled sceptic; and Dr. Monck, or his j j j
controlling spirit, or both, concluded with a remark which ought to be, jjj
in golden letters, put constantly before investigators: “If there is jjj
cause for suspicion, sift and settle it on the spot, or not at all! don't jjj
carry it about.”
The next grand fact in my list is the sudden appearance of a white jjj
form from under the table between Dr. Monck and my medium, whilst j j j
we had dinner in my room; both their eyes were fixed in surprise on jjj
the same form, which I saw with unmistakable distinctness, though but j j j
for a moment. There had previously been violent rockings of the table, j j
on which all our hands were visible. jjj
Shortly after this Alfred Firman arrived from Paris, and spent a few jjj
days with me; but although he had been advised not to sit as medium jjj
himself for seances, his presence as one of the circle added greatly to jjj
the power. On Saturday, May 27th, we enjoyed a Turkish bath, and, jjj
whilst resting on our cooling coach, the chatty “raps” seemed to jjj
symbolise the invigorating effect of the operations. We went home to j j
tea, but it was not ready, and the time for seance was close at hand, jjj
This was the first harsh crossing of our hopes; and, on arriving at the j j
medium’s house, another impediment taxed our patience. A visitor jjj
waited to see Mr. Firman, and some time elapsed before we sat down, jjj
After a few manifestations of the ordinary kind, there were loud knocks jjj
at the door, followed by the hasty entrance and entrancement of Dr. j j j
Monck, who, after declaring that he had been “forced” to attend jjj
against his inclination, at once sat down, controlled by “ Sam,’’ who jjj
greeted us in his rough voice, this time a herald of rough manifestations, jjj
In the dark I felt my left hand drawn up by a large hand, so that I had jj j
to stand on tip-toe, then, high in the air, it drew mine over a face with jjj
hair, and down along a bare arm, then gently returned my hand to its jjj
former place. The sensation of feeling the face and arm high above me j j
when on tip-toe was new and impressive. Now began a noise as of the j j
shuffling of furniture, the table bent into my lap and back again, some- jjj
thing hard touched my face, it remained there, and I asked for light, j j
A sight now presented itself which I never shall forget. The heavy, j j
clumsy, long sofa was on the table, Alfred Firman lying in full length on j j
it, my friend to the left on the floor in a trance, all the things in the j j j
room shifted or heaped about—a strange sight—and done, I guess, in jjj
about half a minute ! I did not half like the task of rearranging the j j
furniture, so we put the light out almost mechanically, leaving matters j j j
to take their own course. In a “ wink” of time “ light” was signalled, jjj
and everything was arranged pretty much as before the stance. The jjj
effect was like magic. Sam shouted out, “ Here are demoniacal spirits, jjj
Mrs. , and I have to leave the room for a time to harmonise.” jjj
Later on I blew up Sam, as the controlling spirit calls himself, for jjj
making such a havoc. “ Well, my boy,” he replied, “ we want to show
how we can upset the proud pretentions of materialism by displays of
our power. There’s a meaning in all we do, however silly it may seem.”
I replied that I knew the facts sufficiently, and enjoyed them only when
I had a couple of conceited professors by my side, to have some fun out
of them afterwards by asking them for explanations, and their explana¬
tions were the only miracles left for me in the business. “ You shall
have more yet,” he laughingly concluded.
After striking a match, Sam invited me to come to him in the corner
of the room: then, flinging the arms of his medium round me, and
asking me to likewise take hold of him, he said: “ Now we will have a
ride through space, my friend. Put out the light!” he shouted, quickly.
“ This is rather new work,” I thought; and I was overtaken by a sen¬
sation which robbed me instantly of my consciousness, just as I felt
myself leaving the ground without the slightest effort on the part of the
medium, for the moving by him of my heavy weight (above sixteen
stone) would certainly have required perceptible pressure. There was
nothing of the kind; and, after I felt myself again returning to con¬
sciousness, I tried to touch the ceiling, but without result, and I stood
on my legs again. A light was then struck, and I felt perfectly
flabbergasted at finding myself at the opposite end of the room. I have
no clear recollection of the mysterious transport, further than leaving
the ground and finding myself above six yards from the starting
point.
At the next seance, after some ordinary cabinet manifestations, we were
ordered to lower the light a little for a new exhibition of power. The
table stood close in front of the curtain, and the three spectators seated
opposite—Mrs. on my left, a gentleman friend on my right. Dr.
Monck and Mr. Firman were in the cabinet. The table had a stout
pillar branching out widely, and our knees under the table, thus leaving
very little free space under it, as I found afterwards, on careful examina¬
tion. This is important in relation to what I have to state now.
“ Sam” particularly asked us to keep up lively singing to set a-going
the waves of power. Bertie’s head appeared at the aperture of the
cabinet, and—I hardly dare to task the credulity even of the experienced
—shot up from under the table close to me, between me and the gentle¬
man ! Then it appeared at the cabinet aperture again, then at the side
of the curtains, so that we did not know where to look; and about four
times it shot up near me. The last time I saw the crown and cross
plainly, and the latter clicked on touching the edge of the table when
sliding back. Remembering the sudden appearance of the form in a
similar manner at dinner, as already mentioned, both facts kill all chance
of explaining the phenomena away. Nevertheless, I went afterwards
(next day) to measure out a possible free passage under the table, but
was profoundly beaten in my attempt to leave a little morsel for the
greedy sceptic, whom I always fondly remember in my spiritual meals.
He must snuffle in other directions.
This was followed by what I may not improperly call a fete of the
spirits present. The light was put out, and Sam’s rough voice changed
from his usual humorous tone to one of sincere, profound solemnity,
addressing us in phrases which commanded our concentrated attention.
He alluded to the great struggle of the new truth, in so simple and
manly a manner, that his sermon seemed indeed to come from his inner¬
most soul. He then turned his words to me, and entreated me, as a
faithful worker (I blush to repeat the exact expression), to hold out in
my task, for victory must come. “Will you do this?” he concluded,
with apparent emotion. “ Then come, ye angels, touch his brow, rejoice
with us.” I felt hands patting my brow, saw lights dancing in numbers
before me ; and, without attempting to describe the impression produced
on us by this strange scene, I only mention that I keep, as a rule,
myself and my reflections pretty cool amid any phenomena, and parti¬
cularly when advice is given from the other side which seems to cross
my path of practical life here. I try also to set myself up, and openly
protest, if there’s a conflict with reason. But now I found myself com¬
pletely given over to the force of affection—the children of my own
thoughts were hushed to approach a host of angels greeting me in
irresistible sympathy. It was only a moment that I thus felt lifted out
of earthly thought, and I afterwards thought myself a brute to have
slipped back so quickly to the normal state of practical philosophy.
But still I know we live in an exceptionally materialistic age, and feel
happy and satisfied to be on the way to get out of it anyhow. The
“ Amens ” responded from many voices after the spirit’s final blessing
died away, when the mediums were heard waking from the trance.
Whether we turned on the gas too quickly, or an exceptional state of
stupor of the mediums had been produced, I do not know, but both
of them, after some fumbling steps with staring eyes, dropped down
like dead iastruments and fainted away, but soon recovered.
Christian Reimers.
2, Ducie Avenue, Manchester.
SPIRIT COMMUNICATIONS IN VARIOUS LANGUAGES, INCLUDING ONE FROM THE
SPIRIT OF A KING.
Sir,—Your readers have already had six communications in perfectly
classic Latin from Publius Syrus, received by me through Mme. R ,
a lady who knows no other language than her own. I have received a
seventh, commencing, “ Meliores lacrymasf and ending with “ Omni
homini toll'd mors suas.” But there was in this one something so
personal that I do not publish it. Only one point may be worth men¬
tioning, which is of some interest as evidence how erroneous is the
notion of some critics, that the origin of these remarkable commu¬
nications is to be sought for in some Carpenterian “ unconscious
cerebration”—that they are, in some incomprehensible fashion, emana¬
tions, reflections, from my own brain—that I have either remembered
them (though never having before read a page of Publius Syrus); or
composed them, in perfect Latinity and in the peculiar condensed style of
that author (without the slightest idea of what something inside of me
was doing); or, when they had been first given in French, followed by
236
THE STlRITTTAlilST.
June 16,1876.
a paraphrastic version in Latin, by way of translation—which was no
translation—that that was an unconscious intellectual operation of mine,
sent first from my brain to the communicating “intelligence,” and then
by it retransmitted to me through the intervening agency of the medium,
ignorant as the babe unborn of any other Latin but perhaps the “ Pater
nosier,’’ “ Ave Maria,” “ Dominus vohiscum,” and “ In Scecula Sceculo-
rum" of her missal. Now, in this seventh communication from Publius
Syrus there arose a positive antagonism between his intelligence and
mine. I could not make out his meaning. The obscurity grew mainly
out of one word, the meliores. I supposed it to be a mistake, and,
returning again and again to it, I asked him to change it. He persisted
that it was right, in spite of my inability to make intelligible sense out
of it. I thought of more than one word (such as amaras) which, substi¬
tuted for the objectionable word, will make it intelligible; and I made
the medium strike it out, and begged the spirit to give again some other
in its place. But again he repeated the word I had struck out; so
that I was forced to submit, while still protesting that it remained very
obscure to me. I had supposed that to be the whole of the intended
communication, but the spirit went on to a second half to the sentence,
which made the meaning less incomprehensible, and then proceeded to
give in French an exposition of the meaning he attached to the word
which had been my stumbling-block; making the whole clear, though
having a personal bearing I had not suspected. And he wound up by
telling me to search well, and that I would find he had before employed
the word in a similar way. This may seem a small point—that of a
word—but it has its importance, as being conclusive that these commu¬
nications are in no sense subjective in their origin, in no respect thought
readings, or unconscious reflections from my mind.
The complete list of these communications of Publius Syrus, thus far,
stands as follows:—
1. Pecunia est ancilla, si sets uti; si nescis domina est. (See his
Trochaics.)
2. Quos vultperdere Jupiter dementat.
3. Lux, lux veritatis! Quid semper fugis t Sequimur, invocamus,
sed semper passus nostri voluntarii torquent viam.
L Veritas recta brevis Pens.
5. Veritas ensis.
6. Oportat quod omni magnee nationi preepositus sit magnanitnus.
Turba, quee rupem petere debet, rupem diripit.
7. Meliores lachrymas, &c. (Suppressed on account of personality of
application.)
I have no doubt I could have had many more, if circumstances had
allowed me to intrude oftener upon Mme. It : I hope and expect
hereafter to have many more. He seems always ready to come to my
request. But it is slow and mechanical work for Mme. It to spell
out unknown words by means of a table tilting to the letters of the
alphabet.
Only one possible ground for cavil against the genuineness of these
Publius Syrus communications now remained, to that obstinate incre¬
dulity which will suppose anything, however unreasonable and how¬
ever false, rather than “ give in to spirits,” namely, the supposition
that Mme. R  might possibly be a concealed consummate Latinist,
familiar with the writings and style of thought and expression of
Publius Syrus (who was a fragmentary author, now very little known,
though highly esteemed for his wisdom, wit, and austere morality).
She might possibly be an ingenious impostor, mischievously hum¬
bugging me and the public, through Latin sentences of her own
composition doled out to me letter by letter.; Absurd as would be that
presumption to those who have the honour of knowing this lady,
wishing to make the case of demonstration complete, I called on her
husband and herself (a gentleman occupying a high position at the head
of an important railway administration), and frankly, while politely,
stated the point. Without taking offence, but on the contrary
taking it reasonably and in good part, they told me that she had given
communications in most of the modern languages, and in some oriental
ones, Hebrew, and the language in which the ancient Cabalistic book,
the Zoar, was written (which I did not know, though some of your
readers may). I wanted names and addresses for verification, to satisfy
outside incredulity. This could not be granted without permission from
the parties, who might not choose to be publicly referred to or known,
though they did confide to ine the namelof a lady of high rank, whose son
I know, who had received a long communication in Danish. “ But,” he
added, “ you can satisfy yourself, by coming and trying through such
other languages as you may know, to receive communications from
spirits cognisant of those languages.” “If I bring a Chinese, or a
Japanese, or a Hebrew?” “You will probably receive communica¬
tions in those languages, but I cannot vouch for it; it depends on the
conditions and persons, but if you get the alphabet even of any language
unknown to you, you can try for yourself, by calling over the letters,
and you will see what will come of it. If any spirits knowing those
languages are willing to come, in response to your wish, they will pro¬
bably give you what you want.”
Out of this grew that I went to Mme. R to make the trial in two
languages with which I was familiar, Portuguese and Spanish (I had
not yet caught a “ heathen Chinee,” but thought I could get a Japanese,
and also projected a trial in Greek, Dutch, and Magyar). Spanish she
might possibly be supposed to know; Portuguese she could not, for who,
outside of Portugal and Brazil, knows Portuguese, though it is the
language of Camoens ? Well, my mother first responds to my inquiry
whether there is any spirit present who will communicate with me. I
say, “ There is no time now to communicate with you, but can you bring
here two spirits now in my thought and desire? ” In a few moments it
is announced that they are there. I ask the first, “Are you really the
spirit of the friend I wish to communicate with—in his own
language—of the earth life?”—“Yes.” “Then please give your
name?”—“Pedro V.” This was indeed the friend I meant,—
the late King of Portugal, brother of the present reigning King,
and son of the late King Regent, his Majesty Don Fernando.
Very friendly relations, personal and official, had existed between us
during several years of a residence at his court as Minister of the
United States. He was a sweet and noble character; simple, modest,
and personally humble; of high culture, almost super-educated; en¬
thusiastic for the discharge of the duties of his position; an indefatigable
student and worker, who worked hard in person (too hard it used to be
said) on every law his government had to propose or sanction; of nature
truly lovely, and truly beloved by all about him. I witnessed nearly the
whole population of Lisbon literally weeping as it crowded the streets
along which passed his funeral procession—he still a mere youth of 22
or 23. He was an object of great personal interest to all the diplomatic
corps. I could relate a fine incident of his brief life, if there were space
and time, and if it were pertinent to the occasion. “ Well, dear
spirit, dear sire, to use again the title by which you were addressed on
earth, it gives me great pleasure thus to communicate with you once
more. You know the special purpose for which I have asked you to
come. I beg you to give me something, however short, in Portuguese.”
Then came, through the alphabet, the following:—“ A lei minha
oportuna sobre os trabalhos publicos ficara o meu monumento.” (My
opportune law on public works will remain my monument). That was
enough in regard to the language; and I suggested that if he desired to
say more he could now do it quicker in French, a language which he
spoke as well as his own. Mme. R  then wrote with her usual
rapidity:—“ Lorsqu'un roi est appele par Dieu d gouverner un peuple, il
doit s'appliquer d le rendre heureux ; sinon, la couronne pesera sur sa tete
dans la vie terrestre, et son souvenir sur sa conscience durant la vie eternelle.
Puissent les rois de la terre ne jamais malmener les troupeaux que Dieu
leur a confies. Puissent les peuples les aimer et les v&nerer comme des
peres indulgents et bons. Mais malheureusement la tyrannic a trop souvent
envahi le trdne et la puissance. Aussiles rois tendent-ils d disparaitre;
et les peuples plus avances trouveront-ils en eux la force et la sagesse de se
gouverner ? Mais ne la force ni la sagesse ne seront avec eux s’ils n’ont la
foi et la religion de cceur, sans laquelle Vhomme ne peutfaire son salut ici-
bas, son bonheur Id-haut.
“ Un bon souvenir je vous donne, pour vous qui etes unfidele ami, et
dans mes prieres votre nom desormais sera mele aux noms si chers des
bienaimSs qui me pleurent encore.” (When a king is called by God to
the government of a people, he should apply himself to make that
people happy; otherwise the crown will weigh heavy on his head
during his earth life, and its memory on his conscience through the life
eternal. May the kings of the earth never misguide (or maltreat) the
flocks which God has confided to them. May the peoples love and
venerate them as indulgent and good fathers. But unhappily tyranny
has too often invaded the throne and power, and kings are tending to
disappear. Will the more advanced peoples find in themselves the force
and the wisdom to govern themselves ? For neither force nor wisdom
will be with them if they have not faith and the religion of the heart,
without which man can neither work out his salvation here below nor his
happiness there on high. A kind remembrance I give you, for you who
are a faithful friend; and in my prayers henceforth your name will
be mingled with the names which are so dear, of the beloved ones who
mourn me still).
I have thought it proper to present this in the original French as well
as in translation, for probably not a few besides your regular English-
speaking public will read this remarkable communication from the
spirit of a king.* Those who knew him well, or much about him, will
be struck with it as curiously characteristic. There is something of the
king about it still, and this will not surprise the experienced Spiritualist.
But at the same time it is the king—liberal, enlightened, and philo¬
sophical, while prudent and conservative. Note, too, how plain he makes
his meaning, that the “ faith ” and “ religion ” he speaks of are not
dogmatic, theological “ faith ” and “ religion,” they are those of “the
heart ” (and the words “ de cceur ” were an interlineation added after he
had proceeded a little further, as though for the purpose of guarding
against misconception). And “salvation” is not used as the technical
term of theology; it is salvation {salut) “ here below; ” for the here¬
after he says “ happiness.” Theology would be apt to reverse those
terms. He evidently means that esoteric religion which is independent
of forms and formulas, and which has sustained many a martyr at the
stake kindled by ecclesiastical intolerance. A few more phrases were
interchanged of a personal nature, in part referring to his wife (a sister
of Prince Leopold, of Hohenzollern), who wore her earthly crown for
only a single bright year, and who was one of the very loveliest young
creatures that were ever nearly as angelic in the flesh as they could
afterwards become in the spirit. I asked if he wished to send any
messages to his family; he answered, “ Not now, that it was not
d'occasion.” I told him I would seek to communicate with him again
before quitting Paris, to which he assented.
The other friend in the spirit world, who was waiting through all this,
was General Lopez, who was executed in Havana in 1850 or 1851, for
the crime of failure in the attempt to do for the Cubans what they have
now been fighting to do for themselves for the past seven years, of a
struggle almost miraculous, against the utmost power of Spain, localised
in a narrow island. An attached intimacy had existed between us. I
began by asking for his name. “ Narctso Lopez.” I said some things
to which “yes, by the three tilts of the table, was the sufficient an¬
swer ; and then begged him to say something to me in Spanish, after
explaining to him the purpose for which I wished it. “ Para que yo
responda preciso es que tu me hagas cuestiones ” (That I may answer, it,
* I declare on my own honour that my mind was a perfect blank as to what he
might say. It anticipated nothing, thought nothing, being fixed only on the
experiment of getting something, a few words, in Portuguese, as a language
test for the purpose above explained. Nor had I, nor have I, any recollection
of any particular law of which the merit was specially associated with bis
name.
June 16, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
287
is necessary that you should put questions to me). My object was now
sufficiently attained. Several other visitors in the next room were
waiting their turns. So I told him I would come another day, but
before going, asked him whether, after his sad end on earth, he was now
happy. “ Yes,” was the reply, but without much strength of emphasis.
“Happy, yes,” remarked Mme. R , “hut not so much so as the
former spirit.” The Cuban patriot rebel general was a good and kind
man, as well as desperately brave, but not one whom I should expect
to be so highly advanced in the spirit life as the young king, who, wholly
apart from his rank, was really extraordinary.
I will only add that Mme. R had no knowledge beforehand as to
who were the friends I wished to converse with, nor as to the languages.
I told her I hoped soon to bring to her gentlemen from Japan, Hungary,
and Holland, and that she would indeed be a wonderful polyglot if she
knew those languages as well as Portuguese and Spanish, besides that
of Publius Syrus. She was quite willing, and thought it probable they
would succeed, provided they came in a good and candid spirit.
J. L. O’Sullivan.
Paris, June 7th.
A SPIRITUALISTIC SERMON.
The following extracts from a sermon recently delivered by the
Rev. Thomas Colley, at St. Mary’s, Portsmouth, deal with the subjects
of the education of children and the inspiration of true religious
teachers. The speaker took for his text—“ Then said I, Ah, Lord God,
behold I cannot speak, for I am a child. But the Lord said unto me,
Say not I am a child, for thou shalt go to all that I send thee, and
whatsoever I command thee shalt thou speak.”
In the course of his remarks, Mr. Colley said:—“ It is comforting to
know that God can make straight strokes with crooked sticks; for there
are so many of the latter, that fair dealing, and level conduct, and
straightforwardness had else been vastly more exceptional than is the
case. The skill of a workman is best seen when great results are hewn
from hopeless circumstances by indifferent tools. And when the means
to the end are inadequate, and the cause of the effect to all appearances
insignificant and mean, we may know that there is an inspiring element
unseen, that works the one and shapes the other; ‘ for there’s a divinity
that shapes our ends, rough hew them how we will.’ And it is this
divinity that glorifies the common things of life ; it is this divinity that
strengthens the weak things of earth; it is this divinity that quickens
dying hopes, and endues finite efforts with infinite importance, and
makes the contemptible and little esteemed potent for very much that
we reck not of. Let us, therefore, have a care that we despise not the
day of small things, * for God hath chosen the foolish things of the
world to confound the wise, and the weak things of the world to con¬
found the mighty, and base things of the world, and things which are
despised hath God chosen, yea, and things which are not, to bring to
nought things that are.’ Who would have thought that the coral insect
was the founder of continents;. that the wing of a gnat contributes to
purify the air; that a dew-drop, trembling on the petal of a daisy,
kissed by the sun to vapour, swells the storm-clouds and adds to their
power ?
“ The child is father of the man, and, in patience, we should study
life in the bud, that we may have prophetic discernment of the flower,
and encourage it in its development. The pulse of the ages throbs in
the young, and the vital force of the centuries is stored in the heart¬
beat of our children, and God and good angels mark them special
favourites. * Their angels do always behold the face of My Father
which is in heaven.’ But one, forgetful of these things, in the plenitude
of adult folly, once made that universal abstract substantive conspicuous
in himself, by hypercritically asking the question and saying, with
sublime cynicism, ‘ What’s the use of a baby ?’ Now, we may not be
such profound catechists as to expose ourselves in like manner, but I
fear that too many of us act the question, though we don’t ask it. Who
has not seen the supercilious look that some are gifted with when meri¬
torious youth shows itself, and crabbed age thinks its province for
wisdom and experience is invaded, and that its special function for the
oracular is endangered by some old head on young shoulders? In
knowledge, the youngest of us ought to be the oldest; for it is the
heritage of the latest generation to profit by the blunders of the pre¬
ceding. The experience of the past becomes the wealth of the present;
the theory of yesterday is the practice of to-day; and our children with
these advantages, younger in years, should be older than their parents
in the sense indicated, and, therefore, are not to be sneered down on
the score of their youth. But do not mistake me, I am no advocate for
pert ways and small conceits on the part of beardless youth against
ancient, grave, and reverend signiors. And greatly do I reprehend the
undutiful conduct of boarding-school misses who vote their mothers
slow in language or dress, and think a butterfly life of rinking, and pet-
dog-nursing, croquet and novel-reading more becoming and lady-like
than the smallest acquaintance with the household duties of English
homes. The young gentleman whose great ambition is to colour his
meerschaum and smoke cigarettes, and the young lady whose devotion is
to mere outward adornment, ‘ the plaiting of the hair, and putting on of
apparel,’ not ‘ clothed with the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit,
which is in the sight of God of great price,’ is defective in head, and
unsound in heart, and behind the true age, and simply a re-issue in
both cases of the Red Indian, and a bad edition of him, and his squaw,
and pipe, and feathers, and paint. Sound training, and real education,
worthy of the name, should be to draw out the good, and make youth
modest and truly wise.
“ The inspiration of loftier powers reaches the pulpit, via the pews,
for the secret of moving and successful oratory consists in getting from
your audience in vapour what you give back in a shower. That is, you
get theif prayers, and their interest and their kindly influence, and
personal friendly wishes, and so you mould their best thoughts to utter¬
ance, and speak their unspoken words. This is oftener the case than
we think, and bad sermons are frequently more the fault of the pews than
of the pulpit. A church congregation is a battery of spiritual forces,
each human soul a magnet, and the power given off by you that touches
us and quickens us as we speak is tremendous—for we, the occupants of
this which some of you think the coign of vantage (too often to your
disadvantage) feel the exhaustive effort as we speak, which seems to you
no effort, for it appears so easy to preach; and so, perhaps it is to
preach, but to teach !
“ It is no easy matter to prepare thoughtfully and carefully portions
of spiritual food for a mixed congregation, diverse in taste, and modes
of thought, and capacity for reception. Then there are shifty opinions
current in the world, and new thoughts on old subjects, and old thoughts
in conflict with new facts; the removal of ancient landmarks, and the
extension of common rights upon the domain of what was considered
sacred and select; the unmooring of vast interests from relative events,
and the general change of circumstances, and transition of things, and
development of the venerable, antiquated, and time-worn to new and
larger issues—all these necessitate very imperatively the utmost pru¬
dence, patience, investigation, prescience, and forecast on part of a
public teacher. For if the pulpit thinks to repose on the old laurels of
past usefulness and the good-natured respect and indulgence given it
now on score of custom; if it rest content to give but echoes of the past,
and willeth not to probe the future and grapple with the burning ques¬
tions of the present; if satisfied with sacerdotal folly, or pharasaic
maudlin twaddle, it will not pioneer the way for the people to a higher,
holier, better plan of life, and thought, and action; if it will not advance
with the times and cease to oppose the movements that it ought to
guide, then its influence will rightly and speedily end, and its power
vanish and fail. This is the pulpit’s work and mine, if I am its
rightful occupant. ‘ Thou shalt go to all that I send thee,’ saith
the Lord. Not that I would by any means claim an especial share
in the applicability of these words above the least among you.
Strongly as I repudiate priestly assumption, I do as strongly, in my
sense, lay claim to the heritage each man possesses, latent or developed,
of prophetic power—not the forecasting of events to come by any means,
or authoritatively declaring what shall be; but in the free denunciation
of what is wrong, and intuition of what is right, and stern inflexibility
to bend to no man’s humour, or mince matters, or bleat a cowering truth
with craven heart in a minor key, I do say that if not a prophet, it has
been, and as God gives me power, will still be mine to speak as one.
The priest is out of date, but the prophet, long and urgently needed, has
yet a part to play in the councils of humanity. His words of truest in¬
spiration have yet to roll in thunder-tones through the nations and wake
the echoes of the golden past, and set the iron present, and the silver
and the golden ages yet to come reverberating with the harmony of
angels (once more in companionship with man), borrowed from the
melody of heaven. It is the prophet’s work and the teacher’s, for the
two are one, to listen for the voice of God in the perfume of flowers, and
the hum of bees; in the rush of the cataract and the impact of war ; in
the clang of the foundry, and the noise of the streets, and the roar of
vast cities. It is the prophet’s work to read God’s commands in the
stones, and the brooks, and the trees, and scan His high will in the
stars; and what he learns ’tis his to speak. So may it ever be the
preacher’s, worthy of the high work, first to know and then teach ; see
and then set forth ; investigate and then declare; pick up and polish as
best he may, and so present; sift and prepare; listen and ponder, hear
and then speak; and may God inspire the aim, and suggest the process,
and still bless the result.”
Discussions have sometimes taken place in these pages, on the influ¬
ence of an exclusively vegetable diet upon mediums and other persons.
The publications of the Vegetarian Society give information upon one
side of this question; they are published at 91, Oxford-street, Man¬
chester. We know many persons who have tasted no animal food for
years, yet are in excellent health, so vegetarianism agrees with some
constitutions.
Seance at Dalston.—Baron Dirckinck Holmfeld writes :—“ I was
at a stance in the rooms of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into
Spiritualism on Thursday, June 7th. During the first part of the sitting
Mr. Rouse, the medium, evidently controlled by a spirit, was much
agitated; he appeared to be in a violent mesmeric trance, until the con¬
trolling spirit succeeded in reducing the number of those who were
sitting at the table, and in giving the proper place to each of them.
The spirit (an old British sailor) then spoke in his own words to those
present, the medium being in an unconscious state. He complained re¬
peatedly of the difficulty of communicating, from the crowded state of
the room, and strenuously advised the members to make a harmonious
selection of sitters not exceeding six. He then specially addressed
Mrs. Corner, who before the seance had had a lively discussion with
myself, and the spirit told her that in the spiritual sphere in which he
lived no vestiges were found of reincarnation. He was sure that when¬
ever she met a reliable spirit, in whom she could place confidence, she
herself would detect that he was the same person who had left the
natural world, and who consequently would not admit reincarnation.
Mrs. Corner then remarked that there nevertheless had been spirits
who admitted reincarnation. The spirit replied that sundry spirits had
the tendency to speak in accordance with the ideas of the inquirers.
She ought to be satisfied, whenever she met a spirit like himself, that
she had to do with a being not reincarnated. Lastly, the spirit com¬
plained of mediums who were unmanageable, and would not receive the
good advice of their guardians, and thus frustrated the intentions of a
beneficial control. I believe many more good things were said, but
being a foreigner I could not catch all of them.”
288
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 16, 1876,
A CONFERENCE AT NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE.
On Sunday morning last, about seventy Spiritualists from various
parts of Northumberland and Durham met at Weir’s-court, in the
Freemasons’ Old Hall, Newcastle, in response to the invitation issued
by the Newcastle Society of Spiritualists, and Mr. J. J. Morse was
unanimously voted to the chair.
Mr. Morse said that he appreciated the position he was then placed
in, and that the object they had in view that morning was to give an
account of the condition of Spiritualism in each of their respective
localities, then to decide upon some plan of action for the diffusion
of Spiritualism in a systematic manner, and to form a committee to
carry out their intentions. Commenting on mediumship in general, he
would advise them to be always sure that mediums placed before the
public would stand their ground.
Mr. Armstrong, sen., the president of the Newcastle Society of
Spiritualists, said, as far as that society was concerned, its chief occupa¬
tion had been obtaining evidence, by physical manifestations chiefly, of
the reality of spirit power, in which work it had been successful.
Mr. Rhodes, on being called upon to state the result of his labours in
the present instance, said that he had received a number of communi¬
cations from various societies, and most of them showed a great interest
in the work about to be undertaken. He read letters from Oldham,
Lancashire, and other places, also a letter from Mr. Hare, expressing
sorrow at not being able to be present, but his willingness to assist in a
pecuniary way.
Mr. Mould said that he was delighted to see such a gathering. He
had been brought up a Methodist, and he had had great experience of
the heartiness and goodwill of country friends. Although he had been
brought up a Methodist, he must confess that, until he became convinced
of the truth of Spiritualism, he had no evidence of a future state of
existence ; his life had been darkened by the thoughts of a terrible hell,
and he knew that the experience of others was very generally the same.
The evidence he now had did not leave any shadow of a doubt upon his
mind. Speaking of the progress of the Newcastle Society, he said that
the books showed that some hundreds of members had belonged to it at
different times, and for some reasons had retired, but an effort had
been made to revive Sunday meetings. Such meetings brought Spirit¬
ualism before those who lived outside the pale of the churches. He
liked the scientific spirit of Spiritualism, but he thought it was possible
to be too scientific, which was only another phase of refined materialism.
Mr. W. H. Robinson, of Chester-le-street, county Durham, then read
a paper giving an account of the progress of Spiritualism in that locality,
in which he stated that Spiritualists there were somewhat scattered,
being in some cases two or three miles apart; but making a rough cal¬
culation, there were eleven or twelve circles in operation, the members
of which were willing to meet in harmony with those who were moving
the present undertaking. He desired to thank Mr. T. Brown, of
Howden-le-Wear, Mr. Rhodes, and the Newcastle Society, for the aid
they had afforded in bringing Spiritualism before residents in his locality.
Mr. J. Smith, of New Deleval, Northumberland, said that it was the
first time he had been on a platform. He had always been of an in¬
quiring mind, but the fire and brimstone doctrines never had any effect
on him, and had it not been for the facts of Spiritualism he should now
have nothing on which to rest his belief in a future state of existence.
He had received many tests, and he was much indebted to the labours
of Mr. T. Brown. From what he had seen of Spiritualism, he con¬
sidered that many of the smaller things were great truths, and his know¬
ledge of the same made him that bold, that he was ready to defend
Spiritualism against all comers to the best of his ability.
Mr. G. Smith supported the previous speaker, and made reference to
Mr. James, of Bebside, as one to whom he was indebted for much in¬
formation about Spiritualism.
Mr. T. Brown, of Howden-le-Wear, gave, as far as time would allow,
some information about his labours as a travelling medium; he had ob¬
served that in most circles there were two many mediums, and that it
would be better if only one medial person were allowed in each; all the
attention of the circle should be devoted to the development of that one.
They should not try to force the spirits to produce a certain class of
manifestation, which they might not wish to give, but whatever
symptom of mediumship naturally presented itself, should be developed.
Mr. Wilson, senior, of Ughlam, near Morpeth, said that Spiritualists
were generally supposed to be recognisable by their looks, and judging
by those of the company assembled, it gave him a very favourable im¬
pression. He had been for a long time diffusing orthodox doctrines as
a local preacher, which work he certainly did not regret; but Spirit¬
ualism had supplemented his former knowledge, and when compelled to
resign his orthodox position, he felt that the God who had always pro¬
vided for his necessities would continue to do so. He was now willing
to work for Spiritualism the same as others whom he knew, and to
whom he was indebted, who thought it no trouble to go miles to a spirit
circle. John Wesley was a Spiritualist, and he wished for more spirit¬
uality.
Mr. Martin Hexham, late of Newcastle; Mr. Batey, jun., of Ouston;
and Mr. Wilson, sen., of Washington, addressed the meeting, which
then adjourned till the afternoon.
At the afternoon meeting the proceedings were opened with prayer
by Mr. Wilson, sen., of Ughlam. Mr. Morse again presided.
Mr. Kersey, in an excellent address, moved the following resolution: |
—“ That, as a more efficient means of spreading Spiritualism in the j
North of England, a district be marked out within a certain radius of i
Newcastle, to assist in a systematic and united effort for its promotion j
in the several towns and villages included therein, by the holding of
meetings, &c., and by securing the co-operation of all interested in the j
progress of Spiritualism.”
This was seconded by Mr. J. Robson, and carried unanimously.
The next resolution was proposed by Mr. Robertson, of Dunstan;—■ '
“That this organisation be called the North of England Spiritualists’
Central Committee, and that it be composed of two or more representa¬
tives from all towns within a radius of fifty miles of Newcastle, the said
representatives to act as the general body determine.”
This was seconded by Mr. Lambelle, of South Shields, and carried
unanimously, i
Mr. Robinson, of Chester-le-Street, moved, “ That all the services of
the officials be honorary.”
Some discussion followed, and Mr. G. Smith, of New Delavel, moved,
as an amendment, “ That their travelling expenses should be paid.”
This was seconded by Mr. Wilson, and carried.
Mr. Martin moved, ft That Mr. Rhodes be appointed secretary, and
Mr. Kersey treasurer.”
Both these gentlemen declined the honour, Mr. Rhodes alleging that
his present duties in connection with Spiritualism rendered it impossible
for him to act as secretary, and to do the work in the manner the
requirements of the committee and locality rendered necessary; but
upon Mr. Batey stating that a conference had been arranged for
Chester-le-Street in a few weeks’ time, it was ultimately agreed that
the conference stand adjourned for three weeks, till Mr. Morse’s next
visit, during which time Messrs. Rhodes and Kersey would act, and
would attend to all correspondence and financial matters.
The following Council was then elected ;—
Newcastle: Messrs. Mould, Miller, Hunter, Nicholson, Kay, Arm¬
strong, Haydock, W. C. Robson. Gateshead : Westgarth, Wild, Hunter,
Hall, and Felton. Darlington: Hinde and Richmond. Bishop Auck¬
land : N. Kilburn, Faucett, Everitt, Brown, Gibson. Sunderland:
Pinckeney. Rutherford: Airey and Vincent. Walker: Mr. Elliott.
Coxhoe: Mr. and Mrs. Lawson. Bewick Main: Mr. Stevenson.
Wardley Colliery: Mr. Daniel Reid. Dipton : Mr. Batey. Ashington:
Mr. Skipsey. Morpeth: Mr. Wilson, sen., T. Brown. Washington:
Mr. Wilson, jun., Mr. Charles Thornton. Chester-le-Street: Messrs.
Ramsey, Gautrey, Lones, Robinson, Graham, Stewart, Dodds. Seghill:
Foster, Nicholson. Hexham: Martin. South Shields: Robertson,
Lambelle. North Shields: Robson.
At five p.m. a good tea was provided; more than 70 sat down, and
the tables were presided over by Misses Fairlamb, Coltman, Martin, and
others. In the evening Mr. J. j. Morse gave a trance address to a
crowded audience, to which some were not able to obtain admission.
Dementia.—During the early stages of dementia induced by mental
anxiety, Dr. Richardson tells us in his Diseases of Modern Life, there
is nothing more than an increased tension of the minute vessels which
supply the brain. • In later stages the substance of the nervous tissue
itself undergoes a modification by which its activity is permanently lost.
These are the physiological consequences, most briefly summed up.
The first symptom is a want of full bodily vigour; then follows craving
for more work, disturbed sleep, acute sensitiveness to external impres¬
sions, and, finally, strange figures and sounds are seen and heard. This
condition may continue for years, and the sufferer in time may begin to
accept abnormal creations as natural. Dr. Richardson cites a case of a
merchant, who for weeks retained in his vision the spectra of three
lights, oval in shape, of the size of an egg, and so clearly defined to the
observer that he would watch them half-consciously as they floated
before him on the wall, the ceiling, or in space. In this stage of the
disease lies the foundation of all the hypotheses of ghost-seeing, of
ecstatic visions, and even of poetic frenzy. A curious instance directly
in point, which came to our notice very recently, is that of a well-known
writer on the press, who for some time past has devoted attention to the
subject of morbid mental conditions. This gentleman, in a letter to a
daily journal, states himself to be the victim of the horrible spectacle of
two men hanging from a gallows, a sight which he once beheld while
acting as a city reporter. The suspended corpses are clearly brought
before him by the sound of rain (the execution occurred during a rain¬
storm), and also by the sound of laughter, since, through some uncon¬
trollable impulse during the hanging, he was induced to utter an
imtimely peal of merriment.—Scientific American.
A Conjuror Rebuked.—The Nottingham Journal of June 6th says
of Mr. Maskelyne’s book on Spiritualism:—'“The style is so flippant,
and the explanations so vague, save when dealing with well-known
cheats, that it is calculated to strengthen rather than weaken the minds
of those who regard Spiritualism from a serious point of view, and
who, while unwilling to admit the science, will not be contented until
it is cleared away by argument and not satire. In this respect Mr.
Maskelyne makes a serious mistake. He begins with satire and con¬
demnation, is ready to catch at any joke to hold Spiritualism up to ridi¬
cule, and appears to think that all who are not anti-Spiritualists are
weak-minded, and certainly within very easy reach of Bedlam. This
it must be evident is quite a mistake, because, though as a rule mediums
are lacking in physique, it must be expressed that the votaries of
Spiritualism number in their list men of broad liberal minds, of more
than the average intelligence, and who have been made disciples after
having been the most deadly opponents and the most avowed infidels.
We do not express any opinion on the subject, but we do state that the
light, flippant way in which Mr. Maskelyne treats the subject, dresses
up his tricks, exposes the swindles of Spiritualistic cheats, while at the
same time he conceals its excellences as to existence in a future state,
takes off the force of his otherwise well-written little book—-a book
which, in very many respects, he will some day, when in a serious re¬
flective vein, very much regret having produced.”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
T. A. J. L.—There are authenticated cures by him, as well as failures such as
you narrate. We do not wish to print a one-sided view of the facts, so
recommend you to send your letter to the journal which has given half the
truth; it will of course in the interests of the public give the other side, and
hot make an advertising engine of itself.
June 16, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38. Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
ether.]*
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
POOTEALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. fid.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after Which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, 5 by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, US. This
book, consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. fid.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums ,|also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I ? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, hut
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee. D.O.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or honing that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 5s. fid.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spint Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, .and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumafology; Miracles
and Science: the Spirit: and the Prophets Thereof; Auti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. fid.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s fid.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens • these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made.by disbelievers that spirit messages are of aitrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
n this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
dhis life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. fid.; cheap edition,
s. fid.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the,
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM. MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. fid. :
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s fid.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PfiYSIOAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary With the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. fid.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS ; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. fid.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), fid.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s:
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by WilHam Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. fid. _
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three narts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle, fis. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists, is. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott, fis.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. Cs.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism, fis.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 5s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1766. 2s. fid.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained tho prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. fid.) 4s..
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker.
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature's Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
fij i ' „ II.
„ HI.
,, IV. „ .
V. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or? Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures ....
s d.
15 0
7 6
7 6
7 6
. 7 6
7 6
7 6
3 6
7 6
6 0
3 6
7 6
3 6
3 6
7 6
6 0
7 6
2 6
3 0
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
S. i
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . .24
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spieitualist Newspaper . . 2
Keys of the Creeds . . . . ... .6
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A hook containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .5
History of American Socialisms I(Noyes) . . . .18
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . .12
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . .15
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yuu, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 A.n.j. Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trim Coll., Cain. . 10
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . .10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske. M.A . 10
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Cangestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . . 2
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation .of the United States of America
at Constantinople , . . . . • 12
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B. A . . 3
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . ... 18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . .10
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.AS
Special edition for Schools • , , . 1
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1 Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard, fid.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard,
fid
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Adolvhus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. AngelL Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “ There is in it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, soimd common sense, and deep thought.” fid
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
THEODORE PARKER IN SPIRIT LIFE. Given
inspirationally through the mediumship of Dr. F. L. H. Willis.
Is.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young fid.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrioally through
the mediumship of Dr. 0. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. R. T.
Hallock. 2s.
iv
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Kepresenting the English and American Literature of Spirit-,
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison," Spritudlist News¬
paper Branch Office, -38, Great Kussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business, are not in any way connected with each
other.]
Price 7s, 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep, religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account, of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrajed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S.: COLBY And Bich. London Spirit-
ualist Office.   .   
SPIRITUAL SCIENTIST, of Boston, Mass.,
kj U.S.A. The most faithful and impartial exponent of
Spiritualism in America. The title, Spiritual Scientist, clearly
indicates the character of the paper. Unlike all other
Spiritual journals, it gathers from the great authors of ancient
time the fruits of their researches into the secrets of nature
and the laws of the Spiritual Universe. On the Occult
Sciences it has many able contributors, and solicits correspon¬
dence.
Published weekly. Scientist Pub. Co., publishers. E. Gerry
Brown, Editor. Offices, 18, Exchange-street, and 24, Devon-
shire-street. The Scientist is now in its fourth volume. Terms
of subscription, in advance, 13s. per annum, including postage.
Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 38, Great Bussell-street,
London, W.O. 
Price 5s.
IRELAND: UR OF THE CHALDEES.
London: Triibner and Co., Ludgate Hill.
Reviewers’ Criticisms.
“Irishmen ought to read this work and be proud. It is
crammed with learning which does credit to the research of
the writer.”—Christian World.
“ The somewhat startling proposition contained in the title
of this work can hardly fail to interest a considerable number
of readers, and for those who may be inclined to take the work
in hand, we may briefly state that the line of argument pur¬
sued is intended to show that the Chaldeans, the Hebrews,
and the Celts are identical, the summary given at the close
being that ‘the Arpbaxadite Chaldeans were the progenitors
of the Hebrew .Chaldeans, and differ only in name from the
first Gaels.’ The subject is carefully dealt with. The various
arguments are well arranged, and a large amount of corrobora¬
tive evidence is adduced in support of them, the value of which
many will be glad to test.”—Rock.
Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work oh mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about animal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceiye the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, 4d. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
First Edition.
IMPORTANT NEW PUBLICATION.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS INTO SPIRIT¬
UALISM.
A PAMPHLET, the full size of The Spiritualist, containing a
large amount of information, compiled especially for inquirers,
will be shortly issued from The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office at 38, Great Russell-street, London, for sale at public
meetings,
PRICE ONE PENNY.
There has long been a demand for some such publication
as this, the current spiritual newspapers not always containing
the most suitable or most condensed information for persons
to whom the subject of Spiritualism is a strange one.
Many thousands of copies of the publication will be printed,
and kept on sale by vendors of spiritual literature, and at
spiritual meetings throughout the country.
From the large circulation thus secured, it will be a
VALUABLE CHANNEL FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
To Mediums, Mesmerists, Authors of Spiritual Books, and
others. The charge for advertisements will be One Shilling
for the first twenty-five words, and Sixpence for every addi¬
tional twenty-five words, or portion thereof. Displayed adver¬
tisements Five Shillings per inch.
All advertisements should be sent in as soon as possible, as
the publication will come out in a few weeks’ time.
Special arrangements will be made to supply local societies
with copies at a cheap rate, if ordered in large quantities; the
said societies may thus considerably increase their income by
the profits on sales.
All communications on this subject should be addressed to
the Editor of The Spiritualist
THE SPIRITUALIST.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM. :
The Second' Volume '.of■ The Identity -of: Primitive
i .'Christianity'.and -Modern Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth,
completes the work.
CONTENTS.
I.—Spirit Writing.
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power
III. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV, —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism,
V.—Clairaudience.
VI.—Dreams and Visions.
VII.—Trance and Ecstaey.
VIII.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Contentions.
X.—Prayer.
XI.—The Ministry of Angels.
XII.—Death.
XIII. —The Spirit-World.
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI.—Conclusion.
The above work has just been issued in America, and copies
are now on sale, price 10s. 6d. each, post free 11s. 6d., at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum;- Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
By Royal Letters Patent. , ■,
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT. A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT. CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK'; OR, GUIDE FOR
. MEDIUMS AND FOR EVOCATION. Containing the
Theoretic Teaching of Spirits concerning all kinds of manifes¬
tations, &c.; &c. By Allan Kardec. Translated by Anna
Blackwell. Crown Svo, pp. 476, cloth, 7s. 6d.
Price Is. OJd., post free.
Marriage law injustice. An ex¬
posure of the wrongs sanctioned by the present
Divorce Act, with suggested amendments. By Frederick A.
Binney.
Manchester: Palmer and Howe, 3, Bond-street.
The religio - PHILOSOPHICAL
JOURNAL is a large eight-page weekly paper, an
able exponent of Modern Spiritualism. Established in 1865.
Now in its twentieth volume. Published every Saturday by
the Religio-Philosophical Publishing House, Chicago, Illinois.
The regular price is 15s. per year, at which price thousands of
old subscribers welcome it each week as the best visitor they
have. Sample copy, 3d. Address, S. S. Jones, Editor, Chicago,
pc
THE HOME FOR SPIRITUALISTS,,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O.
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Home, on the principle of a private
Boarding House. It is conveniently located for the principal
railways, and is in the very area of the spiritual movement.
Its arrangements have been designed with a special view to
the requirements of Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance
Manager—Mrs.. A. C. BurkI?. ;
THE FOOD QUESTION.—Manifesto and
Publications of-the Vegetarian Society sent free to any
address on receipt of post card. Secretary, 91, Oxford-street,
Manchester.
DR. SEXTON’S CONCERT AT CAVENDISH
ROOMS. The Fourth Quarterly Concert and Elocu¬
tionary Entertainment in aid of the Organ Fund connected
with Dr. Sexton’s Sunday Services will take place at the above
rooms on Wednesday, the 28th inst. The programme com¬
prises songs and duetg by Mrs. Russell, Miss Lilie Gilham, Miss
Sexton, Mr. Thomas Child and Mr. G. Sexton, jun., recitations
by Mr. Thomas" Menzies, Mr. Albert G. Ogan, and Mr. F. M.
Sexton, a selection of glees, &c.. by Dr. Sexton's choir, conducted
by Mr. Child, and a comic sketch by Mr. Ogan. Messrs. John
Brinsmead and Sons have kindly lent a grand piano for the
occasion.
Tickets may be obtained of Mr. G. S. Sexton, jun., 75, Fleet-
street, E.O., and 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-road, S.E., and
at the doors on the evening of thoj entertainment. Prices—
Reserved Seats, 2s.; Back Seats, Is, Doors open at 7.30. To
commence at 8 o’clock.
June 16, 1876.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. BENJAMIN
COLEMAN.
nfil -COMMITTEE
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Welwyn, Herts.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
William Howitt, Esq., Rome, Italy.
S. C. Hall, Esq:, F.S.A , 50, Holland-street, Kensington.
Alexander Calder, Esq.,T, Hereford-square, South Kensington.
Charles Blackburn, Esq., Didsbury, Manchester.
W. M. Wilkinson, Esq., 44, Lincoln’s-inn-fields.
A. A. Watts, Esq., 119, Lansdowne-road, Notting-hill, W
S. Chinnery, Esq., 142, Strand, London, W.C.
J. Enmore Jones, Esq., Enmore-park, S.E.
C. Townsend Hook, Esq., Snodland, Rochester, Kent.
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq., Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Cornelius Pearson, Esq., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury.
William Tebb, Esq., 7, Albert-road, Gloucester-gate, Regent’s-
park.
A. Leighton, Esq., 16, South Castle-street, Liverpool.
James Wason, Esq., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Queen-street, Grosvenor-square.
Mrs. Tebb, 7, Alhert-rOad, Regen t’s-park, N.W.
Thomas Hayle, Esq., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Thomas Shorter, Esq., 23, Prince of Wales-read, N.W.
Jacob Dixon,Esq, M.D., 8 Great Ormend-street, W.O.
W. H. Harrison, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
W. C. Copperthwaite, Esq., Malton, Yorkshire.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S., 2, Great Winchester-street-
buildings, E.C.
The Hon. J. O’Sullivan, late U.S. Minister to the Court of
Portugal, 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Hay Nisbet, Esq., 219, George-street, Glasgow.
Mrs, Hamilton, York-place, Portman-square.
John Lament, Esq, Finfleld, Liverpool.
Thomas Slater, Esq, 19, Leamington-road-villas, Westhoume-
park.
Andrew Glendinnibg, Esq., 4, Castledinb-jbad, Anerly, S.E
W. J. Williams, Esq, Olarehee Club, Waterloo-place, S.W.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Boston, U.S.A;
Subscriptions, which will he duly acknowledged, may be
forwarded to the Hon. Treasurer, Alexander Calder, Esq , 1,
Hereford-square, South Kensington, S,WY; or to the Hon
Sec., A. Joy, Esq., 69, Great Russell-streef, W.O.
The following sums have been already subscribed
A Friend       £50 0 0
Charles Blackburn, Esq.       60 0 0
A. V. H ...;      30 0 0
Martin R. Smith, Esq.  25 0 0
Alexander Calder, Esq    25 0 0
William Tebb, Esq.    25 0 0
A. L. Elder, Esq,...   25 0 0
W. M. Wilkinson, Esq  20 0 0
O. v. Hoffmann  20 0 0
James Wason, Esq  20 0 0
Friends at St. Petersburg    19 7 6
Friends at Glasgow, per H. Nisbet, Esq  10 16 0
Thomas Grant, Esq       10 10 0
A Friend   10 10' 0
Mrs. St Claire     10 0 0
W. J. Williams, Esq        10 0 0
Two Friends and Neighbours     10 0 0
W. C. Copperthwaite, Esq   10 0 0
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq.      10 0 0
Alexander Tod, Esq.      10 0 0
J. Ridley, Esq •••     10 0 0
Mrs. Hamilton.   ."    10 0 0
Mrs. Daun     10 0 0
T. J. Allman, Esq  10 0 0
Mrs. Hennings.     5 6 0
Mrs. Berry         6 5 0
J. Y. Vernon, Esq,,,,,,.    6 6 0
W. H. Harrison, Esq. ,..  5 0 0
O. Townsend Hook, Esq,,.,,,,,  5 0 0
William Howitt, Esq.     5 0 0
Enmore Jones, Esq  5 0 0
A. A. Watts, Esq      5 0 0
Mrs. Watts .„,   ...„   5 0 0
Walter Weldon, Esq    5 0 0
P. G  5 0 0
M. G. S,„      6 0 0
O. F. Varley, Esq  5 0 0
J. H. D     5 0 0
F. Griffin, Esq.   5 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart     6 0 0
J. S. Law, Esq   5 0 0
Friend, per Mrs. Vernon,..,., ,....".   3 3 0
G. de Liagre   3 3 0
C. Pearson, Esq,.,.,,    3 3 0
Miss Clark       3 0 0
S. O. Hall, Esq   1 2 2 0
John Marshall, Esq.  ,„. 2 2 0
O. Stephens, Esq.      2 2 0
Dr. R. Baikie      2 2 0
F.       2 2 0
Rev. W. Whitear  2 2 0
Miss Whitear    -2 2 0
Thomas Scott, Esq     2 2 0
D. G.'Fitzgerald, ESq.  ......7..'.. 2 2 0
Miss Watts  2 2 0
T. Skinner, Esq., M;D. '2 2 0
T. Shorter, Esq   2 0 0
M. DeVeh   2 0 0
John Lamont, Esq."    ,,,,,,, 2 0 0
C. McLean, Esq  2 0 0
Miss Douglas ,,...  2 0 0
R. B.       110
D. H. W.,    110
A. Glendinning, Esq. ,,,  110
W. Glynes, Esq,., 110
J. T. Peele,.Esq,  .'.,,7 ,1 1 0
Dr. C. L. Robertson    110
Mrs. S. Dickson   ,„i.110
Regnum  110
Friend, per T. Hayle, Esq. 110
F. A. Binney, Esq.   110
J. Gledstanes, Esq,,;.  10 0
Mrs. M. Gregory . v>...    10 0
Dr. Hayle.  10 0
O. P. Carter, Esq. 7....'.i.'.........:  10 0
Mrs. Wiseman.'„„:..;;.;."..i..„;,’.‘.;.'.,.',.„  10 0
Baronin V. Vay . ;   0 18 4
C. Parsohs, Esqi.f,„",,'.,‘'„,'„„".,„  0 10 6
G. G. G.    0 10 0
D. S.V.   0 7 0
Printed for the Proprietor by Beykridqe & Co., at tha
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Ajidrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. AliRN, Aya
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
