A F(ECOF(D Of THE PROQRE^^ Of THE 3CIEJMCE /ND ETHICS OF JSPIfJTUyMJ^M.
[EEGISTEEED FOE TEANSMISSION ABEOAD.]
No. 34.—(VOL. IL, No. 6.) LONDON: SATURDAY, JUNE 15, 1872. ^
THE PRICE OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST.”
In accordance with the notice given last month
the price of The Spiritualist is this day raised to
Fourpence.
TRICKERY IN SPIRITUALISM.
In the last number of the Spiritualist attention was
called to the circumstance that many of Mr. Hudson’s
ghost photographs were such as could be produced by
artificial means. Mr. John Jones, of Enmore Park,
informed us that some of the pictures had been arti¬
ficially produced, but did not send us evidence. We
accordingly made further inquiries into the subject, the
result being that there is no question that several of the
pictures are shams, made, in many instances, by first
exposing a plate in the camera on the person dressed
up as a ghost, then treating it so that it would keep a
moderate time, and afterwards, before development,
exposing the same plate upon a sitter. Thus, on de¬
velopment, the sitter and the ghost would appear
together in the picture.
When the ghost was taken, the line of the bottom of
the background was taken at the same time, conse¬
quently, in some cases, when the plate was developed
this line appeared in front of the legs and dress of the
sitter. Some of the carpet also, which ought to be
behind the sitter, makes its appearance printed over his
or her dress.
The real spirit pictures apparently did not come fast
enough, so imitations were introduced.
Mr. Hudson is no. Spiritualist. The worst of the
. story, however, remains to be told. It is our painful
duty to point out that Mr. Herne, the medium, appears
dressed up as a ghost in two, at least, of the pictures
which bear the afore-mentioned marks of double ex-
i; posure of the plate. These sham ghost pictures, show-
.ing the background printed in front of his legs, will be
jfouhd ’in the' albums of several readers of these lines.
Si., Mr.'Herrie may, perhaps, plead that he did not take
payment of the sitter on these two occasions, and that
- he was under a bad spiritual influence at the time, and
not in his normal state ; certainly the expression of his
face in the pictures bears this out. If so, when he was
all right again, he should have destroyed the negatives,
and prohibited Mr. Hudson from selling copies.
The harm does not end with the injury to himself of
these acts. The manifestations through a new medium
are watched very carefully, but when they are found
to be genuine, and the medium is recognised by Spiri¬
tualists, the said medium is in a position of trust,
bound in honour not to disgrace the cause by tricks.
Again, facts of this kind must force the spiritual peri¬
odicals to give less perfect descriptions of seances and
incipient manifestations to their readers, selecting
chiefly those only which it is palpable the medium
could not produce artificially. Thus both the public
and the scientific world will lose a mass of information,
because of a necessary reticence under the circum¬
stances.
Our unhappy story this month does not end here.
In another column will be found a letter from Dr.
Purdon, containing facts which apparently tell against
the non-professional medium, Miss Cook. In this case
the spirits have, no doubt, much to do with the matter,
she being a young lady, aged sixteen, of blameless life,
who was dismissed with a first-class tesitmonial as to
character, from her situation as teacher in a school,
because the mistress could not afford to have a Spiri¬
tualist in that capacity on the establishment. Her
father, from the first, strongly objected to Spiritualism
on religious and many other grounds; the phenomena
forced themselves into his house against his will, and
were a long time in breaking down his prejudices.
Spiritualism has done Mr. Cook and his family nothing
but injury among their neighbours, though at home,
from the hitherto good character of the influences, it
has been a source of increased happiness. Dr. Purdon
also seems to be a thoroughly honest observer, faith¬
fully recording all he sees, since he has not been afraid
to publicly testify to the truth of certain psychological
phenomena he has witnessed. Few men, with a'pro-
fessional reputation to lose, have courage to do the
same.
In the course of the head and face manifestations
through Miss Cook’s mediumship, it will be remembered
howonce, in a clear light, many persons several times
saw white drapery in the hand of the spirit, in the
very act of quietly passing through solid matter.
Sometimes test manifestations like this occur; in other
cases the facts are surrounded by a broad atmosphere
of suspicion, which can be pierced only by faith in one
another. The best manifestations invariably occur
where all are linked together by the affections—where
no impure thought enters ; in fact, under such condi¬
tions, we have seen things taking place in the light
which ordinarily occur only at dark seances. In Mr.
Crookes’s experiment with the accordion, before tech¬
nical witnesses, and with Mr. Home—a medium free
from all imputation of ever artificially assisting the
manifestations—the instrument would play only under
a table. But a Bristol physician certified that, in his
presence, with the same medium, the accordion played
before him in the air in a good light, and he passed his
hands round it. Why this difference in the two cases?
We have no direct knowledge, but suppose that in the
latter case the circle was more harmonious, happy, and
susceptible to spiritual influx. Given a circle of hard-
headed people, like the savans whom Mr. Home met at
St. Petersburg, who sit to authoritatively impose their
own conditions on the immortals—the spirits are not
submissive to the dictation.
In addition to the cases mentioned in the first part of
this article, we have also privately heard strong rumours
about two other mediums, resident in the United King¬
dom, having recently helped their manifestations with
tricks.
Ever since this journal was started we have not had
a case to publish till now of tricks on the part of a
genuine medium. How:,.is it that real or apparent
cases against many of them seem now to have set in all
at once? Is it that a wave of bad spiritual influence
is now passing, over the land, and that mediums are
more visibly affected by it than others ?
The charges ,of trickery, and the investigation into
the facts-, originate in all cases, it will be noticed, with
Spiritualists:
Whatever may be the meaning of all this,,it will do
some good if we seek to spiritually purify and raise
ourselves, and at the same time take care to surround
all our mediums with good influences. Physical media
are persons easily mesmerised, and very easily led by
others, through their affections, into good or bad courses,
as the case may be.
SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPHY.
During the past three years a great many facts have
been stored up in these pages, and, among other uses,
they will serve the purpose of aiding to build up a
system of philosophy, comprising the laws which regu¬
late communion between spirits and men. It has been
a matter of regret to us that there has not been more
space in this journal to devote to Spiritualism and its
teachings ; but it was felt to be best to seize the facts
as they occurred, and to record them ere they were lost
for ever, whereas opinions about them, and conclusions
flowing from them, would keep until favourable oppor¬
tunities occurred for publication. Unless some useful
knowledge and high teachings be drawn from Spiritual
phenomena, both physical and mental, they might almost
as well be nothing more than clever conjuring. Several
years’ constant observation of the facts, and study of
the English and American literature of Spiritualism,
have given us opportunities of drawing conclusions, a
few of which may now be stated:—
When a man quits the earthly body, it is clear that,
spiritually, mentally, -and morally, he is the same man
still, but possessed of additional powers; of several of
these powers we can form no conception. Sometimes
flashes of these powers begin to appear in persons still
living in the body, and the ordinary experience of ob¬
servers is indeed disturbed when they listen to clair¬
voyant descriptions of events occurring hundreds of
miles away, which descriptions afterwards prove to be
true. A caterpillar, which observes some few of the
powers of a butterfly for the first time, could scarcely
have its preconceived ideas and experience of “ the
nature of things ” more unsettled. It is also plain that
many of the facts of spirit life cannot be communicated
to, or received by us here below, for we have not the
brains to take in many spiritual ideas, if they could
otherwise be revealed. It is a great blessing that this
is the case, because directly after passing through the
gates of death, the world beyond with its new sensations,
enjoyments, and duties, bursts upon the disembodied
spirit in all its freshness and glory; if we could learn
all about it before we entered, the change would be a
comparatively small one from our present state, and
a man tired of this world might be wearied by the next
stage of existence, almost before he entered its portals.
The ruling love of a man takes him, after death, to
his own place or state, and these places or conditions
are so far apart, that those who love wickedness, and
go to dwell with their own unhappy kind, cannot see
or mix with spirits in the higher heavens. A spirit
recently remarked: at one of the London circles, “ You
had better be as good as you can now, for although
there is eternal progression by self-reformation after
death, I can tell you that it is very hard aud slow
work.” Chemists know of several substances of diffe¬
rent colours which can be dissolved in a vessel of water
without mutually decomposing each other; then, by
the evaporation of water, the substances begin to crys¬
tallise ; blue crystals grow in clusters by themselves,
red in other clusters, white in white clusters, and so on.
From a single liquid, the particles in the solution all
go to their own place, and build themselves into sepa¬
rate clusters, differing entirely in shape, colour, and
chemical composition from their neighbours. Just as
chemists do not know why this is the case, even so we
do not know why the ruling loves of men take them to
their own place after death. In both cases the facts
are governed by law.
Some men and women are low, earthy, sensual, and
criminal in their nature ; such after death are more or
less tied to the earth by their thoughts and affections;
they are earth-bound spirits. They seem to possess
more power over common matter than other spirits, and
to be so material as to be able to produce physical
effects with greater ease, than higher spirits. One
proof of this is that the disturbances in haunted houses
are almost invariably produced by spirits of a low
order, who in most cases have committed some crime in
the place haunted. Mediumship should never be
developed in a haunted house.- It may enable vicious
spirits to get at the sensitive medium, and to do more
or less harm. Mr. Gerald Massey has had very pain¬
ful experience in this respect, as he stated in one of his
recent lectures. A powerful medium, who has been
under the guidance of good spirits for many years, may
sometimes temporarily enter a haunted house with
safety from all but evanescently disagreeable results,
but not always. The lower spirits, as a rule, can, if
they wish, keep the higher ones away, at least so far
as the bodily portion of the organism of a medium is
concerned. The higher spirits usually act on the men¬
tal or higher portions of the organism of a medium;;
hence communication with them is more common by-,
trance and clairvoyance than by the physical manifesta-.
tions, with the great disadvantage that the messages-
have then to be translated and given to the external
world through the mouth or physical organism of the
medium, who perhaps does not understand the subject
to which the communication refers. Sometimes low
spirits with good intentions seem to work with the
higher ones, manifestations and communications of the
most valuable character being the result.
It is certain that many of the earth-bound, as well
as the higher spirits, are intimately connected with
particular persons :. more or less identity of loves con¬
nects the spirits with the mortals more or less inti¬
mately. Those spirits who are almost always in the
company of a good physical medium, and are the chief
workers in the production of the physical manifestations,
are usually very similar in thought and likings to the
medium ; their interests are very much bound up
together, and what gives pleasure to the one gives
pleasure to the other. Sometimes, when the medium
gets into a bad state of mind, or sits at a seance with
unusually bad people, much lower spirits than those
ordinarily with him get at him, causing him pain, or
making him say and do things he normally would
detest. For this reason paid media run into far greater
danger than others, and as they give such great and
open facilities to inquirers, unlike the non-professional
media who select and limit the number of their visitors,
a correspondingly increased debt of gratitude and help
is due to them from Spiritualists, when they do their
duty honestly. Something should be done to protect
them from the many spiritual as well as other dangers
they have to encounter. We were first informed, through
the trance mediumship of Mr. Morse, that people who
haunt scenes of vice and wickedness have their thoughts,
consequently their actions, influenced by spirits of a
low order, and that these unseen human disembodied
42
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 15, 1872.
beings are enabled to gratify their own low instincts
through their alliance with their companion still in the
body. The philosophy of this may probably be un¬
ravelled by studying those facts of mesmerism wherein
the patient often feels the sensations of the mesmeriser,
tasting what he tastes, and seeing what he sees.
The converse of all this holds good. A medium, by
raising his aspirations, by true prayer or otherwise, can
so raise his own state that higher spirits than those
ordinarily with him can get near him, and aid and
protect him. We have several times been present when
true prayer from all present has ki a few minutes
changed the whole character of the manifestations at a
physical seance, making all the noisy, and perhaps a few
very bad spirits, clear out. Once the controlling spirit
sang out, “ Pray—pray all of you, or mischief will be
done. There are some very bad influences here.”; The
advice was acted upon, and in two minutes all was
changed. All the spirits agree that the conditions of
time and space are not the same to them as to us, and
that to them nearness or distance depends more upon
mental states.
To get strong physical manifestations it is a good
plan for the medium to have a sound sleep an hour or
two before the seance begins, and on waking up to have
light refreshments: nothing heavier than fish. A
heavy meal which brings on sleepy feelings is bad for
the manifestations. If two seances are to be held the
same evening, there should be a tea or some light meal
between them; the seance room should be left during
the interval, and the doors left open; it is also advan¬
tageous to let the medium walk for ten minutes or more
in the fresh air, say in the garden, between the two
seances.
The “ Johns % and “ Katies,” who, so far as physical
manifestations are concerned, seem to casual observers
to be the controlling and guardian spirits of the media,
are in nearly every case not so in reality. If the
medium be questioned, he will usually say that his real
guardian spirit is his father, mother, or somebody who
loved him much in life, and who communicates with
him in private, but very rarely, if at all, by the phy¬
sical manifestations, such as raps, table motions, or the
direct voice. The communications of these guardian
spirits are usually by clairvoyance, clairaudience, or
some of the higher kinds of mediumship. The reason
why media rarely mention messages they get in this
way is that few people believe them, as it all depends
upon the testimony of the speaker, and the British
people are so in the habit of cheating each other where
they can in trade, politics, and theology, that it is uow
considered to be most reasonable to conclude a man to
be untruthful, if it can be shown that he has a material
interest in telling lies. We regard the Hindoos as most
atrocious liars, because they lie continually; in three
hundred years our descendants will hold British
morality, as recorded in the newspapers, in the same
estimation as that with which we now regard the un¬
truthful habits of certain Eastern nations. The diffe¬
rence is in degree, not in kind.
Mediumship is a powerful mental stimulant. When
it breaks out in a private family, and the fact of the
reality of a life beyond the grave becomes practically
known in the home circle, the sense of responsibility
and the amount of thought, or perhaps prejudice,
evolved in the minds of all members of the household is
very great. If the medium be an affectionate, intelligent
person, of lively disposition, and well-balanced mind,
the medial gift had better be followed up and cultivated.
If, on the other hand, the incipient medium be an odd,
eccentric person, not clear-headed, and is of a vicious
disposition, we should say:—“ Do not sit for manifesta¬
tions—do not cultivate mediumship.” In such cases
mediumship sometimes increases the want of balance of
mind; the communications are not worth much through
a naturally stupid medium, and the mental stimulus
may cause the mind to overbalance itself altogether.
On the other hand, to a person with well-balanced
mind, and a happy, lively disposition, the mediumshiip
is usually a great gain and blessing, which, however,
like all other good things, may be used or abused.
When mediumship appears in the home circle, causing
not a little perplexity and astonishment, an early step
usually is to call in a few friends or neighbours to see
the phenomena; and this is about the worst thing
which could be done. In the first place, the phenomena
being undeveloped and weak, that which the members
of the family know to be genuine, is assumed to be
imposture by the visitors. In the second case, the
undeveloped manifestations are weaker than usual
when the strangers come in, because of the additional
anxiety of the medium. In the third place, the visi¬
tors bring in their own spirit friends with them, some
of them often very bad ones ; these low ones thus may
get at the undeveloped medium, and cause much
trouble and annoyance, lasting for weeks or months
after the visitors have left. A well-developed medium
is tolerably safe from such mishaps. A medium, while
developing, should be surrounded by none but the
purest and holiest influences, especially when sitting
in circle; until the mediumship is fully developed and
strong, it is best to shut out strangers altogether.
Thus it appears that a good healthy body, and well-
balanced mind, are necessary for the reception of the
best spiritual gifts. In time, “ the salvation of the
body ” will become one of the cardinal doctrines of
Spiritualism, as essential to the more speedy perfection
of the soul. When an ignorant man leaves the body,
he is ignorant still, hence, men like Professor Huxley,
who do such great work to advance education, live in
the performance of intensely religious acts, which result
in sending vast numbers of intelligent rational spirits
into the next world. Id this way Spiritualism shows
that there is an enormous* after-death value in what is
called “secular” education. As adults or juveniles
cannot be properly educated while their bodies are
half-starved, or their minds are in a state of anxiety,
it follows that all laws and systems which drain most
of the means of subsistence in a nation into the hands
of a very few people, are irreligious, and that any theo¬
logical system which supports those laws and the law¬
givers, must be irreligious too.
The subject of spiritual telegraphy is such a wide one
that in years to come scores of books will not be able
to contain all the useful information which could be
published about it. Not only mental harmony, but a
strong bond of affection, must unite all the members of
any spirit circle to induce the best results, but such
circles are very rarely found. The influence of the
affections on spiritual influx has as yet not been much
considered by Spiritualists. It is a chief reason why
the best manifestations are rarely witnessed in public
spirit circles. Men who rejoice in a superfluity of
cleverness have sometimes told us how they have tied
up or held mediums hand and foot and introduced
other precautions to prevent possibility of trickery,
then sat glaring at them, waiting for manifestations
which mostly never came. There being nothing of
spirituality or love in the members of the circle, a
chief condition favourable to spiritual influx is broken.
Whenever a medium is unhappy, the manifestations are
poorer than usual.
The intellect of savages is concentrated chiefly upon
the physical aspects of human existence. Higher races
of men reduce physics to a science, and begin to study
facts relating to the mind. Spiritualism, we think, will
push human thought a stage further, and force it to study
the influences which good and bad affections have upon
the spirit, mind, and body. Love is about the greatest
power in the universe, and has a potent influence over
the character of spiritual phenomena; yet, up to the
present time, it is a subject which the few only have
submitted' to the light of clear thought and exact
knowledge.
In conclusion, a few words may be said about the
want of precision which characterises the manifesta¬
tions, for this, which at first sight appears to be an evil,
may be a great good. If the manifestations could be
produced with certainty, just as a spectrum can always
be readily projected upon a screen in a lecture-room
by means of suitable apparatus, then all the professed
men of science in this country would be forced to be¬
come Spiritualists at once, and would soon be followed
by the public at large. If Spiritualism were thus a
mere matter of physics, its religious element, and the
power in the movement to reform social and other
abuses, would be to a large extent lost; intellect is
often tied to selfishness, cruelty, and ambition, so that
clever men, possessing these unhappy qualities, might
find themselves leaders in Spiritualism because of their
ability in mathematics, physics, or law. At the first
glance there is much of a suspicious nature in the
external aspects of Spiritualism ; its alleged marvels
seem improbable; that ghosts should sometimes cover
their heads when showing themselves, and at dark seances
usually demand a roll of paper forming a tube for
speaking purposes looks suspicious, and so on with
many other1 manifestations. The result is that the
movement tends to spread among friends who are not
in the habit of cheating each other, and whose known
probity outweighs all the external doubtful appearances
of the subject. - Those who are in the habit of cheating
each other, or who look upon it as a natural thing to
do so, and cannot accept the personal testimony of their
friends in the first instance, do not investigate;
others of a better nature, possessed also of independence
of thought and action, seek for themselves, and attain
an amount of reliable knowledge of the subject propor¬
tionate to their industry in following it up, and their
natural spirituality of character. Thus, we Spiritualists
are a body of people linked together as much as frail
human nature at present permits, by bonds of trust in
one another, and a persevering love of truth. If
spiritual telegraphy went on with the same precision
as experiments in chemistry, all kinds of people would
be brought into the young movement, to the injury of
its religious aspect and its reforming powers. In the
inner circles of Spiritualism there is a love of one
another and a kindliness of tone which wo have not
seen elsewhere to the same extent.
Much information and intelligent speculation about
the relationship between body and spirit will be found
in a little book called The Mental Cure, by the Bev.
W. F. Evans, published by Mr. M'Geachey, of Glasgow.
There are a few errors in it, which the physicist will
at once detect, and in other respects the book is not
above criticism, but it ‘ opens up paths almost com¬
pletely untrodden at present by thoughtful men, and
the ground occupied by Mr. Evans will certainly in the
future have to be thoroughly examined by the students
of Spiritualism.
OTHER WORLD ORDER.
BX william: white, author of the “life oe
SWEDENBORG-.”
I am sometimes asked, “ Which work of Sweden¬
borg’s would you advise me to read ? ” It is a question
that requires various answers. To one I may say,
“ Do not try to read him, for you he has no message.”
But as a rule, I reply, “ Read any book you fancy, and
anywhere in the book.” Swedenborg', with a vast show
of method, has little method; or, at least, little method
that answers to the order of modern thought. We
have ceased to think in the trains that philosophers of
the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries pursued, and
it only begets irritation and weariness to attempt to
follow them. And as Swedenborg may have no mes¬
sage for some minds, so in like manner he may have
various messages for various minds, and various mes¬
sages for the same mind at various stages of develop¬
ment. What at one time may be passed over as trivial
or unintelligible may at another acquire importance or
lucidity; and some maxim or doctrine which may for
awhile shine as a sun in the intellectual firmament may
by-and-by decline into insignificance.
Such has been my own experience, and if I have
valued Swedenborg through many years, it has been for
varying reasons. The admiration I feel for him to¬
day, if deeper, is more discriminating and accorded on
grounds diverse from my early enthusiasm. Whilst,
however, it is right to recognise the phenomena of
growth, let no one despise what he may have outgrown,
but gratefully regard the steps whereby he has attained
his present position—a position to be in process of time
left behind for a higher, and so on, let us hope, for
ever. The best service any acquirement can render is
incitement to something better.
Among truths taught me by Swedenborg (a truth
alike expansive and comfortable) was the Unity of
Humanity; and in no empty, rhetorical sense, but as
sober, scientific matter-of-fact.
But it mayvbe asked, “Did not St. Paul centuries
ago proclaim that God had made of one blood all nations
of men ? ” True; but the unity revealed by Sweden¬
borg is profounder far than Paul’s words are commonly
taken to signify. Not made of one blood at some
remote era, but living in one blood is his idea.
He teaches that whilst we are externally discriminate
and independent of each other, we are internally and
really molecules in a vast organism comprising both
worlds, the spiritual and the natural.
Of our sense of individuality he makes slight account.
He allows that it is vivid, and that it is right that it
should be vivid, but that it is illusory. Every one of
us feels self-contained, and satisfied that he should
survive were his whole kindred swept into nothingness.
Yet, he assures us, the transfer of this sensation of in¬
dependence from experience to philosophy begets endless
fallacies in theology and sociology. Indeed, one of the
last sentences he wrote was as follows :—
“ The origin of all the errors of the Church has been the
persuasion that men live of themselves''
And his writings abound with illustrations of the vital
connections subsisting between the individual and the
community. Thus we read—
“ Without connection with heaven and hell no man could
live for a moment. If communication were broken, he would
fall down dead as a stock. This has been proved to me by
experience. The spirits associated with me were a little re¬
moved, and instantly, according to their removal, I began as it
were to expire; and I should have expired unless they had
returned.”
A caution here is needful. Let it not be inferred
that Swedenborg teaches that we live by spirits. Spirits
are men and women who by death have been released
from the grosser vesture of the flesh, and have quite as
little as ourselves any claim to independent existence.
The source and centre of all life, he perpetually iterates,
is God—
“ Without whose presence no one could live, whether good
or evil. In the spiritual world the matter was once put to the
test. The divine presence was, as it were, removed from a
certain devil, and immediately he fell prostrate like a corpse.
The experiment was witnessed by thousands of spirits with
astonishment.”
Here a reader may interpose—
“ What you say (or rather what Swedenborg says) of the
illusory character of the sensation of independence may be
true, but where is the evidence ? Assertion is not proof; and
it would be easy to overwhelm you with the authority of a
galaxy of philosophers who have based their metaphysics on
the rock you would undermine,—namely, the absolute veracity
of consciousness so far as it concerns personal independence.”
The remark is just; and in reply I would urge, that
whilst what may be considered conclusive evidence is
not to be had, yet there are a variety of hints and sug¬
gestions which tend to establish the Swedenborgian
June 15, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
43
proposition, and which to a certain order of minds have
the force of demonstration.
For instance, few mental philosophers hesitate to
start from the ground of common sense. They con¬
fidently assume that what is generally felt and seen is
an accurate transcript of reality; and it being conceded,
they boldly proceed to develop their several systems.
But consider : How would the like course answer in
physical science ? Suppose an astronomer were to start
from the same ground of common sense, and accept as
unquestionable the appearance that the sun rises in the
east and sets in the west—how much truth would he
ever attain to ? As Sir John Herschel testified—■
“Almost all the conclusions of astronomy stand in open
and striking contradiction to those of superficial and vulgar
observation, and with what appears to everyone, till he has
understood and weighed the proofs to the contrary, the most
positive evidence of his senses.”
Similar testimony might be borne of other branches
of physical research. Indeed, the history of physical
science is a long series of cases in which conjecture and
logic have been reversed by experiment. Time was
when the method of physical was identical with that of
mental philosophy—when, in ante-Baconian days, and
in days long after Bacon, natural philosophers were con¬
tent to take common-sense for a foundation, and erect
logical cosmogonies thereon.
Now, I would ask, since in physical science we have
learnt to “ distrust superficial and vulgar observation,”
and to suspect that whatever is apparent and plausible
is the inversion of reality, why should we continue to
attach such value to similar evidence in the mental
sphere ? "Why, in short, should the speculator who
would be laughed out of physics be tolerated and ap¬
plauded in the realm of metaphysics? Many a one
who would smile with scorn if it were maintained that
the sun goes round the earth because it appears to do
so, would not hesitate to assert with vehemence that he
was free and independent because he feels free and
independent, and that there was no use in trying to per¬
suade him to the contrary.
Nor would I be supposed to urge that because ws feel
free and independent therefore we are not free and in¬
dependent. It would be a droll prescription for the
discovery of truth to recommend the inversion of ap¬
pearances, and, as a rule, to conclude the fact to be the
reverse of our sensation. I merely argue that our con¬
sciousness of freedom and independence, however vivid,
is no proof of the validity of that freedom and indepen¬
dence.
Nor is the unity of humanity and the instant depen¬
dence of the individual upon his connections therewith
beyond such evidence as ordinary intelligence may
appreciate. As stated, there are numerous considera¬
tions which tend to establish the proposition set forth
by Swedenborg.
First, physically. Every year we are coming to a
clearer recognition that as to our bodies we are parts of
Nature, included in the cosmic order, sustained by and
subject to the cosmic forces. As has been observed,
men and animals are as strictly related to earth as are
plants. The difference is that the connection in the
one case is more obviously immediate, whilst in the
other it is not a whit less real; distance does not affect
dependence, our earth exists and is governed by the sun
as completely as if visibly annexed thereto. Plants are
rooted in the soil in which they grow; animals in turn
grow upon plants, but, being locomotive, they carry their
nutriment about in their stomachs, out of which, as
from roots, they grow. In a large view of the world,
the petty distinctions of which we make so much dis¬
appear, and we see the animal based in the vegetable
kingdom, and the vegetable in the mineral, and the
whole woven together in a perpetual circulation of re¬
ciprocal offices. It is questionable whether we have
yet more than a faint apprehension of the infinite
threads of intimacy between our physical constitution
and our physical circumstances. And yet what a clear
cut sense of physical isolation a healthy human being
enjoys!
Second, socially. Some time ago, as I sat in an
omnibus, I heard a vigorous John Bull proclaim aloud
his freedom and independence—he took his opinions
from no man—in all things he was a law unto himself.
Listening, amused with his self-assertion, I speculated
whether, if a mental inquest could be held, much would
be found to justify his boast. As I looked at his hat,
his clean shaven chin, and his vesture, blamelessly con¬
ventional, I was filled with wonder at the force of that
illusion under which he professed himself with complete
sincerity “ free and independent,” whilst controlled by
the world even to his finger tips.
It is the same with all of us. We may not bounce
about our freedom and independence, but in our hearts
we feel much the same as the man in the omnibus.
And yet, if we have any faculty for self-analysis, we
may discover how our opinions are derived from a
common stock, and shaped by the influences around us.
If our ideas could be represented as flora, a botanist
would not have much perplexity as to their origin and
classification. To go no deeper than language, how
distinctly are we persuaded that our words are our
own, whilst it is certain that every one of them has
been imported into our memories from without; and
how we shrink from misplacing accents in speech or
letters in writing, confident that our conformity in such
tittles is prescribed spontaneously from within.
I do not, of course, deny the existence of individual
originality, but I maintain that it is slight and mar¬
ginal—rightly understood, it is the edge and evidence
of social growth. As human nature develops, its line
of development appears at certain points and such points
are designated men of genius—inventors, discoverers,
poets, reformers. But, as we have long known, such
men of genius, so far as they stand for much, have been
little more than the spokesmen of their generation.
Hence, too, the phenomena of groups of genius, and
the simultaneousness of many discoveries and inven¬
tions, so that it is sometimes argued that if certain
famous men had not distinguished themselves, others
out of the unknown depths of their era would have stood
forth and replaced them. .
Such considerations, which it would be easy to
amplify, may serve to reduce resistance to the more
important conclusion of the inward unity of humanity.
If in matters external, over which we appear to have
control, we are proved to be dependent, how much
more so may it be in the depths of our nature, of which
depths we have so little cognisance. As Swedenborg
remarks in one place:—
No one knows how the Lord leads and teaches him internally,
any more than he knows how his soul operates in order that
the eye may see, the ear . hear, the tongue and mouth speak,
the heart impel the blood, the lungs respire, the stomach
digest, the liver and pancreas distribute, the kidneys secrete,
and innumerable other things. These processes do not come
within our perception and sensation, and they all correspond
to Divine operations in the interiors of the mind, which are
infinitely more complex than those of the body.”
We are ever apt to forget bow much is done for us,
and wbat a small place our conscious activity has in
the majestic play of forces within and around us. Our
consciousness has been fitly likened to a stage in a vast
theatre, and who and what may appear upon the boards,
or how soon the curtain may fall are beyond our choice
and prediction. We may be glad, or indifferent, or
miserable over the performance, but the stage is never
vacant, save in sleep, and possibly not even then.
And as we are each connected outwardly with Nature,
so we may suppose that we are connected inwardly with
Humanity, and that the constant ebb and flow of
thought and feeling through our consciousness is due
to our incorporation with the infinite multitude of
spirits (“ in the body and out of the body”) of which
universal Humanity consists. Our independence and
isolation, I venture to assert, are wholly illusory.
Lastly, I may set before my reader Swedenborg’s
grand conclusion, that God is the life of the universe.
He writes:—
“ All created things are in themselves inanimate and dead;
but they are animated and vivified by this, that the Divine is
in them, and they in the Divine.
“ Man is an organ of life, and God alone is life ; and God
infuses His life into the organ and every part of it, as the sun
infuses its heat into a tree and every part of it; and God
gives man to feel life in himself as his own; and God wills
that men should so feel, in order that he may live as of him¬
self.”
In this communication of life, God gives Himself so
unreservedly that creation feels Him as her own : His
joy as her joy, His peace as her peace, His strength as
her strength, His personality and independence as her
personality and independence.
Swedenborg says:—
“ It appears as if the Divine were not the same in one man
as in another; that He is different in the wise and in the sim¬
ple, in the old and in the young; but this is a fallacy from
appearance. Man is different, but the Divine in him is not
different. Man is a recipient, and as a recipient, is various.
A wise man is more adequately, and therefore more fully, a
recipient of the Divine Love and Wisdom than a simple man;
and an old man who is wise, than an infant and a boy. Never¬
theless, the Divine is the same in the one as in the other. In like
manner it is a fallacy from appearance, that the Divine is
various in angels and men, because angels are in wisdom in¬
effable, and men not so. The variety is in the receivers, and
not in the Lord.”
SPIRITUALISM NEEDED BY THE INTELLECT OF
THE AGE.
The following is a portion of a leading article from
the Daily Telegraph :—
“ Professor Tyndall’s graceful yet mournful remarks
touched a wholly different chord of thought. He spoke
of the natural alliance between Art and Science, and
said justly that artists and philosophers are suitors to
the same mistress, Nature—the first wooing her for her
beauty, the last for her order and truth. But he went
on, in presence of painters and sculptors, to utter words
the echo of which will be borne back from the very
heart of our modern life. He spoke of the ‘ dry light ’
of the intellect, of the rare occasions when the scientific
man ‘ has glimpses which may make him less forlorn,’
and of the pleasure with which he returns to the beauty
of Nature from those researches into her truth and
order which seem to leave nothing remaining except
‘ matter and force.’ Mr. Tyndall quoted that pathetic
sonnet of Wordsworth, in which the poet falls passion¬
ately back upon the outward aspects—nay, even upon
the superstitions of natural religion. Our age is sad¬
dened also by the grand but perpetually vanishing
horizons which strain its dazed eyes and tantalise its
heart. It was notable to hear the Professor at this
banquet declare that he regarded genius as ‘ the inborn
and unpurchaseable gift of God.’ True, he guarded his
language against misconception; but there was in it
the expression of a yearning, of a demand, of an impa¬
tience, which is, as we say, on the very lips of our
time. Never again can men think and believe as they
once did. The march of science and of thought has
left behind institutions which are dead without knowing
it, and burdens of the human mind, which seem still
borne only because the ache of the place where they
pressed is still felt. Never again can enlightened ears
‘ hear old Triton blow his wreathed horn ! ’ and it must
be confessed that the vast generalisations, the glorious
revelations of science, are greater than the dead deities.
But men must have something to believe, something to
explain to them the beauty of Nature as well as her
order and her truth—something to restore to them in
the new world opening outside the little old-fashioned
universe their faith in a Source of all that beauty, and
in a Centre of all that love and worship, the endless in¬
satiable hope and aspiration which will not be satisfied
with c force and matter.’ The cry of humanity to-day
to the men of science is, jj Give us back something to
believe,’ in return for that which has been taken away.
Science ought not to respond with a cold refusal to care
for anything but facts. Emotions, affections, aspira¬
tions, as Professor Tyndall himself said, are ‘ part and
parcel ’ of human nature; and there must be a religion
—there must be a morality and a creed—to satisfy such
desires. The need will be now all the more readily
admitted, since we have heard the foremost man of
experimental physics—Faraday’s successor—rising to
confess that his own breast aches and yearns with the
universal longing of the time. This utterance, and that
of Mr. Gladstone, certainly rendered the Banquet
speeches of 1872 worth serious notice. It would be
indeed ‘ grace after meat ’ if artists would take to heart
the Premier’s admonition, and if Science should pause
to mark that the time approaches when she must and
will be challenged for a belief ‘ by which a man may
live.’”
Jlottces of IStuifts.
SpiniruALiSM Answeeed by Science. Second Edition.
By E. W. Cox, S.L., F.R.G.S. London: Longmans.
In this new edition of his pamphlet, Mr. Serjeant Cox
has made large additions, but does not modify his state¬
ment that spiritual manifestations can be explained on
his psychic force theory, without calling in the aid of
spirits. "We claim that most of the authenticated facts
recorded in the last five numbers of the Spiritualist,
but more especially those in No. 31, are wholly inex¬
plicable on the hypothesis of a psychic force governed
unconsciously by the intelligence of the mortals com¬
posing the spirit circle. Very many of those facts are
taken from the official report of the Dialectical Society.
Of the vast accumulation of facts of this kind, Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox takes no notice whatever; until he publicly
applies his hypothesis to those facts, he does not fairly
grapple with the subject, and there is no common
ground for debate between us. His endeavour to
systematise the conditions under which good manifesta¬
tions are obtainable, deserve careful examination by all
thoughtful Spiritualists, and we should like, at a future
time, to consider them fully in these pages. The cir¬
cumstance that the correspondence between Mr.
Crookes, Professor Stokes, and Sir Charles Wheatstone is
published in full in the pamphlet adds to the interest
thereof.
Ottr Home in the Stabs. By Joseph Drew, LL.D.
London: Elliot Stock.
This book is written by a gentleman who has done
much good work in Dorsetshire and neighbouring
counties, in diffusing valuable scientific knowledge by
means of popular and pleasing lectures of good quality.
Lectures of this kind are much needed in many pro¬
vincial districts. He argues in this book that we may
possibly take up our abode on some of the other planets
after death. Spiritualism throws some light on this
problem. In the first place, the planets, as we see
them, are as material as this earth, and a spirit does
not see common matter as we see it. A spirit can pass
through common matter, unless for the time being it
has “ abnormalised ” itself, and taken upon itself ma¬
terial conditions. If then, as spirits, we shall hereafter
visit or live upon other planets, we shall see them from
their spiritual and not their material side; sometimes
spirits cannot see many kinds of common matter any
more than we can see spirits. When they take upon
themselves material conditions, we think they see this
world again as we see it; even then they have powers
which we have not, for they can see in the dark. To
get a knowledge of the planets as they are to the material
eye, we ought to visit them in the body, and not as
normally constituted disembodied spirits. Spiritualism
shows the dawn of the glorious possibility of planetary
44
THE SPIRIT UALIST.
June 15,1872.
intercommunication. Possibly we may learn about the
planets by clairvoyant examination, when the many
sources of error, which at present render such examina¬
tions unreliable, are understood and eliminated. Pos¬
sibly we may get information about the planets from
spirits who have visited them. There are spirit mes¬
sages on record of this nature, but their accuracy and
truthfulness require testing. Possibly a living human
being might be carried to one of them and back by
spirits, as Mrs. Guppy was carried from Highbury to
Holborn, as shells were carried from Kingston-on-
Thames to Ostend, and as Baron Kirkup’s letters were
carried between Plorence and Leghorn. We do not
know whether increase of distance correspondingly in¬
creases the difficulties of carriage. Such are possibili¬
ties which may or may not become actual facts within
ten or ten thousand years from this date.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. AND MRS. EYERITT.
The following is a summary of the proceedings at the
soiree recently given to Mr. and Mrs. Everitt at the Cannon-
street Hotel, which we were unable to publish last month. A
number of Spiritualists and personal friends invited them to
attend, in order to present them with a testimonial, as a tan¬
gible expression of the high regard and esteem in which they
are held. There was a large attendance, the room being well
filled by some of the foremost workers in the movement.
The Chairman said that it was a very happy privilege to him
to be one of the organs for presenting a testimonial of respect
and regard to his esteemed friends Mr. and Mrs. Everitt. That
testimonial was given to them both on personal grounds and
because of their character as Spiritualists ; but it was even
more on the former ground than on the latter. The company
then present must rejoice to have an opportunity of testifying
the sentiments with which they had long regarded Mr. and
Mrs. Everitt (applause). He could testify to their high moral
and social qualities. He believed that it had not been con¬
tended by the adversaries of Spiritualism that anything like
deception had been practised in this case ; but if it had been
so contended, he would point to the creditable and honourable
life which Mr. and Mrs. Everitt had led. In addition to the
high personal character of Mr. and Mrs. Everitt, the latter, as
the company were aware, was a medium of most extraordinary
power, and he should omit a very essential part of his duty if
he passed over that fact on such an occasion. He had seen in
their presence things more wonderful than he had witnessed
in [.the presence of any other medium. Mr. Everitt was in
trade, but he was a gentleman in trade, and Mrs. Everitt was
a lady who honoured her occupation in life. He regretted
that Mrs. Hall was not able to be present at the meeting, and
she regretted it too. He had witnessed spiritual manifesta¬
tions of an unmistakeably genuine character at the house of
Mrs. Everitt; he had taken Mr. Sergeant Cox and Mr. Crookes
there too, and they had witnessed many things which he
should like to know how they could explain. There was a great
responsibility in Spiritualism, and he must say that Mrs.
Everitt was using her gift of mediumship well; he thanked
God that Mr. and Mrs. Everitt were both Christians, and
labouring to advance Christianity, he rejoiced that they were
Christian Spiritualists, advancing the cause of Christ. Lately
Spiritualism had been making amazing progress; it had been
gaining in intelligence and strength, and men of science and
intellect had come forward in its support. The social status
of Spiritualists had been changed of late ; there was a time
when he was often asked, “ Was he rogue or fool ? ” He
replied that “ he was neither,” so was informed that he was
the victim of both rogues and fools (laughter). He had known
Serjeant Cox for forty years ; in their early days they both
committed sins against society by writing bad poetry, and his
(Mr. Hall’s) was the worst of the two ; he was sure his own
poetry was bad, and he thought Serjeant Cox’s was better. In
1827, he (Mr. Hall) read one of Serjeant’s Cox’s poems, and
patted him on the back. That poem was called “ The opening
of the seven seals,” and he (Mr. Hall) had, himself, published
a book seven years before that; so that he was quite an ex¬
perienced man of letters when Serjeant Cox was beginning.
It was a glorious thing to know that two such men as Mr.
Cox and Mr. Crookes had taken up Spiritualism in a right
and proper spirit. It required no little moral courage to avow
one’s self a Spiritualist. For his own part he (Mr. Hall) could
make the avowal, and care nothing about any man’s opinion.
He was a thorough and entire believer that the spirits of
those who had gone from earth, and of angels who had never
■been on earth, could and did communicate with men and
women still living. It was a common thing to meet educated
men who believed that there was no hereafter and no God, and
he had met a doctor only the night before who held such
views. His esteemed friend the late Robert Chambers was as
.great a Spiritualist as himself. One night he (Mr. Hall) said
to him, “ Tell what you know to the world,” but he did not
and would not, though he believed that he had left behind him
a record of that which was his firm and entire conviction.
One night, coming home from Blackheath, Mr. Chambers told
him that he had just burnt some manuscript which it had
taken hina three years to write, because Spiritualism had
taught him that there was more truth in the Bible than he
had hitherto believed ; he was no enthusiast, but a clear, cool,
calculating Scotchman. His brother, in the memoir of his
life, passes lightly over the subject of his Spiritualism.
Thirteen years ago, he (Mr. Hall) did not believe in miracles,
or in the Bible, or in a God, or in a hereafter ; he never told
his wife so, or he would have made her one of the most
miserable of women, instead of a happy and contented wife ;
Spiritualism had brought him back to a belief in the Bible,
and he now never went to bed without offering up prayers to
God. Mr. Hall then addressed Mr. and Mrs. Everitt alter¬
nately in a few kindly words, and presented them, on behalf
of the subscribers, with a piano and sewing machine, accom¬
panied by the following address :—
To Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Everitt. London, April 29th, 1872.
Dear and Valued Friends,—It has pleased the Giver of every
good and every gift to endow you'with a power which brings the Spiritual
world into visible communion with our own.
By the faithful discharge of your stewardship you have been instrumental
in proclaiming “liberty to'the captives,” and in opening the prison to many
that were, bound, and m^ny wlip doubted whether there were a life here¬
after, have, by the incontrovertible1 evidence received through the medium-
shlip of Mrs. Everitt, not only been assured of the continued existence of
those dear to them who have departed this life, but also of the loving and
active interest they still manifest in all that concerns their present and
future welfare.
We, whose names are appended, being a few only of your many friends,
desire to express our high esteem and regard for you both, by offering for
the acceptance of .Mrs. Everitt, a Cabinet Sewing Machine, by Wheeler and
Wilson, and an Alexandra Model Pianoforte, by Ivory, of Wood-green.
The intrinsic value of these gifts does not represent the measure of our
regard; but they symbolise the uses and ends of your united lives, which
are most happily expressed by one dear to all who have been privileged to
be present at your stances—John Watt, the controlling spirit of your
circle, in these words:—
“ Industry and harmony combined
Promote lives of usefulness.”
May the loving Father of All increase your usefulness here, and when
He calls you higher, may your works follow you.
Signed on behalf of the contributors whose names are appended.
S. C. Hall, Chairman.
Morell Theobald and C. W.1 Pearce,
Secretaries to the Presentation Committee.
Mr. Andrew Leighton, of Liverpool, expressed bis esteem
for Mr. and Mrs. Everitt; he said that many Spiritualists
approached the subject from a scientific point of view, and
did not feel justified in sayingthat any other than disembodied
human beings communicated by means of the manifestations.
Such Spiritualists have at present no knowledge of the exist¬
ence of other spiritual beings than such as once lived in a
human body.
Mr. T. Shorter said a few words expressing approbation of
Mr. and Mrs. Everitt.
Mr. C. F. Varley, F.R.S., said that he did not know that
they were justified in assuming that Mr. Crookes and Mr.
Serjeant Cox were not Spiritualists ; he believed “ psychic
force ” to be a reality, but merely one of the great forces of the
universe. Mr. Crookes had taken up only a small branch of
the subject, but one far too big for the Royal Society ; he had
said nothing about who wielded the psychic force. He was
glad that the Royal Society had refused to receive the paper,
because the refusal had drawn so much attention to Spiritualism.
In speaking of pyschic force as an entity, he wished it to be
understood that it was one of the forces which the spirits em¬
ployed to produce the phenomena, and not that it was Spirit¬
ualism. Psychic force might be compared to electricity as it
was used in the sending of telegraphic messages. Electricity
could not compose and design the message, although it was
the agency of the mind which did so. So pyschic force
was the agency employed by the spirits, but not the intelli¬
gence which directed what they did. Mr. Crookes had wisely
confined himself to simply laying before the Royal Society
the physical phase of the subject.
Mr. John Jones, of Enmore Park, spoke of the value of the
investigations of the Dialectical Society, and his esteem for
Mr. and Mrs. Everitt.
Mr. Coleman said that the chairman, in speaking of the
scientific workers in the movement, had forgotten to mention
the unreserved way in which Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr. C. F.
Yarley, the late Professor De Morgan, and others had testified
to the truth.
Mr. Morell Theobald (hon. sec.) said that the testimonial
had been got up privately among a few friends.
Mr. C. W. Pearce (hon. sec.) read numerous letters from
subscribers, expressing sympathy with the object of the
meeting, and regret at their inability to attend. Among these
were letters from Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. William Crookes,
and Mr. A. Keith, the artist.
Mr. T. Everitt, in a feeling speech, returned thanks for the
testimonial; he said that he had known the lives of many
men to be thoroughly changed for the better in consequence
of the knowledge of a life beyond the grave, brought to them
by Spiritualism.
Mr. Luxmore moved a vote of thanks to the chairman ;
this was seconded by Mr. Pearce. Mr. S. C. Hall replied, and
the proceedings closed.
THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.
DK. RUTHERFORD OX THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
In recent numbers of this Journal, we have summarised
the earlier lectures of the course delivered at the Royal Insti¬
tution, by Dr. Rutherford. We now add the remainder.
Dr. Rutherford said, that, a living nerve had three proper¬
ties, namely, excitability, conductivity, and electromotivity.
A nerve remains perfectly at rest until stimulated by some
exciting cause, such as electricity, heat, or the action of a
chemical reagent; it passes from rest to action only when
acted upon by some form of energy. Light, and sound, are
forms of energy, which will not stimulate a nerve in any part,
without first acting on special intermediate organs. Light
passes through the lenses of the eye, and then falls upon a
curtain, containing nerve fibres and nerve cells; although it
streams through these fibres and cells it does not excite them;
it has to go right through to the back of the retina, or curtain,
before there is any stimulating effect. The stimulating struc¬
tures are conical and rod-shaped bodies, together forming
a membrane; there is an external part which reflects light
very strongly, and is made of plates or discs. The light
reaches the inner part of the cones and rods, which are
supposed to contain fine hairs, the said hairs being the true
ends of the nerves of sight, and by the reflection of light upon
these bundles of delicate hairs, or nerves, it is beheved that
vision is produced. He then described the construction of the
ear, and how the nerves of the ear end like fine hairs in a blue
watery fluid. The nerves of taste, he said, are most sensitive
at the back part of the tongue; they also seem to end in fine
hair-like processes, which are stimulated probably by chemical
energy. It is not precisely known how mechanical agency or
pressure affects nerves. There are corpuscles in the skin, where
the sense of touch is most acute: the connection of nerves
with these corpuscles has not been well made out; although
they touch them, and go by them, they have not been proved
to enter them. As regards the sense of smell, in the nose of
the frog there are cells, and hair-like processes, but in the
human nose the hair-like processes do not seem to exist, but
there are short processes which may represent those hairs.
Whether it is mechanical or chemical energy which stimulates
the organs of smell, is not known. The excitement almost
always starts from the ends of the nerves, but sometimes it
starts from the nerve cells to the periphery. Sometimes the
excitement begins at a nerve cell and passes to a muscle ; a
nerve cell can be acted upon by the mind—by volition. Some¬
times the excitement seems to take place spontaneously.
Nerve energy seems to be derived from chemical energy.
The excitability of a nerve may be increased or decreased;
the amount of irritation depends upon the strength of the
irritant, and upon the degree of excitability in the nerve, so
there are two factors in the case. The amount of heat is a
most important consideration; within certain limits, the
greater the heat, the greater is the excitability, and the re¬
moval of heat always lessens excitability. When the end of a
nerve has been frozen, an irritant will not act upon it. Nutri¬
tion has an important influence ; it is a remarkable fact, quite
unexplained, that if the amount of nutrition be slightly re¬
duced, the excitability of the nerve is increased, but if nutrition
be reduced below a certain point, the nerve is no longer excit¬
able. Opium, alcohol, chloroform, and ether, in small quan¬
tities, increase the excitability of those parts of the brain
which are concerned in the formation of ideas, but if larger
quantities be supplied, paralysis of that part of the brain is
the result.
If a motor nerve be excited, the influence passes along the
nerve to the muscle, but if a nerve be stimulated in the
middle, the excitement passes both ways. The rapidity of the
transmission of the excitement along a nerve is not so great as
was formerly supposed—it was once supposed to be as quick
as thought, but time is required to think. Helmholtz, among
other philosophers, has measured the rapidity of transmission
by first stimulating a nerve near a muscle, and noting the
time it took to make the muscle contract, then stimulating it
further away from the muscle, and again noting the time it
took to produce the contraction; the difference between the
two times gave the time taken by the nervous force to traverse
the length of nerve between the two points where it was sti¬
mulated. The lecturer here performed the experiment, and
showed that the force was of a second in passing along
two inches of a nerve of a frog, the speed therefore being 90
feet per second; this is the average speed, but it may be
modified by temperature, chemical agents, electricity, and
some other influences.
The average velocity with which the nervous influence
travels along a human motor nerve is HIT feet per second.
The sensory nerves send the influence to a nerve-cell to pro¬
duce sensation; the motor nerves send the influence to a
muscle, and the muscle contracts. A sensory nerve in the
living human body may be stimulated in two places, say in the
foot and in the upper part of the leg, and the moment at
which the stimulus is felt may be indicated by a motion of
the hand. In this case the sensory nerve first carries the
sensation to the brain, then volition comes into play, and a
message is sent down the motor nerves to move the hand, and
the instant of time at which the hand moves may be registered
by suitable apparatus. The results of measurement by this
method are very various, as shown by the following figures
obtained by different experimentalists:—Kohlrausch 308-3
feet per second; Helmholtz 196-8; Von Wittich 135-4;
Hirsch 111-5; Schelske 98-4; and De Jaager 85-3. These
very different results might perhaps be due to the different
kinds of apparatus used, but nerve influence travels at different
rates in different individuals, and at different rates in the
same person at different times. Temperature perhaps has
something to do with it, but the result is that at present it
j is not known at what rate the nervous influence passes
through a sensory nerve; many complications oppose the
solution of the problem. All, however, are agreed, that in the
human motor nerve the speed at which nervous influence
travels is 111 feet per second.
The speed of electricity is 87,500 miles per second.* A
horse can run as fast as the nerve influence passes along a
nerve, so the rate of passage is slow; heat increases the con¬
ductivity of a nerve, and cold diminishes it; by defective
nutrition the conductivity of ,‘a nerve is very greatly increased.
If a nerve be stimulated by electricity, the velocity with which
the nervous influence passes along the nerve is increased; in
fact, when the nerve is in an excited state, one would expect
the influence to travel along it more rapidly.
What, then, is nervous influence? Some have thought it
to be electricity, and a few think so still, notwithstanding the
slow rate of transmission, arguing, that although electricity
travels so very rapidly along a wire, a nerve is a much worse
conductor. On the other hand, when the experiment is tried,
electricity certainly passes along a nerve much faster than
ordinary nerve influence. “But,” say the objectors, “the
natural nerve current may be much weaker than the artificial
one.” Suppose a ligature be tied round a nerve, the nerve
influence will not pass through the tied part, but electricity
will. The answer is: “ Probably the nerve fibrils are all
broken, so that a feeble current cannot pass.” If a piece of a
nerve be frozen, nervous influence will not pass through it,
and electricity passes better than before; this experiment the
lecturer thought to conclusively prove that the nerve influence
is not electricity.
Nerve influence may be a series of chemical changes, analo¬
gous to those which take place when fire runs along a train of
gunpowder. When a nerve is stimulated a long way from a
muscle, the latter contracts more violently than when; the
nerve is stimulated close to the muscle, which would not be
the case with electricity. The lecturer performed an experi¬
ment with the bare nerve of a frog to prove this. He said that
the part of the nerve away from the muscle was the most
excitable, and that was the reason of the fact. One philoso¬
pher considered that the result might be due to the nerve
influence increasing like an avalanche as it passed along the
nerve, but this solution of the problem is now considered to
have no foundation whatever. Others suggested that differ¬
ence in excitability of the two parts, caused by the cutting of
the nerve near the point of stimulus furthest from the muscle,
was the real cause of the increased effect; but he proved that
this was not the case, by performing the experiment over
again, with a nerve which was laid bare, but not cut at all.
The real explanation probably is, that the parts of a nerve are
more excitable the nearer they are to the spinal cord.
Another hypothesis is, that the nervous influence is me¬
chanical in its nature, just as heat in solid bodies and in the
interstellar ether is a mechanical action. At present, it is
impossible to say whether the chemical or the mechanical
hypothesis of nerve influence is the correct one.
Dr. Rutherford said that medicine could never be an exact
science, because it is impossible to say what is the precise
condition of any part of the human body at a particular time,
therefore it is impossible to know the precise action of that
part.
In his last lecture, on Tuesday, March 19th, Dr. Rutherford
went through the several hypotheses in connection with the
electromotivity of nerves. That there exists a distinct, though
not a strong, electrical current in the living nerve is now an
established fact. It is equally certain, that this electricity is
intimately connected with the state of the nerve. The current
diminishes in strength as it is thrown into action, and it
ceases at its death. The question arises, how is this electricity
produced ? An explanation has been attempted by referring
to the chemical action and probable polarisation among the
particles; and it has been remarked, that the action of the
nerve is electricity in the first instance, that is, when the
nerve is at rest, and that, on exciting the nerve, this power is
transformed into nerve action.
Another question of importance is the connection between
nerve and muscle. On this topic great difference of opinion
exists. Pfluger says, that in the salivary glands a continuation
of the nerve in the substance of the muscle is observable.
* This is a mistake, and is true probably of one experiment only. The
speed of electricity varies with varying conditions, but it is enormous.—Ed.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
45
June 15, 1872.
Beale denies the continuity of the nerve; and between the two
there are many other authorities, who incline to the one side
or the other. They all are agreed, however, that, if there be
no actual connection, there is evidence that the nerve fibres
pass to the substance of the musclei
The listeners were evidently very much interested in Dr.
Butherford’s lectures throughout.
“AMONG THE SPIRITS.”
The following American story was written by Mr. Samuel
M. Clemens (Mark Twain), and we extract it from an English
edition of some of his writings, published by Mr. Rotten : —
There was a seance in a town a few nights since. As I
was making for it, in company with the reporter of an
evening paper, he said he had seen a gambler named Gus
Graham shot down in a town in Illinois years ago by a
mob, and as he was probably the only person in San Francisco
who knew the circumstance, he thought he would “ give the
spirits Graham to chaw on awhile.” [N.B.—This young
creature is a Democrat, and speaks with the native strength
and inelegance of his tribe.] In the course of the show he
wrote his old pal’s name on a slip of paper, and folded it up
tightly and put it in a hat which was passed round and which
already had about five hundred similar documents in it. The
pile was dumped on the table, and the medium began to take
them up one by one and lay them aside asking, “ Is this
spirit present ? or this? or this?” About one in fifty would
rap, and the person who sent up the name would rise up in
his place and question the defunct. At last a spirit seized
the medium’s hand and wrote ‘Gus Graham” backward.
Then the medium went skirmishing through the papers for the
corresponding name. And that old sport knew his card by
the back. When the medium came to it, after picking up
fifty others, he rapped ! A committee-man unfolded the
paper, and it was the right one. I sent for it and got it. It
was all right. However, I suppose all Democrats are on
sociable terms with the devil. The young man got up and
asked:—
“ Did you die in'51 ? ’52? ’53? ’54:? ’’
Ghost—“Rap, rap, rap.”
“Did you die of cholera? diarrhoea? dysentery? dog-
bite? small-pox? violent death? ”
“ Rap, rap, rap.”
“ Were you hanged? drowned? stabbed? shot? ■*
“ Rap, rap, rap.”
“Did you die in Mississippi? Kentucky? New York?
Sandwich Islands? Texas? Illinois? ”
“ Rap, rap, rap.”
“In Adams county? Madison? Randolph? ”
“ Rap, rap, rap.”
It was no use trying to catch the departed gambler. He
knew his hand, and played it like a major.
About this time a couple of Germans stepped forward, an
elderly man and a spry young fellow, cocked and primed
for a sensation. They wrote some names. Then young
Ollendorff said something which sounded like—
“1st ein geist hieraus?” (Bursts of laughter from the
audience.)
Three raps—signifying that there mas a geist hieraus.
“Vollen sie schriehen?” (More laughter.)
“ Three raps.”
“ Finzig stollen, linsowfterowlickterhairowfterfrowleineru-
hackfolderol ?”
Incredible as it may seem, the spirit cheerfully answered
“ Yes ” to that astonishing proposition.
The audience grew more and more boisterously mirthful
with every fresh question, and they were informed that the
performance could not go on in the midst of so much levity.
They became quiet.
The German ghost didn’t appear to know anything at all
—couldn’t answer the simplest questions. Young Ollendorff
finally stated some numbers, and tried to get at the time of
the spirit’s death; it appeared to be considerably mixed as
to whether it died in 1811 or 1812,, which was reasonable
enough, as it had been so long ago. At last it wrote “ 12.”
Tableau! Young Ollendorff sprang to his feet in a state
of consuming excitement. He exclaimed :
“ Laties and shentlemen 1 I write de name from a man vot
lifs! Speerit-rabbing dells me he ties in yahr eighteen
hoondred and dwelf, but he yoos as live and helty as—”
The Medium—“ Sit down, sir !”
Ollendorff—“ But I vant to—”
Medium—“You are not here, to make speeches, sir—sit
down !” (Mr. O. had squared himself for an oration.)
Mr. 0.—“ But de speerit cheat! — dere is no such
speerit ” (All this time applause and laughter by turns
from the audience.)
Medium—“Take your seat, sir, and I will explain this
matter.”
And she explained. And in that explanation she let off a
blast which was so terrific that I half expected to see young
Ollendorff shot up through the roof. She said he had come
up there with fraud, and deceit, and cheating, in his heart,
and a kindred spirit had come from the land of shadows to
commune with him ! She was terribly bitter. She said in
substance, though not in words, that perdition was full of
just such fellows as Ollendorff, and they were ready on the
slightest pretext to rush in and assume anybody’s name, and
rap, and write, and lie, and swindle with a perfect looseness
whenever they could rope in a living affinity like poor Ollen¬
dorff to communicate with! (Great applause and laughter).
Ollendorff stood his ground with good pluck, and was
going to open his batteries again, when a storm of cries
arose all orer the house, “ Get down! Go on! Clear out!
Speak on—well hear you ? Climb down from that platform !
Stay where you are ! Yamose 1 Stick to your post—say your
say ! ”
The medium rose up and said, if Ollendorff remained, she
would not. She recognised no one’s right to come there and.
insult her, by practising a deception upon her, and attempt¬
ing to bring ridicule upon so solemn a thing as her religious
belief. The audience then became quiet, and the subjugated
Ollendorff retired from the platform.
The other German raised a spirit, questioned it at some
length in his own language, and said the answers were cor¬
rect. The medium claimed to be entirely unacquainted with
the German language.
I had a very dear friend who, I had heard, had gone to
the spirit-land, or perdition, or some of those places, and I
desired to know something concerning him. There was
something so awful, though, about talking with living, sin¬
ful lips to the ghostly dead, that I could hardly bring my¬
self to rise and speak. But at last I got tremblingly up and
said, with a low and trembling voice :
“Is the spirit of John Smith present?”
(You can never depend on these Smiths ; you call for one,
and the whole tribe will come clattering out of hell to answer
you).
“ Whack ! whack ! whack ! whack!”
“ Bless me I I believe all the dead, and damned John Smiths
between San Francisco and perdition, boarded that poor
little table at once! I was considerably set back—stunned,
I may say. The audience urged me to go on, however, and
I said :
“ What did you die of?”
“ The Smiths answered, to every disease and casualty, that
men can die of.”
“ Where did you die ?’’
“ They answered Yes, to every locality I could name, while
my geography held out.”
“Are you happy where you are?”
“ There was a vigorous and unanimous ‘ No !’ from the late
Smiths.”
“ Is it warm there ?’ ’
i An educated Smith seized the medium’s hand, and wrote:
“ It’s no name for it.”
, “ Did you leave any Smiths in that place when you came
away?” .
“ Dead loads of them !”
“I fancy I heard the shadowy Smiths chuckle at this
feeble joke—the rare joke, that there could be live loads of
Smiths where all are dead.”
“ How many Smiths are present?”
“ Eighteen millions—the procession now reaches from here
to the other side of China.”
“ Then there are many Smiths in the kingdom of the lost? ”
“The Prince Apollyon calls all new comers Smith, on
general principles; and continues to do so until he is cor¬
rected, if he chances to be mistaken.”
“ What do lost spirits call their drear abode?”
“ They call it the Smithsonian Institute.”
I got hold of the right Smith at last—the particular
Smith I was after—my dear, lost, lamented friend—and
learned that he died a violent death. I feared as much. He
said his wife talked him to death. Poor wretch 1
By-and-bye up started another Smith. A gentleman in
the audience said that this was his Smith, So he questioned
him, and this Smith said he too died by violence. He had
been a good deal tangled in his religious belief, and was a
sort of a cross between a Universalist and a Unitarian ; has
got straightened out, and changed his opinions, since he left
here; said he was perfectly happy. We proceeded to ques¬
tion this talkative and frolicsome old parson. Among spirits
I judge he is the gayest of the gay. He said he had no tan¬
gible body ; a bullet could pass through him and never make
a hole ; rain could pass through him as through vapour, and
not discommode him in the least (so I suppose he don’t know
enough to come in when it rains—or don’t care enough) ; says
heaven and hell are simply mental conditions ; spirits in the
former have happy and contented minds, and those in the
latter are torn by the remorse of conscience ; says as far as he
is concerned, he is all right—he is happy; would not say
whether he was a very good, or a very bad man on earth (the
shrewd old waterproof nonentity ! I asked the question so
that I might average my own chances for his luck in the other
world, but he saw my drift) ; says he has an occupation there
—puts in his time teaching, and being taught; says there
are spheres—grades of perfection—he is making very good
progress—has been promoted a sphere or so since his matricu¬
lation ; (I said mentally, “ Go slow, old man, go slow, you
have got all eternity before you,” and he replied not ;) he
don’t know how many spheres there are (but I suppose there
must be millions, because if a man goes galloping through
them at the rate this old Universalist is doing, he will get
through an infinitude of them by the time he has been there
as long as old Sesostris and those ancient mummies ; and
there is no estimating how high he will get in even the
infancy of eternity—I am afraid the old man is scouring along
rather too fast for the style of his surroundings, and the
length of time he has got on his hands) ; says spirits cannot
feel heat or cold (which militates somewhat against all my
notions of orthodox damnation—fire and brimstone) ; says
spirits commune with each other by thought—they have no
language ; says the distinctions of sex are preserved there—
and so forth, and so on.
The old parson wrote and talked for an hour, and showed
by his quick, shrewd, intelligent replies, that he had not been
sitting up nights in the other world for nothing; he had
been prying into everything worth knowing, and finding out
everj'thing he possibly could, as he said himself—when he
did not understand a thing he hunted up a spirit who could
explain it, consequently he is pretty thoroughly posted. And
for his accommodating conduct, and his uniform courtesy
to me, I sincerely hope he will continue to progress at his
present velocity until he lands on the very roof of the highest
sphere of all, and thus achieves perfection.
MR. GERALD MASSEY ON SPIRITUALISM.
Me. Gerald Massey, in his second Sunday afternoon
lecture at St. George’s Hall, on Spiritualism, pointed
out how the spirit world has in all ages been revealed
to the natural world by means of objective manifesta¬
tions ; and he narrated how most savage tribes, and
the various great nations of antiquity, knew more or
less about spirit intercourse. Many of his facts were
quoted from the writings of Mr. E. B. Tylor ; the con¬
clusions drawn from the said facts being, however, very
different to Mr. Tylor’s. The lecturer told how,
thousands of years ago, the Soma-juice was used by
the Hindoos to produce the divine intoxication—the
somnambulic sleep; this juice was supposed to come
from a sacred fig tree; it placed men on a par with the
gods, and enabled them to see and talk to spirits. In
the Zend Avesta, to which book he thought the writer
of the book of Genesis to be much indebted, there were
two sacred trees, the one a “ white fig,” and the other
a “ painless tree.” The Athenians and the Egyptians
had each their sacred fig tree. Through some mistake
it had been described as an apple tree in the book of
Genesis, but it was a fig tree in the records of all the
other ancient nations he had mentioned; whether the
Zend Avesta or the book of Genesis was the older work
was of no importance, for in all probability the story
originated in some more ancient tradition. Moses
probably looked upon the old religions as devil-worship,
—not without cause,—and tried to introduce something
better. The Hebrew mediums were, however, inspired
both by good and bad spirits, and they often made the
mistake of considering spirit influence as coming direct
from God, carrying with it all the authority of “ Thus
saith the Lord,” though sometimes the thing said was
most evil. In his third lecture Mr. Massey spoke of
Jesus and His mission; he considered Him to be one of
the purest men that ever walked the earth; He was
one keenly sensitive to high spiritual influences, and
eminently fitted to lead men of the present day by the
example He set by His life. He might be considered
to be a whole head and shoulders higher than the other
great spiritual leaders of mankind. In his concluding
lecture (delivered last Sunday week), Mr. Massey
argued that Christianity has a second advent in
Spiritualism, that the priests of to-day are mere
book-keepers, with no visions, no divination, no living
word from the Father to a living people, the light of
their Urim and Thummim had gone out, the glory of
the priesthood had departed. He then spoke of the
progress of science, of woman’s suffrage and woman’s
suffering, of the rich treading down the poor during
the week, and going through dead forms of worship on
Sundays,—a life wholly opposed to the example of
Christ. He said that if Jesus Christ were to appear in
the House of Commons now, at first He would he
lionised; but when He began to speak but His senti¬
ments, the members would remonstrate with Him, and
say, “ You surely do not mean all this in earnest.”
He next spoke of capital and labour, and how all the
good which a man could do by thirty years talking and
speaking might be done in two or three years by those
with capital. Take, for instance, the agricultural
labourers, so utterly divorced from the soil by the land
laws. If men with money would work farms on the
co-operative principle, how soon the labourer would be
raised above the position of a chattel hireling, and
what a great revolution would be effected in a short
time ! He said that if men only knew the nearness to
them of the spirit world, how their loved ones were
watching over them in their degradation, and helping
them in their trials, they could not live on in a state of
utter selfishness and vice.
It is generally felt that Mr. Massey’s lectures have
been of considerable value to the cause of Spiritualism,
and that we are all greatly indebted to him for the
thorough manner in which he has devoted his abilities
to the work. Financially, the four lectures were very
successful, the total receipts amounting to £93 7s. 5d.
Conversazioue at Lord Lindsay’s.—On Thursday,
last week, a conversazione of the Society of Telegraph Engi¬
neers was held at Lord Lindsay’s Laboratory, Greek-street,
Soho. Mr. C. W. Siemens, C. E., president of the society,
received the guests, among whom were many of the leading
men of science of the day, including Sir William Thomson, Dr.
Huggins, Mr. C. F. Yarley, Professor Stokes, Mr. Warren De La
Rue, and Mr. J. Norman Lockyer, F.R.S. It was probably the
finest scientific conversazione which has been held in London
this season, and the chief feature of attraction was Lord Lind¬
say’s great electro-magnet, by far the most powerful in the
world. It consists of more than 20 feet of iron, with a sec¬
tional area of 36 inches ; it weighs about four tons, and is
surrounded by 14 geographical miles of conducting wire. As
yet the full power obtainable from this magnet has not been
evolved, in consequence of the completion of the Grove’s
battery of the size required being slow work ; each platinum
plate exposes a square yard of surface. Last week a lighted
candle placed between the poles of the magnet was extin¬
guished as soon as the poles were demagnetised. If this
magnet, when in full power, can make Reichenbach’s magnetic
flames visible to the normal eyesight, it will be of great inte¬
rest to Spiritualists. Mr. Yarley exhibited abattery of 1,000 cells
with which he charged some large tinfoil condensers ; when
the charge was let off through a short piece of platinum wire,
it blew rhe metal into fine metallic vapour. The rooms were
full of objects of scientific interest; and, among other instru¬
ments, Sir William Thomson’s syphon galvanometer, for the
reception of messages through long submarine cables, attracted
special attention ; it is a cleverly designed instrument, used
chiefly in working the cables between England and India.
The Huhah “Double.”—Dr. Purdon’sletter about Miss
Cook in another column, has set us thinking about the great
number of cases in spiritual literature in which the spirit
of a living human being has not only been seen, but observed
to have some influence over common matter. Mrs. Hardinge
once gave a lecture on the subject, at the Gower-street-rooms ;
a part of the lecture will be found in No. 5 of The Spiri¬
tualist. She told how the Rev. S. Binning, who she said was
then living in New York, and could be referred to, wished
one night to be at a spirit circle of friends of his at Troy,
160 miles from New York; he could not go, but his thoughts
were about the circle at the time. Two of the members of
the Troy circle saw Mr. Binning in the passage ; he pushed
against them, muttered some indistinct words, and entered
the seance room, where he was beheld by eighteen of the
members. He left the room, and afterwards could not be
found in the house. All the time he, so far as the body was
concerned, was in New York. In this case three senses of
the observers were appealed to—sight, touch, and hearing.
Mrs. Hardinge narrated among other cases, one in which a
“double’’had covered a crippled child with roses. In some
of the various lives of the Davenport Brothers which have
been written, cases are recorded telling how on the
sudden striking of alight, Mr. Fay and his “double ” were
seen more than once. The Davenport Brothers, although alto¬
gether “ written down ” by the newspapers, are recog¬
nised by Spiritualists as genuine mediums. Mr. Kenneth
Mackenzie, a fellow of the Anthropological Institute, in a
lecture delivered some time ago at the Progressive Library, on
the subject of visions in crystals, made some curious state¬
ments about how men have sometimes seen their own
duplicates.
46
THE SPIRITUALIST,
June 15, 1872.
(KfltOTpcmImxce.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and, its readers."]
THE EFFICACY OF PEA YES.
Sir,—The custom of prayer has probably descended from days
■when men looked on the gods as beings with powers and pas¬
sions like their own, but magnified. All the processes of
nature were their immediate acts, which they could alter or
suspend at pleasure. These beings it was wise to please or
propitiate ; hence sacrifice and prayer. But the progress of
thought, and especially the progress of physical science, by
bringing province after province of nature under the dominion
of law, have cut away the foundation on which the practice
rested. The unbroken sequence of cause and effect apparently
excludes interference from without. Can any man now believe
that the course of nature will be altered for his advantage ?
“ When the loose mountain topples from on high,
Shall gravitation cease, if you pass hy ? ”
Yet theologians who affirm that there is one supreme and
unchanging Personal Euler of the universe, also tell us that
He answers the prayers of men. The Supreme Euler would
then be only an agent to execute the will of those who pray,
and to fulfil their often contradictory requests.
But apart from this theoretical objection to prayer, con¬
sidered as offered to a supreme and unchanging Being, it may
be urged as a question of fact—“ Is prayer answered?” Did
the cattle-plague or the cholera cease, or the potato disease
die out when prayers were offered ? Isolation and slaughter¬
ing, drainage and pure water, change of soil and seed,—these
were the remedies before which the three pests of our time
have lost their terrors. From the thousands of ships yearly
lost, how many fruitless prayers arise ? From uncounted
deathbeds how many ? From broken hearts, how many ? If
only a few of the millions daily uttered brought any answer,
this would be a different world ere now.
So strong has become the argument on this line, that
divines are driven to study the reflex influence of prayer in
order to maintain its advantage to the suppliant. This is
equivalent to giving up the point; for if the course of events
hold on unchanged, in spite of prayer, why pray ? It does
not avail to say that sometimes the Supreme Being refuses the
request for the good of him who asks; for that would mean
that He does as He sees fit, regardless of the wish. If so,
why pray ? Many of your readers will, no doubt, agree with
the writer in saying that after trying the doctrine by the test
of experience, they have found it wanting—that at critical
times in their lives they have sought aid earnestly without
receiving it; that events held on their course remorselessly,
prayer notwithstanding. Others again have met with such
strange occurrences, that all we can say will not shake their
belief that once, at least, if not oftener, their prayers have
brought an answer. What solution of this can be offered ?
Will divines tell us that the Great Being favours some to the
exclusion of others ? Surely not, if, as they say, “ He maketh
the sun to shine on the evil and the good.”' Or will they follow
one of your correspondents who suggests that “ the life of a
groom was of no importance to the commercial and political
prosperity of the British nation.” Possibly not.' And the
British nation may be of equally little importance to the wel¬
fare of the universe. Can the Supreme Being be capable of
acting on this principle ? Better Pope’s conception of a God,
“Who sees, with equal eye, as Lord of all,
A Nero perish, or a sparrow fall.”
To many thinkers, these difficulties have appeared insuperable,
and they have therefore denied any interference of the Supreme
Being in the affairs of the world, alleging that prayer, if
answered, is answered by the agency of finite beings on
another plane of existence. The result must then depend
upon the will and power of those beings who may, like our¬
selves, be subject to prejudices and prepossession, as well as
limited in power.
Another condition may be introduced into the problem by
the nature of the suppliant, that is by his capacity of receiving
influence from Spiritual Beings. This opens the question
“ Are mediums more likely to be answered than those not
possessing medial power ?” Some facts, lead me strongly to
think that they are. If so prayer may ultimately be reduced
to law ? And men may go to the medium to enquire of the
unseen, instead of trusting to their own unavailing efforts.
But above and beyond all this, there is one serious objec¬
tion to prayer which will weigh with varying power accord¬
ing to temperament and disposition. The practice, so far as
my observation has reached, tends to produce a habit of de¬
pendence upon another which saps the strength of the charac¬
ter, and prevents the development of that strong self-reliance
which is alike the mightiest mainspring of action, and the
surest refuge in disaster.
The man who believes that prayer will surely bring an answer,
wastes his time in looking for “ indications” and “ tokens”
of the course he should take, instead of carefully estimating
the results of all, and closing with that “ where reason turns
the scale.”
To act on one’s judgment, calmly formed, even though
failure result, is better for the character than habitually to
rely on the guidance of any other being, finite or infinite.
W. L. A., B. Sc.
SPIRITUALISM IN CAENAETON, PWLLHELI, WALSALL, AND
BIRMINGHAM.
Sir,—I have lately been visiting the Spiritualists in some
of the provinces, and it may interest your readers to know in
what state of activity I have found them.
In Carnarvon, the leading Spiritualist is Mr. Hughes, artist
and photographer. A short time back, this gentleman was
compelled to leave the church to which he belonged on
account of his believing in Spiritualism. His opponents tried
their best to ruin his business and reputation, but the staunch
manner in which he withstood their attacks when catechised
in public brought him to the notice of many strangers in the
town, so that not only has his business been very much
increased thereby, but some knowledge of Spiritualism has
been imparted to many who were previously ignorant of the
subject. Mr. Hughes is a very good healing medium. I speak
from my own personal experience of his powers.
At Pwllheli, North Wales, there are a few Spiritualists.
Miss , 8, Church-street, is a writing and trance me¬
dium ; and Mr.  -, High-street, is developing into a trance
medium. Some good tests have been obtained through the
former. Both these mediums have been developed by Mr.
Hughes.
At Walsall there are four trance mediums—Miss Blinkhorn,
Mr. Holmes, Mr. Harrison, and Mr. Eussell. I had a sitting
with the last-named gentleman, and was much pleased. He
is a trance medium, and although at present he has had but a
few months’ experience, the spirits take thorough possession
of him and speak well.
Wherever I go I find the clergy very active in abusing
Spiritualism, and in excommunicating from their congrega¬
tions all who take an interest in the subject. One of the
Birmingham Spiritualists has the misfortune of having a
parson for his landlord, who is turning him out of his pre¬
mises where he has carried on business for a very long time,
because he has devoted one of his windows to the exhibition
of spirit photographs and literature. Mr. Franklin, of Bir¬
mingham, is a good seeing and developing medium. The
Spiritualists at Walsall are so downhearted because the develop¬
ment of their mediums is slow, that they should invite
Mr. Franklin over from Birmingham to sit with them occasion¬
ally. I felt his influence very strongly when I had the pleasure
of being with him, and he is always ready to do a kindness.
There is a good rapping medium in Birmingham, and also a
healer. But there is a gentleman there who is the most pro¬
mising medium I have seen out of London. He is a psycho-
metrist, a seer, and a trance-speaker. He is not more than
twenty years of age, and has been acquainted with Spiritualism
about two years. I handed him a letter to try his psychome-
tric.powers. He placed it on his forehead without opening it.
and, after a few minutes, gave me an exact delineation of the
character of the writer. Amongst other things, he said: “ The
writer has not shown much of his individuality in this letter.
He has a sorrowful expression.” The facts are, that the letter
in the medium’s hand was one of a number of letters of intro¬
duction written in the name of a business firm, and the writer
had lost his wife only a few days before it was penned. I am
sorry that this medium objects to having his name published,
but he is well-known to Mr. Franklin, and would gladly, I am
sure, display his gifts to any honest truthseeker.
A short time since, there was a haunted house in Birming¬
ham. The bells of this house used to ring violently at night¬
time, and often in the day. The landlady who let apartments
lost, by degrees, all her lodgers, from the annoyance and dis¬
comfort this ringing occasioned. Policemen were employed to
watch the house, and a bell-hanger was summoned to examine
the wires, as there was a suspicion that they were entangled
with those of the next door. But, for all their efforts, the
bells continued ringing. The bell-hanger, mounted on steps,
even nipped the wires of some; but still the bells, so released,
rang furiously before his very eyes. At length Mr. and Mrs.
Franklin, Mr. Hill, and one or two more Spiritualists, met at
the haunted house one evening, and held a stance in an up¬
stairs room. After a while the spirit of an old gentleman
turned up, who had died in the house. He admitted that it
was he who made all this disturbance, his motive being to
attract attention and obtain a hearing. When asked, “ For
what purpose ? ” he complained about certain steps which his
wife had taken. The circle, naturally enough, remonstrated
with him for disturbing so many people not concerned in the
matter, and said: “ Why don’t you go and annoy your wife ;
not these poor folks?” “Oh, I’ve already done that,” he
answered. The result of this interview was, that the old gen¬
tleman promised to play no more pranks in that house, at
least, if the circle would remain in the room until a quarter
past two in the morning. The Condition was observed, and
the spirit kept his word. At twenty minutes past two the
bells ceased ringing, and since then the house has been per¬
fectly quiet. It appears that the old gentleman died at 2.15
a.m. The bell-hanger now is, I believe, a staunch Spiritualist.
Whilst talking on the subject of haunted houses, I would
suggest that a committee of experienced Spiritualists and
mediums be formed for the purpose of having a seance in the
haunted room in Berkeley-square.
Everywhere I have found the Spiritualists most obliging
and courteous; and a visit now and then from new brothers
and sisters of their faith, especially if they be Londoners,
spurs them on to greater activities, and helps them to fight
manfully against the many persecutions they meet with.
London, S.W. D. H. Wilson.
PURIFICATION BY FIRE.
SlE,—A waning fire does not melt the metal in the crucible,
be that metal copper, or silver, or gold. The metal may be
there, but the quality, the purity, is not proved, till the intense
heat separates the particles from the dross scum. The scum
floats on the surface of the metal, and so often hides the pure
metal, that uninformed lookers-on, in their talking ignorance,
decide according' to the external appearances. The very fire
seems to help to strengthen their opinion. The bubbling
working particles ever at the top, varied in shape and action,
to them are proofs positive. Yet the dross is not the metal.
The fire is separating them, and bringing the particles of pure
substance nearer and yet nearer to each other. The refiner
knows when to work his knowledge into power, and finally
separate the bad from the good.
See we not the same now happening in Spiritualism. Spirit
life, spirit power, man’s immortality, shrouded or surfaced by
tricksters. Those bubbling working particles of human dross
that appear in every department of human energy, theological,
scientific, or political. Thank God 1 the metal good and pure
is being freed by the Divine invisible heat. It may be run
into moulds of varied shape, as varied as the nationalities of
humanity, but the assay marks of the Higher Power are
stamped on all, testifying that “ God is love,” and that “ Man
is immortal.” John Jones.
Enmore-park,' S.E.
MISS cook’s MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—At Miss Cook’s request, who has been staying at my
house for some time past, I write to say that on recent occa¬
sions a face has appeared at the window of the cabinet within
which Miss Cook sits as medium for the manifestation.
Others, with myself, have seen this face, apparently of flesh
and blood, and the likeness to Miss Cook is so startling that
tests have been asked for and acceded to. (This is a correc¬
tion of my former statement, the face having been seen under
much more favourable conditions of light, &c.)
At noon, on the 5th June, my brother took a positive pho¬
tograph of the face as it appeared at the cabinet window, the
medium at the beginning of the sitting having been locked to
the floor by means of straps and rings attached to a canvas
jacket, in which she had been laced and sealed.
This experiment, which would have been conclusive, has
been rendered utterly worthless, as a verification, by the fact
that on the doors of the cabinet being opened, the medium
was found free, the seals having been broken, and the whip¬
cord with which the jacket was laced cut in several places.
On examination, the leather straps through which the whip¬
cord was laced, and by means of which the medium was
fastened to the floor, were found to bear the marks of a cutting
instrument; the canvas of the jacket also showed jagged cuts
in the neighbourhood of the straps. As we have been inter¬
rupted on more than one occasion by what professes to be an
evil spirit, we have determined to guard against such tricks as
the above by substituting for the jacket iron chains fastened
by Chubb locks. John E. Purdon, M.B.
Sandown, 10th June.
[Dr. Purdon enclosed with the above letter a private note to
us from Miss Cook, from which we make the following ex¬
tract—-“Dr. Purdon sends you a short account of what has
taken place. The results are far from satisfactory. We have
been greatly troubled by a bad spirit, calling himself the
devil; he says that he will try and undo all the good my
Katie does. We got on well at first on Wednesday, and then,
at the very last, he dragged me out of the jacket, how, no one
knows. The whipcord was certainly cut, but I had no Tenife
about me, nor could one have been ‘concealed in the cabinet.
We are now trying steel chains and locks. I hope it will suc¬
ceed. I am terribly annoyed, but I suppose it cannot be
helped. I never had bad spirits before this. We waited to
see if we could get anything good before we sent to you.”
Some comments on this case will be found in our first article
in this number of The Spiritualist.—Ed.]
BODY AND MIND.
Sir,—I have recently been much with a friend who for
nearly three years has been afflicted with a disease, by which
the blood was poisoned. The person had a very vigorous mind
and constitution, but for nearly three months before dissolu¬
tion, it was most painful to observe the insidious approach of
feebleness of intellect, which, as the poisoning advanced, ter¬
minated in incoherent muttering.
This is a case which I presume materialists would adduce as
a proof that mind has no existence apart from matter, Cir¬
cumstances forced me to become a Spiritualist; what they
were I need not mention here, but it would be one of the
greatest calamities which could befall me were my faith shaken
in the blessed hope of immortal life. Will any of your cor¬
respondents inform me why it is.that the immaterial principle
over which death and disease can have no power, underwent
such a change as in the case referred to ? I shall not be satis¬
fied with a statement that the poisoned condition of the blood
incapacitated the unseen immaterial and immortal man from
speaking as rationally as he did before disease supervened ;
for if there be an immaterial principle, it must be independent
of matter.* I can quite understand (why a diseased kidney
should imperfectly perform its function, because secretion of
urine is a mere physical act, or that a paralysed tongue should
prevent distinct articulation; but that a poisoned condition
of the brain should cause the unseen man, who is the same in
as he is out of the body, to rave nonsense, when he was once
distinguished for a fine intellect, is what I cannot comprehend.
Edinburgh. Senex.
SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHY.
As stated in our article on the first page, there is
now no doubt that many of the spirit photographs
turned out by Mr. Hudson are shams, produced hy
artificial means ; these began to appear at a somewhat
early date, probably because the real ones did not
come fast enough. Mr. Hudson has published, “ by
advice of his solicitors,” that “ he will not guarantee
them as spirit photographs.”
Mr. Guppy has sent us the following letter for pub¬
lication :—
Sir,—I received your postcard,—see you wish me to cut any
communication short, as you are very full. Very well.
I am glad to see you have struck for higher wages, i.e., added
33 per cent, to the price of your paper. I hope you will join
the eight hours’ movement. I propose for the labouring
man—
6 hours smart work.
3 „ for meals.
3 „ for reading, attending lectures, &c.
4 „ with wife and children, and doing a little gardening.
8 „ sleep.
24
Every child well educated. National public reading-rooms,
as big as the Crystal Palace.
You have read the Medium of the 7th. Was I not right in
refusing to stand godfather to any spirit photographs except
those five when I was present ? Was not I a true prophet in
my letter in yours of March 15, where I said, “ Wait a bit,
and you will see plenty more (real spirit photographs, well
attested) ?” Well, the plenty more real spirit photographs have
not yet come; but they are coming, and will come. Further,
1 said, “ Whereas there are no spirit carte de visites now, be¬
cause no real spirit likenesses have been produced, the moment
the real thing is produced, imitations will be for sale, much
more artistic than the real.” I can’t say much for the artistic
part of the spirit photographs now current, but from the con¬
fessions and elucidations of the photographers, which these
spirit photographs have drawn forth, I expect that future spirit
photographs will be more artistic in dress than the present
instalment.
We had a seance some months ago, when a spirit walked
round the room, visible to nearly every person present, and it
was dressed in a beautiful silk dress, which rustled as she
walked round. I believe it was Katie;—but it is a fact.
I don’t see why spirits should not dress in the height of
fashion. In most of the stories of apparitions, they are in
their ordinary dresses, and not in old crumpled linen.
What will a fashionable woman think, when she enters the
spirit sphere, if she has to dress in such penitentiary clothes ?
By-the-bye, I have a curious thing to tell you bearing on
spirit dresses. I was at the Marshall’s one evening, five years
ago, when they obtained the spirit voices through me. One
evening, Mary Marshall said, “ I see a very beautiful female
spirit rising from you.” It rose, and after, perhaps, three
minutes, vanished. Well, if I had related that to any outside
persons, they might have thought it imagination.
When I was married, or, perhaps, before, Miss Nicholl told
me she saw the same thing, and that it was my sister. I may
have mentioned that circumstance to some friends. When
Miss Kate Fox was about to visit us, I told my wife that I
should like a tete-a-tde with that lady, as I wished to ask her
about the origin of the Eochester knockings.
She came into my studio. I had never seen her before.
* Matter is necessary for the external expression of purification of
thought.—Ed.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
47
Juke 15, 1872.
She had scarcely seated herself, when she said, “ I see a spirit
standing by you; it is your sister ; had you a sister ? ”
This, from an utter stranger to this country, to me was
rather strong.
The day before yesterday, Lady —, Mr. —, and Mrs. Olive
! called. They came from Mr. Hudson’s. They were ushered
into my studio. I had heard of Mrs. Olive before, but never
seen her. She had scarcely seated herself before she said,
“ I see a spirit standing by you; it is dressed in blue.”.
Here are four different persons, without the slightest con¬
nection with one another, who, at different times, have seen
the same thing; all persons now in London.
I was puzzling my head upon the novelty of the spirit being-
dressed in blue, when it occurred to me, as you know, that I
had the ceiling of my studio coloured blue.
Mr. Alfred Wallace says that butterflies borrow their colours
partly from the trees and flowers.
Mr. Swinburne published that he saw a spirit figure walking
in our garden; it looked reality, but vanished. Mr. Swinburne
was with me when Mrs. Olive came and saw the spirit also.
Miss Neyland saw the same.
Now I do not really think it extraordinary that a being
which is visible—very clearly visible—to so many witnesses,
should, under favourable conditions, be susceptible of being
photographed.
But favourable conditions do not occur exactly when we want
hem. Like people in ancient and modern times being carried j
rom one place to another, they are not carried as they would
be by cab or railway where they want to go, but somewhere
else. Mr. Home did not book himself to be carried out of one
window and in at another, nor my wife to be carried to a seance
at Lamb’s Conduit-street.
As to the spirit photographs, the fuss about them is not a
quarter over; in fact, it is hardly begun. I think the case
looks very promising. You have, at all events, my five, all
veritable bona fide spirit or psychic force, or unconeious cere¬
bration photographs. (I suppose imitation spirit photographs
may be called “Conscious cerebration” ones.) There are
others, also, though I do not choose to stand godfather to
them.
Then you have the imitations,—which I foretold, and which,
therefore, had to take place to fulfil my prophecy (else what
was the use of my foretelling a thing if it was not to happen?);
and, by-and-bye, you will act upon the advertisement in the
papers—“ If you-ask for Glenfield starch (aspirit photograph),
be sure you get it.”
I hardly suppose you will give space for all this yarn, so you
may use the scissors.—Yours truly, Samuel Guppy.
June 7,1872.
P.S.—“ When the wicked man turneth away from his wicked¬
ness, and doeth that which is lawful and right, he shall save
his soul alive.”
June 8th.
Received your note. You say, “ There is general surprise
at your supposed silence.” I shall be obliged if you will re¬
print my letter of April 30, in the Medium of May 3; if you
have not room, refer your readers to it. My position is, that
I was the accidental discoverer of an entire novelty in science,—
namely, the obtaining real and positive likenesses of spirit
entities, invisible to the ordinary human eye. That those five
spirit photographs, taken in my presence before any idea of
imitations entered anyone’s head, are deserving the considera¬
tion of scientific men,—that they are free from any taint of
imposture, unless it is supposed that I and my wife lent our¬
selves to it.
Further, that it was not my business, and perhaps would
have been intrusive, if I had entered into disputes with able
opticians and sensible men who checked the later operations
throughout, or with others who recognised the likenesses of
their departed relatives — I, who never was present at any
taking of a spirit photograph except the five I have alluded to.
Besides, for some time I had no reason to doubt the bona
fides of the spirit photographs produced; and, but for the
rent in the background, and the line of it with the floor, it
would be very difficult for any Spiritualist to declare that any
specific photograph was not genuine. We know so little of
the appearance which spiritual beings may take on, that it is
necessary to use great caution in forming, and still more in
expressing, an opinion. S. G.
BIBLICAL SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS.
A second part of the interesting little pamphlet
Heaven Opened, hy F. J. T., has just been published
by Mr. Burns and Mr. Allen. It gives home expe¬
riences in Spiritualism, is of an orthodox charater, it
is written in a pleasing style, and is very suitable for
distribution among inquirers who are frightened hy the
“ devil ” theory. We select for quotation the follow¬
ing comparison between the ancient and modern mani¬
festations :—
The question is often asked, “ What are the Scriptural
evidences of the truth of modern Spiritualism ?” Knowing
that the Bible consists of separate books, independent of each
other, written by various authors during a period probably
of not less than four thousand years, it is most difficult to
account for the determination we find in so many minds to
assert that the multitudinous spiritual events, then credited
as not unusual, were peculiar to that time only.
If this were true, of what value would be the Scriptures to
us ? What was truth then is truth now. We take the
Scriptures as God’s guide for the Christian’s life, in all ages,
but if they contain exceptional cases only, and not rules for
life’s experience now, where would be their present value ?
In truth, this argument is very shallow and may be met by
the words in Ecclesiastes iii. 14, 15, “ I know that what¬
soever God doeth, it shall be for ever. Nothing can be added
to it nor anything taken from it, and God doeth it that men
shall fear before Him. That which hath been is now.”
No single text is to be found at all leading to the idea that
there was to be any limitation, either as to time or power, in
reference to any of these events. And it is well that it should
be so, for facts arise on every side to disprove such a state¬
ment. On the contrary, many texts prove that the withdrawal
of these gifts was always looked upon as a mark of God’s dis¬
pleasure. (See Ezekiel xiii.; Micah iii. 6, 7; 1 Sam. iii. 1;
Amos viitt 11.)
Also that the abuse of these gifts (or necromancy) was
denounced loudly, and visited with heavy punishments. (See
Dent, xviii. 10—12, and 15—22.) John, in his first Epistle,
fourth chapter, warns Christians against believing “ every
spirit,” but directs them to “ try the spiritsthus proving
that communication with the spirit-world was active then as
now.
I wish now to endeavour to show the entire similarity be¬
tween the spirit-mediumships of the present day, and the ac¬
counts of such given in the Scriptures.
To begin with the physical and lowest form of spirit-power
—the power over material objects now exhibited in various
forms in all parts of the earth. In Matt, xxviii. 2, and in
Luke xxiv. 2, we find “ An angel of the Lord rolled back the
stone from the door of Christ’s sepulchre.”
In Acts xii. 7, and following verses, an angel releases Peter
from prison, his chains fell off his hands, and the prison-gate
opened “of its own accord.” The same help was given to
other Apostles ; see Acts v. 19, “ The angel of the Lord by
night opened the prison-doors and brought them forth.”
In 1 Chron. xxviii. 12, 19, we find David received instruc¬
tions about the building of the temple by the writing and
drawing mediumship. “ The pattern of all” he had by “ the
Spiritand “ all this the Lord made me understand in writing,
by His hand upon me,” &c.
Elijah writes to Jehoram four years after they had passed
away. See 2 Chron. xxi. 6—12: “ And there came a writing to
him from Elijah the prophet.” It is not stated whether this,
came through a writing-medium or was given by the direct
spirit writing, i.e., writing given without mortal contact, such
as is now frequently received in the presence of Mrs. Everitt
and a few other mediums.
The writing on the wall at Belshazzar’s feast (the hand
also being seen, which is of constant occurrence now), was
an instance of direct spirit-writing. (Daniel v. 5.)
The whole of the mystical book of Ezekiel, with its continual
reference to “visions,” “spirit-hands, “elevation of the
body,” “ spirit-writing,” “ spirit-lights,’’and “ spirit-voice,” is |
clear, when] read in the light of Spiritualism, and in no other |
way.
The direct spirit-voice, audible to, and conversing with all
present, is now of common occurrence in many “ circles.” In
the Bible (see 1 Samuel iii.) a voice speaks to Samuel
(Exodus iii. 2) a voice addresses Moses from the “ burning
bush.’’ After this Moses receives frequent instructions by
audible voice from the “ angel of the Lord.” (Exodus iii.;
also chapter xxiii. 20, and following verses.) Elijah is spoken
to audibly by a spirit. (See 1 Kings xix. 6, 7, 13.) Saul, on
his road to Damascus, is “ struck down,” hearing a loud |
voice, which was also heard by his companions. (Acts ix. 4, 7.)
The Yirgin Mary is spoken to by the angel of the Lord. (Luke
i. 28.) The shepherds were told of the birth of Christ by an
angel, and they heard a multitude of the heavenly host
praising God and saying, “ Glory to God in the highest, and
on earth peace, good will toward men.” (See Luke ii.
10, 13,14.)
Several instances of the elevation of the body, and conveying
it various distances, whilst the medium was in a state of trance,
have occurred quite recently. We read in Acts viii. 39, that
Philip was “ caught away by the Spirit of the Lord, and found
at Azotus.” Ezekiel was “ lifted up,” and taken “ into the east
gate of the Lord’s house.” (See 2d chapter, 1st verse; also
8th chapter, 3rd verse.)Elijah was“ taken away” in “ a chariot
of fire and horses of fire.” (2 Kings ii, 6—11.)
Spirit-lights (or fiery-lights), in different forms and sizes,
are given at circles, frequently, as well as to mediums when
alone. These lights are of various colours, being symbolical
of the sphere of the spirit who shows them. Moses saw the
angel who spoke to him “in a flame of fire,” the bush itself
remaining unscorched. (Exodus iii. 2.) “A smoking furnace
and lamp of fire” were seen by Abraham, in answer to his
request for a sign. (Genesis xv. 17.) A“ pillar of fire” guided
the Israelites out of Egypt. (Exodus xiii. 21.) The face of
Moses was lighted up, “ the skin of his face shone,” when he
came down from the mount with the two tables of testimony,
which had been given to him with the direct spirit-writing on
them. (Exodus xxxiv. from 29th verse.) At the transfigura¬
tion, Christ’s “ face did shine as the sun, and His raiment
was white as the light.” (Matthew xvii. 2.) “ Cloven
tongues, like as of fire,” sat upon the Apostles. (Acts ii. 3.)
Trance mediumship is of frequent occurrence at the present
time. In this state the medium is influenced by a spirit to
speak, &c., the spirit of the medium being at the time away
from his own body, and present in scenes or visions which
he can often afterwards describe. At other times the vocal
powers only of the medium are used, as on the day of Pente¬
cost, the disciples “were filled with the Holy Ghost, and
began to speak with other tongues.” (Acts ii. 4.) Samuel
foresaw this form of mediumship would come to Saul, when
he said to him, “ The Spirit of the Lord will come upon thee ;
thou shalt prophecy with them, and shalt be turned into
another man.” (Samuel x. 6.)
Very numerous are the accounts of “visions” given in the
Bible, from that of Jacob’s ladder. (Gen. xxviii. 12), to the
Apocalypse of John. Many also are the prophecies that these
shall yet be given—prophecies being now fulfilled. (Joel ii.
28.)
We read in the Bible of the power spirits have to resist the
action of fire. The three Jews, Shadrach, Meshach and
Abednego, walked unhurt in the furnace. (Dan. iii. 20.) Mr.
Home, the celebrated medium, whilst in trance state, fre¬
quently takes burning coals from the fire, and places them in
the hands, or on the head of some present; no trace of singe¬
ing is to be found either at the time or afterwards. In the
present day, the presence of strong spirit-power during
seances is indicated by vibration of the furniture, room, and
even the whole house; literally a “ quaking,” such as we read
of in Acts. iv. 31: “ When they had prayed, the place was
shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy. Ghost.” In
Acts xvi. 25, 26, we read that whilst Paul and Silas prayed,
suddenly there was a great earthquake,” “ all the doors were
opened,” “every one’s bands were loosed.” (Observe that
had this been an ordinary earthquake, it would not have
“ loosened the bands” of the prisoners.)
The healing power now given to hundreds of mediums, is
spoken of in the Old Testament. Elisha restores a child to
life from apparent death. (2 Kings iv. 32—35.) Naaman is
cured of his leprosy by following Elisha’s directions. ( 2 Kings
v. 14.) Christ distinctly gives to His disciples power to “ heal
the sick.” (Luke x. 9 and 17—20.) When spealdng to His
disciples for the last time before His ascension, again He im¬
parts these gifts to them, adding, “ These signs shall follow
those that believe.” (Mark xvi. 17.) Matthew, referring ap¬
parently to the same interview, records that Christ added,
“ And lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the
world” (Matt, xxviii. 20), which directly contradicts the state¬
ment that these gifts were for a limited time only, but were
not to continue “unto the end of the world.”
In the Epistles continual references are made to spiritual
gifts. (1 Cor. xiv.) Paul says in the first verse, “ Follow after
charity, and desire spiritual gifts,” &c., and in the twelfth
verse, according to the marginal reference, we should read “ of
spirits,” in place of “ spiritual gifts,” the two meanings being
nearly alike to Spiritualists.
In conclusion, let me add that there is clear evidence that
the terms “angels,” “messengers,” and “ spirits,’’ are syno¬
nymous ; that these communications came then, as now, from
the spirits of men who had lived on this earth; for when
John was about to kneel down and worship the spirit who had
shown him the wonderful visions recorded in his “Revelations,”
he says, “ See thou do it not; for I am thy fellow-servant, and of
thy brethren the prophets” (Rev. xxii. 9); and yet in the six¬
teenth verse we read, “ I, Jesus, have sent mine angel to testify
unto you these things.” Similar expressions in the Old Tes¬
tament prove that where the words, “ The Lord speaketh ” are
used, it means the “ angel,” or “ messenger ” from, and dis¬
tinct from the Lord God Himself; also, why should we not
accept literally the two verses, “ He shall give His angels
charge over thee, to keep thee in all thy ways,” &c. (Psalm
xci. 11, 12), and also in Hebrews i. 13,14, we read, “To
which of the angels said He at any time, Sit on My right
hand until I make thine enemies thy foot-stool. Are they
not all ministering spirits, sent forth to minister for them
who shall be heirs of salvation?” But as we read the Scrip¬
tures in the light thrown upon the whole by Spiritualism,
much that was originally obscure and mystical comes out
clear and literal. Nothing can support the Bible so tho¬
roughly as a belief in Spiritualism ; nothing else makes it so
clear.
These proofs could be extended greatly, but sufficient is
given to show that the so-called “ modern Spiritualism ” is
identical with the “ Spiritualism” throughout the Bible, and
thus throughout all ages.
SPIRITUAL IMPOSTORS.
The imposture which from time to time crops up
in Spiritualism, although, happily, but rarel3r iu
this country, is in a considerable degree due to the
influence which the visitors exercise upon the mediums,
who are alike subject to the spiritual influence of dis¬
embodied beings, and the spiritual influence of those
who still retain their material covering.
The ancient Greek priests had the good sense to
place their oracles, who were doubtless mediums, in a
position in which they had none of the cares of life
thrown upon them, nor were they allowed contact with
the vulgar populace. Had w’e an institution in which
good mediums could be placed, and all the necessaries
of life supplied, while they themselves were only ac¬
cessible to earnest, truthful, moral people, the com¬
munications which would then come to us from the
upper world would come from a higher source, and
be of a very much higher order, than those at present
obtained. The Jews were equally careful of their seers
or prophets.
It is to be hoped that in course of time, as Spiritualism
becomes recognised and its importance acknowledged,
some of the money now wasted on useless ceremonies
will be devoted, in imitation of the Jews and Greeks,
to the care of those whose gifts enable them to become
channels of communication with the realms above.
0.
We have not yet published the title page and index
to the first volume of The Spiritualist, because the back
numbers of the second volume are selling off so rapidly, that
we may have to make it a short one, in which case it would
be best to let both volumes be bound together, with one
index.
Messrs. Herne and Williams’s Seances.—Mr. Harri¬
son writes in a statement dated June 13th :—“ I have received
for the subscription cabinet for Messrs. Herne and Williams,
£5 from Mr. Herne (sent to him by Mr. Charles Blackburn, of
Manchester); 10s. from Mr. and Mrs. Edmiston; 10s. col¬
lected by Miss Kislingbury; 2s. 6d. from Mr. Coleman; 2s. 6d.
from Mr. Swinburne; 2s. 6d. from Dr. Dixon; and 2s. in
stamps from an anonymous subscriber; total, £6 9s. 6d. The
cabinet was made by Mr. Wright, Effra Parade, Dulwich-road,
S.E. It cost £6 10s. for construction and delivery; a further
expenditure of 10s. is desirable for alterations. Mr. Clifford
Smith told me he had collected a few half-crown subscriptions ;
these I have not received. I do not know his address, and
have ceased to attend the seances, so on seeing this announce¬
ment perhaps he will return the amounts to the subscribers.
The cabinet was delivered at Lamb’s Conduit-street two or
three weeks ago. About a month ago I informed the mediums
that many pictures like Mr. Hudson’s could be produced arti¬
ficially, and expressed a personal opinion that they therefore
either ought not to go there at all as mediums, or should insist
upon the sitters applying the best test conditions they could.
Between two and three weeks ago, I first had evidence that
some of Mr. Hudson’s spirit photographs were shams, and
that Mr. Herne had helped in the production of two of them.
I soon afterwards called on the mediums with Mr. Blyton and
Mr. Pycock; Mr. Herne came into the room once or twice,
then put on his hat in a hurried manner and went out. I told
Mr. Williams of the photographic trick of his partner, and that
I should cease to attend their seances for the future. One of
the visitors atj two or three of their later seances has ques¬
tioned recently the accirracy of my description of them. On
each occasion, however, there was probably an average of
twenty people present; with the exception of Mr. Blyton, who
was present once, all were strangers to jme, intermixed with
a few acquaintances I know a little of through meeting some¬
times at seances; these independent witnesses will doubtless
certify to the general accuracy of my record. At the same
time, seeing that there has been trickery at work in another
case, there is no security that trickery may not have been at
the root of some of the phenomena which I at the time be¬
lieved to form the incipient stages of a genuine new manifes¬
tation already common in America, so described them minutely
for scientific purposes. Therefore, all of them which could
have been artificially produced ought now to be regarded as
* doubtful.’ ” In future it may be necessary to report seances
in a fragmentary, incomplete way, selecting chiefly those por¬
tions only which occur under test conditions. About three
weeks ago the real manifestations which took place in the
presence of these two mediums began to fall off; a fortnight
ago they had lost the spirit voices entirely, and we have not
heard whether the power has since been recovered.
48
THE SPIRITUALIST
June 15, 1872
FACTS FOB. NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
The phenomena seen at spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
within the ordinary range of human experi¬
ence, mat it is quite right not to accept them
on the testimony of others. Each individual
should witness and test them personally, and
believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
is gained that denial is impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM: DESERVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses that the phenomena of Spiritualism are
actual facts, and not imposture or delusion, has of
late years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Eobert
Chambers, Mr. C. F. Varley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
Mrs. S. 0. Hall, and others, all made affidavits
strongly in favour of Mr. Home.
It also came out in the evidence given at the
trial, that Mr. Home had been the invited and un¬
paid guest of the Emperor and the Empress of the
French, the Emperor, Empress, and the late Em¬
press Dowager of Eussia, the Grand Duke Con¬
stantine, the King of Prussia, the late King of
Bavaria, the late King of Wurtemburg, and the
Queen of Holland. Mr. Home says that all his
life he has never taken a farthing of pay for' his
teances.
Mrs. De Morgan has written a book, entitled
From Matter to Spirit (Longmans), where she
gives many interesting particulars, the result of
ten years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in his preface to the book, says :—
“ I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which Cannot he taken by
a rational being to be capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground
firm under me.”
Mr C. F. Yarley, C.E., F.E.S., the Atlantic
Cable Electrician, has testified that Spiritual
phenomenal are produced by disembodied spirits.
Mr. John Bright, M.P., testified to Mr. J. M.
Peebles, late American Consul at Trebizond, that
he had seen some of the phenomena, and they
appeared to be produced by spirits, though he was
not sure on the point.
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President
of the British Association at Norwich in. 1868,
spoke very highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr. Alfred E. Wallace, F.L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist. Professor Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
action ’’ theory explained all the facts. A friend
wrote to him detailing things he had seen which
were inexplicable by that theory. Hare at once,,
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
result was that he came into communication with
, some' of liis, own departed relatives.; ' He, 'then
ffiade .ripechafiical telegraphic, .•pip-ehines, . which
appai'ivms we^scfeehed7 from the' 'sightLof' the'
medium, and he wrote a book recording all these
facts. That book is now in the British Museum
Library. Judge Edmonds, of New York, is another
very eminent American Spiritualist, who has also
written interesting books on the subject. Eecently,
in England, Viscount Adare has written a book
bearing testimony to the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and movements of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley.
Mr. W. Crookes, F.E.S. (editor of The Quarteny
Journal of Science), Mr. Serjeant Cox, and Mr, .‘
William Huggins (Vice-president of the Eoyal
Society), have certified that certain of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism are real. A,scientific
committee of professional gentlemen, appointed by
the Dialectical Society, came to the same conclusion
after two years investigation ; their official report
is printed in No. 26 of The Spiritualist.
A work entitled The Booh of Nature, by 0. 0.
Groom Napier, F.C.S. (London, John Camden
Hotten, 1870), has a preface by the late Lord
Brougham, in which that eminent statesman
says
“ There is hut one question I would ask the author, is
the Spiritualism of this work foreign to our materialistic,
manufacturing age?—No ;for amidst the varieties of
mind which divers circumstances produce, are found
those who cultivate man’s highest faculties;—to these
the author addresses himself. But even in the most
cloudless skies of scepticism I see a rain-cloud, if it he no
bigger than a man’s hand; it is Modern Spiritualism.”
In addition to the above evidence, there is the
testimony of numbers that the modern spiritual
manifestations are realities. Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New America estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United States at rather less than
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybody has made.: There are no accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
When reports of the speeches of spirits are printed, in this
Journal, non-Soiritualists should understand that spirits
out of, the body are wiseor foolish, truthful or untruthful,
just the same as spirits in the ljody. Moreover, they are but
individuals, so do not know evefythirig.' The statements of a
spirit are but the assertions of ah individual; but by com
paring the statements of many spirits,.it may in time be
possible to discover in what points they agree, and to sift
out the 'unreliable communications. Many spirits cannot
see each other, any more than we can see them; and as some
of them', are thus in different states of life, it does not follow
that contradictory messages are therefore untruthful.
Spirits are of different religions, consequently their teach¬
ings do" not' altogether aBree; there is no more uniformity
in the next.world than in this one. It is the business of this
iournal fo report facts, so we are in no way responsible for.
the religious, scientific, or any other teachings given by indi¬
vidual spirits.
HOW TO EORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family
friends and relatives, often gives the most satis¬
factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the same time, as no fully developed
medium is present among those who have never
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will be no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for every one successful
new circle thus started without a medium, there
are six or seven failures, but no accurate statistics
on this point have yet been collected. When
once manifestations have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive sittings. The following is a good plan of
action:—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but
cool rather than warm—let arrangements he, made that
nobody shall enter it, and that there shall be no inter-'
ruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
Wet, damp, and foggy weather is bad for the production
of physical phenomena.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit.round an un¬
covered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands
in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance.
Any table will do, jlist large enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it
sometimes, but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, plac some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may be
obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in
the same circle,. for such a want of harmony tends to-
prevent manifestations, except with well-developed
physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, but an
acrid feeling against them is a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general conversation or In singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature. A prayerful,
earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class, of spirits.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely, to avoid confusion, let one person only speak,-
and talk to the table as to an intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean
“Yes,” one. means “No,” and two mean “Doubtful,”
and ask whether the arrangement is understood. If
three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, aud spell us out a
message ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations?”
Probably some members of the circle will then be told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will be
afterwards strengthened. Next ask, Who is the.
medium ? ” When spirits come asserting themselves to
be related or known to anybody present, well-chosen
questions should be put to test the accuracy ,of the
statements, as spirits out of the body have all the virtues
and all the.failings of spirits in the body.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms
of other forms of mediumsliip than tilts or raps
may make their appearance.
kALSTON ASSOCIATION OF EN-
'that in pursuance ,'of Buie Vll. the F&OltTJbb T-TALF
YEABLY GENEBAL MEETING of this Association
will be holden in the Booms, 74, Navarino-road,T)alston,
on . Monday Evening, the 8th July, 1872, when the
Council will submit for adoption the Beport and Balance
Sheet for the past Half-year. Officers for the ensuing Six
Months will be electel, and other business of a general
character transacted.
Thomas Blyton, Secretary and Treasurer.
British imperial insurance
COEPOBATION, LIMITED.
Incorporated pursuant to Act of Parliament.
Capital—£200,000 in 200,000 Shares of £1 Each.
Head Offices:
BBOWN STBEET and MABSDEN STBEET,
MANCHESTEB.
Chief London Offices:
20, KING WILLIAM STBEET, E.C.
, Central Trustees :
Augustus Frederick Bayford, LL.D., Senior Begis-
trar, Court of Probate, Doctors’ Commons, London;
and Chancellor of the Diocese of Manchester.
William Gimber Goodliffe, Accountant General,'
India Office, Westminster, London,
Charles Oppenheim (S. Oppenheim & Sons), Director
of the Union Bank of London, Austin Friars, Old
Broad-street, London, E.C.
Christopher Weguelin (Thomson, Bonar & Co.)
Director of the Bank of England, 571, Ijld Broad-
street, London, E.C.
Auditor:
Dr. William Farr, F.B.S., &c., &c., London, and
• Southlands, Bromley, Kent.
The system of Insurance carried out by the “ British
Imperial” (originally devised by Dr. Farr, F.B.S., &c.,
&c., of Somerset House, and adopted with.some modifi¬
cations by her Majesty’s Government), is perfect in
Security, Equity, and Convenience. t
In Security, because every .With Profit, and Self-
Insurance Policy, is issued upon; English Government
Securities, held in Trust, away from the control of the
Directors, for the sole purpose of meeting policy claims,"
.the amount invested (80 per cent, of the whole premium),
being shown by the National English Life Table, com¬
piled by the Begistrar-General for the Government to be
more than sufficient-to provide the sum insured under
the policy.
In Equity, because in the event of an Insurant failing
to continue the payment of his premiums, only sufficient
thereof is retained by the Corporation to profitably cover
the risk incurred upon the life during the time it was
covered by the insurance; the remainder being returned,
to the Insurant. The amount returned varies according
to the Table under which- the Insurance is effected,
between nearly one-half and three-quarters of all the
premiums.
In Convenience, because the “ Surrender Value ” is
endorsed on every Policy, and is made payable at three
days’ sight. It can also be used to its full amount, by
payment of 5 per cent, per annum interest on the sum
withdrawn, without invalidating the Policy.
JOHN A. FEIGAN,
General Manager.
WILLIAM DAVIES,
Secretary.
r&ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF EN-
BRITISH NATIONAL INSURANCE
COBPOBATION, LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STEELING.
Head Offices.
BKOWN-STEEET AND MABSDEN-STEEET,
MANCHESTEE. .
FIEE.
Insurances ; A gainst Loss or Damage by/Firic may
be effegm.d.wkhrthis Corporation upon every-description.
@11 ttsiiiiii
’'YIsoNeBTraiTuR-NS.—In .all cases «r1iere^Aorclaim' has
been mad_e Bpah (he; Corporation ..during the .year.- pim-
ceding, a Bonus, of ten Per cent, will be returned ’On
the payment of Benewed premiums.
FIDELITY GUAEANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing
Employers against loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of
persons holding confidential and other places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the
Policies of this Corporation as security for the Poor Law
Officials.
SPIRITUAL SEANCES are held every
Friday evening, at 15, Southampton-row, Holbom,
W.C., at eight o’clock. Mr. J. J. Morse, Medium. Ad¬
mission One Skilling.
’OEVEREDGrE & FRASER, Printers of
The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-BENTS, HOLBOBN, W.C.,
Eespectfully announce that they execute ALL descrip-
tions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
Footfalls on the boundary
OF ANOTHEE WOBLD. An Enlarged English
Copyright Edition. Post ■ Svo. Pp. xx—392. Cloth
7s. 6d..
The debatable land between
THIS WOBLD AND THE NEXT.—By Egbert
Dale Owen, Author of “Footfalls on the Boundary of
another World.” 1 v<61. crown Svo. cloth. Price 9s.
Now Beady, Crown 8vo„ pp. viii. 120,- cloth, price 2s. 6d.
ints for the evidences of
SPIEITUALISM.” ■ By M. P.
London: Triibner and' Co., 8 and CO, Paternoster-row.
Price Gd. Cloth, 9d. Post free.
Heaven opened. — paet ii. being
further descriptions of, and advanced teachings
from,’ the Spirit Land. Given through the inediumship
of F. J. T, With an Appendix containing the Scripture
proofs of Spiritualism;
J. Bums, 15, Southampton-row, W.C. ; .E. W. Allen, 11,
Ave-Maria lane, E.C.yor.F. J. T., 21, East'Ascent,
St. Leonards-on-Sea.
Also Partli, price 6d. Cloth,. 9d.
Now Beady 4th Edition. 8vb. cloth, pp. 360. Price 3s..6d
THE “ ALPHA,” or the first principle
of the Human Mind: a Bevelation, but no Mystery.
By Ed. N. Dennys. With Spiritual Advent and steel
engraving of Author.
“We can call to mind few books fit to be its fellow.”—
Athensium.
“It contains more truth,poetry, philosophy, and logic,
than any work we have ever read; it is a new revelation,
and one' of the most remarkable productions ever given
to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
“ The ‘ Alpha ’ is the book of an age.”—Banner of Light
Also by the same author, “ LIFE LECTUBES,” cloth
Svo. pp. 460, with steel engraving of Author, 3s. 6d:
J. BUBNS, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom, W.C.
Just Published.
The report of the London
DIALECTICAL SOCIETY’S Committee on Spirit¬
ualism, together-with a full account of the proceedings of
the Committee, the Beports and Minutes of the Experi¬
mental Sub-committees,' and the-evidence, pro and contra,
of the-following eminent persons:—Lord Lytton, Lord
Lindsay, Lord Borthwick; the Countess de PbmiCr;
Professor Huxley, Professor Tyndall; Drs. W.‘B:
Carpenter, Chambers, Davey, Dixon, Edmunds, Kidd,
Bobertson, Garth Wilkinson; Mr. Serjeant Cox;
Messrs. Edwin Arnold, - -Henry G. Atkinson,- Laman
Blanchard, Chevalier, Damiani, Leon Favre, Camille
Flammarioh, Hain Friswell, D. D. Home, William
Howitt, H; D. Jencken, George Henry Lewes, Hawkins
Simpson, J. Murray Spear, T. Adolphus Trollope, Crom-
well-Varley, A. B. Wallace; W. M. Wilkinson; Mesmes.
Anna Blackwell, Hardinge, Houghton, &e.7-&eiv &e.- Price
15s. London: Longmans, Green, Beader, and Dyer.
New
1 -A*
TUMA'N-UED -■
-JjlLlfrE' -’-AN
nrafi©'
.SWEDENBORG: ' HIS
•’-AN’O ' WHITINGS.- ^ By > WILLIAM
WHITE. -Wherein 'the History, the Doctrines, and
the other-world Experiences of the great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin
and Condition of the Swedenborgian Sect. The Volume
is illustrated with Four Steel Engravings, by Mr. C.
H. Jeens—1. Jesper Svedberg, Bishop of Skara. II.
Emanuel Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s
House, Stockholm. IV. Swedenborg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
±J QUIBEBS INTO SPIBITIJALISM.—Mr. JAS.
BUBNS, of the Progressive Library, Southampton-row,
Holbprn, has kindly Consented to deliver an Address
upon “Spiritualism,” before the members of this
'Association, on THUBSDAY Evening, the 27th hist., at
their Booms, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.. The proceed¬
ings will commence at the usual time, viz., 8 for 8.15p.m.
'' A copy of the recently revised Prospectus and Buies
can. be obtained on application, enclosing stamped
addressed envelope, to the Secretary, at’the Booms as
above; and any ladies or gentlemen desirous of being
enrolled as Members are reminded that the next
Quarter’s subscription dates from the -1st July next.
A
304 pp., Svo, cloth gilt, price 5s., post free.
LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Thomas L. Harris.
Glasgow: John Thomson, 39, John-street.
G. H. ANDREWS,
TAILOB, &c.,
61, Lambs Conduit Street, Foundling, W.C.
I>EGS to inform Gentlemen, who may
honour him, with their patronage, they can be
supplied with clothes cut in the most fashionable manner,
good materials, and sound workmanship, at very mode¬
rate charges. Fit and style perfect, having been many
years in the well-known firm of Messrs. Pulford and Co.,
65, St. James’s Street.
Trousers, from 
Vests ...  
Black Suit, from
Unrivalled Black Doe
Tweed Suit 
£ s. d.
.. 0 13 6
..070
..300
..110
.. 2 10 0
And all other Garments at the same moderate charges.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM-STBEET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of
influence and standing to act for the Corporation in
unrepresented localities.
British imperial life, and
BBITISH NATIONAL (FIEE AND GUAEAN¬
TEE) INSUBANCE COBPOBATIONS.’
Applications for Agencies to either of the above Cor¬
porations can- be made to C. W. Pearce, at the Chief
Lopdon Offices, 20, King William Street, E.C., from
whom Prospectuses, Proposal Forms, and all other infor¬
mation, can be obtained.
the New Edition of “ SPIEITUALISM ANSWEBED
BY SCIENCE,” by EDWABD W. COX, S.L., F.B.G.S.
Price Half-a-Crown. This New Edition has been re¬
written, and doubled in size.
Longman & Co., Paternoster-row.
JjJIEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the
following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated
women in the practice of Midwifery, and the treatment
of the Diseases of Women and Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities
for learning the theory and practice of Midwifery, and
the accessory, branches of Medical Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses
of the College, and all particulars as to the operations of
the Society, may be obtained of the Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4 Fitzroy-square, W.
Aaron franklin, preserver of
BIEDS, ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOK OF
NATUBE, Museums and private collections attended.
British and foreign birds’-skms, stags’ heads, fox’s heads,
shells, and corals in groat variety. The Spiritualist and
kindred periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847
Aaron Franklin, 58, Suffolk-street, Birmingham.
Dalston association of en-
QUIBEBS INTO SPIEITUALISM, 74, Navarino-
road, Dalston, E. Seances are held every Thursday
evening at 8 o’clock; and a Library is in course of
formation for use of members. Prospectuses and Buies
on application to the Secretary. Subscription 3s. per
quarter in advance. Thos. Blyton, Secretary, &c.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, MEDICAL
AND BUSINESS CLAIBVOYANTE AND
TEST-MEDIUM, from America, can be consulted daily
at 24, Keppel-street, Bussell-square, W.C. Hours from
10 till 8. Terms, 21s.
Price 2s. 6d.
Glimpses of a brighter land.—
. Showing the harmony of things Spiritual with
things Material. ,
“ The tone' of the book is exceedingly pure and good.”
—Christian Spiritualist.
*** A List of Spiritual and Mesmeric works on applica¬
tion.
London: Bailliere and Co., King William-street, Strand.
■jgPPS’S COCOA.
The Civil Service Gazette remarks—“By a thorough
knowledge of the natural laws which govern the opera¬
tions of digestion and nutrition, and by a careful applica¬
tion of the fine properties of well-selected cocoa, Mr.,
‘Epps has provided our breakfast-tables with a delicately-
flavoured beverage which may save us many heavy
doctors’ bills.”
Made simply with Boiling Water or Milk.
Each packet is labelled—
JAMES EPPS & Co., Homceopathie Chemists, London.
Also makers of CACAOINE, a thin Evening Beverages. [
The rise and progress of
Spiritualism in England, by Benjamin Coleman,
recently published in the Spiritualist reprinted in
pamphlet form, on toned paper, with coloured wrapper
The discussion is also included in the pamphlet. Copies
maybe had at one shilling each, of Mr. E. W. Allen,
ll,.Ave Maria-lane, E.C., and are of especial value for
presentation to those who are uninformed on the subject
of Spiritualism.
THE SPIRITUALIST NEWSPAPER.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
Three shillings and-sixpence for the first fifty
words or portion of fifty words, and sixpence for every
ten words in addition, When four or more insertions
of the same advertisement are ordered, half-a-crown for
the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and four-
pence for every ten words in addition, each insertion.
Ten mitial letters or figures count as one word.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertise¬
ments, because it circulates largely among those adver¬
tisers desire to reach, and an advertisement is not lost to
view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the paper is not
usually tom up when read, but preserved for binding. .
-Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters
consisting of personal opinions, for publication, are
requested not to make them more than a third of a
column long. . Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.!
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received
for papers unaccompanied by a remittanee. The next
twelve copies of The Spiritualist will be posted to any
address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 4s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Contents.
Trickery in Spiritualism  41
Spiritual Telegraphy       ... 41
Other World Order    42
Spiritualism needed by the Intellect of the Age ... 43
Notices of Books:—Spiritualism Answered by Science;
Our Home in the Stars   43
Testimonial to Mr. and Mrs. Everitt   44
The Boyal Institution      44
Among the Spirits ... ;.. ... ...    45
Mr. Gerald Massey on Spiritualism   ... 45
Conversazione at Lord Lmdsay’s ...   45
The Human “ Double ” ... ... ...   ... .... 45
Correspondence:—Efficacy of Prayer; Spiritualism in
Carnarvon, Pwllheli, Walsall, and Birmingham ; Pu¬
rification by fire; Miss Cook’s Medium ship; Body and
Mind ... .... ...      ... ... 46
Spirit Photography    .... ... 46
Biblical Spiritual Manifestations  ;... ■... 47
Spiritual Imposters     47
Messrs. Heme and Williams’s Seances   47
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Fraser,
at the Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Bents,
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published
by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London E.C.
