[Registered as a Newspaper,
$Nf) 03/ ^^Ydfio^oG^idS^ ^dis^Kd^.
Clje #Ifresf ltdxrgpapr xfjbtrmd^ biilj Spinfxtalism in (inat §ntam.
THE “SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places'.—LONDON : u, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: 246, Boulevard
des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corgo. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont,
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO ; “ ReligiQ-Philospphical Journal” Office, MEMPHIS,
U,S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
NO. 20 J . (VOL. VIII.—No. 26.)
LONDON: FBIDAY, JUNE 30, 1876.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
OTontentg.
The Urim and Thummim    
Torres-Solanot on the Davenport Brothers 
Recent Business Transactions of the National Association
of Spiritualists 
A Remarkable Seance with Dr. Monck    
The Testimonial to Mr. Coleman  
Mr. Blackburn’s Seances. By C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.:—
Mediums Floated in the Air  ... ... ... ...
Poetry:—Heavenly Death. By John Chapman   ...
Correspondence: — The Education of the Children of
Spiritualists—Extraordinary Manifestations through
the Mediumship of Mr. Arthur Colman—The “ Five
Minutes’ Resolution"—Spiritualism in Wiesbaden—
Spirit Photography—Direct Spirit Writing and Spirit
Music—Spirit Photography in America—Speculations
about Reincarnation—A Vision of the Death of the
Sultan of Turkey—Mrs. Comer (Florence Cook) in
China—The Urim and Thummim—The Dream of
Perceval’s Assassination—Spiritualism in Grimsby—
Principles of Marriage...   
Odic Flames from Magnets 
Spiritual Phenomena in Manchester 
Dr. Slade’s Visit to England  
Spiritualism in Liverpool  
A Seance with Mr. Colman. By William H. Harrison
Answers to Correspondents    ...
Paragraphs:—Witchcraft, 305; A Terrible Chinese Ghost,
810; The Dialectical Society, 311; Mr. Slater’s Healing
Mediumship, 311; Seance in Dalston, 311; Mr. J. J.
Morse in'the Provinces, 311; Seances at Hackney, 312;
Tennyson’s Enoch Arden:—Pealing of Bells 
301
802
308
304
305
305
306
306
311
811
311
311
312
812
Established in 1869.
pHAEGE FOE ADVEETISEMENTS Half-a-
vJ crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisement* Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street
London; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the; first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.O. 
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may he had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
TO LET, FURNISHED, a Pretty Semi¬
detached Villa, with drawing, dining, and fine bedrooms
and dressing-room, kitchen, scullery, beer-closet, and pantry;
water up and down stairs; bed and table linen and plate. 6$
guineas a week for four months. References given and re¬
quired. A. B., Post-office, Sandown, Isle of Wight.
SOUTHPORT. — Superior APARTMENTS
now vacant in a very open, healthy situation, highly re¬
commended by former visitors as a really comfortable home,
with good cooking and attendance combined, with moderate
charges. Can let three entertaining and six bedrooms.—Mrs.
Davies, Fern Lea, 92, Sussex-road, Southport.
PENZANCE.—BOARD and RESIDENCE
for one or two ladies may he had in a private gentle¬
man’s family in a beautiful open situation within a minute’s
walk of the esplanade. For terms apply to C. M., Post Office,
Penzance. References given and required.
"VT OTICE.—The Materialisation Seances adver-
1 v tised for Wednesday evening at 329, Kentish-town-road
will not take place. A developing circle will be held at eight
as usual. Admission, Is.—W. Wallace.1
Leigh spiritualists* association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
President
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.L
Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Couhcil
Mrs. C. Ada Blyton, Mr. Jonathan Tozeland,
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. Thomas Wilks,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. John Rouse.
Honorary Secretary and Treasurer:—Mr. Thomas Bltton.
Rooms:—7i, Navamno-road, Dalston, London, E.
Extracts from Prospectus.
The objects of thi Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. to which Members are admitted, as well
as members of similar Associations which reciprocate similar
privilege. Strangers can [only be admitted to the ordinary seance
held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted
to special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions,
reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to
which strangers are admitted under the same regulations as are
enforced on the first Thursday evening in each month. Tickets for
such ordinary meetings as may be of general interest, in connection
with the “ Brixton Psychological Society,” are also placed at the
disposal of Members of the Association by that Society in reciprocity
of the privilege granted by the Association to similar organisations.
... In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members off the
Association have the privilege of attending, the public seances ot
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines ar
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
The alliance existing between this association and the “British
National Association of Spiritualists ” will greatly assist the mem¬
bers in their inquiries, as amongst the objects for which that
Association was established in 1873 are the following., viz.:
To aid students and inquirers in their researches into certain
phenomena, known as Spiritual or Psychic: to assist in giving
publicity to the results of such researches: to afford information to
Inquirers into these subjects, by correspondence and otherwise: and
to collect statistical facts respecting Spiritualism.”
All communications to be addressed to the Honorary Secretary,
at the Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A
stamped addressed envelope should be enclosed in all letters re¬
quiring replies. Copies of the prospectus, rules, circle regulations,
directions “ how to form spirit circles,” and catalogue of books in
the library, with any further information, can be obtained on appli¬
cation.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation ot £2 2s.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book" will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5a It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. ‘‘Souvenir,” Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contiibute, hut the greater number are by “Grannie"
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, W.C.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
TO HER MAJESTY’S
MILITARY AND NAVAL FORCES,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK
 LONDON, N.W. 
THE DUPLEX FUNERAL CAR,
With silvered floral ornaments, violet mouldings, &c., used
(open or closed) at funerals conducted in accordance with the
views of Spiritualists, by
S. HATCHARD AND CO.,
Furnishing Undertakers, Carriage Proprietors, &o.
Chief Office: 47, Crawford Street, Bryanston
Square, W.
Personal attendance at any address on receipt of letter or
telegram.
NNALI DELLO SPIRITISM© IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologiea di Niceford Filalete. Published
n the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.,
Entrance in Woburn Street.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the game family
residing in the same bouse, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one took from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, but not of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers have been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admiesion to which may be
obtained through any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may he hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislinghury, 38, Great Russell-sti eet, W.C.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Ilnssell-street
Post-office.
British national association of
SPIRITUALISTS.—Prize Essays.—The Prize Essays
on the Probable Effect of Spiritualism on the Social, Moral,
and Religions Condition of Society are now on sale, and may
he obtained at the Rooms of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, and of Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria lane, price is.,
post, Is. lijd.
East London spiritual meetings.-
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’a
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Islinff-
ton. Weekly Seances, &e.: Sundays, Healing, at 11 a m.,
Serviceat 7 p.m. Tuesday,Seance at 8p.m,; Is. Friday, Seanceal
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, is. Saturday, Development Class at
8 p.m.; subscribers only. -
NEWCASTLE SPIRITUALISTS’ SOCIETY,
LECTURES.—JULY, 1876.
Mr. J. J. Morse:—
“ Trance Address " ... Sunday, July 2, at 3 p.m.
„ „ ... „ „ 2, at 7 „
„ „ ... Monday, „ 3, at 7.30 „
Mr. W. g. Simpson:—
“The Existence of God
as Illustrated by Poets ” Sunday, July 9, at 7 p.m,
Mr. Westgarth:—
“InspirationalAddress" Sunday, July 16, at 7 p.jn,
Mr. Thomas Pattison:—
“ Swedenborg's Heaven
and Hell” .... Sunday, July 23, at 7 p.m,
Mr. John Mould:—
“ Conflict between Science
and Religion ” .,. Sunday, July 80, at 7 p.in.
Admission Free. Collection at the close.
SPECIAL SEANCES FOR INVES-
GATORS. A series of seances are to be held on the
Tuesday afternoons of every week until further notice at the
residence of Mrs. Woodforde, 90, Great Russell-street. Usual
phenomena. Movement of objects in the light. Medium, Mr.
Arthur Coleman, who has kindly offered his services for this
especial purpose. Seances will begin at 3 p.m., punctually.
Fee, 5s.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Soientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of books, and having placed for this purpose the whole of his
private library, consisting of 100 hooks and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by the
gift or loan of books, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the population is nearly 80,000, and very little
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism. Address. G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
u
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 30, 1876.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS..
(Established 1873.)
President.
Atexauder Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S-W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
E'seritt, Thomas, Lilian-vllla, Holdor’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex,
N.AV. _
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambrldge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street. Grosvenor-square, WJ
Gully, S. M., M.D., Or well-lodge, Bedfovd-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, WUUam, M.B.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington.sq.,
Liverpool. I
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barnster-at-Law, Goldsmith-biuld-
ings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46. Bryanston-square, W.
Rogers, E. D , Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley,N.W
Smith, Martin R., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Tern pieman, JI.l)., Douglas House, Id, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Helper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., Now Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Biuney, F. A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street. Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road. Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
^Colley, Rev. Tlios., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall, Richmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K., Nightingale Hal!, Richmond-hill.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Orosland, Newton,.Lynton-lodge, Yaubrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Liliau-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.W.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd,North
Brixtori, S.W.
■Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Giendinning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., Mil)., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-strect, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Hook, C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delainere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
I sham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivlmey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamout, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Sirs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Mansell, F. W., The Hawthorns, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Massey, (j. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. War wick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmoud-terrace, Brock-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Aibany-stroet, Regent’s-park, N.W.
.Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.~
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Tratalgar-road, Old Kent-
road, S E.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, South Ken- 1
sington, S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., Annandale, Central-hill. Upper Norwood.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., St. Paul’s College, Stouy Stratford.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Tiieobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath,S.E.
'Trcdwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. \Y.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anue-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S W., and3,Altenburg-terrace,Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Wlthall. H., 1, 'The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
■ Wood, Mr*,, Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea; S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin It. Smith, Esq,, Heatblauds, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr. J. H. Andre. Mr. H. Cook. Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary. -
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary ot' Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de I’Empereur Russie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden
khmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha aBahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
, via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
General Don Joaquim Bassols aMaranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld. Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue dqs.Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mine, de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
'The Hon.- Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Go,,New Jersey,U.S.A. •
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J• Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lmdesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse, 35, Gartenhaus,
Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
II. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
US.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G- L. Ditson,Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes.Esq., 5, Rue de la Terrasse, Pafls.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,,U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de TUnion, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.G., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de I'Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Aldlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Mrs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Signor Damlani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary— George Browne,
Esq., 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
i’rochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espirltista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—fcll Visconde de Torres-Solauot.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists isfonned
to unite Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutuai aid
and benefit; to aid students and inquirers in their researches, by
placing at their disposal the means of systematic investigation into
the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic; to make
known the positive results arrived at by careful research; and to
direct attention to the beneficial influence which those results are
Calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual con¬
duct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class, whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers
into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in
the year 1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liver¬
pool, at which all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the
Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United Kingdom, were re¬
presented. The amount of the annual subscription to the National
Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year.
Each member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is
eligible for election to all offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wish¬
ing to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss
Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38,
Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C., of whom copies of the Con¬
stitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Woburu-street.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers fqr 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M R.C.S.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Committee ot Management. — Mr. Jones, Mr. J. Haslin, Mr.
William Meridith, Mrs. Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, and Miss
Dickson.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Oharleton, Mr. James Monk.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
instruction, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
February, 1875.
STRANGE YISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Arc, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeiay, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interestiog and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the Ikerature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpldn, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 8s.
London ;—Simfkin, Marsh ait, & Co.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m.
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
eveniogs (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance, healing,
AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship French spoken. At
home Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays.
Private Seances attended.
Notice.—Physical seances, with first-class mediums, held on
Thursday and Saturday evenings of each week. Admission
on Saturdays by special invitation; on Thursdays by introduc¬
tion. No one admitted after eight o’clock. Fee, 5s. Mrs.
Woodforde is also open to engagements for private physical
seances at her own residence; previous notice required; fees
upon arrangement with medium.
JT. RHODES, MEDIUM, is willing to help
• in the formation of Private Circles, and give every
information to Inquirers, within a radius of twenty miles of
Newcastle. Address, 30, Tynemouth-road, Newcastle-on-
Tyne.
MISS CHANDOS eradicates Consumption,
Cancer, Insanity, Dypsbmania, Nervous and Infantile
Diseases. £1 per visit (within three miles), including specifics.
By post, monthly, £2 2s.
Full instructions in Mesmerism and Electro-biology, postal
and private, 17, Brunswick square, W.C.
l^rOTICE. — change of residence. —
_L V Mrs. Olive has removed to 15, Alnger-terrace, Aiager
road, King Henry’s road, Primrose-hill, N.W. Three minutes
from Chalk-farm Station; five minutes from omnibus to
Oxford-street or West-end. Seances as usual for clairvoyance,
medical mesmerism, trance, tests, &c. Private seances by
arrangement; public ditto, 'Tuesdays, 7 p.m., Fridays, 3 p.m.;
admission, 2s. Cd. Visivs within ten miles two guineas, in¬
clusive.
PHYSICAL SEANCES, Light and Dirk. Mrs. Olive has
arranged for a series of Seances with Mr. Bullock, jun., on
Mondays at 7 p.m. Admission, 5s. Materialisations and other
interesting phenomena are now constantly produced under test
conditions.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIYE MESMERIST
AND RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT,
1, Robert street, Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen
by appointment only. Terms on application by letter.
PR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
NOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER,
Professor of Curative Mesmerism (SO Years Estab¬
lished), attends patients daily from 2 till 5, at his own resi¬
dence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden Hill, Kensington. Som¬
nambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases, indication of
their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can consult
by letter.
MR. WILLIE EGLINTON, MEDIUM,
can be engaged for seances, morning or evening. Ad¬
dress, Mr. Willie Eglinton, St. James’s House, Waltham¬
stow.
■jl/TISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the Great
■"-t Ainerican Somnambuii t, Spiritual Clairvoyante, and
Test Medium, whose reputation is well-known throughout
Europe and America. Horn s. 1 till 8 p.m. Terms, one guinea.
Physical seances for Spiritualists only on Thursday and Saturday
evenings at 8 o’clock, 5s. Miss Fowler does not reply to
correspondence, nor see visilors on Sunday. Address—2,
Vernon-place, Bloomsbury-square, London, W.C.
Mediumship ; its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own hemes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for lid.; or six copies post free
for 8d.
Psychopathic institution for the
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper-street^
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from II a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6d.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
A LADY of Culture, having passed a hospital,
is anxious to obtain an engagement as MONTHLY
NURSE, where no menial work is required. Reference to
Medical man. Terms five guineas a month, or according to
circumstances. Apply to the Secretary, Briti h National
Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
WANTED by a Young Lady a situation as
COMPANION to a Lady Medium and Clairvoyant.
Would not object to trance.—T.Y.,‘l6, Stafford-street, Maryle-
bone-road, W.
ADJOURNED CONFERENCE AT
NEWCASTLE.
The Adjourned Conference for North of England will bo
held at the Society’s Hall, Newcastle, on Sunday next,
July 2nd, at iO.80 a.m. A cordial invitation is given to all
interested in the cause.
Mr. J. J. Morse will lecture in the afternoon at 3 o’clock, and
in the evening at 7 o’clock.
Admission Free. Collection at the close.
J[ tl ttf nub xtf
Volujvie Eiqht. Kumber Twenty-six.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JUNE 30th, 1876.
THE UMM AND THUMMIM.
Al iooirrpov Iv aiViyjuan—In a mirror, mysteriously.—St. Paul.
A correspondent has inquired how responses were ob¬
tained and information gathered from the Urim and Thum-
mim, which with the Shekinah, or visible Divine splendour,
formed the pre-eminently spiritual manifestations that were
the glories of the Tabernacle, but lost from the greater
material magnificence of the Temple. There need be no
doubt that the Urim and Thummim were modes of obtain¬
ing Divine or spiritual guidance in a manner once in the
highest degree consecrated and solemn, but like other means
of spiritual communication, thrice venerable and thrilling
of old, now sunk into the tricks of a conjuror, perhaps
gifted with mesmeric or medial power, vulgarly employed,
as the Oracles have shrunken into fortune-telling, and the
Pythoness, Alvuna maids, and Reimkennars into village
witches and gipsy Romas.
Exodus (Chap, xxviii. 30) hands down that the Urim and
Thummim, signifying Lights and Perfections, were placed in
the Breastplate of Judgment, worn by the High Priest when
he went into the sanctuary to question the Lord; and
Josephus was certainly right in identifying them with the
twelve stones set in four rows in the breastplate, as directed
in verses 17 to 20. Each 'of the stones there enumerated,
besides a special tribal association, had its own mystical
talismanic power and significance; a branch of hidden
knowledge now extinct, but surviving in traditionary re¬
membrance to the Middle Ages, when such stones were
commonly called li Pierres cTIsrael ” and 11 Jews’ stones.”
Their virtues and potency are detailed in a very ancient book
ascribed to Solomon, which begins : u In the name of the
Lord. This is the precious Book, which the children of
Israel made in the wilderness, according to thy name, 0
Lord, and according to the courses of the stars.” There it
is shown how the sardius, or red cornelian, gave victory or
answers thereon; the topaz and ligure, or jacinth, denoted
favourable assent, jasper peace and concord, and so on, but
we need not delay over obsolete learning. In the days of the
Kings this wonderful breastplate appears to have been lost;
and the Urim consulted by Saul assumed another shape,
which there is reason to think came down to, and was used,
in modern or rather mediaeval times. Briefly, it was a
pedestal, formed according to occult rules, of the composi¬
tion mystically termed electrum magicum, the ingredients of
which, certain metals and salts, each to be prepared at its
proper planetary hour, and all fused upon a Saturday in the
hour of Saturn, it is unnecessary to detail. On the pedestal
so cast was inscribed the First Name of God ; it supported
an oval crystal, or some other polished surface set in gold,
graven around with the Supreme Name, that might never be
vainly pronounced; at each corner of the oval stone was
placed a small crystal to represent the animal, vegetable,
mineral, and astral kingdoms, and another at the top was
graven with the symbol of the perfection of the Lord.
When a crystal was not used for the great central stone a
composition seems to have been made from stones, ground
and placed in a crucible under planetary aspects, fused with
some of the electrum, and poured into the mould at the
proper moment, “when it will seem as if the stone was red
hot, like a glowing coal, and it is wonderful, since it never
changes, but so remains continually.” The question still
remains as to how responses were obtained from the Urim
and Thummim. When the High Priest put on the breast¬
plate of judgment, or determination, and went into the
sanctuary before the Lord to ask for guidance in any im¬
portant matter, how was that guidance indicated ? No exact
account has come down to us, and it remains to consider
carefully the few words we have. They are remarkable.
II The 30th verse of the chapter of Exodus referred to runs
(j thus: “ And thou shaltjow^ m the breastplate of judgment,
| the Urim and Thummim, and they shall be upon Aaron’s
} | heart when he goeth in before the Lord.” Hence some have
! thought that the Urim and Thummim were distinct from
^ | the precious stones set in the breastplate ; but what do they
j signify ? Lights and Perfections ; and this greatly strengthens
||| the opinion that answers to questions—assents or dissents—
HI were indicated by flashes or play of light upon the polished
jjj surfaces of the stones, and gleams from the fiery hearts of
m the translucent gems, each mystic stone manifesting ac-
jrj cording to the special virtues and events associated with it.
in This may have been so, but there may also have been some
\)\ further more precise indications on which light is thrown by
]|i later, albeit more debased ceremonials. We will transcribe
j? j at some length the mode of consulting the later Urim.
| j “ Place it on the table with two wax lights burning beside
||| it. Constrain your imagination and fall down in reverence
In before the Father in Heaven; then having a brazier filled
j; | with hot embers, throw therein frankincense, mastic, benzoin,
\\\ and myrrh, and begin to fumigate to all four parts of the
III world, and also thrice towards the Urim; then bend thyself
I) | and devoutly say an adjuration—needless to write at length,
|| beginning with the Great Name, and ending with the
|j j Trisagion—then sing a song of praise, such as the psalm,
p| {We praise Thee 0 God!’ and with thy brethren place
I i thyself round the table and remain a little while quite still
| (I with eyes directed towards the Urim, and whatever thou
; i desirest to see or know shall be manifested to thee, and
j 11 thou milt he able to see anything that h being done in any part
111 of the world, no matter how distant, or whether past, present,
| I or future. When this is done the light must be put out,
| | and all present must fall down and praise God. This is the
| I hidden mystery of the Urim and Thummim.” These direc-
I | tions are some centuries old, but their likeness to a seance
j j | of to-day will occur to all. Something too may be gathered
111 from them illustrating the difficult expression in Exodus of
I i putting the Urim and Thummim, the Lights and Perfections,
\ \ into the breastplate of the High Priest. It is likely that
111 some most solemn ceremonial and adjurations were used by
| I which the prophetic Lights and Perfections, which may also
|) j mean wonderful sights, were evoked from the sacred stones,
j j j or put into them, by prayers of the High Priest. Certain it
j j j is that the highest Divine oracle was not consulted lightly, or
j > j on ordinary occasions, and, we may be sure, not without
11! solemn preparatory ritual. Here let us pause for a moment
j j j to say that one of these later Urim is here to-day in London,
jj although in no holy or spiritual sanctuary, even in the
j j Alexandra Palace, where in the Londesborough collection of
| J | arms may be seen the famous magic mirror of Dr. Dee, a
11 black polished, almost circular surface, declared to be of
m cannel coal, but that is doubtful; guessers knew nothing of
II the electrum; the frame and appended crystals have long
111 disappeared, but on that black shining surface it is asserted
! 11 by evidence, hard to combat, that that singular man sum-
11 moned up strange sights and visions, which, however, may
j j j be heard of with less surprise to-day. Spiritual influences
j | are loath to leave even inanimate objects with which they
| \ | have become associated. The place is difficult, and oppor-
j j j tunity would be more so; but if four or five persons of
III mesmeric temperament, with due mental preparation and
m intentness stood joining hands before that mystic relict
; jj some indication of its ancient qualities might possibly be
j j j developed. Near it lies the doctor’s almost equally celebrated
j j Divining Ball of clear crystal.
j < | It now remains to take a further and lower step in tracing,
j j as is here done for the first time, a sordid survival of Divine
I j and sacred mysteries, in a juggle, still practised, as it seems,
ill by the aid of low and vulgar spiritual powers. Many
302
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 30, 1876.
travellers have heard of, some have seen, those Egyptian |
conjurors who, for a small consideration, will undertake to j
show in an ink-globule, poured on to the palm of a fit |
person, the figure of any one asked for, wherever he or she I
may be, showing whether alive or dead, and what doing, to- I
gether with all surroundings. Tlie fact is attested. Mr. Lane j
records having witnessed it, but, evidently in much per- j
plexity, declines to venture a theory or explanation. Captain (
Marryatt, in his novel, The Phantom Skip, makes an effec- j
tive use of the incident, which has every appearance of being j
described from a scene actually witnessed. We will detail |
the manner of operation. Almost every neighbourhood in I
Egypt has its wise man or conjuror, a man doubtless pos- |
sessed of medial powers; but there is this peculiarity in the !
manifestations now described, that the medium is the j
operator, and not operated on, and there is no trance. He I
calls any child, maiden, or as some assert, any woman j
enciente, who may happen to be near—only such, but any of j
such, without reference to their possessing any abnormal !
powers, merely ascertaining whether j
they will consent and remain steady, j
On the palm of the left hand, laid flat |j
on its back, the conjurer then draws, jl
with a reed pen, lines in a square, thus ; ||
and in the margin at each corner, on N
each side, and at top and bottom, |
writes an Arabic character, which ap- ||
pears, however, to be nothing more than a numeral. In !j
the middle he then pours a globule of ink, the size of i
sixpence. Holding the flattened hand of the child on his jj
own palm, to prevent the ink-globule being spilt, he then jj
slowly chants some Arabic lines, which run thus.:— ji
Turshoon! Turyooshoon! Come down ! j I
Come down ! Be present! Whither are gone
The Prince and his troops ? Where are A1 Akhmar
The Prince and his troops ? Be present! Now come |
Ye servants of these names! i (
Whilst these lines are being chanted, the figure of a j
woman, sweeping with a broom,—sweeping—vehemently j
sweeping,” like the spectre-woman in Wordsworth’s — j
will be seen in the ink-globule, that serves as a mirror. Her |
appearance is a sign that the charm is working well, j
Sometimes the lines have to be chanted twice or thrice before |
she is seen. At the end of the lines a troop of horsemen j
dash past. All is then ready for the last manifestation, j
The conjuror proceeds to chant— j
And this is the removal. We have removed from thee i(
Thy veil; and thy sight to-day jj
Is piercing. Correct 1 Correct 1 l)
A veil seems to pass from the surface of the inky mirror, j
and the child, on being questioned, will describe persons j
and scenes as visible in the mirror, which neither child nor j
performer could have had any knowledge of; persons and j
scenes in other countries utterly unknown to ignorant Arabs ; jj
actions past or then doing, with costumes and surroundings j
of which the performer could have no idea. The ink is then j
wiped from the child’s palm, a small bakshish is given, the con- I
juror—seldom a good character—paid, and the affair is over, j
Europeans are reported to have joined in a questioning of I
this kind as far as to see the appearance of the sweeping j
wroman, and be so startled as to refuse to proceed. For the j
reality of the visionary seance itself, there is ample evidence, j
scenes and persons described can be seen within the j
compass of a small blot of ink, is as great a mystery as how j
events could be represented on the surface, necessarily small, Jj
of the polished stones in the High Priest’s breast-plate; in j i
some inexplicable way all things are developed in full upon j j
a speck to clairvoyant eyes. The allusion to the Urim leads j
to the reflection to what base uses the most sacred rite may j
be turned. This venal spiritual sort of conjuring by an
Arab rogue of these days, is the last degraded vestige and jj
survival of the august ceremonial ordained in the Taber- ji
nacle, before the very splendour of the Lord. For the j
. “ four-square breast-plate we have the square drawn with
ink, and for the sacred stones in its centre a blot of ink! ji
Only the High Priest, who must be free from bodily blemish, j j
could consult the Urim, and only those of a certain condition ]
can be used for the clairvoyant vision. But even the debased ji
Egyptian rite may help us to imagine how the Divine i(
answers and decisions may have been revealed through the
Urim and Thummim to the High Priest.
Swedenborg affirmed that the commonest objects men¬
tioned in the Old Testament, typified the brightest and
deepest things of Paradise, and the Divine future. Perhaps
the thought may be ventured that the mysterious golden
and jewelled Breastplate of Judgment, laid u upon Aaron’s
heart,” that became instinct and irradiate with Divine vision
and revelation when he approached the Lord, symbolises the
heart of man with its organs and capacities, brightening and
glowing with heavenly Light and Perfection, as it ascends
through successive spheres nearer the Light that is all
in all.
TORRES-SOLANOT ON THE DAVENPORT BROTHERS*
The learned and careful President of the Spanish Society
of Spiritualists gives in this work an elaborate biographical
history of the Brothers Davenport. It is only necessary to
call attention to those parts which are new to English
readers, and which supplement previous history and previous
observations of a topic which has been almost exhausted,
both by Spiritualists and our opponents. While giving
credit to the Viscount Torres-Solanot for his voluminous
knowledge of the bibliography of the subject, one cannot but be
struck with the omission of all reference to Captain Burton’s
celebrated letter. A translation of Mr. Crooke’s papers is
inserted, which is most convenient to Spaniards, and in fact
to all the vast number of Europeans who have not had the
opportunity of reading articles published in a quarterly
periodical.
The most important part of the work is, however, the
letter by Dr. Garcia Lopez, in which the whole subject is
carefully gone over, the result of the learned author’s opinion
being that the phenomena produced by the brothers were
entirely dissimilar to those which are termed i( spiritual,”
and which certain mediums, as we have recently seen in
England, are able to produce under test conditions of the
most severe character. Dr. Lopez seems to know nothing
of the severe tests to which the Davenports submitted in the
United States and in private residences in London. A few
of Dr. Lopez’s statements are appended, but we have inten¬
tionally abbreviated the words of the author in several
places:—
(t When I commenced the seance with the brothers Daven¬
port I noticed that the ropes were thick and coarse, as wrell
as short, so as to allow much stretching, and to preclude
many turns being taken over the knots. At one time, when
they came out of the cabinet untied, I examined with care
the forearms and hands of one of them, and found an ana¬
tomical structure peculiar to gymnasts; the muscles con¬
tracted forcibly, the ligaments, the ulna, radius, and meta-
carpals presented a facility of movement which is very
unusual, and the ulna and radius were so far divaricated
that it was possible to augment or to diminish at will the
thickness of the wrist: and it was also possible to give
to the hand an artificial slenderness {abarquillamiento) so
that it could form a cylinder of equal or less diameter than
the wrist. When I offered to make the same experiment on
the other brother the manager made him go into the cabinet,
and I was unable to verify these observations in his case.”
After Dr. Lopez had been placed in the cabinet with the
brothers, a process which he describes in great detail, he
states that he noticed that the Davenport on his right was
making cautious movements with his arms, as if endeavour¬
ing to liberate his hands from the knots, and afterwards his
left biceps muscle, which was squeezed against Dr. Lopez’s
arm, exhibited some contractions, and a distinct motion of
delicate semi-rotation was felt, after which the left arm
(it is presumed, free) of the Davenport passed underneath
Dr. Lopez’s right arm. Five or six seconds elapsed, after
which the instruments in the cabinet were sounded in the
usual manner, during which Dr: Lopez, who had made an
abrupt motion of his head towards the right, encountered an
object of cloth, which he considered to have been the edge of
the coat sleeve of the right hand Davenport, who had one of
* Controversia Espiritista a proposito da lot hermanos Davenport. For El
Visconde da Torres-Solanot, 8vo. Madrid, 1875.
June 30, 1870.
THE SPIRITUALISI?.
303
the tambourines in his hand. These phenomena having j>
taken place, the cabinet doors were opened, and the two ||
brothers were found as before, firmly tied to the benches, j j
The experiment did not present any abnormal sensation or j j
alteration in the observer’s organism, nor any other appear- i]
ance inside the cabinet, which would lead him to presume j
the intervention of spiritual, mesmeric, or abnormal agency j
for the production of the manifestations above-mentioned. |
He is therefore led to the conclusions that— j
“1. The Davenport brothers are gymnasts, and that the jj
muscles of their arms, wrists, and hands, are capable of |j
voluntary expansion and contraction. ||
“ 2. That they are sufficiently skilful to slip their hands in j j
and out of the knots, in which they are aided by the thick j |
and short ropes. j j
a 3. That the right hand Davenport was engaged in making j j
motions with the arms with a view to get his hands out of jj
the knots. j
“ 4. That the hands which touched the cheek of Dr. Lopez j j
in the cabinet were hot and perspiring, and undoubtedly It
identical with the hands of the Davenports. j<
“ 5. That it was they who played on the violin, guitar, j j
tambourines, and bells. • j j
“ 6. That the natural position of Dr. Lopez’s shoulder was j(
such as to prevent any instrument being handed over it in j j
the dark. |
(< 7. That the action of one of the brothers, who threw off |
his hat to some distance, was produced by a motion of the I j
muscles of the neck and a forward jerk of the head.
(e 8. That the feat of holding a small quantity of flour in j l
the hands when coming out of the knots, clever though it is, j j
belongs to the category of conjurors’ tricks. [Dr. Lopez, I
however, reprehensibly does not explain the modus operandi.~\ |
(< 9. That none of the tricks of the Davenport Brothers |j
can be considered as spiritual phenomena, but as ordinary |j
conjurors’ tricks.” jj
Dr. Lopez is a Spiritualist, and draws a distinction between j
the real phenomena, which occasionally appear, and those i
which are produced by the action of ordinary tricks of pres- j
tigidation, although in the instance of the Davenports he has j
been rather too clever. Among other tests to which they j
have submitted, is that of sitting with their legs and arms !
tied in wooden tubes so long that their hands and feet could j
not be protruded at the ends of the tubes. |
It was not to be expected that Dr. Lopez’s statements j
should pass without controversy, and M. Couillant, who we j
presume to have been a French gentleman, spoke strongly j
in favour of the “ medianimity” of the Davenports. His j
arguments, however, in some cases rest on an inaccurate view j
of an elementary anatomical fact; and we shall not trouble our j
readers with a translation. He considers that gymnastics have I
never been known to atrophy muscles, but that hypertrophy i
is the constant result. To this it might be replied that the j
abnormal and genuine physical conditions presented by a I
London actor, who until lately was performing at Charing- j
cross Theatre, give an example how certain muscles can be jj
voluntarily developed, to the entire sacrifice of others. Those j
who realise i( what sort of man” the gentleman we allude to i
is, may be able to judge whether or not practice may attenuate i
muscle. An animated discussion then took place between j
D. Eusebio Ruiz Salaverria, Dr. Hulbes Temprano, and j
others, respecting the whole question of Spiritual doctrine, j
in which the physical facts deposed to by Dr. Garcia Lopez j
seem to have been placed aside of the controversy. It is j
clear that Viscount Torres-Solanot gives his own opinion j
that the phenomena produced by the Davenports have j
nothing to do with those produced by accredited “me- j
diums,” in which conclusion he is in error. j
On this subject the opinion of Allan Kardec, in the article j
which he published in the Revue Spirite for October, 1865, j
is interesting. M. Kardec lays great stress on the fact that jj
the performances of the Davenports were controlled by a jj
professional theatrical agent, and that although the pheno- !
mena were such as mediums often produced, the surrounding jj
circumstances were such as to incline the dispassionate jj
observer strongly to the belief that trickery may have taken jj
place. He also believed that it was unlikely that souls from j j
beyond the grave could be invoked for the mere purpose of j
putting their hands through the window of a cupboard, and ‘ !
scraping the strings of a street banjo, to increase the trea¬
sury of a common mountebank. He also lays great stress
on the incident which took place at the Herz Rooms, in
which the bench to which the Davenport Brothers were tied
was found to be loose, and to be capable of being moved
round the inside of the cabinet.
In conclusion, dismissing the Davenports from considera¬
tion, Viscount Torres-Solanot considers that Spiritualist
phenomena present two characters, those which relate to
the moral world, and those which are essentially physical,
and that the examination of the lower order of phenomena
alone will induce the reception of higher theories, which
involve the relations between God, man, and the universe.
But such examination must be made in good faith, and
must reject all impositions which degrade us, all prejudices
which blind us, and all hatreds which induce bad passions.
The aspiration towards accurate truth can be alone gratified
by the conception of universal good.
RECENT BUSINESS TRANSACTIONS OF THE NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Further examination of the line of action thrust upon the last
Council meeting of the National Association, by infraction of the
sensible rule which requires a month’s notice before any important
new business can be transacted, does not tend to increase satisfaction.
After the re-election of members who had gone out of office, the re-
election of the permanent officer—the paid secretary, who had not gone
out of office—was asserted to be necessary, although, as Mr. Morell
Theobald said at the time, such a thing had never been heard of
before in connection with any public body. To thus raise the ques¬
tion publicly whether the services of an excellent permanent officer
were to be.retained, savoured of want of ordinary courtesy and kindly
feeling, and immediately afterwards the following resolution, so
strongly resembling a vote of censure that the Council on that ground
refused to pass it, was moved, and moved also by infraction of the rule
requiring a month’s notice“ That the Council deems it in the
highest degree inexpedient that the secretary should vote at any meet¬
ing of the Association.’’ This was a most delicate subject to deal with,
the secretary, Miss Kislingbury, being also a private member of the
Association; on the one hand there was the question whether the
Council had any right to disfranchise one particular private member of
the Association, and on the other there was the natural desire that the
secretary should not become a violent partisan in any contested election.
But in consequence of the constitution of the Association having been
broken through by the introduction of these difficult but very proper
questions without notice, a far more important point was entirely over¬
looked. At the last election several members sent the secretary their
proxies, and the proposed resolution tended to destroy not only the vote
of the secretary, but the votes of the other members just mentioned.
The usual time should have been given to consider these points, and to
learn the custom of other organisations similarly situated.
Just before the last election, two members who had been in a great
minority as regards some of their public actions on the Council, quietly
collected by solicitation a large number of proxies, and gave them in on
the last day, so that it was expected that not only the Council but the
General Annual Meeting might have been completely under their thumbs'
by means of this electioneering feat. Of course the Council could have
obtained an abundance of proxies had it dreamt of the possibility of
any such action on the part of any member of the Association. The
news spread, and ladies and gentlemen who had not intended to be pre¬
sent, came to the meeting at great inconvenience to themselves, to pro¬
tect the Association by their votes from the possible results of this
electioneering manoeuvre; by so doing they perhaps saved the Associa¬
tion the expense, the trouble, and the ill-feeling of another general
meeting, called by a circular pointing out how the previous meeting
had been rendered null and void, and in no sense representative of
public opinion. The votes of the secretary were in opposition to the
votes of the two members who so nearly rendered the whole meeting
a farce, hence under the exceptional circumstances where the contest
must have been very close, the few votes in the hands of the secretary
were given in a direction tending to annul the operations of the two
collectors of proxies, consequently were of the utmost service to the
Association. Therefore if the motion of semi censure was justifiable
under ordinary circumstances, it was not justifiable in relation to the
last annual meeting, yet on the proceedings of that meeting was it
founded. If, after time has been given to ascertain the custom about
the voting of secretaries, it should be found that they ought not to vote,
an amended resolution like the following would more justly meet the
facts of the case:—“ That the Council deems it inexpedient that the
secretary should exercise her right as a private member of voting at any
meeting of the Association, but that the warmest thanks of the British
National Association of Spiritualists are due to her for her departure
from this principle at the last annual meeting, considering the excep¬
tional circumstances under which that meeting was held.”
The routine business of the National Association scarcely ever receives
critical notice in these pages; the said business is but indirectly con¬
nected with Spiritualism, and when from any cause any little things
have gone wrong, self-righting influences have come into play without
popular interference. But in the present instance it is an unavoid¬
able duty on our part to introduce these circumstances to public notice,
because, in our opinion, the resolutions introduced at the last Council
304
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 30, 1876.
meeting by infraction of the rules, have weakened the position of the
National Association, the interests of which body this journal has
advocated so faithfully—consequently it is a moral necessity that the
said weakened position should be pointed out. Fortunately the mischief
may be but of a temporary nature, and can easily be repaired. It is of
this kind: The good working of a large organisation depends upon its
having good managers, also good executive officers: that is to say,
secretaries. With good secretaries organisations live; without them,
they droop or die, Whenever Mr. Blyton has been honorary secretary
to the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, it has flourished
and its members have increased ; whenever he has retired for six months
or a year, the members have fallen off, and the continuation of the
existence of the Association has become problematical. The Council of
that body has never been able to find, amid all its members, a good
substitute for him, people of the order of mind suitable for an office of
that kind being exceedingly rare. All the Spiritualist societies all over
the country can testify that their prosperity depends almost entirely
upon the possession of good secretaries, and that in some localities
suitable men cannot be found. The highest and best organisations have
highly cultured secretaries—gentlemen who will submit to no petty
hampering, but are easily guided by a high-class Council; Professors
Huxley and Stokes, secretaries to the Royal Society, may serve to illus¬
trate this point. The lowest class of organisations take away all power
and independence from their working officers, who consequently are
drudges, fettered by special rules, and constantly supervised by petty
tyrants who do not agree among themselves, and expect their victim to
please each of them individually, instead of executing constitutional
behests. Under such persons no individual of a superior nature ever
takes office, nor do such organisations rise to importance in the world,
because of the want of capacity of their rulers. Here, then, two
extreme cases have been pictured; and our argument is, that officers of
the higher type are necessary in the National Association of Spiritual¬
ists, in order to bear a just relation to the culture and education of nine-
tenths of its members at home and abroad, most of whom are people who
will submit to no votes of censure or vexatious fettering of liberty them¬
selves, and love to see the same freedom and happiness in others. A
clerk, who could not speak the languages of many of the foreign
members, who would submit to unjust censorious action, and tremble at
the approach of any petty despot, would not be a secretary suited to the
position. When an organisation deteriorates, the steps driving away
superior and inviting inferior officers are gradual, no one of the innova¬
tions being in itself serious enough for public animadversion, although
in the aggregate dangerous to the public interests—therefore we now
take the bull by the horns at the outset. The National Association of
Spiritualists has—or, rather, had—two splendid secretaries, highly
popular with nearly every one of the members, and most efficient
workers. Yet the honorary secretary, Mr. Joy, has had his post
knocked from under him in five minutes, without previous notice; the
other secretary, Miss Kislingbury, has had the offensive question publicly,
unnecessarily, and illegally raised at a Council meeting, as to whether
she was to be permitted to retain her appointment. Further, an attempt
has been made to censure her for having, by the exercise of a right,
acted strongly in the public interests of the National Association of
Spiritualists at the last general meeting! We do not know what the
opinions of Mr. Joy and Miss Kislingbury are about these proceedings,
not having made any inquiries in that direction, but as a matter of
public duty point out that these good executive officers have been uncon¬
stitutionally and uncourteously treated, and that a first step has been
taken in the direction of the substitution of inferior for superior execu¬
tive officers. The Council is not altogether responsible for this. It
did not notice that by the infraction of a rule surprises had been sprung
upon it, and no time left to examine the ex parte statements suddenly
advanced: consequently, many vital points connected with the policy
recommended, have never been considered by it at all.
The position at present is that a weakening of the secretarial depart¬
ment has been effected, and that the National Association, instead of
having two strings to its bow, has now but one, and that this loss of a
good supplementary executive officer is practically almost as serious a
matter as the loss of half the best members of the Council. No new¬
comer or untried person should by any chance be placed in such a vital
position; the Association should rather attempt to retain one who has
all the faculties for the work, who has been tried for years, and who is
trusted, from personal knowledge, by the chief supporters of the organi¬
sation. A further weakening effect is the recent unnecessary harassing
of the remaining secretary, after the fashion of the petty persecution of
dissenting preachers depicted in the truthful sketches drawn in the
article on Salem Chapel, published in No. 185 of The Spiritualist
(March 10th), which article contains information worthy of the closest
study by all Spiritualists, because low-class organisations among un¬
cultured people must of necessity spring up in future in a great move¬
ment like that of modern Spiritualism, and the problem may profitably
be dispassionately considered in advance how to deal with them. The
weakening effect in the National Association of Spiritualists, if not
quickly remedied, will be permanent. The less important temporary bad
effect of now having nobody that we know of to fall back upon to re¬
lieve the secretary will be that, when she leaves for her month’s vaca¬
tion, there is no generally efficient and popular person who can take her
place so entirely to the satisfaction of everybody as Mr. Joy. What the
Council will do in this dilemma remains to be seen. Its position is a
difficult one, attained by having incautiously, for the sake of an inglorious
relief from petty vexations, rather than from a feeling of confidence,
yielded to unsafe guides. The small and intolerant minority of the
Council, following their usual plan of worrying and impeding the other
members by pulling at one end of a symbolical rope, found that rope
suddenly released by the wearied Council at the other end, so tumbled
Jiead over heels into a most unexpected and disastrous victory.
A REMARKABLE SEANCE WITH DR. MONCK.
From the Leigh Chronicle.
A few not very demonstrative residents in the good old town of Leigh
have taken another step in Spiritualist experiences, having been present
at a stance held one night during the week, at which Dr. Monck, one of
the most celebrated of modern “ physical mediums,” was present. Such
mere child’s play as table turning and rapping had to several of the
company become common things, and some, at least, had been already
convinced that the usual explanation of all matters connected with
Spiritualism—that everything is “ trickery and humbug ”—would not
do; that tables do rap and do turn under circumstances precluding
jugglery, and even when a single individual is in contact with the
excitable furniture. But wishing to see, hear, and learn something
more, arrangements were made for the private seance which the writer
will endeavour to describe. The meeting was held in a private house,
in which the medium had never been before. The room contained the
usual chairs and couch, a piano, a bookcase, a square centre
table, and a small, but heavy mahogany library table, containing
two drawers. The room was prepared for the dark seance by
all light being carefully excluded, and the table being covered
with cloths hanging down to the floor, except on one side, against
which the medium’s chair was placed. The company, exclusive
of Dr. Monck, numbered thirteen, five of them being believers in
Spiritualism, and one of the five being Miss Elizabeth Ball, the “ Gol-
borne trance medium.” The sitters were arranged round the table in
one perfect ring, and one imperfect outer ring. The “ Golborne
medium ” was nearest to the right side of Dr. Monck, and the writer
was on his left, so that when hands were joined Dr. Monck’s arms were
stretched out the width of the table, in order to reach the sitters nearest
to him. On the table were placed a large musical box, weighing nearly
30 lbs., a small bell, a large bell—the town-crier’s bell, in fact—a glass
of water for the medium, a concertina, a large money box, a tambourine,
a small musical box, a speaking trumpet, and a fan; the three last
articles Dr. Monck brought with him, as requested, but the remainder
were provided by the writer and his friends. All the preliminary
matters being settled, the sitters placed their hands on the table, the
musical box was wound up, and the circle was formed. After some
time, as no manifestations took place, the light was extinguished. The
table quickly gave signs of being unsteady, and hands were joined all
round the inner circle, the outer circle placing their hands on those in
front. Dr. Monck was thus held, with his arms extended, on the left
side by the writer, and the other by the “ Golborne medium.” On the
right side a sceptical gentleman is the authority for the assertion that
Dr. Monck’s hand was never released. This was, so far as human
judgment can speak, the condition under which all the subsequent
events took place, and, for an apparent certainty, the medium’s hands
were held securely from the first grip until nearly the close of the
seance, which lasted from seven in the evening till nearly eleven o’clock.
In a very short time the manifestations commenced, and how to describe
them it is difficult to say. The “ Golborne medium ” became “ en¬
tranced,” and Dr. Monck, who declares upon his honour that he knew
nothiug in particular of her mediumship, described Jimbo, the African
half-caste boy, as standing beside and helping his own particular guide,1
Samuel, formerly a shipwright in Portsmouth dockyard. To Jimbo
and Samuel all the after proceedings were attributed. The table was
lifted several times, the small bell flew about the room, and the large
bell also wandered apparently at its own sweet will, stopping over the
heads of the sitters, giving them very uncomfortable proofs of its
proximity by raps on the head, settling cap-fashion on the writer’s wig,
and clanging in a manner that would have rejoiced the hearts of, and
must have—if Spiritualism is true—delighted the spirits of the last few
generations of Leigh bellmen. The heavy musical box was again and
again wound up, stopped, played slowly and quietly as desired, and
frequently left the table and floated about above the sitters, perching on
their shoulders, and tapping them approvingly when paying “flying
visits ” to particular persons. The other articles on the table followed
suit, several of them playing and floating at the same time, and fre¬
quently being placed on the laps and the hands of the sitters. Numerous
hands were felt on both sides of the room at the same time, a pair of
spectacles was removed from one sitter’s nose and placed upon a gen¬
tleman who does not use them, and as carefully returned. Wishes
expressed from different sides of the room were simultaneously attended
to. A glass of water was placed to the lips of the writer, a handker¬
chief applied to his nose, and a watch carefully removed from the
chain, and taken out of a watch pocket, and laid on the table. Indeed,
for two hours hands of some kind were busily at work in a manner that
cannot well be described; luminous clouds settled over the mediums,
the “ spirit lamp ’’ of Jimbo floated about the room, and lights appeared
over the local medium, flickering to the tune played by the musical box.
These lights were singularly pretty, one forming a small coronet of
flame above the head of Miss Ball, and the lamp being in appearance
like an eight-sided star. This lamp was placed just above the hand of
the writer, who could feel nothing below it but a light substance like
fine cambric, through which the hand readily passed. The small
musical box also floated about the room, held by a small bright hand,
which came at request close to the face of the writer, and was distinctly
visible, and was clearly a hand, and nothing more. The lights were
luminous, but gave no light or reflection. The sitters were also fre¬
quently fanned by the hands, both with a fan and a handkerchief. As a
special test, a pocket book was taken from the inner breast pocket of
the writer’s coat, by a hand which dived deep into the pocket, and had,
so far as trying and failing to feel it can be considered a proof, no arm
attached to it. This pocket book was taken to the opposite side of the
room, and one of the sitters asked that a word of five letters he thought
of might be written in the book. The raps signified doubt, but Dr.
Monck immediately said he had been told something of the article
June 30, 1876.
THE STlHlTtJALlST,
305
thought of; it was round, whatever the word was; and a leaf of the i(
hook was then heard to be torn ont, and was at once given to the sitter,
and a voice spoke behind the writer, saying they had written the word \)
“round,” but more they could not do. This was discovered after the K
seance to be so. The book was then returned to the writer’s pocket, j)
and, after the stance, was found to contain two sentences written in lead \)
pencil, and signed by Samuel and Jimho. As a climax, whilst the usual if
noisy manifestations were going on, the small library table was floated i>
in the air past the writer, then turned upside down and placed on the j{
table, atop of some other articles. The drawers were then opened, and js
most ludicrous manifestations followed. The drawers were really toy |)
and work drawers, and babies’ rattles, bobbins, whistles, scissors, i)
cotton and other things were taken out and given to different persons. K
A puff box was opened, and the faces of some of the sitters puffed with !)
violet powder; small articles, like pins, brought at request; and general l)
confusion everywhere. In the course of the more noisy demonstrations K
a small glass shade was broken, and the writer expressed a fear lest a I j
flower stand in the room should share the same fate. The stand was at i)
once and noiselessly placed by his side, and his thumb placed round the K
stem, the knocks signifying that as the writer did not wish it broken, it i)
was given to him to take care of. Hands were then broken, and, after
a song from Jimbo’s medium, the gas was lighted, throwing a light—if jf
not on the origin of the mysteries—at least on a very disorderly room !)
and some very untidy “ inquirers.” If
THE TESTIMONIAL TO MR. COLEMAN. |
Mr. Alexander Calder, of 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton,
treasurer to the Coleman Testimonial Fund, has received the following if
letter:— jj
15, Chester-Crescent, Newcastle-on-Tyne, June 22nd, 1876. if
Hear Sir,—I observed in a recent number of The Spiritualist, that j/
the subscriptions to the testimonial to that worthy worker for the truth, jv
Mr. B. Coleman, were about to be closed. From the first I have felt it i)
a duty to add a mite to the effort, but, not being able to give according if
to my desire, have held back, so as to take my place amongst the small, if
hut no less ardent and sincere contributors to the fund. Having per- j)
sonally tasted of the open-handed generosity of our friend, who threw jf
open his house to myself and Mrs. Hare, when we were inquiring into jf
the phenomena, visiting London for that purpose many years ago, I if
can speak positively to my brother and sister Spiritualists as to his dis- if
interested devotion to the cause. Wishing that this letter may influence if
many who have means to subscribe to the testimonial, but who have j)
hesitated from want of knowing the merits of the case, and enclosing jf
my cheque, I am, dear Sir, yours truly, J. Hare. jf
Alexander Calder, Esq. j)
MR. BLACKBURN’S SEANCES. j
BT C. CARTER BLAKE, DOC. SCI. jf
The third seance with Miss Lottie Fowler took place on jf
the 26th inst., in the presence of Mr. C. C. Massey, Mr. jf
James C. Eno, Mrs. Vernon, Mr. Dampier Vernon, Mrs. j
Louisa Miall, Miss Miall, Mr. D. H. Wilson, Mrs. Wilson, i
Mrs. FitzGerald, and myself on behalf of the Stance Com- If
mittee. If
Miss Fowler was carefully sewn up in the green calico bag, j
her arms being confined behind her back by stitches, and i
then tied with tape as on previous occasions. She was then jf
placed in the bag, which was sewn round her neck, and tied jf
to the chair with knots of special tightness, allowing very j
slight forward and lateral motion of the medium’s head, and j
no motion whatever of the hands inside the bag. After a short j
interval a white hand showing fingers capable of free motion j
and prehension, was shown at the crevice of the curtains j
above the level of Miss Fowler’s head. Another hand of darker jf
colour was shown in the lap of the medium, attempting to js
pick up a ring and bell which had been placed there. Motion j
of objects then took place inside the cabinet; the tambourine, if
bells, and table were forcibly agitated, and on two occasions jf
the bell was thrown out from a level lower than Miss Fowler’s j
head. The tambourine was then placed on her lap, and it jf
was seen to be slowly lifted up in a horizontal direction (by jf
a force acting under and within the bag) to about six inches jf
from her knees, and appeared to be suspended in the air for jf
a second, when it fell abruptly. With Miss Fowler’s con- jf
sent I then entered the cabinet, and having ascertained the j
position of her face, placed my hands on her head^when I am jf
told that the same phenomena were exhibited by the tarn- jf
bourine as above described. I saw and felt nothing abnormal jf
in the cabinet, and the medium, who at other times had jf
been very convulsive and impatient was perfectly quiescent, jf
Mr. Vernon then entered the cabinet, when the same motion jf
of the tambourine was repeated. Leaving the cabinet, it jf
was announced that a tangible hand would be allowed to be jf
felt through the curtain. The members of the circle, then jf
approaching the curtain, felt severally the grasp of a right if
hand, with distinct fingers and thumb, the baize curtain inter¬
vening between this hand and their own. The hand appeared
larger than that of Miss Fowler, and the force with which
the fingers of the spectators were grasped appeared greater.
A handkerchief was then placed at the crevice of the curtains
by a lady, and taken into the cabinet, by a force acting
as before from above Miss Fowler’s head.
The seance was, I believe, the first at which the door of
the room was kept wide open (with a view to ventilation)
throughout the evening. Ingress of any person was ren¬
dered impossible by one of the circle sitting near the door,
and keeping watch.
MEDIUMS FLOATED IN THE AIR.
The sixteenth and last of the above seances for this season,
with Mr. Eglinton as medium, was held at 38, Great Russell-
street, on Friday, June 16th, and was attended by Mr. T.
Terrel], Mr. Cholmondeley Pennell, Mr. A. C. Galbraith,
Captain J. F. Darvall, M. Puig, Dr. Carter Blake, Mr.
Arthur A. Colman, Captain James, Dr. Keningale Cook
(for the committee), and myself.
The tests imposed were exceedingly stringent, and the
seance was not a successful one. A pair of black gloves
were put upon the medium’s hands, and sewn together at
the wrists; his coat sleeves were then, sewn to his knees,
and a tape which was fastened round his wrists was held by
a gentleman in the circle. Mr. Eglinton was fastened to
his chair with tapes, and placed behind the curtains.
The desire of the sitters was that, under these circum¬
stances, a white hand should appear at the aperture of the
curtain. Attempts were made to show something, but only
one or two near the cabinet, in particular Dr. Carter Blake,
could discern the form of a hand, which he describes as
follows:—
When told to look in the cabinet, I saw an indistinct object, at a
higher level than Mr. Eglinton’s head. This body was more like a
hand with moving fingers than anything else with which I can compare
it. I saw Mr. Eglinton’s head afterwards. C. Carter Blake.
The controlling spirit pronounced the sitting a failure, and
attributed it to the preponderance of the sceptical element,
there being by accident more strangers than usual present
that evening.
When the chief portion of the company had left, the re¬
mainder, consisting of Captain James, Dr. K. Cook, Mr.
T. Terrell, Dr. Carter Blake, Mr. Colman, Mr. Eglinton, and
myself, agreed to hold a little dark sitting. The manifes¬
tations which occurred were more powerful and striking
than in any circle at which I have have before been present.
Dr. Blake has furnished me with the following testimony:—
During the dark seance I held Mr. Eglinton’s right and Mr. Col man’s
left hand. Mr. Eglinton thrice rose from his chair, pulling my left
arm to its extent; I had then to rise from my chair, when his feet were
placed on my shoulders in a vertical position to the axis of his bpdy ;
and subsequently, in a horizontal position, with the boot soles against
my face. He then disappeared to my left and behind me. Mr. Colman
subsequently rose in like manner, and I felt his feet on my shoulder. I
was then brought into collision with a moving object, which I conjec¬
ture to have been Mr. Cblman’s feet, which forcibly struck against my
right side and back, under the scapula, and which produced severe pain
for twenty-four hours afterwards. My face was touched by hands of
three several descriptions, one of which was like that of a young lady
or girl. C. Carter Blakf,
Captain James also received some very hard knocks,
which he said were given by a hand. After the glass shades
had been unscrewed from the gaselier, and placed upon the
small table at which we were sitting, and both mediums had
descended from their aerial flight in opposite corners of the
room (one being deposited in the cabinet) the seance was
i concluded, far more than I have here related having occurred
within the space of fifteen or sixteen minutes.
E. Kislingbury,
Secretai'y to the British National Association
of Spiritualists.
Witchcraft.—Frederick Culliford, a herbalist, of Crewkerne, was
summoned at Yeovil for obtaining money under false pretences from
j Emma Foot, domestic servant. A woman named Kimber was taken ill,
and believed she was “ overlooked ”—i.e., bewitched. Her daughter,
j Emma Foot, consulted the defendant, who on receiving 3s. wrote for her
j a curse which, according to him, would cause the death of the witch.
It did not appear to have this effect; Mrs. Kimber got worse. The
1 prisoner was committed for trial.—Times,
306
tiljS SPIItlTTTALIST.
June 30, 1876.
^oetts.
HEAVENLY DEATH.
Ik the tnute midnight of a dreamless sleep
My soul awoke, awoke and raised her head 5
She seemed myself—myself, inanimate,
Lay on the couch, dull-slumbering, seeming dead.
My soul with shuddering wonder gazed around,
Then sprang erect, clothed in astonishment
To see her earthly counterpart so still—
So marble pale her mortal tenement.
My soul stretched forth her hand and trembling touched
The form that knew nor motion, nor e’en breath ;
’Twas ice-like cold, a shivering cold that thrilled,
And then a muttered whisper murmured, “ Death.”
Then a sweet silence, during which my soul
Stood, wrapt in lessened wonder, deep in thought.
“Is this then I? ” she mused, “Am I the same
As when my body moved and loved and wrought?
“ Has Death, the King of Terrors, dreaded foe
Of timid man, no terrors then for me ? ”
The same soft murmur fell upon my ear,
“ All Death’s most deathly terrors here you see.”
And then the air grew thick with sounds so sweet,
So angel-sweet, that all my heart was filled
With a great heavenly joy, unspeakable ;
And in myself responsive chords were thrilled.
And, on a thought, I willed to rise, and straight
Uprose, and soaring, met a throng of friends—
Friends, whom I erst had loved and thought had lost,
And each on me a look of old love bends.
Two seize my willing hands, and upward borne
I joyous float, and pass away from earth;
My train attendant singing paeons in praise
Of Death who works these wonders—Heavenly Death.
April 9th, 1876. John Chapman.
©otregpontrence.
{Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers.]
THE EDUCATION OP THE CHILDREN OP SPIRITUALISTS.
Sir,—I feel mucli interested in a paragraph which occurs in Mr.
Frederick Binney’s letter of the 15th June, 1876, published in your
issue of 23rd June.
It is the one beginning, “ Every child is endowed with special gifts."
Doubtless every child has an aptitude for particular pursuits, and is
endowed with special gifts. In my opinion this is a platitude; one
might just as well say ft every child has a nose of his own,.or ears of his
own; every child has a peculiar mode of his own for putting one leg before
the other," and so on. They have !
This platitude has grown out of masters being obliged to flatter
parents, and to account for tempers and defects, by finding out, as ex¬
tenuating circumstances, what are ordinary, and not at all special, gifts
in the children they come in contact with. The instinct and intelligence
of children are always remarkable, even in a perfect fool of a child, and
what is still more curious, the more shallow its intelligence, the more
dull its instinct, so much the qnicker will it catch what it hears, and
will so imitate as to pass for “ the sharpest and the cleverest child of the
lot.” The aim of the teacher, in my opinion, should not be to discover
these peculiarities. Parents may be flattered by this remark, and may
think that they must have found in the person who makes such a
remark a most careful and conscientious teacher or governess. Parents
like to think their children have found a person who will make them
“ shine." They lose sight of this—that the fact of trying to make each
and every child a shining light is encouraging a love of emulation, of
self-pride, and, therefore, of selfishness, in every young heart, which
should on the contrary be trained to be more occupied with, and more
interested in, its child companion’s endeavours to learn, than it is with
its own progress. This is the means of not only fostering kindly
interest and good feeling one towards another in young children, but it
is diplomatically useful, inasmuch as the child who is trained to be
more occupied with the defects of younger or stupider children, learns
more thoroughly itself by helping to teach them, than by having his
“ special gift ” (even if very special) drummed into him before he is of
age, and enabled by judicious training to educate himself, which I hold
to be the best education—se^-education.
I speak from experience, having occupied myself, as much as the
struggles and turmoils of such a life as I have led since I
began to teach will permit, exclusively, and from choice,
with the education of children. Their education begins from the
cradle, and before they are able to speak; I wish I never were obliged
to do anything but be continually with them, for my occasional absence
from them, through overwork or illness, makes the most remarkable
difference in their characters, their tempers, their energies, their powers
of attention, and even in their speaking voices. But my desire to
obtain the funds necessary to the maintenance of a much larger number
of orphans than I can afford to keep by my own private means, takes
me a great deal away from the hourly delight and happiness (which it is
ito me) of being with, amusing and teaching the little children I have
adopted.. I could educate fifty children as well as the few I do, for
I have only four between the ages of two and five which I-can, as it
were, teach as companions. I never mean to cultivate separately their
particular talents or their special aptitudes. I know, for instance,
that one of them, even a year ago, showed special taste for form. He
Ij found out, for instance, that his nurse had pretty ears, and so she
j had—(the only one in the house that had that “ special gift.”)
j He found out and observed in a moment any difference in one’s looks
| consequent upon change of dress; he twisted papers up into shapes;
j he moulded the shadow of his hands (sitting at table) on the table into
| forms: he saw shapes in everything and everywhere. I certainly
| shall encourage his evident genius for sculpture. I shall do it thus: I
| shall get some plaster, and let them all mess about with it in the
j garden. That one little boy will set to work and make a shape which
I the others will imitate; they will all be interested in each other’s “ mud
(| pies;” they will all grow up to be interested in each other’s attempts;
11 they will, therefore, grow up as fellow-students of each other in every
I particular accomplishment or business—willing and able to help each
| other. When they will have attained man’s estate, instead of being
I dispersed by their several callings, they will cling to each other, because
1 they will know that they not only have the desire, but the knowledge
and ability to work together in trade and in recreation hours, in business
and in art. Art and commerce must walk hand in hand, but there is no
reason why the artist should be a solitary genius (?), who cannot count
upon a brother even to come and help him, or to look after his affairs ;
or why the tradesman should be a man ignorant of the beauties of that
1 which he trades in and lives by, unable to join or sympathise with the
artist on his own ground, and only anxious to prove a “ shining light ”
of hawkish propensities. I have long felt that giving good and bad
! marks is a very bad thing, but as long as children have parents I fear
jj there is no remedy. Parents will never be contented with the general
| healthy tone and spirit of a school; that school will always be preferred
j [ from which the larger number of pupils are turned out as first prize in
h Greek or Latin, and that master who has neglected others for the sake
jj of cultivating three or four of his pupils in whom he detected special gifts
j j will always be a favourite, and his house full of boarders,
j I do not know what Mr. Binney means by “ all boys’ minds being at
j present cast in the same mould.’’ Boys are independent and ill-disci-
i plined enough, in all conscience. That only which keeps order at all, at
j present, is the false and hypocritical conventionalities of society, which
(j ordain that if ill-behaviour is not publicly censured and condemned, it
j j may exist, and that no one has the right to think it wrong, or to show it
j I up. On the contrary, if anyone dares to follow a righteous, but uncon-
| ventional occupation, society affects to ostracise and look down upon the
j individual who refuses to carry on a Christian work in an incomplete and
jj amateur fashion. People, for instance, say to me: “ Get some one else
jj to teach the children, to amuse them; do not be head-nurse, governess;
jj and, for goodness’ sake, do remember you were born a lady ! ” You see,
j sir, I have trespassed long on your space. Is it of any use ?
jj Georgina Weldon.
j! Tavistock House, Tavistock-square, London, June 24th, 1876.
jj EXTRAORDINARY MANIFESTATIONS THROUGH THE MHDIUMSHIP OF MR. ARTHUR
j j j r COLMAN.
j jj Sir,—At the request of the persons more especially interested, I send
jj you certain noteworthy particulars of several seances lately held in my
j rooms with Mr. Oolman, at which we have had repeated materialisa-
j tions of the faces and voices of recently-departed friends of two or three
j i of the visitors. It was interesting to observe the gradual development
jj of the phenomena by the spirits, from the first weak attempts, to a
jj success more or less assured of perfect recognition; the success varying
jj according to the sphere of believing affection given forth by the rela-
j tives in the flesh. Sceptics would add—“ That means according to the
jj gullibility of the deceived fanatics present, who were willing to swallow
jj anything.” But we, the initiated, know that our thoughts and emotions
j are felt by spirits, and act upon them, as well as the mediums, with as
j j strong a force as a thrust from a powerful arm would act upon us in the
jj flesh, or as an overpowering gas which suddenly deprives the body of
j j life or movement. Mediums sensibly feel these emanations from persons
ji in the flesh, and find themselves painfully paralysed in the presence of
j j certain individuals.
jj After a short dark seance, we usually sit on the Saturday evenings for
j the materialisation of faces, a small frame being adjusted between the
jj curtains at which each face appears. On the first evening of our meeting,
j j some three weeks ago, the husband (lately deceased) of a lady present,
jj during the preliminary dark sitting, materialised a voice for the first
i time. There appeared to be considerable difficulty in this operation,
! and possibly it may have been attended with pain. The sounds at first
j were mere gasps, like short spasmodic coughs, as if a voice were
j struggling to enunciate through some opposing substance, which it
i gradually cleared away, coming forth at last triumphantly in a loud
j! whisper, as if rejoicing in its victory. The face of this spirit afterwards,
jj on the same evening, appeared at the cabinet window, and failed to be
jj recognised at first, but persisted in appearing, until by repeated efforts
j j he succeeded in making his materialisation so perfect, that his wife and
jj sister, also present, had the happiness of fully identifying him. Both
j ladies requested me to make the fact known. The spirit remained a
jj long time at the window, putting out his hand to be shaken, andspeak-
ji ing words of comfort to those he had left behind. At two subsequent
jj seances, the materialised face of this same spirit has been again fully
j recognised by his relatives. Several friends were permitted to approach
j! the cabinet, and saw the face very distinctly, and were also allowed to
jj clasp hands.
jj Another materialisation at these seances was that of a youth, also
ji lately deceased, who seems to have lacked the strength of the first spirit
jj in this extraordinary process of fleshly re-embodiment. He also has
i appeared on three separate occasions ; on the first rather imperfectly;
j i on the second much more successfully, being recognised satisfactorily by
ji several relatives present, and speaking many little test sentences. On
jj the third occasion the resemblance to his former self was not so perfect,
if There were certain conditions of the circle, felt by many present, which
June 30, 1876.
THE SPIHITXTALIST. 30
affected him very powerfully, and he had not the strength to conquer
them, therefore could not so well disengage himself from the medium.
On the third evening also, the husband of another lady present ap¬
peared, and was fully recognised by herself and a relative, these ladies
being permitted to approach the aperture closely, and satisfy themselves
in every particular.
At one of these seances we had a very wonderful materialisation of
William Scott with his lamp, one of the most spiritually beautiful mani¬
festations given through Mr. 081 man. As the spirit brings his own light
with him, we sat in total darkness waiting his appearance. A glim¬
mering light gradually shone out of the darkness before us, which,
gradually enlarging, illuminated the face and form of William. He
floated about the room semi-materialised for a short space, and then,
forming the whole of his body, approached each one of us in turn,
bending low, and fully lighting up his handsome face and long white
beard, speaking earnest friendly words, and permitting us to feel his
crystal lamp, hands, and beard. He walked to the chiffonier at the end
of the room, and exhibited himself and lamp in the looking glass.
“ These,’’ said he, “ are pleasing reflections.” Then he filled himself a
glass of water, returned with it into our circle, and, standing before us,
drank it, smacking his lips afterwards. Making several other trips to
the chiffonier he drew flowers from the vase, and brought them to
different members of the circle. A lady asked for a piece of his robe;
he consented, remarking we need not trouble about scissors, as he would
materialise a pair. Requesting the lady to place her palm on his, he
bade her keep it there. She did so, and distinctly felt, as she informed
us, something hard forming beneath her hand, until finally a pair of
scissors lay there. With those she cut unsparingly a large piece from
the spirit’s robe, and was permitted to retain the scissors in her keeping,
which were passed from hand to hand, and examined. After dispensing
flowers and kindly words to all, “William Scott” returned, and requested
the lady to place the scissors again upon his palm, and her own hand
over them. She did so, and presently exclaimed they had melted away
beneath her hand. William now said he would dematerialise before us,
and accordingly, with his lamp shining brilliantly, standing within one
foot of the two central occupants of the circle, he gradually crumbled
away, sinking slowly, until only his head rested above a mass of loose
drapery. Then, with the brilliant lamp resting upon the floor the head
disappeared, the drapery, and finally the lamps, leaving a shining light
upon the carpet, when a gentleman leaning over placed his hand upon
that, feeling only the carpet beneath his fingers, and finally the light
faded away, but William’s voice still spoke to us from the air, bidding us
“ Good-night! ’’
I think you will acknowledge that such manifestations as these are
sufficient tests of themselves. Catherine Woodforde.
90, Great Russell-street, London.
THE “ FIVE MINUTES’ RESOLUTION.”
“Joy absent, grief is present for that time.”
Richard II., Act 1, Scene 3.
“As if that joy were now become a loss.”
Winter's Tale, Act 5, Scene 2.
Sir,—The rumour that an attempt has been made to remove one of the
most valuable officers of the British National Association of Spiritualists
produces surprise and alarm among those who, like myself, are j unior mem¬
bers, and will to outsiders inevitajbly lead to the conclusion that a lower
social, intellectual, and scientific tone will be taken for the future in the
government of the Association. It is sought to abrogate the custom by
which an honorary secretary enjoys certain rights to give advice and
assistance to his colleagues; and on an assumed analogy with the
custom of other scientific societies, an imprudent step has been taken.
The societies which have both honorary secretaries (sometimes termed
directors) and paid secretaries (sometimes termed assistant secretaries,
registrars, or librarians), are the British Archfeological Association, the
British Association for the Advancement of Science, the Chemical
Society, the Entomological Society, the Geological Society, the Institute
of Civil Engineers, the Linnean Society, the Medical Society of London,
the National Association for Social Science, the Numismatic Society,
the Royal Agricultural Society, the Royal Archaeological Institute, the
Royal Astronomical Society, the Royal Geographical Society, the Royal
Society, the Royal Society of Literature, and the Statistical Society.
The Anthropological Society of London used to have two honorary
secretaries, a director, and two paid officers. The Ethnological Society
used to have two honorary secretaries and one paid assistant secretary.
The Anthropological Institute had recently a paid officer, but has now
two honorary directors. Nearly all the above have in addition paid
clerks or collectors. Some of them have in addition to the honorary
secretaries, honorary foreign secretaries, who are charged with the
supervision of the paid secretary’s work in relation to foreign corre¬
spondence.
But the proceeding which is most startling to any one who is in the
habit of attending general meetings of learned societies is the attempt
which has been made to rescind the seventeenth Rule of the Association,
by depriving a paid officer of her inalienable right to vote. If any one
really said that he had never known a secretary to vote at an annual
meeting (and J cannot attribute to Mr. Rogers a statement so absurd and
inaccurate), such member should learn what is the practice at the
Geological, Geographical, and other societies; and he will learn on
application that if a paid officer is a member, the fact of payment by
salary does not disqualify him or her from the inalienable right of voting.
And in practice the secretaries do vote. When I had the honour to be
paid (and previously honorary) secretary of an organisation as large and
important as the National Association of Spiritualists, I always exer¬
cised this right, and I believe ngy colleagues and successors have done
the same. To treat a secretary as if the mere fact of receipt of money
rendered her unfit to have a vote is absurd, as a person who cannot be
allowed to vote had better not be secretary,
To “ muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn ” is not only a crime,
but a blunder. I might appeal to the political judgmentof the members
on grounds of policy and expedience. It would be impolitic to remove
or to censure anyone who is willing to do good work for the Association,
and it would be inexpedient to show to the outside public that disunion
exists between a fraction of the Council and the honorary secretary,
supported as he would be at a general meeting by a vast majority of the
members. But I prefer to appeal to their sentiments of justice and
honour. Justice, because Mr. Joy has done good work for them without
fee or reward in California, France, Germany, and Switzerland, and he
deserves the title of which it is sought to deprive him. Honour, because
no one would wish to become a member of an organisation which allowed
an insignificant minority to accept the services of a labourer, and to part
with him in the moment of prosperity without conferring on him some
substantial mark of their thanks for services done.
C. Carter Blake.
Sir,—In your report of the Council meeting of the National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists of the 13th inst., you have omitted to state one of
the chief reasons put forward by those members who have advocated the
abolition of the honorary secretary’s office, against the re-election of
Mr. Joy.
It was alleged that Mr. Joy had, in recent divisions of the Council,
shown an undue amount of party zeal, which was thought undesirable
in anyone occupying the post of honorary secretary.
If you will kindly insert this correction in your next number, it will
j help to rectify some erroneous impressions.
E. Kislinobury,
Secretary to the British National Association of Spiritualists.
[The argument of “ partisanship,” was not introduced at all by the mover of
the injurious resolution, but brought in subsequently. If Mr. Joy had been
! the most violent partisan about the first trumpery subject of contention—the
letting of a little room—the subject matter was so trivial as to bear no re-
| lationship to the vital question of weakening the secretarial department. But
| he was so little of a partisan that Mr. Martin Smith and others, supposed from
| his utterances that he would vote with the minority of two, and not with the
i majority of nineteen. If his action, in common with Miss Kislihgbury, of
j voting at the last election, and giving warning that by electioneering sharp-
i practice by silently accumulating proxies, the whole of the National Associa-
j tion, and the unsuspecting members of the Council quite unused to even the
idea of such manceuvres, were in danger of being under the complete control
| of the minority of two, then all well-wishers to Spiritualism should say—
| “ Give us more of such partisans, and we will bestow on them the highest
honours at our disposal.”—Ed.]
(I SPIRITUALISM IN WIESBADEN.
) | Sir,—I am sorry I have not been able to visit London, as was my
) | intention. In the meantime I have followed with interest all that is
11 going on concerning Spiritualism in the world, particularly in England.
) | I am glad it is London where the movement has found its chief centre
) | and focus, for, taking everything into due consideration, of all cities in
j | the world London appears most suitable to that purpose. Progress in
j | England in general is slow, but more sure and lasting than anywhere
)j else. A new movement, founded upon truths proved by undeniable
< | facts, is sure to make progress if once it has established a firm footing
|| in London. At all events, of European cities London is, up to the
) j present time, the only one where there is no reason to fear that the
< i progress and pursuit of knowledge and truth in any direction can ever
)j be stopped or upset, either by revolutions and reactions, or by the
caprices of rulers, governments, parties, and police. And the wisdom
j! and self-control which Spiritualism teaches us, above all, I hope, will
) | always guide the British National Association of Spiritualists, so far as
) j to enable them to keep the lead in this great movement, to the honour
(i of the noble cause, and of the capital of Great Britain likewise.
) | As regards myself, I am glad to say that the fundamental truth of
(| the science of Spiritualism, which dawned upon me about a year ago,
{I has been proved to me over and over again, in numerous experiments
11 which I have made in quite private circles, without any professional
(i medium whatever to assist us. With regard to physical effects, the
{| results of our circle cannot at all compare with any of those I wit-
)j nessed in London last year, much less with those wonderful tangible
(i results obtained at Mr. Reimers’ circle in Manchester, as well as in
Sj London lately. Nevertheless, we are quite satisfied with what our spirit
) I friends have shown and taught us here. As for the physical phenomena
} | —welcome as they would be to us as a means of facilitating our work
j i of convincing our friends—we really do not require them for ourselves;
) I the proofs we have received are more convincing to us than any amount
) | of merely physical phenomena would be.
( j I shall not attempt to tire the patience of your readers with a circum-
i stantial account of the results obtained in our small circle, from experi-
tj ments which hundreds pf you may have made before us with equal or
| j even greater success. I will only mention that which is sure to be of
)| general interest, namely, the fact that spirit friends of yours in England
(| also visit us here. It was at our third seance, on the 18th of March,
11 that a spirit, who gave the name of Bertie, visited us for the first
51 time. She told us that she was the same Bertie who appeared to
(j Mr. Reimers in Manchester, and had given him casts of her hands.
U .Since that time Bertie has been one of our most regular visitors
)j and most faithful spirit friends. She has never deceived us yet.
<j Surprised at first at Bertie’s answering our questions in German,
(j I asked her in English whether she did not prefer being spoken tq
)j in English, and answering in the same language, instead of in German,
(j She replied that it was all the same to her; we might continue in
11 German, and so would she. We are favoured with a visit from her at
11 most of our seances (light). Sometimes she stays a long time with us,
j answers many questions, and gj.ves us good advice; at other times she
| only gives her name and stays for a moment, answering our questiops
June 30, 1876.
308 $H£ SPIRITUALIST.
whether she has anything to communicate to us, with Botschaft von
Reimers (message from Reimers), Alle gruesseri (kind regards to all),
and the like. She has always answered our questions about Mr.
Reimers correctly, has often informed us when he was unwell, and the
same with regard to his mediuni, whom neither of us know. Once
Bertie only gave her name, adding the words, Nicht kommen (cannot
come); Gute Nacht (good night).
On the 12th May last Bertie gave a most satisfactory proof of her
existence, in the presence of a Russian family, all sceptics; it was all
the more convincing, as the seance took place in their own sitting-room
in the Rhine Hotel. We were six in all, seated round a table in broad
daylight. After Archibald and Yeda (two spirit friends of ours) had
proved their presence, each with a separate and remarkable message,
Bertie indicated her presence—first by a particular sign, and then by
the spelling of her name. At that moment an idea struck me, in con¬
sequence of which I took out of my pocket-book a small closed envelope,
the contents of which were known to nobody in the company but my¬
self. This envelope I put on the table before the eyes of all, covering
it with a sheet of paper, and then I addressed the spirit thus: “ Well, if
you are really Bertie, as you say, you will perhaps be able to tell us
what the envelope contains which I have just now put on the table ? u
Answer—Ja, Locke (lock). I thereupon asked: “ Can you also tell us
whose hair it is ? ” «7a, Es wae mein (it was mine). You can imagine
the surprise of our amiable host, his wife and daughter, as well as of
the others, when I opened the envelope, and showed them a tiny lock of
hair which Mr. Reimers had sent me the day before, at my request,
after having heard from him by letter that at one of his stances Bertie
had cut a lock of her hair and given it to him. It may be worth while
to mention also the remarkable words which my guardian spirit Yeda
uttered at the same seance, previous to Bertie’s manifestation. The
words are: Erwaege Veda lebt (Consider Veda lives). These words
were meant as a kind of reprimand, in consequence of a mocking
remark on the part of one of the Russian ladies about Veda, and of my
rejoinder made in the same strain.
I will conclude my present letter with this remarkable seance, though
we have made a great many more experiments in our small circle of
greater importance still. Keeping in mind the occasional warnings
given in your paper concerning spirits who give high sounding and his¬
torical names, I will leave unmentioned for the present communications
of that description received also by us, though, upon inquiry of our nearer
spirit friends, we have received answers corroborating the correctness
and identity of some of the grander personages who favour us, to our
great surprise, with an occasional visit.
In a seance, held on 2nd June, I suddenly obtained the gift of writing
mediumship—a fact which has quite taken me by surprise, because our
spirit friends had, at the outset of our seances, told me I did not possess
the quality requisite for writing mediumship.
I am sorry that I am not authorised to give the names of the other
members of our circle to the public; most of them I may tell you in
private—rthey are all of high standing in society.
G-. W. T. Wiese.
2, Kleine Burgstrasse, Wiesbaden, June 15th, 1876.
SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHY. i(l
Sir,—I have much pleasure in giving my testimony to Mr. Hudson’s i 11
success in spirit photography, as on the 6th of June I obtained at his i i
studio a distinct photograph of my father, who passed to the higher life j i
more than six years ago. The head is covered with drapery, but the | i
face is quite uncovered, and every feature visible. I had looked for one |) j
who had lately passed away, so my father’s face was unexpected, and I j j
was not influenced by imagination. My friend who was with me also j |
recognised it at once. As a test the spirit bears in his hand a large j i
bouquet of roses, significant of his surname (Rose), and he had already I j
been described to me on two occasions by clairvoyants as holding roses, j |
but of this Mr. Hudson had no knowledge.
To secure my being passive the spirits threw me into a deep trance, : j
but my friend, who has some knowledge of photography, was with Mr. | j |
Hudson during the whole process, so I have every reason to think i||
myself the fortunate possessor of a genuine spirit photograph.
L. Inglts. !)j
Bridge of Allan, 24th June. i|j
DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING AND SPIRIT MUSIC.
Sir,—Having received information that Dr. Monck was on a visit jjj
to Dr. Brown, of Burnley, I took the opportunity, being twelve miles j j |
away, of attending his seance on Thursday evening, June 15th.
The success was complete, the phenomena manifested being all that j) i
any one could reasonably require, and sufficient to stagger at least any j ;
sceptic however dogged.
We sat for about two hours and a half, the whole time being occupied i j;
with the occurrence of some phenomena or other, but it would make |) j
this record too lengthy were I to attempt to detail all that occurred, j j:
I will, therefore, confine myself to a very few of the most striking |)|
incidents. m
We had a most interesting experience in direct spirit writing. A jjj
small slate was laying on the table by the light of a small lamp; the j j
sitters, after the slate had been cleaned by one of them on both sides, j j j
examined it round the circle, it was then placed in Dr. Monck’s hand, a jjj
pencil laying on it. He then held it under the table, and in three j j
seconds the gentleman sitting to the left of the medium was told to take j j
the slate, when it was found to contain fourteen lines of the most beauti- j j j
ful, legibly written, angular characters, very small; the lines as per- j j
fectly parallel as if they had been ruled, and an equal distance apart jjj
from each other, the whole occupying a space on the slate of not more jjj
than three inches by two and a half. j.j I
The composition, a copy of which I embody, consists of about eighty- i|j
three words. A gentleman of the press who was present declared, as
his opinion, that the same quantity of matter could not be produced by
the most abridged style of short-hand in the same space of time.
The communication, which is very edifying, runs thus :—
_ “ All hail loved ones ! The angels greet you.
“ The tender ties of earth-life are unbroken, death has hut brought us
nearer together. We bring you the glad tidings of immortality. We supply
you with palpable proofs. Judge for yourselves. Work with us, audio!
great shall be your reward. Declare what you know, defend the Truth and
its much-tried servants. March forward! Be not fearful; for are We not
with you ? The angels breathe blessings on you. Adieu 1”
“ Through ‘ Samuel.’ ”
During the sitting the oft-occurring incidents of musical instruments
being played under test conditions took place, but there was no new
phase to me. A small musical box was wound up by the spirits and
the key thrown towards me, then at the request of the sitters the ma¬
chinery was made to go slow or fast or stop altogether, thus supplying
a most convincing test, the mediums being well secured at the time, and
all sitters’ hands held round the table. During the seance spirit hands
were frequently seen on the table manipulating the instrumental and
other articles. And I am told by an eye-witness, that a few days before
a pencil was placed on some paper in the middle of the table in the light,
when a hand was clearly seen to form about the pencil, raise it to
the writing angle, and write legibly several lines on the paper, the
substance of which was an important communication to Dr. Monck
and another gentleman present.
I must now conclude by relating a most striking incident which
occurred after the close of the formal seaMce:—Dr. Monck had gone
into an adjoining room to adjust his toilet somewhat. In this room
there is a piano. Dr. Monck thought he heard some sounds from the
keys of this instrument, and he called me to the room, when we held
our hands upon the cover of the piano, it being closed, and, strange to
say, wherever we held our hands the keys in the immediate neighbour¬
hood were used by invisible fingers, producing music corresponding
with the keys nearest our hands.
This is a most satisfactory test of the genuineness of Dr. Monck’s
mediumship, and must carry conviction to the mind of any one who
may be fortunate enough to experience the same or similar phenomena.
It was never my pleasure to sit with Dr. Monck before, and having
heard many charges of deception made against him, I can only conclude
from what I have myself experienced that if Dr. Monck ever did stoop
to deceive those with whom he sat, it was not for want of the existence
of genuine mediumship. May be Dr. Monck, in his early experience
attempted an impossible work—as it was always my opinion that he did
at Blackburn—namely, to produce these delicate phenomena in the pres¬
ence of a promiscuous assembly.
If Dr. Monck will confine himself to visiting organised circles his
success will be secured, and his usefulness greatly extended; for at
these circles there are often found one or more earnest seekers after
truth, as was the case at the stance I attended in Burnley.
Two gentlemen were present, one an official in the town, and the other
one connected with the press; gentlemen evidently thoughtful, sincere,
honest in purpose, and not likely to be shaken from a conviction once
obtained.
This is the best mode of spreading a knowledge of the great Truth ;
it is, in my opinion, idle to offer it to minds not at all prepared by a
disposition to know if there be truth in it, but simply prepared to scoff
at the whole phenomena as a huge humbug. “ Cast not pearls before
swine, lest they trample them under their feet, and turn again and
rend you.”
I heard Dr. Monck deliver two lectures in Blackburn, and this is all
I know of him as a lecturer. I was highly edified, and deemed them
among the best I had heard on the subject. I think this is a field of
usefulness for him, and a place for the exercise of his gifts, which would
result in good to the cause of truth and the demonstration of fact. S.
SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHY IN AMERICA.
Sir,—Pictures taken in perfect darkness are now attracting a great
deal of attention in this country, and though fraud in one instance has
been detected, those of which I shall now write to you are productions
beyond the peradventure, it would seem, of any deceptive aspect. I
will first quote from a letter recently received from a Mr. W. H. Clark,
of N. Y,. Portions of it, if not all, have appeared in some of our
secular papers:—
“ Mrs. L. P. Evans (of N. Y.), claims to be a medium for the produc¬
tion of spirit pictures. She has a phase of mediumship peculiar to
herself—the taking of pictures in total darkness. These are produced
at night, when, in addition to the darkness of the room, further
obscurity, if possible, is obtained in the camera by throwing a cloth
over it. Several photographers have attended her seances, some of
whom have admitted that the pictures were taken in a manner unknown
to them. Ferrotype plates have been obtained at other galleries,
marked, given to the medium at a stance, timed, and watched during
the process of taking the picture, except when in the silver bath and the
camera. These pictures are usually distinct, but not often recognised.
In lieu effaces written communications and landscape scenes are often pro¬
duced. The communications are generally recognised, as they are usually
signed. When not signed, the wording tells the story. Mrs. Evans
claims that M. Daguerre himself is her photographer. Pictures of
living persons, though absent at the time, have also been taken and
recognised.” The writer, warned of tricks that might be played upon
him—that his attention might be diverted, and that the light from the
lamp might be allowed to reflect on the senzitised plate, says :—“ The
light was dimmed, and as Mrs. Evans took the plate from the holder
the back of it was turned towards the lamp.” “ At a private seance
at which four persons were present, three pictures were produced. The
.June 30, 1876.
THE SPIKITTJALIST.
309
plates were furnished by the well-known photographer, C. D. Fredericks.
They were carefully marked by Mr. Fredericks and two other persons.
The first picture was that of a Mulatto woman. Mrs. Evans said it
resembled an old servant whom she had known in her father’s house.
Mr. B said it reminded him of a coloured woman he had known at
the South. The raps indicated that he was correct. Another picture
was recognised by the writer as a fellow-soldier killed at the battle of
Allotoona—Sergt. C. J. Meyers.” It seems that particular songs had
an influence in bringing certain spirits. When the coloured woman
appeared, the favourite negro-minstrel song, “ Uncle Ned,’’ was being
sung; and when “The girl I left behind me” was sung, the soldier ap¬
peared. Another air, “ Pat Malloy,” being introduced, an Irishwoman’s
picture came upon the plate. “The day after this stance, Mr.
Fredericks (the aforenamed photographer), gave the writer the following
certificate : ‘ Mr. , the three ferrotype plates with pictures thereon,
which you have this morning shown me, are the identical plates which
I gave to you yesterday with my signature on the back of each.’
(Signed) ‘ C. D. Fredericks.’ ” Mr. Fredericks says, however, “ that
he is willing to wager 1,000 dollars that a spirit picture cannot be pro¬
duced by Mrs. Evans in his gallery ; stipulating, of course, that he or
one of his operators shall take the picture. Mrs. Evans says that she
is willing to try.” Several months have passed, and I am not aware
that Mrs. Evans has accepted the proposition. I have received from
Mr. Clark four of Mrs. Evans’s pictures. On the back of one of them
(that of a handsome young soldier), is written: “ Taken in total dark¬
ness. Plate cut from a large sheet, and marked.” On another, of a
young man : “ Taken in total darkness. Process watched from beginning
to end.” Another is a message written (a photographed writing), by
Mrs. Evans’s Indian guide, Ottawa, who signs it. It mentions “ fire¬
water ” and the “ happy hunting ground.” The writing is heavy but
very regular.
Mr. Alleu Putnam, one of our ablest scholars, and a perfectly trust¬
worthy gentleman, has recently presented (in our Banner of Light), his
views on the subject of photographs in the dark, in connection with
some complimentary remarks on, and extracts from, that interesting
and valuable article which appeared in The Spiritualist from the pen of
Mr. F. M. Parkes, based upon the theory which he states: “ Spirit
figures are not amenable to the lens.’’ Mr. Putnam sat to a Mr. B. P.
Brown, a photographer of Boston, and obtained one at least spirit
photograph, which, under all the conditions, and from his respect for
the man himself, he is satisfied is a genuine production. In connection
with this subject, he remarks : “ I have several times looked carefully
at a unique picture which he (Mr. Brown) says (and I believe him) was
obtained there in total darkness. It is very distinct, and rather
ludicrous ; it is an erect, full length, nude form, apparently adult, and
six feet in stature. . . . Had one ability to form any conception at all of
a race of organised, living, conscious * elementaries,’ I think he would
deem this figure a good likeness of some giant of that race. That
figure was impressed on the plate by some invisible limner, and in
total darkness.’7
In the same article by Mr. Putnam there is a quotation from the
Boston Post which I will here condense. A sceptical photographer,
with others and Mr. Brown, repaired to the gallery of the latter, where
a plate was prepared and placed in the camera. Mr. Brown had stated
to his sceptical brother that, though all could observe the fairness of the
procedure on his part, no picture of the subject would appear upon the
plate, but instead thereof, and in the background, would be presented
the form of the sitter’s nearest relative now inhabiting the realm beyond
the grave. The sceptic was seated, “ focussed,” the plate developed,
and, to his astonishment, saw that his smiling face was absent, but
behind his chair, which was distinctly photographed, stood his Satanic
Majesty; or, rather, as Mr. Putnam describes him, “intrinsically a
very comely man, dark complexioned, moustache long and pulled widely
out on each side, hair rather long and standing up in a pyramidal form i)
from his forehead, and giving him rather a wild aspect. . . . Admitting u
the facts above presented to be true,” says Mr. Putnam, “ what | j
inferences seem to be necessary ? First, some occult intelligent being |)
mysteriously nullified—yes, absolutely nullified. ... 2nd. The same j(
power simultaneously rendered that opaque form pervious by both direct j|
and reflected light. . . . 3rd. It produced on the plate a very distinct j)
human form behind the chair, where no material form stood. These
things all combined in one I give as fact No. 4, and call it a momentous I >
one.” (I beg Mr. Putnam’s pardon for my crude and brief handling of i)
his learned paragraphs.) j\
We have still another, an extraordinary, and a very interesting phase
of mediumship, not long since developed in a highly respectable family, }
where no notoriety is desired, and where only friends who have been | (
invited are admitted. No cabinet is used, and the young lady sits in |)
the room with her guests while the phenomenon which I particularly jf
refer to takes place :—a fair spirit appears, and occupies an hour or so :(
in painting pictures, as she sits or kneels by the side of the medium. |>
Saudis. jf
Now York, U.S., June 4th. : i(
SPECULATIONS ABOUT KEINCAKNATION. jj
Sir,—Baron Holmfeld tells us in The Spiritualist that “Spiritualism j)
teaches the immortality of the internal spiritual man, who is, and re- j j
mains conscious of, his personal individuality, while the reincarnatiou j(
doctrine destroys this faith in conscious immortality.” As to “con- i
scious immortality,” it is believed in, understood, and probably felt !<
fpiite as much by the reincarnationist as by the Spiritualist, though j<
neither have an atom of proof to back up these aspirations beyond the j{
universal, or all but universal, assent in this belief among Spiritualists, j]
occultists, and reincarnationists, everywhere. Now, in default of j<
proof, general consent is the strongest argument that we possess. Vox j
populi vox Dei; so that, in denying this faith to the reincarnationist, [i
)j the baron robs the doctrine of immortality of a vast portion of its
(j strength.
(\ Fortunately, however, both parties equally believe in the immor-
) j tality of all men ; and as long as we all progress, it is not of so much
/; importance how it is accomplished, so long as it is accomplished. With
(j regard to the spirits who teach reincarnationists, or those who teach
>i Spiritualists, having either of them any positive knowledge of our im-
h mortality, I for one should be glad to know the source from whence
(j that knowledge comes, if they have it; for it appears to me that
> i positive knowledge concerning the future is the very thing the spirits
11 all most require and do not possess ; and yet, nevertheless, in spite of
j(i this defect, they are able to express strong opinions on this subject as
||| well as on others, and lay them down as dogmatically as we do our-
Ifj selves.
|| The reincarnationists, spite of the baron’s arguments, believe with
j the Spiritualists not only in the retention of our individuality at all
j j times, but the former also believe that the internal spiritual man is so
j y j fully conscious of its personal individuality when in its true and normal
j|j state, which is the spiritual, that when once freed from the flesh a per-
I (j feet memory of the long past, and a knowledge of the soul’s sustained
jj j individuality, perhaps through many past ages, returns to it. And
|1| some intimation of the past state of the individual is alleged to be ex-
|I| perienced even here in dreams, and sometimes even by intuition when
Hi awake ; and, if not more frequent, it is doubtless owing to the prepon-
j 11 derance of the flesh, as well as to the long stupefaction, as regards
I (i spiritual things, of our infancy and childhood. The alleged remem-
H j brance of anterior life is said to be much more common among the
j | j Hindoos and Buddhists than amongst the Europeans, perhaps for the
j(j reason that they are not only all believers in reincarnation, but also
i (j because they feed less grossly than we do ; so that our especial dulness
j|i in this respect may consequently arise from the especial materiality of
j (j our natural body here, swamping our spiritual body here also, as may
jjj be easily perceived from the exceeding difficulty of getting spiritual
IS j notions into average brains at all.
ju The reincarnationist, like the occultist, believes that his soul is pre-
Hi existent, and when incarnated has necessarily to dwell first in an in-
Wj faut’s frame ; consequently, the only means it could have of expressing
j (j its ideas would be through that infant’s brain. How can it do so to
j [j any purpose, in any way, with such a tool as that ? for (speaking dog-
l|jj matically) our brain is the only tool through which we can express
j(j our ideas here. No wonder that anterior ideas get mystified! no
j j wonder the memory goes ! when their only means of demonstration
I can be alone effected through the .elementary pap of a child’s only
i(j machine for an outlet of his spirit’s understanding. Why, it may take
j > I thirty years or more for a brain to be sufficiently matured to assimi-
m late only half the ideas or knowledge the soul was capable of in a
(j previous state, though at the end of that period it may have progressed
| morally (which is said to be the grand object). It is not always the
! (j cleverest man who is the most advanced.
ju It is altogether wrong to assume that a soul loses its individuality by
j)i changing its state ; or, to use the baron’s terms, that “physical re¬
in moulding” makes “another individual.” It does not do this any
j (i moi’e than a new coat makes a new man ; or that, because a man may
II j be a king one day and a prisoner the next he should thereby lose his
ji j idiosyncrasy. But as long as men put the body first and the soul last
}|i such mistakes are always sure to arise. A man may even change his
jjj habits and opinions, but he is still the same man. How different is a
I j child in all he does to what he becomes when a man ; but no one
j vj questions his individuality. How changed is the old man from the
j j young man ! How frequently he has changed his whole material
|( body! But, nevertheless, his idiosyncrasy remains. So it is with the
spirit, whether it assumes a garment of the flesh or shakes it off.
Baron Holmfeld will pardon me, I hope, if I seek a solution of the
following sentence in his letter, which appears to me rather obscure.
He pities reincarnationists because they “adhere to opinions which are
only corruptions of old and true religious doctrines, according to which
those who leave this terrestrial abode either descend into an animal
nature, or ascend in the scale of spiritual progression.” Does, then,
Baron Holmfeld really believe in metempsychosis pure and simple 1
I should have thought not by the context. But what else can he mean
when he writes of the “ descent into an animal nature)7 not only as an
old but as a “ true religious doctrine ” ? That is the very thing which
all Kardec’s books from the beginning to the end positively assume
that we cannot do. On the contrary, what the reincarnationist does
affirm is just what the baron says he does not affirm; he does assert
“ the law of never-ceasing development ” as strongly as the Spiritualist,
and not a “ physical remoulding into another individual at all ” ; but
reincarnation of the same individual soul into new bodies here ; for
probation, experience, and improvement, in the early course of the
never-ceasing development of the same individual.
M. A., Cantab.
Sir,—With your kind permission, I would like to call the attention
of Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld and your readers to the following conver¬
sation amongst spirits in the other life, as detailed in Swedenborg’s
Arcana, because it shows the philosophy, and also the ruinous nature,
of what is called “ reincarnation ”—ruinous, I mean, to humanity al¬
together :—
“ I once heard spirits discoursing together concerning this circum¬
stance, that whatever is adopted as a principle, whatsoever be its nature
and quality, may be confirmed by things innumerable, insomuch that to
him who confirms it, it may at length appear as altogether true, not¬
withstanding its being false, and that arguments may be urged in favour
of what is false, rather than in favour of what is true. In order to their
fuller conviction herein it was proposed to them to consider and dis¬
course on the question it is expedient for spirits to use the ex-
310
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 30, 1876.
terior memory ? Spirits, it is to be observed, discourse together on such
subjects far more excellently than man can either believe or conceive, h
but each according to his affection. The spirits who were disposed to i j
favour worldly and corporeal things confirmed the expediency by many !
arguments, endeavouring to show that by the use of the exterior i
memory they should have lost nothing, but after death would have H
been men, to all intents and purposes, such as they had been before; I;
that thus they might have been able, by means of man, to come again i (
into the world; that in the exterior memory consists the delight of life; ;
and that intelligence and wisdom are grounded solely in this faculty and i
•endowment, besides many other arguments, whereby they confirmed |
themselves in their principle, until it appeared to them as true. But ||
others then thought and spoke from an opposite principle, knowing that j
what they said was true, because, it was grounded in the Divine order. ] (
The arguments they urged were to this effect—that if spirits were per- j
mitted to use the exterior memory, they would in such case be in a j j
state of imperfection, like what they had experienced when men; that | (
hereby they would be in gross and obscure ideas, in comparison with ||
those which are in the interior memory, and thus they would not only i
grow more and more foolish, but would also descend instead of ascending, I j
consequently they would not live to eternity, for to immerse themselves i j
again in things worldly and corporeal, would be to plunge themselves j j
again into a state of death; and further, if it was allowed to spirits to | (
use the exterior memory mankind would perish, inasmuch as ever many I
is ruled of the Lord by spirits and angels, and in case that spirits from j
the exterior memory should flow into man, it would not be possible for j |
man to think from his own memory, but from that of spirits, thus man j
would no longer enjoy freedom of life, and determination in himself as j|
his own, but would be obsessed; such was the nature of obsessions in jv!
old time.” A. C. 2477. . |/|
And such, Mr. Editor, I believe to be the nature of the obsessions ] j
now taking place in spiritistic circles, and of the persons of mediums, i j |
The consequence will be, the more of this the less of manhood, and jli
except these states should be, in the good providence of God, cut short, |(|
no flesh, I believe, eventually could be saved. Human liberty would be i) j
destroyed. Marriage, with all its holy and populating uses, would be j j
annulled; barbarism would follow, and desolation be the end. But God j jl
is omnipotent and all-wise, and in His own good time will issue the j)!
divine mandate, “Hitherto shalt thou go, but no further. Here shall j i
thy proud waves be stayed.” . : ' m
If these preachments are here out of place you will perhaps excuse j)j
the writer; but pray allow your readers to see and consider the purport |(i
of the above extract, for Swedenborg is no mean authority amongst iii
other world visitors, and few are the readers of his works ivho give full l|j
scope to all their teachings.
The italics in the extract are those of the copyist. |)l
T. Robinson. m
Newtonheath, June 15th, 1876. Hi
A VISION of the death of the sultan OF TURKEY. j)i
Sib,—In The Spiritualist of June 23rd, William Bowman asks—“ Is j j j
the vision trustworthy ? ” i j) j
I have a young medium in my house, called by the spirits “a gem.” jji
About six days before the receipt of The Spiritualist of 23rd inst., jjj
I made inquiries, through her, about the death of the Sultan. I was jjl
informed that “ a narcotic had been administered to him; that, when j\i
stupefied, his veins had been cut by another party, and the scissors j)j
left, so as to give rise to the supposition that it was done by his own |n
act.” Lilian. j\j
MRS. CORNER (FLORENCE COOK) IN CHINA. iji
Sir,—You or some of your readers may perhaps be interested in \)\
knowing that the barque, M. A. Dixon, Captain Corner, which sailed jji
from this country for China in December last, Mrs. Captain Corner j(j
(late Florrie Cook) accompanying her husband, arrived at Shanghai on ij'j
the 10th inst., as per telegram received. W. E. Corner. iji
St. Thomas’s-square, Hackney, June 20th, 1876. ■ iji
THE URIM AND THUMMIM.
Sir,—The following are references to essays or notes about the Urim
and Thummim :—Daily Telegraph, Dec. 24th, 1870, “ History and
Literature of the Israelites.” Josephus, p. 61, Vestments of Aaron.
Nature's Divine Revelations, A. J. Davis, p. 417, article 102. Answers
to Questions, A. J. Davis, p. 99. G. E., of Brighton, as per Spiritualist,
23rd June, 1876, p. 298. Thos. Sherratt.
10, Basinghall-street, E.C., June 26th, 1876.
THE DREAM OF PERCEVAL’S ASSASSINATION. jjj
Sir,—My attention has been drawn to a statement in The Spiritualist jji
touching John Williams’ well-known dream of Spencer Perceval’s jjj
assassination. The writer is evidently well informed, and his corrections iji
of previous inaccuracies are deserving of all confidence. But it appears j j i
to me that two or three very curious and important particulars are still i') j
wanting to the completion of the facts. I knew Mr. J. Williams inti- iji
mately in his old age, while he was residing at Sandhill, Calstock, jji
1836—39, and I have frequently heard him relate the dream. Without iji
adverting to minor details, which seem to be slightly varied, I wish to ijj
mention that Mr. Williams told me that in his dream he did not know, i j!
or could not remember, the name of the Chancellor of the Exchequer; jjj
that when told in his dream that it was the Chancellor of the Exche- jj j
quer who was shot, he asked, “Who is the Chancellor of the Ex- jjj
chequer ? ” and that an usher of the house replied, “ Spencer Perceval.” jj i
Again, the pistol was presented from behind Mr. Williams, and, as it 111
were over his shoulder, so that at first he did not see the murderer,
but on turning round and seeing him he asked his name, and was told,
“ Bellingham.” It was also emphatically stated by Mr. Williams, on
each occasion of reference to this dream, that on the morning of its
occurrence (eight days before the murder) he related it circumstantially
to his sons and others, and was very anxious to go to London and
apprise Spencer Perceval of his danger; but that he was dissuaded
from going by his sons, which, after the event, he always deeply
regretted. Thos. Bacon.
London (era route), June 26th, 1876.
SPIRITUALISM IN GRIMSBY.
Sir,—I desire through your paper to thank Mr. John Scott, of Belfast,
for a parcel of most valuable books sent us for free distribution, also
for his liberal promise of another parcel now being bound for our library
in connection with Spiritualism in Grimsby. We meet a great amount
of opposition from local ministers, but our colours are nailed to the
mast. C. E. Barton, Secretary.
Providence Works, Grimsby.
PRINCIPLES OF MARRIAGE.
Sir,—As one who attended Mr. Volckman’s recent lecture before
the Dialectical Society, on the important social subject of Divorce,
permit me to say that I think that one portion of the subject was un¬
touched. He too much assumed that the misery of ill-matched couples
originated in a “ mistake,” and that the law is in fault in making
separation ponderously difficult. I submit that in consequence of ma¬
terialistic and false teaching from parents and from the pulpit, young
people often enter into matrimonial relations from false notions, in
which ideas about social position, worldly wealth, and so on, play an
important part, to the crucifixion of their affections. They afterwards
discover that there is no horror greater than that of constantly living
with one whom they love not, and that a prison is none the less a
prison because its bars are gilt. In abnegating the affections, the
brightest jewels of the spirit, and doing so from the lowest of motives,
it would seem that many ill-assorted couples deserve their unhappy
lot, and are neither entitled to much sympathy from the public, nor
power of separation from the law. A popular idea is current, fostered
perhaps by parents, that the union of two adjoining estates by the mar¬
riage of the owners is a good match, and not until the wife is beaten
with a fire-shovel does the thought dawn upon her that although the
two plots of land are suitably allied, the two human souls are not.
Perhaps when these subjects are better understood, it will be dis¬
covered that the mental, moral, and bodily defects and diseases of a
large proportion of children, are due to the parents never having been
united by affection. If the laws of nature be broken, many innocent
victims must suffer to the third or fourth generation. R.
Mrs. Burke’s new boarding house for Spiritualists, at 8, Upper
Bedford-place, Bloomsbury, has as yet been well patronised. A sort
of private hotel of this kind has long been wanted.
Arrangements have been made by Spiritualists in Madrid for a
visit to Spain by Dr. Monck, and his approaching advent there has
been announced in all the Spanish journals.
A Terrible Chinese Ghost.—Had Mr. Tony Weller lived in these
days, and had he, moreover, been a'regular subscriber to the Shanghai
Courier, he would have been supplied with an additional and cogent
reason for not marrying widows’ It appears that a Mahometan China¬
man, who had lately been united to a lady to whom he was fondly
attached, fell sick and lay at the point of death. In taking farewell of
her husband thus unhappily departing, the lady clasped her hands and
swore never to wed any one else when he was gone. For a while she
kept her vow; suitors came and went, but, unlike the widow in Gold¬
smith’s Citizen of the World, she was constant, and it is probable would
have remained a model widow, if a gentleman named Wang, also a
Mahometan, had not appeared on the scene as a lover. What blandish¬
ments this swain used are not recorded, nor are we told whether he was
of prepossessing appearance. All that is certain may be summed up in
a few words. He came, saw, and conquered. Possibly neither he nor
Mrs. Wang had read of the fate which attended the fair Imogene when
she was faithless to the memory of Alonzo the Brave. Perchance they
were ignorant of the very existence of vengeful goblins. They were
quickly to learn by unhappy experience. “ One day,” says the
chronicler, “ the husband, on entering his wife’s room, saw with perfect
distinctness the figure of a man sitting down, gazing fixedly upon the
woman.” The apparition seems to have been somewhat objectionable
to Wang, for we are told that he “ started violently, and asked his wife
whom she was keeping company with ? ” To which the lady replied’
“ Nobody,” and just then the sprite vanished^ Sorely perplexed, Mr.
Wang left the room, and threw himself on a couch in an adjoining
chamber to sleep. But in the middle of the night he was aroused by
“ a tremendous bump in his wife’s apartnqent, succeeded by piercing
screams, and, hastening to the door, he found that the lady had fallen
out of bed, and that blood was flowing from her nose and mouth.” l^or
was this all; for the unfortunate Wang perceived that his wife’s reason
had departed, and that, apparently possessed by some strange spirit,
she was “addressing herself in the character' of her husband, and
pouring out the most bitter denunciations of her own conduct in having
broken the vow she had made.” In vain a Taoist priest was sent for to
exorpise the ghost; futile were his charms, useless his sorceries. Mrs.
Wang had gone stark staring mad, and so she still remains—a sad
example to all faithless widows.—Daily Telegraph,
June 30, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
311
ODIC FLAMES FROM MAGNETS.
Ip the odic flames from magnets seen by Baron Reichen-
baeh’s clairvoyant sensitives, were in any degree of a material
nature, the physical proof of the same by photography, or
otherwise, would be of the utmost importance, and rank as
high in the history of scientific progress as the discovery of
spectrum analysis. Messrs. Yarley, Blackburn, and Harrison,
after hundreds of experiments, extending over six months,
and involving large expenses, came to the conclusion that
the flames could not be photographed on any wet sensitive
plates, and that if magnets emit photographic rays which
water would quench, as it does some of the extra-violet por¬
tions of the spectrum—as proved by the elaborate experi¬
ments of the late Professor W. Allen Miller—in the trial of
Daguerreotype plates is the only hope of success. A
Spiritualist at Brighton, Mr. Collen, afterwards said that he
had photographed the alleged flames, but it was pointed out
that his results had been obtained at the outset by the former
experimentalists, and had been traced by them to unequal
evaporation from the surface of the film, in consequence of
another plate with irregular surface being fixed near it, and
above the poles of the magnet, which magnet had nothing to
do with the result. Since then, Mr. Collen has publicly
exhibited other experiments to persons totally unacquainted
with physics. Two of the witnesses informed us that he
made several mediums hold one end of a glass tube, which
passed into a camera, and therein nearly touched a sensitised
photographic plate ; also that the odic force from their hands
passing through the tube, produced a developable image
upon the film. This means that the heat communicated to
the glass, or the air warmed by their hands, passed in a cur¬
rent through the tube, produced unequal evaporation on the
surface of the plate, consequently, an invisible image, which
appeared on development.
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA IN MANCHESTER.
Mr. Christian Reimers, in an undated communication which we
received five or six days ago, says that at a recent seance his medium
became clairvoyant, and seemed greatly distressed. She described a
ship, far away, coming into collision with another, in consequence of
the apparent neglect of the officers ; a great number of men fell into
the water ; a lifeboat was lowered, and they were all picked ,qp except
one, who went down to rise no more. He was rather tall, had light
hair, and was connected in some way with one of the six witnesses at
the siance. Those present noted the time, which was 9.35 p.m. The
medium said that she once had a similar vision, which afterwards
proved to be true, and that no other manifestations were obtained on
that occasion also.
Mr. Reimers further says that at another seance he gave a locket to
the spirit Bertie, who had expressed a wish for one from him as a
keepsake. He so tied up the medium in a net bag that her hands
could not be freed, after which a hand came to the aperture of the
cabinet, and took the locket from him. Soon afterwards the spirit
Bertie appeared with the locket round her neck. When they entered
the cabinet the locket was not to be found, and the medium was bound
as at first.
Mr. Reimers likewise refers to a recent number of The Spiritualist,
in which Mr. Oxley describes the formation of a living face out of the
hand of a medium covered with a handkerchief. He (Mr. Reimers)
had since seen this phenomena himself, and at the outset it did not
make much impression upon him, but he saw the hand develope into
life-sized faces until “ the remarkable course of formation completely
awed ” him. He states that he also saw a pencil writing by itself in
the light, through the mediumship of Dr. Monck.
The Dialectical Society.—On Wednesday, last week, at a meeting
of the Dialectical Society, held at the Langham Hall, Great Portland-
street, London, Mr. William Yolckman read a paper on the Divorce
Laws. He recommended the legalising of amicable instead of criminal
divorces, showing that, under present circumstances, the law demands
that one of the parties to a divorce shall be criminal and the other
innocent, otherwise there shall be no separation; consequently, if two
people have made a terrible mistake by uniting themselves in the eye
of the law for life, .there can be no separation or relief from misery
without law-encouraged criminality, or without an innocent person
parading his or her family griefs before the world. A lady who took
part in the discussion, said that, in political circles, there was tolerable
unanimity of opinion that the divorce law required, and must have,
amendment, but the difficulty was to select the proper basis. Mrs.
Lowe said that, if no resting-place could be found between the Scylla
of the existing system on the one hand, and the Charybdis of free love
on the other, she should pause and consider, waiting for some light in
the troubled darkness to show the right course to take. After a some¬
what animated debate, the discussion, was adjourned.
DR. SLADE’S VISIT TO ENGLAND.
Colonel Oloott, writing to Mr. Calder on the 15th June,
says that Dr. Slade will sail on the first of July for Eng¬
land, where he will remain until it is time to leave for St.
Petersburg, there to fulfil a three months’ engagement from
first of November. The latest slate-writing performance of
this celebrated medium was to cause the writing to be done
inside a screwed double slate while the visitor sat upon it.
SPIRITUALISM IN LIVERPOOL.
On Sunday last, June 25th, the platform of Meyerbeer Hall, Liver¬
pool, was occupied by Dr. William Hitchman, who delivered an address,
entitled, “ Moral Duties in 1876.” An eloquent lecture was appro¬
priately closed by an exhortation that men would more earnestly strive
after spiritual purity, and thus fit themselves for a hereafter of glory, by
daily and hourly leaving off some bad habit, becoming more dead to
some trespass or sin, abandoning some impure thought or motive, for¬
saking each known proclivity to vice, and becoming alive to some
practical virtue in the direction of faith, hope, and charity; in fact,
strive to grow in grace, at whatever immeasurable distance from the
divine life of Christ.
Mr. Priest, in the evening, delivered an address called “ Historical
Christianity,” which was mainly a review of Mr. W. E. Gladstone’s
recent article on “ Religious Thought,” and consisted of a lawyer-like
argumentative disputation, in the course of which he controverted
certain statements of the ex-Premier, and pointed out that Christianity
had maintained its ground by virtue of its unquestionably Divine origin,
and that inspiration had not ceased, but was now in full operation, as
the facts of Spiritualism prove.
The lectures on Sunday next will be delivered by Dr. Plitchman in
the afternoon, and Mrs. Nosworthy in the evening.
Mrs. Weldon will give another grand orchestral concert in St.
James’s Hall, for the benefit of her Orphanage, on Wednesday evening,
July 19th.
The Prize Essays of the British National Association of Spiritualists
are now published, as shown by advertisement on another page. Each
member of the Association will receive one free copy.
During the absence of Mr. Eglinton in Somersetshire, Mr. Arthur
Colman is the medium at Mrs. Woodforde’s, 90, Great Russell-street,
W.C.
Mr. Slater’s Healing Mediumship.—A lady member of the National
Association of Spiritualists, who does not wish her name to be pub¬
lished, but who will give it in private to anybody who desires to verify
.the facts, writes to us about the healing mediumship of Mr. Thomas
V Slater. For the past year or two she has been under the doctor’s hands,
(! and suffering on the verge of consumption. She had a large swelling
(j surrounding the heart, and preventing its free action; this swelling also
Si touched the lungs. Her medical advisers proved unable to do much, if
(i anything, to remove the cause of her sufferings, but at last she went to
(i Mr. Thos. Slater, the well known Spiritualist, by whose mesmeric or
Si healing powers the swelling entirely dispersed in the course of three
(i months. She says that her long-lost health and strength are now fast
> i returning.
Si Seance in Dalston.—At the seance of the Dalston Association of
(i Inquirers into Spiritualism, on Thursday evening last week, a member
ji was entranced, and, under spirit influence, stated that the medium
Si should sit with his back to the north, and that no one should be allowed
(i to he seated immediately behind the sensitive. The position of the
ji sitters was accordingly changed, when a marked improvement in the
Si controlling power was noted. A spirit, related to the medium, gave in-
(i teresting information as to a “haunted house” in the country, and
)\ alleged that the disturbances were caused by himself, for the purpose of
Si gaining an opportunity to convey important information to those left
(| behind on earth; he requested certain injunctions to be conveyed to the
)i medium when the latter awoke. As a test the spirit intimated the
Si sudden and unexpected decease that day of a person living in the neigh-
\i bourhood of the haunted house, of which occurrence neither the
Si medium or any of the sitters had any knowledge, and about which they
(i will make inquiries.
Mr. J. J. Morse in the Provinces.—Mr. Morse has been delivering
Si a series of trance addresses in Chester-le-Street, Ouston, and North
([ Pelton during the last ten days. The meetings wei’e well attended,
)| and deep interest was manifested. On Sunday last, June 25th, Mr.
Si Morse delivered two trance addresses in the old County-court Rooms,
\\ Halifax. The audiences were large and attentive on each occasion.
)j In the evening Mr. John Culpan, of Bradford, presided. On Sunday
Si next, July 2nd, Mr. Morse will speak afternoon and evening under
! si spirit influence, in the Freemasons’-hall, Weir’s-court, Newgate-street,
i)! Newcastle-on-Tyne. The adjourned conference of the North of England
i Si Spiritualists’ central committee will meet at 10.30 a.m. Mr. Morse’s
i(i other engagements are—Rochdale, July 9th; Glasgow, July 10th;
i)i. Halifax, July 23; Wolverhampton, July 24th ; Manchester, July 30th ;
iSi Newcastle, August 6th; Ossett, August 13th; Bishop Auckland,
i\i August 20th; Saltburn-by-the-Sea, August 22nd.- Societies desiring
iSi to engage Mr. Morse’s services are requested to address him, for terms
i 0 and dates, at Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E,
312
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 30, 1876.
A SEANCE WITH MR. COLMAN.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
On Thursday evening, last week, I called at Mrs. Wood-
forde's, 90, Great Russell-Street, London, and found herself
and another lady about to hold a seance, with Mr. Arthur
Colman as medium; they kindly invited me to remain to
witness the manifestations. As all present were well ac¬
quainted with the manifestations ordinarily obtained at
stances, I asked the spirits if they would try to do something
new.
Two or three years ago letters were carried by spirits back¬
wards and forwards between Baron Kirkup, of Florence,
and his daughter, who resided about a hundred miles from
that town. They were conveyed with considerable velocity, as
recorded by the Baron in the pages of The Spiritualist The
letters were carried through the mediumship of one or two
members of Baron Kirkup’s family, no stranger or visitor
being present. A few months ago it was suggested in these
pages that it would be a good thing if English mediums
would sit for this manifestation, so that it might become
common, and prove another death-blow to the psychic force
or x force explanation of spiritual phenomena.
The two well-known mediums—Mr. Eglinton and Mr.
Colman—have been trying to develope this most valuable
manifestation. Last Thursday evening we sat in the dark
at first. Mr. Cblman was entranced, and said that he saw
Mr. Eglinton in a dingy little room, through the window of
which a village street and a great hill beyond were visible.
I asked him if he could see a clock or any prominent article
of furniture in the room, in order to get from him minute
details relating to a tangible object about which he could not
have anticipated being questioned. He said that he did not
see any of the objects in the room distinctly, and that when
he spoke to Mr. Eglinton, the latter did not answer j appa¬
rently he could neither see nor hear him.
At this dark sitting, at exactly half-past eight o’clock,
the following letter, in Mr. Eglinton’s handwriting, was
pushed into the hand of Mrs. Woodforde:—
Timberscombe, Dunster, Somersetshire.
Thursday evening, eight o’clock.
To Mrs. Woodforde and friends assembled:—
By request of Joey, myself and friends staying with me here have
been requested to have a sitting, as Joey has promised to take the-letter
I am now writing to your circle. The weather here is lovely, and the.
place seems so spiritual and pure that I do not care to leave it. I feel
much benefited by the change, and hope when I get home again (pro¬
bably two months) that I may be in such health and strength as to work
at my mission unceasingly. With kind regards,—I remain, truly yours,
Willie Eglinton.
On tbe back of the letter was the following note :—
“ This was placed on a table in dark 10 min. past eight; witness, Mrs.
W. Davis.”
The last short sentence is in the handwriting of the me¬
dium, and not that of the witness ; furthermore, if I remem¬
ber rightly, Mrs. Davis is an intimate friend of the medium.
I do not for one moment throw doubt upon the integrity of
either, but, viewing the facts in a critical spirit, point out
for future guidance that a phenomenon of this kind, of such
an unbelievable nature, and of such great importance to
the world, requires the most unanswerable kind of veri¬
fication. As Messrs. Eglinton and Colman proceed with
their attempts to develope this important manifestation, any
letters carried should be written at the seance itself by
strangers to the medium, preferably by some well-known
and responsible witness. The exact time, the date, and the
address should always be written on the letter which is to
be carried, and directly it is received at another circle the
witnesses present should endorse the document, inserting
thereon the time and date of receipt, signed by their respec¬
tive names, with addresses.
Afterwards I asked Mr. Colman if he would sit in subdued
light at one corner of the room, with his back turned towards
the observers, and his hands fastened behind him by his
coat sleeves being sewed together at the wrists. The spirits
were requested, under these conditions, to let us see the
spirit hands and arms coming off, and returning to the hands
and arms of the medium. It has been proved in many
instances that the materialised hands and arms which pro¬
duce cabinet manifestations, have been duplicates of the
|| hands, arms, and coat sleeves of the medium coming off
| from them and returning to them with great rapidity, yet
| at the close of the seance the hands of the medium are
| found bound, sewed, and sealed exactly as at first. I wished
i the experiment already stated to be tried, in order to ascer-
I tain whether the real hands and sleeves of the medium
I were visible, while duplicates of them were busy in front of
| him ; or whether they became unvisible, and by some mys-
| terious process returned instantaneously to their original
| position, appearance, and state of bondage.
The light was not very strong, and the spirits ordered the
| medium to sit partly behind curtains, so as to hide most of
his back except the two hands, and even these were some-
| ! times cut off from view by the curtains. This first attempt
| : therefore gave no special results of a clear nature, but after
m a patient series of trial sittings, the spirits will probably be
jtj able to give the required evidence.
Some interesting materialisations then took place, but as
a room was used instead of a properly constructed cabinet,
| 1 and the medium was not efficiently secured, I do not publish
1 | the somewhat interesting details, although as a matter of
K individual opinion I admit my belief in the integrity in the
| | matter of the medium and everybody present,
j j Merely sewing the sleeves of a coat together at the wrists
m has been proved by Mr. Bird, of Brixton, to furnish no proof
I j that a medium may not be freed by natural means inside a
j I cabinet. He found that the very fact of a sleeve being
] | sewed down enabled him by some little wrenching to first
j j get his one arm free from the sleeve, and then the other arm
| | from the other sleeve, next to free himself from the coat alto-
j ; gether. It was much easier to get into the coat again than
| | to get out of it. If, after a medium’s coat sleeves have
! | been sewed together at the wrists behind his back, his wrists
! | are tied together with red tape, and the knots sealed with a
m signet ring, the manoeuvre practised by Mr. Bird cannot be
|)j performed.
Mr. Colman and his spirits are very obliging in doing
||| their best to adopt rational suggestions, and these remarks
| I are made not in any degree in a fault-finding spirit, but to
m guide them in their actions in the future, in order that, if
| I possible, they may supply that which the general public
i | require.
j;\fi w» J,; «»} ' ^ • • • • «
(i Seances at Hackney.—At a private family circle in the neighbour-
)! hood of Hackney, the members of which are well known to Spiritualists,
(j some very satisfactory stances being held. The medium, a young
jj lady, obtains what are called materialisations. The spirit, named
| i Lillie, shows herself in good gaslight, and permits the sitters to approach
11 close to and touch her. She positively assures the sitters of her inten-
(I tion to show both herself and the medium in good light very soon. She
)| also exhibits remarkable intelligence in replying to questions, and
)| appears anxious to afford every information in her power. The ulti-
(; mate development of the medial power is promised to be that of in-
)! spirational utterance.
)j Tennyson’s “ Enoch Arden; ” Fealingof Bells (5th s. v. 166, 255).
U —“ Moth ” would feel obliged for references to any authentic accounts of
/j such mysterious sounds as the following, from Eothen ; “I had fallen
(| asleep in the desert,” but “ after awhile,” Mr. Kinglake writes, “ I was
11 gently awakened by a peal of church bells, my native bells, the innocent
j bells of Marlen.” I am myself not much given to dreaming, and I know
(I nothing consciously of delirium tremens, which malady may be the cause
)| of many mysterious sounds and sights; but I make the following con-
'j fession. For many years, at distant intervals of time, my ears have
11 been struck, while sleeping on my pillow, by seemingly admonishing
ij words indistinctly uttered in a female voice that seemed familiar to me.
'j The voice is low and plaintive, and soon, very soon, dies away, as a
j rule; but once, while sleeping in a strange bed at Maidstone (1870), the
>| voice, that came to me late in the night, assumed a very urgent form,
1 and, although the words uttered were too confused for me to understand
,| them, I felt that they were remonstrant and upbraiding, although pitying
11 after all. The voice this time really shook my nerves, and I awoke,
1 i finding myself dashing at the door of the room, which was near the bed-
|j side, and to which spot I thought the voice receded as I followed. But
i all was quiet; not a footstep in the house. I have been revisited by my
jj “voice of monition” several times since the above date. Why the
s: voice is so persistent (although at long intervals) I know not. I am not
) a married man, and know nothing more of curtain lectures than what is
h above recorded. E. H. Malcolm.—Notes and Queries, June 24th.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
J.—We have received some spirit communications signed “ J,” unaccompanied
by the name and address of the contributor.
Received :—The American Socialist (Oneida, N.Y.), June 15th. The Co¬
operative Journal, the official organ of the American Co-operative Union
(Louisville, Kentucky), June 1st.
June 30, 1876.
THE SPIEITUALIST.
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. Gd.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, ISs.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEAROHESINTHEPHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, s by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published, to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism. 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume's “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANOHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. Gd.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I ? Yol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton- 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. Ring. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—^"Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man m the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. Gd.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mounlford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supematurallsm of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ;Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament ana the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
500 pp. Cloth 10s. Gd.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s Gd.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in " The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinimi that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will he by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
1 through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a;trumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Tala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote Muring the whole
of his life or earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. Gd.; cheap edition,
7s. Gd.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. Gd.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. Gd.
NATTY, A SPIRIT ; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM.MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
• By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. Gd. ‘
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth.
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. Gd.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s Gd.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. Gd.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. Gd.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. Gd.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), Gd.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), Gd.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. Gd.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. Gd.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. Gd.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. Gd.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF.MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. Gd.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. Gd.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. Gd.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 16s.
THE TWO WORLDS,by Brevier. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. Gd.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. Gd.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s, Gd.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, Gd.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. Gd.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. Gs.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. Gd.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. Gs.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. Gd.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Bumett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1766. 2s. Gd.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by. the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences, (Pub. at 7s. Gd.) Is.,
The “ Poughkeepsie Sees'."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
~ ■ ii.
nr.
IV. „ . ,
..V. „ . . . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis .
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest . ...
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . .
History and Philosophy of Evil . . •
Harbinger of Health , . . ..... .•
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures . . . . .
s d.
15 o
7 6
7 G
7 G
7 6
7 6
7 6
3 G
7 6
6 0
7 6
2 6
3 6
7 6
2 6
3 G
7 G
6 0
7 G
2 G
3 0
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . - . . 24 u
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spikituaiist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . .... .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A hook containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 o
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . , .60
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 G
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yuu, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.AV Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 G
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 10 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiakc. M. A. . 10 0
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,'
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . .20
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . ., ' 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B.A. . . .,36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . ... . . . . ■ 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.AS
Special edition for Schools . , • , . 10
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
5 Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. II. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each:
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers, is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev
J. Murray Spear, is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard. Gd.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
Gel
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture, is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
AdoRhus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “ There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” Gd.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. Gd.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young Gd.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. Gd.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. R. T.
Halloelc. 2s.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Kepresenting the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H, Harrison, Spritudlist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Kussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business, are not in any way connected with each
other.]
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the •
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S.: Colby and Bich. London Spirit-
uali*i Office.
SPIRITUAL SCIENTIST, of Boston, Mass.,
lO TJ.S.A. The most faithful and impartial exponent of
Spiritualism in America. The title, Spiritual Scientist, clearly
indicates the character of the paper. Unlike all other
Spiritual journals, it gathers from the great authors of ancient
time the fruits of their researches into the secrets of nature
and the laws of the Spiritual Universe. On the Occult
Sciences it has many able contributors, and solicits correspon¬
dence.
Published weekly. Scientist Pub. Co., publishers. E. Gerry
Brown, Editor. Office's, 18, Exchange-street, and 24, Devon-
shire-street. The Scientist is now in its fourth volume. Terms
of subscription, in advance, 13s. per annum, including postage.
Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 38, Great Kussell-street,
London, W.C.
Price 5s.
IRELAND: UR OF THE CHALDEES.
London: Triibner and Co., Ludgate Hill.
Reviewers’ Criticisms.
“Irishmen ought to read this work and be proud. It is
crammed with learning which does credit to the research of
the writer."—Christian World.
“ The somewhat startling proposition contained in the title
of this work can hardly fail to interest a considerable number
of readers, and for those who may be inclined to take the woik
in hand, we may briefly state that the line of argument pur¬
sued is intended to show that the Chaldeans, the Hebrews,
and the Celts are identical, the summary given at the close
being that ‘the Arphaxadite Chaldeans were the progenitors
of the Hebrew Chaldeans, and differ only in name from the
first Gaels.’ The subject is carefully dealt with. The various
arguments are well arranged, and a large amount of corrobora¬
tive evidence is adduced in support of them, the value of which
many will be glad to test.”—Rock.
Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about animal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there us
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, 4d. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
. Three copies post free for 6d.
The writings of emanuel Sweden¬
borg. DO THEY ENCOURAGE ADULTERY AND
ITS KINDRED VICES ? By Thomas Robinson.
Also other works by the same Author.
Address—H. Barlow and Son, Stationers, Ac., Oldham-road,
Newtonheath, near Manchester.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND
IO EFFECTS, by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. A review
of this pamphlet appeared in the March number of The
Spiritual Magazine of this year. May be had at the Branch
Office of The Spiritualist Newspaper, 38, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.O. Price 6d., post free, 7d.
THE HOME FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C.
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of tbe Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Home, on the principle of a private
Boarding House. It is conveniently located for the principal
railways,' and is in the very area of the spiritual movement.
Its arrangements have been designed with a special view to
the requirements of Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance
Manager—Mrs. a. o. burke.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. BENJAMIN
COLEMAN.
COMMITTEE
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Welwyn, Herts.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
William Howitt, Esq., Rome, Italy.
S. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A., 50, Holland-street, Kensington.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington
Charles Blackburn. Esq., Didsbury, Manchester.
W. M. Wilkinson, Esq., 44, Lincoln’s-inn-flelds.
A. A. Watts, Esq., 119, Lansdowne-road, Notting-hill, W
S. Chinnery, Esq., 142, Strand, London, W.C.
J. Enmore Jones, Esq., Enmore-park, S.E.
C. Townsend Hook, Esq., Snodland, Rochester, Kent.
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq., Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Cornelius Pearson, Esq., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury.
William Tebb, Esq., 7, Albert-road, Gloucoster-gate, Regent’s-
park.
A. Leighton, Esq., 16, South Castle-street, Liverpool.
James Wason, Esq., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Queen-street, Grosvenor-square.
Mrs. Tebb, 7, Albert-road, Regen t’s-park, N.W.
Thomas Hayle, Esq., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Thomas Shorter, Esq., 23, Prince of Wales-road, N.W.
Jacob Dixon, Esq., M.D.. 8 Great Ormond-street, W.C,
W. H. Harrison, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
W. C. Copperthwaite, Esq., Malton, Yorkshire.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S., 2, Great Winchester-street-
buildings, E.C.
The Hon. J. O’Sullivan, late U.S. Minister to the Court of
Portugal, 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Hay Nisbet, Esq., 219, George-street; Glasgow.
Mrs. Hamilton, York-place, Portman-square.
John Lament, Esq., Finfield, Liverpool.
Thomas Slater, Esq., 19, Leamington-road-villas, Westboiune-
park.
Andrew Glendinning, Esq., 4, Castledine-road, Anerly, S.E
W. J. Williams, Esq., Clarence Club, Waterloo-place, S.W.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Boston, U.S.A.
Subscriptions, which will be duly acknowledged, may be
forwarded to the Bon. Treasurer, Alexander Calder, Esq , 1,
Hereford-square, South Kensington, S,W.; or to the Hon
Sec., A. Joy, Esq., 69, Great Russell-street, W.C.
The following sums have been already subscribed:—
A Friend         £50 0 0
Charles Blackburn, Esq   60 0 0
A. V. H      30 0 0
Martin R. Smith, Esq.     25 0 0
Alexander Calder, Esq  25 0 0
William Tebb, Esq :    25 0 0
A. L. Elder, Esq   25 0 0
W. M. Wilkinson, Esq  20 0 0
O. v. Hoffmann  20 0 0
James Wason, Esq    20 0 0
Friends at St. Petersburg   19 7 6
Friends at Glasgow, per H. Nisbet, Esq.    10 16 0
Thomas Grant, Esq.    10 10 0
A Friend    10 10 0
Mrs. St. Claire    10 0 0
W. J. Williams, Esq   10 0 0
Two Friends and Neighbours   10 0 0
W. Cl Copperthwaite, Esq   10 0 0
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq  10 0 0
Alexander Tod, Esq  10 0 0
J. Ridley, Esq •••  10 0 0
Mrs. Hamilton      10 0 0
Mrs. Daun ........a .'   10 0 0
T. J. Allman, Esq    10 0 0
Mrs. Hennings     5 5 0
Mrs. Berry     5 5 0
J. Y. Vernon, Esq V  6 5 0
W. H. Harrison, Esq     5 0 0
C. Townsend Hook, Esq....     5 0 0
William Howitt, Esq    5 0 0
Enmore Jones, Esq  5 0 0
A. A. Watts, Esq  5 0 0
Mrs. Watts     5 0 0
Walter Weldon, Esq    5 0 0
P. G   5 0 0
M. G. S     6 0 0
C. F. Varley, Esq      5 0 0
J. H. D    5 0 0
F. Griffin, Esq.       500
Sir Charles Isham, Bart    6 0 0
J. S. Law, Esq.   5 0 0
Friend, per Mrs. Vernon  3 3 0
G. de Liagre     3 3 0
C. Pearson, Esq.....  3 3 0
Miss Clark   3 0 0
S. O. Hall, Esq  2 2 0
John Marshall, Esq     2 2 0
C. Stephens, Esq  2 2 0
Dr. R. Baikie     2 2 0
F       2 2 0
Rev. W. Whitear       2 2 0
Miss Whitear        2 2 0
Thomas Scott, Esq    2 2 0
D. G.'Fitzgerald, Esq    2 2 0
Miss Watts    2 2 0
T. Skinner, Esq., M.D    2 2 0
L. J.       2 2 0
T. Shorter, Esq.   2 0 0
M. De Veh       2 0 0
John Lamont, Esq  2 0 0
C. McLean, Esq t  2 0 0
Miss Douglas  2 0 0
J. Hare, Esq, and Friends  2 0 0
Rev. J. Manners      2 0 0
B. B    110
D. H.W    110
A. Glendinning, Esq  110
W. Glynes, Esq    110
J. T. Peele, Esq    110
Dr. C. L. Bobertson     110
Mrs. S. Dickson   110
Regnum     110
Friend, per T. Hajle, Esq  110
F. A. Binney, Esq  1 1 0
W. W  110
J. Swinburne, Esq. ...,  110
J. Gledstanes, Esq    10 0
Mrs. M. Gregory    10 0
Dr. Hayle.......  10 0
C. P. Carter, Esq      10 0
Mrs. Wiseman    10 0
A. R. Wallace, Esq   10 0
J. C. Eno, Esq      10 0
Baronin V. Vay    0 18 4
C. Parsons, Esq      0 10 6
C. C. G.  0 10 0 1
D. S.Vt       0 7 0
June 30, 1876.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
The Second Volume of The Identity of Primitive
Christianity and Modern Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth,
completes the work.
CONTENTS.
I.—Spirit Writing.
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power
III. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV, —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
V.—Clairaudience.
VI.—Dreams and Visions
VII.—Trance and Ecstacy.
VIII.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Contentions.
X.—Prayer.
XI.—The Ministry of Angels.
XII.—Death.
XIII. —The Spirit-World.
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI.—Conclusion.
The above work has just been issued in America, and copies
are now on sale, price 10s. 6d. each, post free 11s. 6d., at Tht
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
By Royal Letters Patent.
“RHINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KBINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK; OR, GUIDE FOR
MEDIUMS AND FOR EVOCATION. Containing the
Theoretic Teaching of Spirits concerning all kinds of manifes¬
tations, &c., &c. By Allan Kardec. Translated by Anna
Blackwell. Crown 8vo, pp. 476, cloth, 7s. 6d.
REYUE SPIRITS, Journal d etudes psycho-
logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the SocUtl
Anonyme, 7. Rue de Lille. Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
The eeligio-philosophical
JOURNAL is a large eight-page weekly paper, an
able exponent of Modem Spiritualism. Established in 1865.
Now in its twentieth volume. Published every Saturday by
the Religio-Philosophical Publishing House, Chicago, Illinois.
The regular price is 15s. per year, at which price thousands of
old subscribers welcome it each week as the best visitor they
have. Sample copy, 3d. Address, S. S. Jones, Editor, Chicago,
111.
THE FOOD QUESTION. — Manifesto and
Publications of the Vegetarian Society sent free to any
address on receipt of post card. Secretary, 91, Oxford-street,
Manchester.
npHE ALPHA; OR, THE FIRST PRINCIPLE
OF THE HUMAN MIND; A Revelation, but no Mystery,
with Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait of the Author
E. N. Dennys. “We can call to mind few books fit to be its
fellows.”—Athenaeum. “It contains more truth, poetry,
philosophy, and logic, than any work we have ever read;
it is a new revelation, and one of the most remarkable produc¬
tions ever given to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
Also just published, with a beautiful Engraving of the Author
470 pages, on toned paper, handsomely bound, price 3s. 6d.
TPHE RELIGION OF LIFE, AS EXEM-
JL PLIFIED BY THE MAN JESUS CHRIST, a Series of
Lectures, by the author of “ Alpha.” A synopsis of the topics
may be obtained free on application.
CONTENTS:—What is Evil? Charity; Poverty—its Evils
and its Mission; The Divinity that Dwells in Man; The Church
of the Future; “Stand up! I myself also am a Man;" The
Path of Righteousness; Trust in God; Self-Trust; What is
Christianity? Thy Kingdom Come! What is Man ? The “ one
thing” desired by tbe Psalmist; Pure Religion; Philosophy;
The Childhood of Jesus; Religious Liberty; Election and
Grace; Time; Sin; Law the Regenerator; The Last Judg¬
ment ; God is not Mocked; The Unchristian Character of
Riches ; Peace; Religion Consists in Action; The Millennium,
and how to obtain it.
The work is also published in nine parts, eight at 4d. each
and one at 6d., done up in neat wrappers.
“THE UNCHRISTIAN CHARACTER OF RICHES” and
“RELIGION CONSISTS IN ACTION” are also published
separately at Id. each.
*** The cordial aid of the friends of education, intellectual
progress, and religious liberty is earnestly solicited to make
these works as widely known as possible. They contain the
most important of all knowledge, by a deep and original
thinker, and will be supplied at cost price for extensive circu¬
lation. They have been brought out in a variety of forms to
suit the means of all classes of readers.
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holbom,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
