AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
fBEGISTERED FOB TBANSMISSION ABBOAD.]
No. 173.—(Vol. YII.—No. 25.) LONDON: DECEMBER 17,1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
©{intents.
Enlargement and Improvement of The Spiritualist  289
Changes in Spiritualism in Great Britain  ... 289
EevlewsFairy Life in Fairy Land—Buddhism and Christianity ... 289
Spiritualism in Birmingham:—Mr. E. Harper on the Progress of
Spiritualism in Birmingham—National Organisation of British
Spiritualists—The Persecution of M. Leymarie—Taxation with ■
and without Bepresentation—Mr. Morse's Experiences in America
•—Presentation of a Testimonial   290
Manifestations with the Fakirs in India. No. IY. By Dr. Maximilian
Perty    ^  293
Transactions of the National Association of'Spiritualists:—Meeting
of the Council—New Members—Financial Statement—The Pub¬
lication of Transactions—Mr. Bobert Dale Owen—A Seance by
Mr. Morse—The Forthcoming Bazaar in Birmingham—Gifts to
the Brixton and Liverpool Psychological Societies—Closing of
■ the National Association Booms at Christmas—Winter Meetings
of the National Association—Provincial Work in Spiritualism—
The Monthly Soirees—Spiritualism in Islington   294
Spiritualism in Dalston   ... 295
Poetry:—Spirit Poetry    ...    296
Correspondence:—The Spiritual Scientist and Mrs. Huntoon—Female
Suffrage; Spiritualism in America; Spirit Photography; Popular
Errors with Begard to Spiritualism—Present of Books—Help for
Mrs. J. W. Jackson—The Career of Allan Hardee—Prayers for
the Dead—Spirit Photography in Naples; Departure of the
Davenport Brothers for India and Australia   296
Provincial mows:—Southampton, Clairvoyance Extraordinary—iVeto-
castle, Newcastle Spiritualist Society—Portsmouth—Birmingham-*
Liverpool, Sunday Services ; Visit of Mr. Herne '  298
The Persecution of Spiritualists in Paris:—Action of English
Spiritualists in M. Leymarie’s Case   299
Answers to Correspondents    300
Paragraphs:—National Assoeiation Library, 295; A New Year’s
Gathering. 295; Winter Meetings of the National Association,
300; Mr. Morse in the Provinces, 300; Spiritualism in Islington... 300
IT^AST LONDON SPIRITUAL MEETINGS. — LEC-
Li TUBES giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Booms, 15, St.
Peter's-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions. ‘
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Beakers fob 1875.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.—Mr. Lewis Roberts, 68, Oxford Street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitchman, Messrs. John Priest.
B. Casson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jonos, J. Haslam, E. G,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable,
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
T3IRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
B J Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Foub per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British. Foreign, ana Colonial Bonds Stocks
Shares, <fcc., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock. •!'
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
 ; FRANCIS BAVENSCROFT, Manager.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOYEB PLACE, REGENT'S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Eas a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, and
umbrellas. ■. i
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
38, GREAT BUSSELL-SBEET, BLOOMSBUBY,
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected with Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
in addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
A Seance, room can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on Saturdays.
N.B.—The Subscription for the Current Year, 1876, will not be
CLAIMED FROM MEMBERS JOINING AFTER THIS DATE.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS
WINTER MEETINGS.
During the winter months meetings will be held at the rooms of the
Association for reading and discussing papers on Spiritualism and kindred
topics. They will commence on Monday, November 22nd, at eight o'clock,
and be held fortnightly till Christmas, and afterwards as may be found
convenient. Friends having papers to communicate are requested to send
them at an early date to the secretary, at 33, Great Bussell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.C.
In the Press and will be shortly published in one volume, handsomely got
up, and printed on toned paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY OF THB
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an Angel in the
tenth state.
Contents.
Chap, 1.—TheUnity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
„ 3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences in the
Spiritual world,
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God.
„ 6.—The purpose of God in creation.
„ 6.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
„ 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
,, 8.—The Planets Saturn and Ceres,
„ 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
,, 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
,, 11.—The Lost Orb. Parti.
„ 12.—The Angelic Society of Aaron's Bod.
„ 13.—The Lost Orb. Part II.
,, 14.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ 15.—The Lost Orb. Part III.
„ 16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an account of the
Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby, with her experiences in the
other lifo. up through the states to the tenth in which she is now in, and
communicates as the Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a full account
concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo printed, of the
Angel, the original of which was produced by the direct operation of
Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjects treated of being of such a
thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense to make it a handsome
volume, and not being published with any regard to profit, it is hoped that
a large circulation may be obtained.
Price of tho volume 6s., and an early application is requested in the mean¬
time, to be addressed—
MR. T. GASKELL, 69, OLDHAM-EOAD, MANCHESTER;
MB. F. PITMAN, PATEBNOSTEE-ROW, LONDON; AND
MR. W. H. HARRISON, 38, GREAT RUS8ELL-ST., LONDON, W.O
who have kindly consented to receive orders for the same.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney. Third Edition. Price 8s.
London:—Simbkin, Marshall & Co.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate description
of manifestations recently produced by spirits, and simultaneously
witnessed by the Author and other observers in London. By William H.
Harrison. Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.C.; and E. W. Allen, 11, Aye Maria-lane, Pater¬
noster-row, E.C,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 17, 1875.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-vlllas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-vllla, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambrldpre-street, Hyde-park, w.
Groporv, Mrs Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedfofd-hlll, Balham, S.W.
I-litchman, William, M.lt.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq., Tjlverpool.
Hollywood, Mrs., S3, Warwick-square, S.W.
.Tencken, Henry I)., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46. Bryanston-sqnare, W.
Smith, Martin R.. Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Tcinpleman, Ai.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-road, Elnch-
ley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Helper.
Armfiold, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., I, King Edward-stroet, Liver pool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F- A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow.
Ghapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Ohinnerv, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holiand-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Yue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, BjA., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury.
Cooper, It., Vionna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Orasland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-pnrk-road, Blnckhoath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 80, Campdeh-hill-gardens, Kensington, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlnam-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., 28, Portland-place, Reading.
Edmonds, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Evcritt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-vilia, Iloldor’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Eitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheatham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North Brlxton,S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D.. G., 6. Loughhorough-road, North Brixton, S.VV.
Freeman, Joseph, 6,Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberf'orce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham. ♦
Hit vie, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hindo, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, 11. T., 3, West-end. Doddington-grovc, Kennington-park, S,E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isliam, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
James. Capt.,1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M I C.E , Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 8, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 8, < jT “ I’ll Hammersmith, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Riohmond-terrace, B reck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C.T., M.R.C.S., 19, Nottingham-place, York-gate, Regent’s-pk.,N.W,
Pcarco, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, E. Dawson. 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, 2, Hcndon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M A.,LL.D., &e., 17, Trafalgar-road ,Oid Kent-road, S E,
Shepherd, J.,29, Evcrton-crescent, Liverpool.
Sluirt, Rev. W. F,, J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-squarc, W.
Snelltng, G. F., Oamdcn-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbrldge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Oentrai-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., Anuandalc, Central-hill. Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood. S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Miidmay-iiark, N.
Theobald Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Fcrnslde, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Leo, S.E.
AVedgwood, Hensleigh, 81, Queen Anne-strect, Cavendish-square, W.
AVhitc, J. Shadwell, Leeds.
AV’iison, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pail Mall, S W., and
3, Altenburg-terrace, Ciapham Junction, S.W.
AViseman, Mrs., 1, Onnc-square, Bayswater. W.
Withall, Miss II., 1, The Elms, St. Johu’s-road, Brixton, S.AAr.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.AV.
Wood, Mrs. Bedford House, Cariyle-squarc, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, AYimblcdon-ecmmon, SW.‘
Honorary Secretarr/.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislinghury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, AV.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile do Sayn AVjttgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Alde-de-Camp
General de S.M.1.1’Empereur de Russie, Nioder VValluf on the Rhine,near
AViesbaden.
■Vhmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rasslm Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou, Constanti¬
nople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adeima Von Aray,.Gonobltz, bei Potsohach, Styria,via Gratz,
Austria.
General Don Joaqulm Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, Nevsky Prospect
6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue dos Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York ; U S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co , New Jersey, U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Behoea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 206, West 38th Street, New York, U.S.A.
A. J. Kiko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerrnan, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 4, ViuMorone, Milan, Italy.
Dr. Maxmllian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Borne, Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg University, Germany.
AV. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr, W. II. Terry, 96, Kussell-street,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq.,Nurnberger Strasse, 85, Gartenhaus, Leipsic.
AV. fi Terry, Esq,, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarle, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq , M D., 634, Raoe-streot, Philadelphia, U.S.A,
E. Crowell, Esq.,M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. Li Ditson, Esq., M D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
AY. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 18, Rue d’Acnieres, Pails.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Mem phis, Tennessee. U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassomplerre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de FUnlon, 67, Rue du Midi, Brussels.
Lteut.-Ool. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test. Esq., Ml)., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O'Sullivan, Esq , 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-plaqe,.Boston, U.S.A.
Mdllo. Huet, 173, Rue St.Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. N«hrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. AV. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. Lewis Roberts,
68, Oxford-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirits et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121, Rue de
Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec H. E. Frances, Esq., 22,
Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton Prochaszka
Josefstadt, Erzherzog, Alexander-gasse, 23, Buda-Pesth, Hungaryt
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The Beitish N ational Association op Spiritualists is formed to unite Spirit¬
ualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit to aid students
and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal the means of syste¬
matic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic; to
make known the positive results arrived at by careful researeli: and to direct
attention to the beneficial influence which those results are calculated to exercise
upon social relationships and individual conduct. It is intended to include Spi
ritualists of every class, whether members of Local and Provincial Societies or not,
and all inquirers into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year 1873,
at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, at which all the great
Societies of Spiritualists, and the Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United
Kingdom, were represented. The amount of the annual subscription to the
National Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year. Each
member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is eligible for election to all
offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wishing to become
allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at
the offices of the Association, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, AV.C., of whom
conies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Wohurn-street.
Mil. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb's Con¬
duit-street, on Monday and Thursday evenings; and Saturday evenings,
for Spiritualists only ; at 8 o’clock each evening. Address as above.
IVCRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
JlTJa. MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 10, Now Ormond-street, Bloomsbury.
OROFESSOR REGAN, PSYCHOPATHIC
-l HEALER, wishes to make known, by desire of his Spirit Phy¬
sicians, who cure through him, in his normal state, that having been de¬
veloped by them into a powerful healing medium, and at the same time, by
a course of deep study, acquiring a practical knowledge of tbe philosophy
of disease, and its rationale of cure, he is now prepared to examine, treat,
and euro patients, suffering from all kinds of acute, chronic, nervous, and
organic disease of long years’ standing. Consultations and invaluable
treatment given at his own house, or at patient's residence, by appoint¬
ment. Visitors received at his Consulting-rooms from 12 to 4 daily. Fee,
Odo Guinea. Address, 59, Finborough-road, Jttedoliffe-gardens, South
Kensington.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIYE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street,
Hampstead-road, London, N.W, To be seen by appointment only. Terms
on application by letter.
R. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL TRANCE
SPEAKER, has returned to England, and is now prepared to re¬
ceive calls as usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow,
London, E,
TUTOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER, Professor
-L v of Curative Mesmerism (80 Years Established), attends patients
daily* from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden -
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of ’diseases,
indication cf their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
mHE BOY MEDIUMS.—Bamford Brothers, Physical
-8_ Mediums, will give Seances as followsOn Monday and Wednesday
evenings, at 7 o’clock p.m., admission 2s. 6d.; on Saturday evenings, at
7, Is. 26, Pool-street, Sutton, Macclesfield.
% 1|$m^ Up yrugrm uij ||l
V0LUJV1E ^EYEJNf. |S[UJVIBER TWENTY-FIVE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 17th, 1876.
ENLARGEMENT AND IMPROVEMENT OF
THE SPIRITUALIST.
At the beginning of next year The Spiritualist news¬
paper will be enlarged and improved, and it is hoped
that the journal in its new form will be felt to be cal¬
culated to add to the prestige of English Spiritualism.
The increase in the circulation for a long time past has
been such as to justify the step about to be taken. This
journal has long been the recognised organ of educated
English Spiritualists, and the intelligence and experience
of its contributors, among whom are included all the
chief pioneers of the movement in this country, have
given rise to a large foreign demand, so that these
pages are extensively read and quoted by Spiritualists
of high standing in foreign countries. Not a few of
the leading families of Europe are among its readers,
and its articles are liberally quoted in the various
journals devoted to Spiritualism in all parts of the
world, more especially iif Grermany and America. This
standpoint has not been reached without many years of
hard work, and in the future, as in the past, the
attempt will be made to fill these pages with literature
of permanent value. There is little doubt that our
readers will be well pleased with the new appearance
these pages will present at the beginning of January.
The step ought to be encouraged by an accelerated
influx of new subscribers, by our present contributors
taking two copies per week instead of one, and by
provincial and other Spiritualists taking care that local
reading-rooms, public libraries, and newspapers are
freely presented with specimens.
; CHANGES IN SPIRITUALISM IN GREAT BRITAIN.
At the present time, both in Loudon and in the
country, there are visible marks of a process of separa¬
tion going on between educated and uneducated Spirit¬
ualists, so far as organised actiop. is concerned. In
London, attempts to promote dissension by broadcast mis¬
representation have had little effect because everybody
is tolerably well aware of the actual facts, so the separa¬
tion arises from a more deeply rooted cause. The same
division seems to he going on elsewhere, and wo do not
see that any power on earth can prevent it. In Dalston,
for instance, some few Spiritualists once separated, with¬
out any quarrel, from the local society there, and formed
a new one in the immediate neighbourhood—the reason
apparently being that people of different orders of
thought do not feel so comfortable in each other’s pre¬
sence as they do in the company of those with whom
they are entirely in sympathy. Perhaps it is as well that
this should be so, and that we should all agree to differ.
When once all the present incongruous elements have
settled down into harmonious groups, each working in
its own way, it is to be hoped that the sections will all
assist each other, and, like a bouquet of summer flowers,
form a more pleasing combination than would be the
case if all the parts were characterised by absolute
uniformity.
Fairy Life and Fairy Land. L. Booth, 307, Regent-
street, London.
This work is a lyric poem, said to be communicated
by Titania, through her secretary, Thomas of Ercil-
doune, sometimes called “ Thomas the Rhymer.” It is
a revelation of fairy life, in which the chief characters
bear the traditional names of Oberon, Titania, Puck,
and others, but are represented as a superior order of
beings, living in a sphere near to our earth, to which
they migrated from some other planet or asteroid.
Among them dwells “ Thomas the Rhymer,” who holds
an intermediary place between fairies and men ; he in¬
structs the fairies in the knowledge of earth-life, and
receives, by the help of Titania, the power to help and
influence men.
The scenery of fairyland, which is described with
great vividness, is, as the author avers in the preface,
a true picture of the grand and lovely country around
Cintra, in Portugal. The minute descriptions of the
domes and pinnacles, terraces and arches, of the palaces
of Montserrat are said to be taken from life, and are
strikingly beautiful; also the gardens with their wealth
of palms and tree-ferns, daturas,camellias, and begonias.
At the fairy festivals there is much discourse about
man’s power of communion with spirits, and of the
charge of certain spirits over the animal and vegetable
world. There are the flower-spirits, who lend a sort
of conscious life to the plant; and when Puck is sent to
gather a fern-plant, Titania enjoins upon him :—
See thou minister tenderly, .
For not all unconscious she,
But trembles in that marvellous frame,
Sense perplexed of doubtful dream.
The poem abounds in pretty conceits of this kind,
but its chief merit consists in the descriptions of the
exquisite scenery of the land of Gintra, which, as the
prologue says,Byron alone has glanced at,” atid
“ Conde de Garrett, the much-esteemed Portuguefe
poet, only cursorily celebrated.” The book is handsomely
printed, and its pages are appropriately illustrated by
two or three photographs of places described in the.
poem.
Buddhism and Christianity. Remarks on the opinions
of the Right Rev. Bishop Claughton on Buddhism.
By a Sceptic. J. Burns, 15, Southampton-row.
The writer of this pamphlet informs us that his pro¬
fession is not that of an author, but that ho u thinks it
the duty of every man who, after inquiry, feels that he
has advanced nearer the truth, to publish his opinions,
and at the same time to draw the attention of the
public to the fallacies of those who pretend to guide
mankind.” Ho then, proceeds to show that the un¬
favourable opinion which tho bishop has formed of
Buddhism in comparison with Christianity is due, first,
by the Bishop’s own showing, tojiis lordship’s superfi-
S90
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Deo. 17, 1875. *
cial acquaintance with the subject; secondly, to his
standpoint as a prelate of the Anglican Church, which
regards all religions outside itself as false, and tending
to immorality. The*! writer further shows how both
the Buddhism and Christianity of to-day alike differ
from the original teachings of their respective founders,
and points out the popular errors respecting Budd¬
hist belief into which the right reverend Bishop has
fallen; for example, as regards Nirvana, which he
interprets as nothingness, or annihilation, whereas it
really means the state of repose at which the soul
arrives after being completely purified from matter.
As to the low state of Buddhist morality, which the
Bishop ascribes to the falsity of religious belief, the
writer cannot forbear comparing it with the Christian
morality, as reflected in our daily newspapers, both in
England and America. The priesthood again offers
another point of contrast, and the writer remarks that,
whereas the unsophisticated Buddhist priests may be
seen carrying out the injunctions of their founder to the
very letter, the Christian priesthood, in its love of
power and wealth, and its imperious spirit, besides the
dissensions which characterise it, acts in direct contra¬
diction to the spirit of its Master; and its arrogance in
assuming that it alone holds “ the truth ” is the more
manifest, since it has been forced to alter its interpre¬
tations of Scripture, step by step, to meet the require¬
ments of modern science. After a few extracts from
the Buddhist sacred writings, conveying high moral
teaching, the writer sums up by contrasting the results
of the two religions, in which he shows how much
remains to be done before Christianity can claim the
position of superiority assumed for it “ as leader of
Spiritual, as it undoubtedly is of material, progress.”
The style of this little book is clear and trenchant, and
we heartily commend it to the perusal of all inde¬
pendent thinkers.
SPIRITUALISM IN BIRMINGHAM.
On Thursday evening, last week, a meeting of Birmingham
Spiritualists was held in one of the committee rooms of the Tem¬
perance Hall in that town. All the sitting and standing space in
the room was occupied on the occasion, so that the promoters of
the meeting were unable to issue tickets to all who applied for them.
The proceedings began with a tea provided byMrs. Aaron Franklin,
Mrs. Kendrick, and other ladies, after which the chief business of
the evening commenced, under the presidency of Mr. R. Harper.
MR. R. HARPER ON THE PROGRESS OP SPIRITUALISM IN
BIRMINGHAM. '
The President said : It is desired that a portion of the evening
shall be devoted to the relation of the recollections of some of the
friends present of the rise and progress of Spiritualism in Birming¬
ham. At the present time there are certain causes for congratula¬
tion and for dissatisfaction—dissatisfaction because Spiritualism in
Birmingham does not show that intensity and fulness which it
would if it came to the front; the two lectures delivered by Mr.
Morse on the last two evenings form a marvellous illustration of the
benefit which might be received if the Spiritualists of Birmingham
clung together, so I am sorry for those who were not present to
listen to such admirable discourses, the number of Spiritualists in
this town being out of proportion to the number of those who at¬
tended the meetings. Those meetings were like the Balaclava
charge: they were grand in themselves but somebody has blundered,
and the results have been insignificant. Fourteen ypars ago I
believe I was the fortunate or unfortunate individual who brought
Spiritualism to this town from London, but before that I had had
twelve years of materialism and atheism, until a cousin of mine
showed me that she had medial powers, and afterwards took me to
see the two Mrs. Marshalls,where I investigated the manifestations
until I was convinced that they were true. After that I narrated
my experiences to Mr. Underwood and to others in this town. Next
Mrs. Mary Marshalfuame to Birmingham fof two days for £14, and
the manifestations produced a powerful effect upon the public here,
as some twenty-four of the hardest-headed men in Birmingham
attended her seances; among those present were editors, literary
characters, clergymen, and so on. They were all seriously puzzled,
and one of the conclusions they came to shows the utter credulity
of incredulitywriting had been done under a table, and certainly
without human hands, in a good light, while the hands of the medium
and those of all the sitters were distinctly visible on the top of the
table ; one gentleman who thought he could detect a trick changed
the pencil just before the manifestations begun, placing a blue pencil
under the table instead of a black one. The paper came up in a
short time with blue writing upon it; the witnesses not knowing
what to make of the circumstance, at last expressed their conviction
that Mrs. Marshall had takereoff her Balmoral boots with her feet,
had written the message with her toes, and that she then put on her
boots with her feet, and laced them up again. (Laughter.) At that
time Mrs. Marshall was one of the most powerful rapping
mediums in the world, and while the raps were coming
upon the door of the room, it was suspected that somebody
made them from the outside. Somebody then stood outside the
door, and Mrs. Marshall asked for three raps, which came; the man
outside then popped in his head and said to those inside, “ Did you
do that ?” Next five raps were asked for and five came. A gentle¬
man present then suggested that Mrs. Marshall’s dress should be
kept from contact with the door; this was done, after which not a
rap came, which caused some hubbub and not a little jollification
amongst the spectators, until it was suggested that some ladies
should examine Mrs. Marshall and her dress in another room.
This was done, but no trained monkey or machinery could be found
about her. Accounts of these seances got into the papers through
a letter sent by Mr. Franklin, who from that time became more
publicly known than anyone else in Birmingham in connection with
the subject of Spiritualism. Very shortly after this Mr. and Mrs.
John Murray Spear from America visited Birmingham; the time of
their visit was about twelve years ago, and the first society of
Spiritualists in this town was. formed under their auspices. I was
“ off the road ” then for three years, and became president of the
society. During those three years there was more vitality in
Spiritualism here than any other town in the kingdom. We had
meetings every night in the week; indeed, sometimes two were
going on in different rooms at the same time; we had a well-
organised set of arrangements. All the sitters had to attend punc¬
tually ; chairs were placed and kept for them, duly numbered, and
the phenomena obtained under these orderly conditions were among
the best I have seen anywhere, and at any time. (Applause.) Since
then the ball has rolled along more or less smoothly, and of late
years rather sub rosa. We have had public campaigns for a few
months together, now and then, and at the present time there are
certainly between three and five hundred Spiritualists in Birming¬
ham, though many of them are not willing to say so. Some few of
them are clergymen, others are members of churches. I am pleased
to tell you that Mr. Harrison, of The Spiritualist newspaper, has
come from London to attend this meeting, and we shall all be glad
to hear a few words from him.
Mr. W. H. Harrison remarked: I am very pleased to see so many
friendly faces here this evening, and whatever town maybe visited,
I find the same characteristics to prevail among Spiritualists; we
are all friendly and genial people, and detest anything in the shape
of artificiality. ’ I think Spiritualists are far more natural in their
ways than other people. During the seven or eight years I have
been connected with the spiritual movement I have made five or six
public speeches in connection therewith, and half of them were not
of more than half-a-minute’s duration. I am more accustomed to
experimenting in the laboratory and to working than I am to talking,
although the latter has its uses and should by no means be under¬
valued. Perhaps, therefore, you will excuse me from making a
speech to-night, unless there is any subject upon which I can
answer questions, or give you information which would bo of
interest.
NATIONAL ORGANISATION OE BRITISH SPIRITUALISTS.
The President said: Will Mr. Harrison oblige us by telling us a
little about the British National Association of Spiritualists, and
wbat steps it intends to take in the future ? I think that subject
will be of much interest to the meeting. (Applause^)
Mr. Harrison replied: Two or three years ago London Spirit¬
ualists had no opportunities of meeting with each other, or of con¬
sulting about what steps should be taken to promote the public
interests of the movement; neither had they any means of putting
their decisions in force. With their liberty thus curtailed concerted
action was impossible, consequently the feeling rapidly grew that
an organisation of Spiritualists, such as exists in nearly every large
provincial Jown, ought also to be formed in the metropolis. The
whole subject came before the National Conference of Spiritualists
held in Liverpool in the year 1873, and it was then unanimously
resolved, not merely that a metropolitan, but a national organisation
shduld be established. The present National Association was the
result, and it ought, of course, to do great things in connection with
Spiritualism in Great Britain; but as it is necessary for everything
to have a beginning, a great deal of hard work, which made little
external show, was carried on by the Council in London in found¬
ing the British National Association of Spiritualists; but all the
work thus1 done has been solid and good. It has all along been felt
that the duties of such an Association extend to the provinces, but
at the same time it was seen to be useless to try to do work in the
country until the Association was firmly established at head quar¬
ters ; this has now been done, and you will all be glad to hear that
in no part of the world is there any establishment connected with
Dec. 17, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
291
Spiritualism equal to that which we have in London. (Applause.)
Friends who have been to the United States have informed me that
neither in Boston nor in New York, nor in any other part, have
Spiritualists such elegant accommodation for visitors, or such a
good library.. The Socidtd Spirite of Paris, the chief national
organisation of Spiritualists in France, has not nearly such good
premises as our own, although the French organisation, being much
older, has been stronger financially; recent events in Paris, how¬
ever, have unfortunately drawn largely upon its funds. The
National Association being now firmly established in London,
intends, I think, to turn its attention to the provinces; I say “ I
think," because I am but a private member of the Association, and
have no right to speak officially on its behalf; I am not even a
member of the Council, and any information which I may give you
is obtained in consequence of my attending the Council meetings to
report them. My opinion, however, is that the Council is about to
direct its attention to the provinces, and what it wishes is, that all
of you who are in favour of combined action and friendly union
among Spiritualists, should enrol yourselves as members; and urge
your local societies to enter into alliance with us; for united, Spirit¬
ualists are strong, and divided, we are weak. (Applause.) You
will be glad to hear that since the Association was formed, there
has not been the slightest symptom of dissension either upon the
Council or among the members, although the whole body is com¬
posed of men and women who differ very much in their opinions;
they have agreed to push on those things about which they agree,
and to keep silence on those matters about which there are strong
differences—theological opinions to wit. At one time theological
discussion was introduced into the meetings, and I thought that
such a firebrand would be sure to destroy the organisation in its
infancy; dissepsion was avoided even in connection with such a
ticklish subject, because of the temperate tone, the mutual forbear¬
ance, and the spiritual nature of those who took part in the de¬
bates ; therefore I think that all who love peace and union should
feel a pleasure in joining what may be not inaptly described as a
very happy family. (Applause.) What the Council wishes to
know is, what it can do to promote the union of the
provincial societies of Spiritualists with each other,
and with the National Association. Mr. Harper has said that some
.scheme should be devised to promote the free circulation of lec¬
turers and mediums by defraying their railway expenses out of a
common fund. I also am of opinion that a travelling library, by
means of which books could be sent from town to town periodi¬
cally in boxes, would be a benefit which Spiritualism might gain
when combined action is established among its followers. But all
these 'things are mere matters of detail; what is wanted just at
present is that those who have any good ideas about what work the
National Association ought to do in the provinces should send in
their suggestions to the Council. Just at present it would be of
little use propounding schemes which would involve much expense
to carry out; the expenditure of the Association at present, including
the cost of a moderate number of public meetings, amounts to about
£500 a year; to cover this it has an income of £550 a year guaranteed
for the next two years at all events. So you see that as yet there is
not much margin to permit of large expenditure, especially as every¬
body connected with the Association is firmly resolved that it
shail not weaken itself by getting into debt or living beyond its
income. (Applause.) At the same time new members are joining
rapidly. At the last Council meeting no less than seventeen were
elected at once, and as soon as Spiritualists everywhere find out the
advantage and happiness of all pulling together, we shall have
nothing to complain about in the way of want of funds, and no
particular individuals will be saddled with any undue expense.
THE PERSECUTION' OP M. LEYMARIE.
Before I sit down it may be well to state that news received from
Paris just before I left London this morning set forth that there is
every chance that M. Leymarie, editor of the Revue Spirite, will be
condemned by the Court of Cassation, on the strength of the false
evidence given against him by Buguet; and the Court of Cassation
being the final court of appeal, it is thought well that the Spirit¬
ualists of Great Britain should memorialise Marshal MacMahon,
President of the French Republic, setting forth that in this case
there has been a great miscarriage of justice. The friends of M.
Leymarie have already under consideration a form of a memorial
to be presented to the President of the Republic, and when they
have decided upon what may be deemed most suitable, copies will
be forwarded to all the provincial Spiritual societies, and to the
chief workers in the movement throughout the kingdom, in order
that signatures may be added thereto. I hope that Birmingham
will do its duty in this -matter when the time comes. (Applause.)
Mr. Simkiss said—So far as my experience goes, Spiritualism in
any locality ebbs and flows. At its first outbreak it prospers in the
hands of a few enthusiastic people, who after a time become
satiated, after which the movementgoes back. Mrs. Hardinge used
to say that it seemed as if it died in some places and recovered fresh
strength in others, for the spirit-world was building piers, and
when the workers had finished one they did not care to go on
tinkering at it, but began another elsewhere. They had thus built
many piers especially a very solid and substantial one in London.
• I think we should bridge over the breaches between these various
piers, and further unite them all with the central establishment in
the metropolis. (Applause.) Mr. Harrisou has modestly fixed the
attempt at national organisation at two years ago, but a year or
two before that a worker in the movement said he wanted help, as
he had often done before, but had never given anything back; he
was.one who was to take part in that earlier organisation, but at
the meeting I attended I found that there was to be no president,
no committee, and nobody to examine the accounts. The applicant
was to be all. in all, so of course the thing never floated. Some
time after that the real institution of which Mr. Harrison has
spoken was formed and floated by other people. That one is not
a sham, and since it has been established there has not been a
single angry word or misunderstanding amongst its members.
(Applause.) That is a great argument in favour of its stability.
I therefore hope you will throw an arch from the pier here to the
one in London. (Applause.) Some Spiritualists in the country
want to get all the money they can from London, and do nothing
themselves, but such must learn to be self-reliant. No individual
is a true Spiritualist who does not improve his life; and if he
truckles with old systems of materialism or orthodoxy he is no
longer true. Andrew Jackson Davis was once asked why national
associations in connection with Spiritualism did not get on in
America. He said that if a convention were called to consist
wholly of teetotallers, vegetarians, or any section of Spiritualists,
many would come together, but let anybody bring all the different
sections into one building, contentions and differences at once
arose. True Spiritualists should try to be harmonious. He is not
a true one if he goes simply after physical manifestations and
wonderful things, and he becomes one when he tries to har¬
monise his whole being. Many new ideas are attempted to be
fixed upon Spiritualism, 'which ought to be separated from such
adventitious surroundings; history shows that nature takes ages to
develope a new idea, and we cannot involve the Spiritualism of to¬
day in the development of all such ideas at once. Prophets have
spoken of the golden age and of the Millennium, but Spiritualism
has not brought it ; I have not seen it, neither do I expect my
children to see it during the next three or four generations.
Spiritualists are natural in their ways; as Mr. Harrison has said,
we are more free from artificialities than other people; still with,
this freedom we should take care not to accept the vast amount of
trash which has been grafted on the movement in America. We
should rather try to improve our own lives, for that is work in which
we know that we can make headway; we should give more atten¬
tion to this than to attempt to improve the lives of others.
Mr. Baldwin remarked—I am very pleased with Mr. Harper’s
history of Spiritualism in Birmingham. My own conversion dates
from the time of the visit of Mr. and Mrs. J. Murray Speer to this
town, and I endorse the opinioa of Mr. Harper that the phenomena
obtained at that time were better than any I have seen since. It is true
I have seen more wonderful things since then, but they have not
come in so' clear and satisfactory a manner; besides, they all
occurred among friends, and there was no tendency on the part of
anybody to impose. I am a member of the National Association of
Spiritualists, although I believe that I have not paid my subscrip¬
tion, for I have been travelling of late, and the circulars from the
office have not reached me. Mr. Simkiss is an old friend of mine,
but I differ from him in one or two things which lie has said,
although, at the same time, I do not wish to cause dissension; he
(Mr. Simkiss) has referred to a spiritual institution, without men¬
tioning the particular one about which he was spealdng, but I under¬
stand it to be the one under the control of Mr. Burns. That insti¬
tution has done work—very important work—in Spiritualism, and
however faulty, he may be, we as Spiritualists must admit that such
work has been done; it has been the only institution for the last
seven or eight years to form a bond of unity among Spiritualists in
England. Thus while my sympathies run to the National Associa¬
tion, so long as it acts in a friendly way to everybody else, and while
I should be glad to see it forming the arches of which Mr. Simkiss
has spoken, still I should not feel a liking for it, should it be in any
way unfriendly to the Spiritual Institution, the latter having done
the pioneering work of Spiritualism in Engl and. For these reasons I
give credit to that institution—al so to Mr. Burns, whom we look upon
as a noble man, who does what is right. I say this because I feel it.
There are many who, if they thought that there was any attempt to
bring forward party rather than principle, would vote for principle
and not party, and I hope that in Birmingham n6 question of this
kind will ever cause dissension. The National Association, I hope,
is not opposed to the Spiritual Institution; if so, I would not have
anything to do with it.
Mr. Harrison remarked: The two things of which Mr. Baldwin
has just spoken bear no relation to each other in constitution or in
principle, so no parallel or comparison can be drawn between them.
Mr. Baldwin, like many in the provinces, may not be aware that
there is no Spiritual Institution in London; the establishment of
which he has spoken being the private business of Mr. Burns. Mi*.
Burns is the sole proprietor, and it has no committee of manage¬
ment, secretary, treasurer, or anything else—whereas the National
Association is a public body, managed in the usual way, by repre¬
sentatives elected by the members. The National Association is in
no way unfriendly to Mr. Burns; neither the Council nor any indi¬
vidual member of it has ever said or done one single thing of an
unfriendly nature towards him; indeed, the Council has sent him
many of its advertisements and tendered payment for them, but Mr.
Burns has invariably refused to print them because he is afraid of
his followers—who consist of the more uneducated Spiritualists
292
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 17, 1875.
living in the provinces—knowing much that is taking place in con¬
nection with Spiritualism in London.
Mr. Baldwin replied that he was aware that Mr. Burns and the
Spiritual Institution were one and the same thing.
The Chairman said: As a member of the Council of the National
Association, I must say that all its members have always spoken in
a friendly way of Mr. Burns.
Mr. Jabez Lones, of Smethwick, said that as soon as he dis¬
covered Spiritualism to be true he had become the happiest man in
the United Kingdom. Indeed, he thought in consequence that he
now loved his wife better than he did before ; the whole movement,
in fact, was .carried on by sympathy, and in associations, as in circles,
headway could not be made without friendly union. He had not
many opportunities of attending circles, but still he helped to spread
a knowledge of Spiritualism in the railway carriage, in the counting
house, in the merchant’s office, and in the bank; and wherever he
was he nev.er feared to stick up for his principles. (Applause.)
He had some discussion on the subject a little time since
with a Wesleyan local preacher, who thought that Spiritualism
consisted of nothing better than knocking tables and chairs about.
He had told that preacher that if his views were true it Would only
show that no very wonderful progress had been made since the
days of Jacob, when the spirits played at running up and down a
ladder. The preacher replied that moving tables could give him
no instruction; but he (Mr. Lones) informed him that physical
manifestations were produced by the more material spirits, and
that there were higher manifestations, by which good teachings
were given. He then wanted to know what good it would do; and
he (Mr. Lones) had informed him that he had been brought up
amongst Wesleyans, and, although he had been taught in a Sunday-
school, he should have been driven into materialism and atheism
had it not been for Spiritualism, which demanded—not faith—but
absolute proof, that after the death of the body a man would live.
TAXATION WITH AND WITHOUT KEPRESENTATION.
Mr. J. J. Morse said: We want more union and harmony amongst
Spiritualists. We should all work together in a practical manner,
and the carrying out of this principle is the best thing done by the
British National Association, of which I am a member; indeed, I
am a “ political Spiritualist,” as we have been dubbed. I further
have the honour of being on the Council of that body; I know
most of the people connected with it; and, so far as my experience
goes, I have yet to discover any ill-feeling towards anybody
anywhere. The members of that body are kindly disposed
towards each other, and to all other existing institutions. I do not
know that I should be justified in saying that all other institutions
exhibit the same spirit, for I cannot tell you so conscientiously.
Ours is no longer a little movement, and we may have much to
grieve for if we do not promote union among ourselves. One
means of prompting this union is by the putting up of one
of the arches of which Mr. Simkiss has spoken, by the Spirit¬
ualists in this town joining the National Association, either
individually or officially through local societies, so that all may
work in harmony. I should be very glad to carry to London the
names of ladies and gentlemen who may wish to be proposed as .
members; the amount of subscription is optional, and whatever
money may be paid in will not be money thrown away. In a little
circular of the National Association I have before me the following
passage occurs:—“ The lowest subscription is fixed at five shil¬
lings ; the same privileges of membership, namely, one vote at the
general meetings, and the right of candidature for every office,
from the president downwards, being allowed to every member,
whether his subscription be five shillings or fifty pounds per
annum.” Thus, you see, in this Association the rules are framed
so as to place rich and poor upon an equal footing. I always deal
with principles, and like to see taxation and representation going
hand in hand; when taxation and representation do not go together
a principle is violated ; taxation without representation lost us our
American colonies. (Hear, hear.) There is another matter—and a
rather delicate one—upon which I wish to speak. You know that
there are two weekly newspapers connected with our movement,
and that one of them has more impediments placed in its way here
than the other. I allude to The Spiritualist, the contents of which
may be relied upon. It contains sound reports—not reports full of
sound; its articles are solid and its accounts trustworthy. These
two journals are both necessary to the movement, and what I say
is that both of them ought to be placed here upon the same footing.
I say this because I am travelling agent for The Spiritualist.
Mr. Harrison said—The subjects introduced by Mr. Morse and
Mr. Baldwin have come up unexpectedly to me. I did not
come here intending to say anything about myself or The
Spiritualist newspaper, but Mr. Morse’s remarks might, quite
unintentionally, create the impression that there are more
limitations to the circulation of The Spiritualist than really
exist. That journal is the oldest newspaper connected with
the movement in this country; the chief men of science connected
with Spiritualism, and the oldest pioneers and veterans in our
cause, whose names are household words, confine their articles
almost exclusively to its pages, and its readers include the educated
Spiritualists of this country, as well as readers on the Continent
who appreciate literature of permanent value. Every man has a
liking for particular mental food, and none other ; for instance, the
reader of lieynolds' Sunday paper could not possibly assimilate the
contents of a journal like the Athenaeum, and jt would be no use
trying to make him do so. It’is right and proper that all should
have what they like. Under these circumstances, there is nothing
to complain about, and if any local arrangements or trade restric¬
tions prevent The Spiritualist iram flowing freely to one or two pro¬
vincial towns, the small differences that it may make in the sale are
not of importance. If in a few cases local Spiritualists, as at Bir¬
mingham and Nottingham, cut themselves off from information as
to what is going on in connection with Spiritualism in London, they
lose more than anybody else. Some time ago I took the trouble to
remove these artificially imposed restrictions in Liverpool, and one
or two other large places; the reason I have not done so in a few
less important places is that I have had no time. During the last
six years nearly the whole of the public capital of Spiritualists, as
well as similarly large sums of money obtained annually in other
ways, has been used in the attempt to drive The Spiritualist out of
the movement by under-selling it. I was a foe to the introduction
of the subscription system into spiritual literature. I think it to be
false in principle, and to have done great harm to our cause, bring¬
ing down upon the supposed impecunious state of the movement,
contemptuous remarks in Punch, the Saturday Review, and other
journals. I stood alone for years, fighting single-handed against
these vast sums of public money, but did so only by working hard
half my time upon newspapers not connected with Spiritualism.
Becently, however, many friends have taken steps to indemnify me
to some extent for the losses inflicted upon me in the past. The
National Association, with an expenditure of only £600 a-year, has
not only provided an unequalled and well-officered central estab¬
lishment, but already contemplates with its surplus income extend¬
ing some of its benefits to the provinces, showing how much good
can be done on limited means by a public body doing public work,
with no personal ends to serve. A disinterested public organisation
would not have thought it to the interest of the movement to spend
vast sums annually in the attempt to extinguish one of our journals
by under-selling it, and shifting the enormous expense of that
policy to the shoulders of the public. (Hear, hear.)
ME. MORSE’S EXPERIENCES IN AMERICA.
Mr. J. J. Morse then read a paper on his experiences in America,
most of the contents of which have been already published, in this
journal ? but he stated in addition that in one respect American
Spiritualists had the advantage of those in England—they had estab¬
lished Lyceums, or Sunday-schools, in connection with Spiritualism
which answered very well, and Mr. Burns had done well some time
since to recommend so earnestly the establishment of similar
schools in England. A discussion had arisen of late as to the num¬
ber of Spiritualists in America. He (Mr. Morse) thought that an
estimate of two millions would include those who did not avow, as
well as those who avowed, their principles, and would be a very
liberal guess indeed. ' The habit there of Spiritualists combining
together in numbers of five or six only to carry on short series
of meetings, was rather antagonistic to national union, and at the
same time it prevented that adhesion there amongst Spiritualists
which obtains in many other religious bodies, the cause of Spirit¬
ualism being correspondingly weakened.
PRESENTATION OP A TESTIMONIAL.
The Chairman remarked that Mr. Aaron Franklin, one of the
few of the pioneers of Spiritualism in Birmingham still living,
would now address the meeting. He and Mr. Franklin had stood
shoulder to shoulder together for years, until the people of Bir¬
mingham dubbed them Moses and Aaron. They also had work¬
ing with them in those early days Mr. Hawkes, who generally
took the chair at public meetings.
Mr. Aaron Franklin said: At this late hour I will not say much.
My parents must have done wrong to call me Aaron; they should
have called me Moses, for we read in the Old Testament that the
latter was slow of speech, as I am myself. About twelve years ago,
when Mrs. Marshall came to Birmingham, I was much struck by
the phenomena, including one manifestation which Mr. Harper did
not mention, namely, how the guitar was played by spirits. 1 shall
also never forget the incredulity of the people who heard the raps;
they thought that they were done outside the door, by somebody
aiding and abetting the medium. I sent an account of the manifes¬
tations to the papers, and since then have been a notorious man in
Birmingham. Some in those days came to me by stealth by night
wishing to learn something about Spiritualism. One of these was
a friend who has since passed away from earth—I allude to Mr.
James, who came to me and said, “ Well, Franklin, I always found
you truthful. Is there any truth in that letter of yours in the
paper ? ” I said, “ Have you come to make sport of me like the
others P ” He replied, “ I declare I have not.” We agreed to sit
for manifestations, and after that he came four miles night after
night to my house regularly; friend Hawkes also sat with us. Mr.
James was so interested that he attended regularly, although he
had to trudge all the way home sometimes through snow and wet
he was a famous helper to our cause, as he had a superabundance
of this world’s goods. I shall never forget going to see him on his
death-bed, when he said to me, “ Franklin, if it were not for Spirit¬
ualism, and the full confidence it has given me as to my future, I
should be full of terror now.” We have attempted time after time
to form Associations in this town, but now I think that an Associa¬
tion is not the thing for Birmingham, for wo are composed here of '
Dec. 17, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
293
such opposing elements as to be constantly falling out. Wehavein our
midst phenomena-gmbbers (excuse me if I speak disrespectfully) who
care for nothing but to see a table dance about; I remember one
man who used to say, “ Please rap out my favourite number,” and
when it was done, “ 0, thank you, please do so again.”* (Laughter.)
He was perfectly satisfied with these raps, and never got any further
into Spiritualism than that, For its glorious philosophy and its
religious teachings he had no appreciation whatever; but I hope he
will understand them in time. I do not undervalue the phenomena,
since they tend at least to lead the most unspiritual to the philoso¬
phy ; I nevertheless hold that the man who leads the life, and he
alone, is the true Spiritualist. For the fourth time now they are
trying to build up the broken, worn-out ship of the old society;
they are trying to make it into a new one, and, if they succeed, I
give them praise for their efforts. Directly people begin to be
friendly with one set and at war with another, there can be no har¬
mony. I have been in harness long enough, but if I work it must
be with those who know what Spiritualism is. I have much plea¬
sure in seeing Mr. Harrison here to-night; it is the first time we
have had the honour of his company in public in Birmingham, and
I for one thoroughly appreciate him, not only for his work, but for
his manner as a Spiritualist; there is a large amount of disin¬
terestedness in his character in connection with ability to carry out
that which is practical; his unselfishness is most marked; 1 say
this, having watched his work for years, and knowing about him
what very few do know. Very few indeed know the sacrifices he
has made in Spiritualism for years without complaint. To-night
some few of us have joined together, and have deputed me to pre¬
sent him in their name wi fch this little present of a gold locket,which has
his initials on one side of it, and the name of our town, and the
date on the other. When he looks upon it, let him think that
Spiritualism is not entirely dead in Birmingham. We now respect¬
fully offer it to him in recognition of the good he has done to
our movement by his labours, both as an editor and author.
(Applause.)
Mr. Harrison, with some emotion, briefly returned thanks, saying
that the presentation of this gift came upon him quite unexpectedly,
as he had heard nothing about it until Mr. Franklin made the state¬
ment he had just finished.
The Chairman said: It is true that organisations have been
formed here and in other towns, and they have tumbled to pieces
from various causes.* The elements of the original society in Bir¬
mingham were from accidental circumstances scattered, so that only
two or three were left here ; thus, although the organisation fell to
pieces, its former members did good elsewhere. One reason why
organisations do not last is, that the distinguishing characteristic of
true Spiritualism is freedom of individual opinion; in this it differs
from orthodoxy and from those influences which mould men’s
thoughts in the churches. I was one of the original members of
the National Association of Progressive Spiritualists, formed many
years before the present one. It began about twelve years ago, and
lived for four years; there were vigorous men in it, some of them
residents in Darlington and in Yorkshire. It held four conventions.
On the occasion of the second convention, held in London, a
curious statement was made by Mr. Benjamin Coleman, to the
effect that if the northern men, thought that they could teach
London Spiritualists anything, they were much mistaken.
(Laughter.) Spiritualists should try to push on their great work
in any field open to them, so I feel it my duty to work wherever
I can.
Mr. J. J. Morse then gave a short trance address, under influence,
which we may possibly print at a future time, if we can find room.
Shortly afterwards the proceedings came to a close, the Chairman
remarking that everybody present had thoroughly enjoyed the whole
business. N
MANIFESTATIONS WITH THE FAKIRS IN INDIA.
No. IY.
BY DR. MAXIMILIAN PBRTY,
Professor of Physical Science, Berne. Translated from 11 Psychic Studies."
Jacolliot had explained to the fakir as well as he could the facts
of animal magnetism and somnambulism, which, according to the
belief of the latter, are also produced by spirit-agency’; but1 he
could not find time to make any experiments in these. He had
sometimes seen objects rivetted to the ground by an enchanter,
either, as a certain English major believed, by materially increasing
their specific gravity by means of the power or in some other
unknown manner. Jacolliot, wishing to repeat this experiment, took
a little candle-stand, made of teak wood, which he could raise with
his thumb and forefinger, placed it in the middle of the terrace, and
asked the fakir whether he could fix it there so firmly that it could
not be removed. The Malabarer laid both his hands on the upper
plate or surface, and, after remaining nearly a quarter of an hour
in that position, said smilingly, “ The spirits are come, andfcno one
* The holding together of an organisation depends much on the intel¬
lect and ability of its individual members; primitive races and uncultured
people are not good at self-government. When the Jews of old cut off the
head of one tyrant, they*put another in his place, as they were unfitted for
self-government; indeed they could scarcely grasp the idea, much less
carry it out.—Eh.
can remove this stand tyithout their will.” Jacolliot tried, but the
thing moved about as much as if it had been fixed to the ground
with clamps, and when he redoubled his efforts the upper portion
broke off in his hands. Next, on applying his strength without
avail .to the feet, which formed a cross, he thought to himself, if the
thing is charged with some force from the hands of the enchanter,
and that force is not renewed, after a time it will be possible to
move the object. He therefore begged the fakir to go to the end of
the terrace, and assuredly, in a few minutes, Jacolliot was able to
move the stand, which fact Covindasamy explained by saying that
the spirits were gone away. “ But listen, here they come again.”
With these words he laid his hands on one of the great silver-plated
copper discs, which the rich natives use for a particular game, and
immediately a succession of loud noises was heard, like the falling
of hail upon metal, and Jacolliot thought he saw, although it was
broad daylight, a number of little flames crossing the disc in
all directions. The appearance came and went at the will of
the fakir.
On various tables in this half-European half-Oriental chamber
there stood a number of knick-knacks—little windmills, which
caused hammers to strike; leaden soldiers, wooden animals with
green trees, formerly a child’s playthings, and other Nuremberg
ware, besides a few costly and artistic objects, all mixed up
together. Jacolliot took a little mill, which was worked by bellows
and gave motion to little puppets; he asked Covindasamy to move
them without contact. This he did by simply holding his hands
over them, and the movement became quicker in proportion as he
approached nearer to them. Jacolliot hung a harmonica by a fine
cord to one of the iron hooks on the terrace, so that it swung about
two feet from the ground; he begged the enchanter to draw sounds
from it without touching it. Covindasamy took the cord between the
thumb and fore finger of each hand, and standing motionless, became
quite self-absorbed. The instrument soon began to move, a motion
was imparted to the pipes by invisible hands, and long-drawn tones
proceeded from it, but no chords. “ Can you not get an air played ?”
asked Jacolliot. “ I will invoke the spirit of a former musician of
the pagoda,” replied he, quite coolly. The instrument was silent
after J acolliot’s question. After a long pause it began to move, a
succession of chords was played as .a prelude, and then came one of
the most popular airs of the Malabar Coast, which begins with the
words: “ Bring jewels for the maiden of ArunS.” The fakir, always
immovable, continued holding the cord between his fingers, and
Jacolliot, who was kneeling beside the instrument, saw the hook
bend up and down as occasion required.
The twenty-first day of Covindasamy’s stay in Benares had
arrived, and it was his duty to spend twenty-four hours from one
sunrise to another in prayer before returning to Trivanderam.
“ But I will first,” said he to Jacolliot, “ devote to you one clay and
one night, for you were good to me, whose lips had so long been
closed; you spoke to mein the language that my mother used,
when she rocked me to sleep in a banana leaf.” No Hindoo speaks
without emotion of his mother. On the evening preceding the
long day of prayer, when Covindasamy was about to leave the
terrace, he saw in a vase a number of variegated feathers of
wonderful Indian birds ; he took up a handful and threw them as
high as possible over his head, and when they were about to
descend he made a few passes with his hands underneath them.
As soon as one of the feathers came near, it turned over and over,
and rose in spirals to the roof of the verandah above. All the
other feathers followed the same course, but a moment afterwards,
in consequence of their natural gravity, began to sink to the
ground. Arrived half-way, however, they rose again, and stuck
fast against the ceiling. Again they began trembling, and showed
a slight inclination to fall, but they presently remained hanging
motionless, and their variegated colours had quite a pretty appear¬
ance on the golden background formed by the straw-thatched roof.
The fakir had scarcely departed, however, when they fell slowly to
the ground, where Jacolliot let them lie for some time, to convince
himself that he had not been, while gazing on these incredible
phenomena, the victim of hallucination.
After his mission was ended, the fakir devoted one day more to
Jacolliot for two sittings, one during the day, and the other at
night, though by full lamp-light; he had promised to invoke all the
spirits who ever assisted him, so that Jacolliot might see things
that he would never forget. Covindasamy brought to the day
seance a little bag of very fine sand, which he emptied on the ground,
and spread out with his hand over an even space of about fifty
square centimetres. He then told Jacolliot to sit opposite to him at
a table with paper and pencil, asked for a small piece of wood,
whereupon Jacolliot handed him a penholder, which he laid care¬
fully upon the sand. “ I will now,” said Covindasamy, “ call upon
the spirits ; so soon as you see the object you gave me raise itself
vertically, with its end still touching the sand, you may trace any
signs you like upon the paper, and you will see them repeated on
the sand.” He then stretched out his hands horizontally and mur¬
mured his mysterious invocations, whereupon the penholder shortly
rose up gradually, and while Jacolliot drew the strangest figures
upon the paper, it copied them exactly upon the sand. When
J acolliot stopped, the penholder stood still also, and began again
when Jacolliot continued, the fakir remaining perfectly calm at a
distance from either. To make sure that the'fakir could not see the
movements of his pencil,'Jacolliot placed himself in a position where
this was impossible; but still comparing the figures on the paper
294
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 17, 1875.
and the sand, he found them identical. The fakir next smoothed
the sand over with his hand, and invited Jacolliot to think of some
word in the divine language, the Sanscrit; when he asked why in
this language in particular, the reply was that the spirits can most
easily use the immortal tongue, which is forbidden to the impure.
Jacolliot, who never disputed with Oovindasamy about his religious
views, thought of a Sanscrit word; the Hindoo stretched forth his
hands as before, the magic stick began to move, then rose up and
wrote “ Parucha" (the divine progenitor), the word that Jacolliot
had thought of. A whole sentence, which Jacolliot had in his
mind, was also written, “ Adicete Veikuntam Haris ” (Vishnu sleeps
on Mount Veikunta). “ Could the spirit who inspires thee,”
asked Jacolliot, “give line 243 in the fourth book of Maim?"
He had scarcely spoken when the penholder was set in
motion and wrote letter for letter the line—Darmapra vdnam
pwuc/iam tap'isd Natakilvisam Parolokam nayati acou bdsua •dam
Kacaririnam (the man who in his actions aims at virtue, whose
sins are atoned for by pious acts and sacrifices, attains to the
heavenly abode, clothed in a spiritural body beaming with light).
Jacolliot laid his hand on a small closed book, that contained some
extracts of hymns from the Eig-Veda, and asked what was the first
word of the fifth line of the twenty-first page. The penholder
wrote—Deoadatta (the gift of God), which was right. “ Wilt thou
put a question in thought?” asked Covindasamy, and Jacolliot
nodded assentingly. The pencil wrote upon the sand:' Vasundard
(the earth). Jacolliot had asked silently the question“ Who is
our common mother ? ”
It was ten o’clock in the morning, light and heat were excessive,
and the mirror of the Ganges threw back a dazzling glare. Jacolliot
walked to the end of the terrace with the enchanter ; in the garden
they saw a cook, who was taking water from a well and pouring it
into a bamboo duct, which conveyed it to a bath-house. Oovinda¬
samy stretched forth his hand towards the well, and the cord of the
bucket refused to turn the wheel, notwithstanding the ire of the
cook. As all Hindoos attribute every contrariety to the action of
evil spirits, and try to drive them away by the power of song, this
cook did likewise. But he had no sooner begun, in the sharp nasal
tone which strikes us so disagreeably in all Eastern singing, than
the words stuck in his throat, and he was unable, in spite of
continued grimaces, to produce another sound. In a few minutes
the fakir dropped his hands, the voice returned to the cook’s
throat,' and the cord to its work on the wheel. Jacolliot
complained of the heat; the fakir appeared not to heed
him, so deeply was he sunk in meditation. Then there rose
up a fan of palm leaves from the table on which it lay, and
fanned him in the face, and he thought he heard harmonious
tones, as of'a human voice. When the fakir was taking his leave
with his hands crossed on his breast, and standing in the doorway
which led from the terrace on to the steps, he rose up without any
support to the height of twenty-five to thirty centimetres in the air.
This Jacolliot was able to measure pretty exactl3r, as there was a
curtain with gold and white stripes drawn across the doorway;
the feet of the fakir were even with the sixth stripe. Bather more than
eight minutes had elapsed from the commencement of the ascent to the
close of the descent; the hanging in air occupied about five minutes
at most. In reply to the question whether he could produce this
phenomenon at will, he answered with oriental astuteness, “ The
fakir could rise up to the clouds.” Although he had so often
declared himself to be the instrument of spirits, Jacolliot could not
refrain once more from asking him how he obtained this power of
levitation. Covindasamy replied in these words: “ A man has but
to place himself in perpetual communication with the Pitris, and a
higher spirit will descend upon him from above.”
TRANSACTIONS OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING OE THE COUNCIL.
Last Tuesday night a Council meeting of the British National
Association of Spiritualists was held at its Rooms, at 38, Great
Russel 1-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O., under the presidency of
Mr. Alexander Calder. The other members of the Council present
were Miss Houghton, Mr. E. T. Bennett, Mr. G. R. Tapp, Mrs.
Wood, Mr. Edmands, Mr. J. J. Morse, Mrs. Maltby, Mr. Henry
Withall, Miss Withall, Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, and Mr. George
King.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed.
Mr. Dawson Rogers made some remarks relating to one of the
minutes, to the effect that Dr. Monck thought he had not been
fairly treated in some statements made by him (Mr. Rogers) at the
last Council meeting, when he had been reported to have said that
Dr. Monck had never been in communication with that Association
or attended its meetings, so far as he was aware. He might be
forgiven for having forgotten that Dr. Monck was present at one of
its meetings a year ago ; still, in his remarks he had not intended to
say anything disrespectful of Dr. Monck; indeed, he had spoken
highly of the testimony given by the officers of H.M.S. Monarch,
and by the Rev. T. Colley, curate of Portsmouth, as to Dr. Monck’s
great medial powers.
NEW MEMBERS.
Twenty-seven new members were then elected, including Mr.
and Mrs. Aaron Franklin, and Mr. and Mrs. Kendrick, of Birming¬
ham; Mr. Thomas Grant,of Maidstone; the Rev. Guy Bryan; Mr.
Thomas Wilks, late President of the Dalston Association of In¬
quirers into Spiritualism; and Mrs. 0. Anderson. All of these
friends are well known in their respective localities as earnest
workers in the cause of Spiritualism.
Mr. J. W. Day, of the Banner of Light office, Boston, was elected
a honorary member.
Dr. and Mrs. Hallock, Mr. J. H. Newton, Mrs. Underhill, all of
New York; also Mr. Hudson Tuttle, of Berlin Heights, Ohio, and
Miss Lizzie Doten, of Boston, were invited to become honorary
members.
There were two resignations.
FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
Mr. A. Calder stated that too few members of the Finance Com¬
mittee had attended to form a quorum consequently, there was no
report, but he might state that the accounts for payment amounted
to £30 2s. 6d.; the balance in the hands of the treasurer was
£54 15s. 3d.: and the outstanding liabilities of the Association
were estimated at £5.
THE PUBLICATION OP TRANSACTIONS.
The Secretary then read the following letter:—
38, Great Russell-stroet, W.C., Dec. 14th, 1875.
To the Council of the National Association of Spiritualists.
Ladies and Gentlemen,—This week, one of our members, the
Rev. Mr. Newbould, suggested to me that it would be a good thing
if the National Association published a volume of transactions
yearly, or half-yearly, and sent copies free to all its members,
because then even those provincial subscribers who contribute
small amounts could participate more in the privileges of the Asso¬
ciation, and would feel they obtained something in return for their
support.
The publication of transactions is expensive work, which not
uncommonly kills young organisations. The new Anthropological
Society, I believe, dies this week in consequence of the expense of
publishing transactions, and the old Anthropological Institute
involved itself from the same cause in about £800 of debt, which
some few of its members recently generously cleared off. It, how¬
ever, has occurred to me that this Association might utilise the
reports in The Spiritualist in order to bring out a volume of trans¬
actions, since by the plan I am about to propose it would save all
shorthand expenses and much of the cost of type-setting. I write
to offer you the use of any matter, respecting this Association,
which may be in type in The Spiritualist, at eighteen pence per
column for those portions of it selected by you, if you can arrange
with Mr. Beveridge for the printing and machining of the same in
book form. I may add that in January The Spintualist will be
enlarged and improved, so that the columns will be longer than at
present, and of a better book printing width. The type will be
larger.
Even with these facilities for bringing out a cheap volume
of transactions, the expenses may be too great for you to think it
advisable to incur them at present. If you issued the transactions in
paper covers only, to those members who subscribe but five
shillings a year, and in cloth binding to those who subscribe ten
shillings and upwards, that plan would make the idea more prac¬
ticable ; but at any rate this proposition is too serious a one to be
settled off-hand, so perhaps you will refer it to one of your com¬
mittees for a report.
Should you add fresh matter, of course the additional type-setting
you would have to pay for yourselves. If, on the other hand, yon
take my editing work as you find it, there may be some advantage
in that, because every reader of a paper before a public body feels
a moral conviction that his particular essay should above all things
be printed in full, consequently discussions about the contents of
official journals sometimes cause dissensions in societies. The
Photographic Society of London has had serious disruptions
several times in consequence of disputes about the contents of its
journal. I was present one night when Mr. Glaisher,the president,
was nearly at his wits’ end in attempting to establish harmony
among the dissentients. Consequently there may be some advantage
in having the editing work done by an outside individual rather
than by the Council.
I make these suggestions entirely in the interest of the National
Association, and in other respects am quite indifferent as to the
decision the Council may come to. Some such plan as this seems
the only practical way of our obtaining an official journal at an
early date with our present income; but after the plan is examined
by a committee, it may possibly turn out to be too expensive even
with all these facilities. I have made no exact calculations on the
point. William H. Harrison.
December 14tb, 1875,
The Chairman said that he thought that the suggestions con¬
tained in the above letter were excellent, although it would be
impracticable to carry them out at present. Still the ideas thrown
out might be kept in view.
Mr. G. R. Tapp said that it was a kind offer on Mr. Harrison’s
part, but that the line of action would be expensive, and the adop¬
tion of a somewhat similar course had sometimes burdened other
societies with debt. He thought that the suggestions should be
considered by the Finance Committee.
Dac. 17, 1875.
THE SPIEITHALIST.
295
Dr. Dawson Rogers thought that it would be unwise to try any
such experiments at all, for the proceedings of the Association
were so well reported in The, Spiritualist that nothing further was
necessary. He thought that the adoption of Mr. Harrison’s sug- 1
gestion would be damaging to the interests of The Spiritualist
newspaper.
Mr. King remarked that the Association could not publish
transactions at present, but hereafter a time might come when it
would be able to print for its members particulars relating to new
discoveries and facts relating to Spiritualism.
The subject then dropped.
MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN.
On the motion of Miss Houghton, seconded by Miss Withall, it
was unanimously resolved that a letter should be written by the
secretary, on behalf of the Council, to Mr. Robert Dale Owen, con¬
gratulating him upon his recovery from his recent illness.
It was resolved to purchase for the library two copies of Art
Magic, the book recommended by Mrs. Hardinge, also one copy of
Mr. D. Duguid’s forthcoming work.
The thanks of the Council were given to Messrs. Colby and Rich
for portraits of American Spiritualists, which they had presented to
the National Association; thanks were also given to Mr. Morse for
his portrait, and to Mrs. Tappan for a volume of her poems, which
she had presented.
A SEANCE BY MR. MORSE.
An offer from Mr. Morse to give a seance to members for the
benefit of the Association, at its rooms, on Thursday evening next,
December 23rd, in aid of the general fund, was thankfully accepted
by the Council. The tickets are to be two shillings each, but each
member purchasing a ticket will be entitled to bring a friend
with him.
THE FORTHCOMING BAZAAR IN BIRMINGHAM.
The Secretary reported that a bazaar was about to be held in Bir¬
mingham, and that one of the members of the Association, Mr.
Harper, was connected with it; she did not know the others whose
names were entered on the programme, but she thought that some
of the articles left over from the National Association bazaar might
be of use to the friends in Birmingham.
Mr. Bennett proposed, and Mr. Morse seconded, that from £5 to
£10 worth of goods, left over from the National Association bazaar,
should be presented to the promoters of the Birmingham bazaar as
a free gift.
This was carried unanimously.
GIFTS TO THE BRIXTON AND LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETIES.
Mr. Dawson Rogers proposed, and the Chairman seconded, that
one of the musical boxes belonging to the National Association
should be presented to each of the English Spiritual societies
which had entered into alliance with the National Association, on
condition that the boxes were used solely for the purposes of each
society, and that if either of the societies should cease to exist, its
box should bo returned to the National Association.
This was carried unanimously.
CLOSING OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION ROOMS AT CHRISTMAS.
On the motion of Miss Withall, seconded by Mr. Edmands, it was
resolved that the rooms of the National Association in Great
Russell-street should be closed from Friday, Dec. 24th, until the
following Tuesday, inclusive.
WINTER MEETINGS OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
Mr. George King announced that at the meeting of the mem¬
bers of the National Association to be held at eight o’clock
next Monday night, Captain James, who had had large
experience in mesmerism, would attend, and Mr. Newton, of the
Temple, would also give some of his experiences on that subject.
Mr. T. Slater was likewise expected to attend to give some of his
experiences in spirit-photography. He further said that the com¬
mittee recommended that the fortnightly meetings should begin
again on Monday, Jan. 24th next, and be continued until the end of
April.
The report of the committee was adopted.
PROVINCIAL WORK IN SPIRITUALISM.
Mr. H. Withall reported that the Committee for Provincial Work
had drawn up three circulars, which it recommended should be
printed and widely distributed. One of these circulars was to ask
provincial societies and influential Spiritualists what work they
desired should be done in their localities. The second circular
explained the objects and aims of the National Association; the
third was one asking for subscriptions from those who wished to
aid this object, and it set forth that it did not necessarily expect help
from those who had subscribed largely to the other work of the
Association during the present year.
Mr. Dawson Rogers said that Mr. Everitt had met with difficulties
in his recent work in the provinces, because the poorer Spiritualists
there had been influenced by misrepresentations as to the nature
of the National Association, and that Mr. Everitt would explain for
himself what he had to say on this matter at the next Council
meeting.
It was resolved that the circulars should be issued.
THE MONTHLY SOIREES.
Mr. Dawson Rogers reported that the soiree committee had
asked the Misses Withall to take charge of the musical department
at the soire.es, because then it was certain that something very good
in the musical way would be provided, and that to this the two
ladies had kindly consented.
Miss Houghton suggested that information about the soirees
should be sent for publication to the Spiritual Magazine, as an
advertisement or otherwise, explaining that it was not necessary to
take tickets beforehand in order to attend them, also that others
than members were usually present. They were not meetings for
the members of the National Association only, but intended for all
Spiritualists who were able to come, so that there might be large
friendly meetings at short intervals. Many Spiritualists were not
aware that they could pay at the door.
SPIRITUALISM IN ISLINGTON.
Mr. R. Pearce explained what a large amount of work Mr. and
Mrs. Bullock were doing on slender means for Spiritualism in
Islington. They were holding meetings of various kinds every
night throughout the week, and on Sundays ther^Rvas an average,
attendance of eighty at their services. All that was said at the
meetings might not be of the highest standard, but it was well
suited for those who attended, and calculated to do them good. He
therefore suggested that a donation of two guineas should be given
in aid of the work.
Mr. Morse seconded the motion, adding that Mr. and Mrs. Bul¬
lock were doing much good work for the cause in Islington.
The donation was unanimously awarded, and the meeting broke
up.
SPIRITUALISM IN DALSTON.
The ordinary monthly session of the Council of the Dalston
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism was held at 74, Navarino-
road, Dalston, on Tuesday evening last. Present: Mr. R. Pomeroy
Tredwen (in the chair), Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. J. Tozeland, Mr.
T. Wilks, and Mr. Thomas Blyton, honorary secrertary.
The minutes of the last Council meeting were read and confirmed.
Letters of general interest received since the last meeting were
read from Mr. Christian Reimers, Mrs. C. E. Bassett, Mr. E. W.
Wallis, Mrs. T. Everitt, Mr. F. M. Parkes, Captain James, and Mr.
Joseph Bamford.
Mr. Algernon Joy was unanimously elected a honorary mem¬
ber; and Mr. John Fyvie and Mr. Robert Nelson Dawson were
elected ordinary members.
A letter of resignation from Miss Grace, consequent on ill health,
was “ accepted with regret.” Miss Grace testified in her letter “ to
the wonderful healing gift Dr. Mack possesses, and how he exercises
it towards those who seek his aid,” and that “ he has and is still
treating her with a marvellous degree of success.”
Presentations to the library were reported from Mr. Thomas
Shorter, Dr. Sexton, Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld, and Mr. Edwin
Dottridge.
A paper by Dr. Sexton, entitled “ Occult Psychological Pheno¬
mena occurring outside of what is recognised as Spiritualism,” was
directed to be read at the meeting on Tuesday evening, 11th Jan.
next.
It was moved by Mr. Thos. Blyton, and seconded by Mr. T. Wilks,
“ That the Council recommend in their report, to be submitted to
the members at the eleventh half-yearly general meeting in January
next, that application be made for admission of the Association
into alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists."
After some discussion, the motion was carried.
Arrangements were reported for a conversazione and ball to be
held at the Cavendish Rooms on Wednesday evening, the 5th Jan.
next, which were approved.
A vote of thanks was accorded to Miss Fowler for the seances
given by her at the rooms of the Association on the evenings of
16th and 23rd November last.
National Association Library.—The latest additions to tha
library of the National Association of Spiritualists are—Dr. Wyld’s
Physics and Philosophy of the Senses, presented by Mr. Alexander
Tod; a volume of the New Era, Hollingsworth’s Poetical Works,
Sexton’s Scientific Materialism Calmly Considered, Antiquity of the
Human Race, Moody and Sankey, and various other pamphlets, pre¬
sented by Dr. Geo. Sexton; Dr. Nichols’s Human Physiology, pre¬
sented by Mr. J. B. Stones ; and Baron von Dirckinck-Hohnfeld’s
Spiritualism, its Causes and Effects, presented by the author.
A New Year’s Gathering.—A new year’s gathering, in tha
form of a conversazione and ball, is to take place under the auspices
of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, on
Wednesday evening, the 5th January next, at the Cavendish Rooms.
The proceedings of the conversazione will be between seven and ten
o’clock, when the ball will be opened. A large number of friend*
have communicated with the honorary secretary, offering their
services, and otherwise showing interest in the experiment.
296
Dec. 17, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
SPIRIT POETRY.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—The following beautiful verses, purporting to come from the late
Mrs. Hemans, were written with great rapidity through the medium ship of
my daughter Carry, on Sunday, the 7th ult., my wife, daughters, Nina and
Eveline, and myself present at the time. W. E. Corner.
3, St. Thomas’-square, Hackney, E.
Father, bless Thy little child,
Make her gentle, meek, and mild ;
Save her from her deadly foes,
Comfort her in all her woes;
Save her from all tempting sin,
Make her stainless, pure within;
Never let her go astray,
May she ever watch and pray.
"When she’s tired, faint, and worn,
Angels weep and angels mourn;
When she’s joyous, gay, and free,
Lord, may she remember Thee;
Weary of the path of life,
jt Weary of its toil and strife,
Weary of the base and cold,
Jesus’ cross may she still hold.
Gracious Father, kind and tender,
We, Thy children, now do render
Songs of praise and thanks to Thee
As we humbly bow the knee.
Save us, Lord, that we may be
Thine through all eternity;
Never let us go astray,
Lead us in the better way.
Evil foes are sometimes near us;
0, our Father, do but hear us,
Send Thy bright and loving angels
To guard us from all wicked dangers;
Angels ever bright and fair,
Lighten sorrow, soften care,
Cheer us, for in Thee we trust,
Mortals; what are we but dust ?
Onward may we ever go,
Far from evil, high, not low-
Save our souls, O Lord, that we
Be Thine thro’ all eternity.
Bless and save Thy tender child,
Save her from her passions wild;
Angels bless and angels love
Each pure, spotless, stainless dove.
(Eorraponneuce.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.']
THE SPIRITUAL SCIENTIST AND MRS. HUNTOON.
Sir,—The English readers of the Spiritual Scientist—and I hope
they are many—will have probably inferred from the account of
Mrs. Huntoon published in that paper on the 25th ult., that your
reliance on my competence as an investigator and reporter has
been much misplaced. Premising that I do not pretend to acpount
satisfactorily for the evasion by the Huntoons of the test seance
promised to the correspondent of the Scientist and Dr. Slade, I
should like to recapitulate the precautions I took with Mrs. Hun¬
toon, so far as they rel&te to the suggestions of the disappointed
investigator. The latter supposes that the confederate came
through the window, and he thinks that the mosquito netting
which I had nailed over it might have been removed during the
seance, and the tacks replaced. “The tacks could easily be drawn,
and afterwards forced back into the original holes by a strong
pressure; it would not be necessary to strike a blow.” Now for
my facts, and then every one may judge for himself how far this
explanation is admissible.
As it happened, this was the very first possibility that occurred
to me when I 'was putting up the netting, and I made my calcula¬
tions accordiiigly. I had the tacks driven up to the very heads at
intervals of about three inches. In order to make an aperture
sufficient for the body of a man to pass through without tearing or
straining the netting it would be necessary to remove about eight
of these tacks. Now in the first place, I would challenge the
opinion of any skilful carpenter whether it is possible to insert the
instrument by which the tacks must be drawn, when the latter are
driven completely home, so that no dint should be made in the wood¬
work beyond the heads. For such dints I looked carefully, but
found none. I would next ask my carpenter, supposing him to
decide that this is possible, what time he would require to draw
these eight tacks with the requisite care, in the dark, or by the
light of a lantern, held probably by himself, to enter the window,
and to replace netting and nails from within, so that no trace of the
disturbance should be visible. I could not allow him more than
three or four minutes, for this reason. I went out and examined
the netting with a lantern immediately before taking my seat. The
manifestations began almost instantly, a face appearing at the
curtain. Immediately I took the lantern again, went outside and
again examined the netting, most minutely. At this time, accord¬
ing to the correspondent of the Scientist, the confederate must have
been inside the room, having gone through the double process of
drawing and replacing the tacks. Now let us use our own common
sense. This test seance was held on a dark night, for I remember
having to hold the lantern quite close to the window, as .1 passed it
up and down, inspecting each tack. The window is at right angles
and close to the road, along which the neighbours of the Huntoons
are, as late as nine o’clock, frequently passing and repassing. The
confederate could not choose his own time, but must stand there,
lantern in hand, drawing out his nails, and creep in at the window
just when he was wanted, and when there was every probability of
his being observed from the road. He has to repeat this night after
night. But further—once inside the room, and his lantern is of no
further use. He must replace the netting and each tack in its hole
by groping with his hand from within—unless, of course, he has
an assistant outside. Bemember also that this wonderful adroitness
is not the result of long practice, for mine was the first mosquito
netting ever put outside that window, and the Eddys do not, in
general, submit to such tests at their own house. With two or
more operators, and a reckless disregard of the risk of detection
from the road, I admit that it might possibly be done in the time;
but then I maintain that I must have found traces of the nail
drawing in the woodwork. With only one person at work, I say
without much fear of demur that the whole thing was impossible.
Now for one or two other suggestions of the writer in the
Scientist. He says that Mrs. Huntoon sits half in and half out of
the bedroom, that her right hand may reach a small iron rod or
pole of wood, fixed, I suppose, along the side of the bed, “ and the
rest is simple to the last- degree. She gets possession of the pole,
with it draws to her the string of bells, takes them in her right
hand with the pole, shakes them violently, and under cover of that
noise, joined to the loud singing of the circle, knocks out the
window prop with the pole, and gives a confederate an opportunity
to gain admission by lowering the top sash.” As I relied on my
netting to protect the window, I did not care much about the other
fastenings; but one word as to this suggestion, as applicable even
to the case in which any precautions were omitted. The window
is seven feet from the door, the bed certainly not more than six
feet long. Give Mrs. Huntoon a six-foot pole and the length of
her arm. She has to “shake the bells violently” at the same
moment that she makes a good shot at the window prop, an error
of an inch resulting in a smash of the window pane and—
detection. This suggestion seems to me as childish as any that
ever emanated from the “ credulity of sceptics.” Be this as it may,
it concerns me not at all. On the occasion of my first test seance,
in company with Dr. Miller, Mrs. Huntoon not only sat entirely
outside, but she sat facing the curtain, with her back to us, her
hands tied behind her, and her feet tied to the legs of rthe chair.
Moreover, the bells and other instruments, which oftentimes played
immediately, were on the table at the window, and were not in a
string, or otherwise so connected that they could be drawn towards
her by a pole at all.
The writer thinks he recognised the confederate at Horatio
Eddy’s. As to this it may perhaps be sufficient to quote the
writer’s own words a little before—“You understand, of course,
that to all these sort of seances the light is insufficient to enable
the spectators to distinguish any features.”
But while I think that the suggestions of the correspondent of
the Scientist are, to use his own expression, “ simple to the last
degree,” I can neither defend nor explain, to my own satisfaction,
the shuffling excuses and evasions made by the Huntoons. All I
can say is this : it is within my own knowledge that Dr. Miller did
attempt, while I was at Rutland, to obtain an exclusive influence
with them, and to induce them, by offers of pecuniary assistance, to
refuse to others than himself facilities for testing the mediumship
of the woman. He prevailed with her husband to prevent her
coming to Rutland to be tested by Colonel Olcott at his hotel. It
may possibly be, though I do not think it altogether probable, that
he is responsible for the suspicion to which his favourite medium
is now exposed.
I wish now that it had occurred to me to declare the seance at an
end as soon as the voice from behind the curtain called Mrs. Hun¬
toon to come within, and to enter the room immediately myself.
But not the less do I remain convinced that my tests were suf¬
ficient, and that she is the wonderful medium I have represented
her to be.
I have just seen Mr. Joy’s account in The Spiritualist of the
Eddys and Mrs. Huntoon. I am not concerned to defend the
former, having distinctly stated that I obtained no tests to satisfy
me absolutely that their materialisations were genuine; indeed,
before I had verified the possibility of the phenomena at Mrs.
Huntoon’s, I inclined to reconcile myself to the improbabilities
involved in the supposition that all the figures at the Eddys were
personated by William, rather than accept imperfect evidence of a
greater marvel. Afterwards, the presumption in my mind against
materialisation as a possible phenomenon having disappeared, I gave
the Eddys the benefit of the doubt, having regard especially to the
results of Colonel Olcott’s more thorough investigation. But let me
warn your readers against attaching too much weight to the
“King’s evidence” of Mrs. Cleveland. This old woman had a
quarrel about money matters with the Eddys. She had been for
many months witnessing the supposed personations from their
Deo. 17, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
297
platform, and must liave seen through the deception, if at all, long
before she chose to betray it. For these reasons, although I also
heard what Mr. Joy reports, I did not think it worth my while to
seek her out—regarding her evidence as valueless. I also heard the
report of her revelations contradicted. Did Mr. Joy see her him¬
self, or merely listen to the gqssip of the neighbourhood ? Would
the Eddys have ventured to quarrel with her, knowing what she
must have observed, if they had reason to fear her statements ?
For all that, I am glad that suspicion of the Eddys is being loudly
proclaimed among Spiritualists, as it may compel them to submit
to tests, and then we may know the truth.
C. 0. Massey.
Temple, 9th Dec.
FEMALE SUFFRAGE—SPIRITUALISM IN AMERICA—SPIRIT PHOTO¬
GRAPHY—POPULAR ERRORS WITH REGARD TO SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—Unprepared speeches by those who have not a special gift
for making them are necessarily imperfect, and my remarks at the
female suffrage meeting, at Mr. Tebb’s, have already been so mis¬
understood that perhaps you will kindly allow me a few words of
explanation on that and some other subjects.
I am entirely in favour of the extension of the suffrage to women,
to the extent advocated in the petition which I signed; viz., to all
femmes soles paying rates and taxes.
There was a lack of adverse criticism at Mr. Tebb’s, and the speaker
who immediately preceded me, Miss Downing, asked, very rationally,
for some opposition. Miss Shaw had pleaded that women were
equal to men, if indeed not superior to them, and had also stated
that the fallacy of our asserted superiority in logic and reasoning
power had been refuted again and again, only to be again and again
brought forward. If these arguments are bad ones, it is evidently
to the interest of the movement that they should be dropped.
Now the term equal, if used without qualification, means
equal in all things, or in the abstract. In other words, things
cannot be affirmed to be equal in the unqualified, and, there¬
fore, abstract sense of the term, which are in any respect
dissimilar (though similarity may exist without equality.) And
I maintain that woman is essentially dissimilar in many respects
from man, and that she is as inferior to him in some things as she
is superior in others. The real question here, then, is—Is woman
equal to man in those things essential in a legislator ? I will not
deny that she may be superior to him in some of these things—as,
for instance, in loyalty to a truth once proved to her satisfaction: in
her sense of duty, in fact, and in her obedience to its dictates; also
in the general trueness of her instincts. But, I maintain that she
is decidedly inferior in logic or reasoning. power, and I should be
glad to know what the triumphant refutation is with which this
view of mine has so often been met. (I quite admit that Mrs. Faw¬
cett would make a much more useful member of Parliament than
three-fourths, at least, of the men in the House. But one swallow
does not make a summer.) On the whole, I think, weighing one
thing against the other, with due regard to their relative importance,
that woman may be considered at least nearly equal to man in the
qualifications required for legislation. Moreover, that, if she be not
so, there is no inequality of a nature that should disqualify her for
giving a vote. Therefore, I signed the petitioi..
In my remarks at the soiree, I should have said that probably at
least half of the avowed Spiritualists in San Francisco were Free
Lovers. I understood that there were no Free Lovers who were
not avowed Spiritualists. And, on second thoughts, I am inclined
to believe that I rather exaggerated the proportion of those within
the movement. I believe, however, that more than half of the only
organised Spiritual Society there are Free Lovers. The Free
Lovers, like all ultra-radicals, as they profess to be, are very ener¬
getic and enthusiastic. I think there are none of them in Salt
Lake City. The Spiritualists there, having just escaped from one
connubial blunder, have learned wisdom in such matters.
Dr. Child’s book about J ohn and Katie King was being regularly
sold about Philadelphia. I actually bought a copy in the Inter¬
national Hotel, and heard of several being sold elsewhere. The
man I dealt with told me he had been doing a pretty brisk trade in
them. I did not hear of this until I had seen Dr. Child, or I
should have questioned him on the subject.
Mr. W. Danskin himself chiefly supported the meetings held by
his society, and provided the hall, which he once refused to allow
to be used for the purpose of a lecture in which the slavery question
was to be dealt with in some way. I was told by Mr. Danskin
himself, and by others, that the “ social question ” had nothing
whatever to do with the split.
My remark that many meetings were held, and lectures given,
independently of any organised society, were not meant to apply
specially to New York. It seemed to be the case everywhere.
Moses Hull’s addresses (I heard ‘two) were chiefly remarkable
for the learning ho displayed, and for the originality of his rea¬
soning, which was also extremely lucid and logical. His manner
and delivery are also excellent. The majority of his audience were
Free Lovers, I believe. .
It must be clear that I had no intention of saying anything to
the discredit of Mr. Godbe, from the fact that he is the only
American whom I proposed to the Association to elect as an
honorary member; I am, moreover, at this time, in friendly corre¬
spondence with him.
I forgot to mention that I met some persons in the States who
expressed surprise that English Spiritualists should recognise as
their leader a certain person who must be, they assured me, at
least as well known to us as he is to them. I assured them that
they were mistaken; that the number of those who so- recognised
him was comparatively small, and consisted almost entirely of
persons of no consideration and of little education or intelligence.
Moreover, that they were for the most part not acquainted with him
thoroughly, being deceived by his extreme plausibility.
The only value of my remarks at the “ Winter fortnightly meet¬
ing ” of the Association on Monday week, lay in the fact that the
phenomenon I referred to was one which had not yet, I believe,
occurred in this country. The photographs which I saw taken
through Mrs. Evans’ mediumship were taken absolutely in the dark,
and though the stupid neglect by myself of one precaution at the
test seance which I held with her destroyed its value in a great
measure, inasmuch as it left one small loophole for fraud, the testi¬
mony that I received from various respectable and intelligent
witnesses, of various other test seances at which apparently no pre¬
caution had been omitted, and of the fact of several very clear and
well-defined portraits of persons with strongly marked features
having been positively recognised as exact likenesses of familiar
friends by all who had known the originals as such, and that under
circumstances where it was quite impossible that Mrs. Evans could
have had access to any portraits of the friends in question; this testi¬
mony, I. say, was so strong, that the genuineness of the phenomenon
is, to my mind, established as a moral certainty. I saw two or three
portraits which had been so recognised, and I can confidently affirm,
as to at least one of them, which I distinctly remember, that it is
almost impossible that those who told me they recognised it, one of
them being the widow of the person represented, who had died
only a year or two previously, could have been mistaken, and I
did not discover any reasoh for doubting that they were also honest
and intelligent.
Mr. H. T. Humphreys’ paper on this subject, as reported Din your
last number (Dec. 10), appears to me so valuable and useful as to
deserve to be printed as a leaflet for circulation.
With reference to his remarks under the head of “ the fallibility
of spirits,” I was told the following story by Mr. Staats, of Brook¬
lyn, New York, a most respectable and excellent medium, as well
as a very agreeable and superior person, well known to and ap¬
proved by Mr. Benjamin Coleman, Dr. Crowell, of New York, and
many others.
“A few years ago, a friend of mine told me that he was about to
be married, and that he wanted to make a small sum of money
beyond his regular income, to give him a start in matrimonial life;
for which purpose he wanted mo to get him some information from
the spirits about shares and stocks. Somewhat reluctantly, I con¬
sented to try. For two or three weeks I gave him information daily
about several different stocks, which invariably proved exactly
correct, so that he was enabled to operate successfully in them, and
to realise a considerable sum of money. He came to pay me a final
visit, when I gave him a communication recommending positively
one more operation on a grand scale, and in a sense quite opposed
to his own opinion of what was likely to be successful. He obeyed,
and every cent he had made was swept away at one blow.”
The spirits had shown him their power. They also taught
him that that power was not to be prostituted to stock-jobbing
purposes. Algernon Joy.
, Junior United Service Club, London, S.W.
present of books.
Sir,—Will you kindly permit me, through The Spiritualist, to
acknowledge the receipt of a large parcel of books from Mr. J ohn
Scott, Belfast. I am very glad of the opportunity to assist him in
his great and good work. E. Y. Barber, Secretary.
10, Great Holme-street, Leicester,
December 11th, 1875.
HELP FOR MRS. J. W. JACKSON.
Sir,—Since you were so kind as to publish my letter on behalf
of Mrs. J. W. Jackson, I have received the following sums, in ad¬
dition to those already noted: Mr. A. Calder, £1 Is.; Mr. H. Wedg¬
wood, 10s.; A Friend, 5s.
Will you allow me to acknowledge them through your columns?
E. Kislingbury.
THE CAREER OF ALLAN KARDEC.
Sir,—In asldng to be allowed to reply to Mr. Home’s letter (in
your last number), I am tempted to borrow your own words (num¬
ber of August 13th), and to say that “ however welcome and in¬
teresting ” Mr. Home’s letters,“ he should have twice read what ho
criticises, for his letter is full of misquotations.” It is, in fact, a
tangle of mis-statements, the unravelling of which, in detail, would
compel me to revert to the statements put forth by M. Aksakof
(August 13th), which, as I have already shown them to be erro¬
neous, I leave to the appreciation of your readers, and proceed to
rectify the misquotations in Mr. Home’s letter, which more especi-
I ally concern myself.
298
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 17, 1875.
Ignoring the other facts adduced by me in disproof of M. Aksa-
kof’s sweeping assertion that “through physical mediums the
communications .... are always contrary to reincarnation,” Mr.
Home, in referring to my statement that he, in trance, once alluded
to an incident connected with my last incarnation, misquotes me by
saying that I “put all controversy on this point out of the question
by saying that he was not at the time a physical medium,” whereas
a reference to my letter will show that I made no such statement :
nor can I admit that such was the case, for mediumistic speaking,
whether in trance or otherwise, is evidently a physical, as well as
an intelligent, manifestation. At the seance alluded to (in Albemarle-
street in the summer of 1869), Mr. Home, becoming entranced,
caused himself to be blindfolded, as he sat at the table, in the
midst of a numerous circle, with a large sheet of cardboard before
him containing the alphabet and numerals placed upside down to
him, when his hand, holding a pencil, dashed in and out among the
letters so rapidly that it required the united efforts of all the sitters
to jot down Ihe communication thus given, and in the very midst of
this powerful physical action, Mr. Home suddenly leaned back in
his chair, advanced his head towards me, behind the sitters be¬
tween us, and exclaimed in a low, earnest voice, “ Anna! what is
that old ? ” The rest of the party were, happily, so intent on
following the movements of the pencil, that this, to me, perfectly
startling query passed unheeded.
Mr. Homo nfext misquotes my statement relative to Camille
Brddif, making me say that he was “ not a medium, and was only
developed last year,” whereas I said (p. 106) that “ Camille’s
present phase of medial power was only developed last year, and as a
direct consequence of Mr. Williams’ visit to Paris ”—a statement
which I maintain to be correct. I have been in the habit of meeting
Camille, as a medium, at the houses of friends, and in my own
house, for the last ten years, and his medial power, during all
that time, was just what I stated it to have been; for the lumps—
said to be fingers—which were occasionally felt, under a table¬
cloth, in the crack of a partly opened dining-room table, and the
hands that sometimes came out of a cabinet—but very rarely,' and
in almost total darkness—never carried conviction to the mind of
any inquirer. From what Camille now obtains, we may assume
these slight “effects” to have been genuine; but they were
produced without any attempt to .secure test conditions, and would
certainly not have been regarded as conclusive in England. Yet,
slight as they were, they led me, and other friends of the cause in
Paris, to urge Camille to be as much as possible with Mr. Williams,
with a view to his becoming developed, as a medium for the
obtaining of the visible and tangible appearance of spirit-forms now
known as “ materialisations.” He did so; with the result we know.
In regard to Mr. Home’s statement that the spirit of Allan Kardec
appeared to him on the day after his death, I beg to offer the follow-
irfg observations: Spirits being attracted by sympathy and re¬
pelled by its opposite, it is, on the face of it, most improbable that
the spirit of Allan Kardec should go to Mr. Home. But, as spirits
can show themselves under any form they choose to assume, and
as A. K. was warned, when called to his special work (The Spirits'
Book, Prolegomena, p. xlix), that he “ would have rancorous contra¬
dictors, even among spirits,” it is quite possible that one of these,
having learned the fact of A. K’s decease, maj* have taken the
opportunity thus afforded to personate him, for the purpose of
making the statement reported by Mr. Home; an explanation of
the incident fully borne out by the fact that the spirit in question
told Mr. Home that his death was caused by apoplexy, and occurred on
the staircase of his residence, whereas A. K. died of the rupture of an
aneurism, seated in his arm-chair, at his study-table; the erroneous
statement made by the apparition being just such a guess as would
naturally occur to a spirit who only knew of A. K.’s sudden decease
from hearsay.
I beg to add, in further disproof of Mr. Home’s conclusion,
that I have seen Allan Kardec eight times, and have been charged
by him with the task of translating his works, since his decease;
and that he has declared to me, towards whom he would naturally
be attracted by the strong and intimate intellectual sympathy
between us, that he is already making diligent preparation for a
new return to the earthly life, to help forward the great movement
of renovation which he was employed to inaugurate.
Anna Blackwell.
"Wimille, October 8th, 1875.
[The publication of this letter has been delayed from accidental cir¬
cumstances.—Ed.]
FBATEBS FOR THE LEAH.
Sir,—llequiescat in pace received a severe blow and great dis¬
couragement in the Guardian newspaper of December 1st—a blow
more literal than logical, in the following words:—
“Praters for the Dead.—We have received so large a number of
letters on this subject that we cannot continue the controversy.”
The above is surely significant. It proves that many persons,
in a Protestant country, where further progress has been hitherto
generally tabooed, are now so mooting this important question, that
a leading clerical journal is afraid to continue it. It is quite certain
that prayer for the so-called dead implies either the hope of future
progress, or that prayer is no better than sounding brass and tink¬
ling cymbals. That the teachings and the realism of Spiritualism
have had much to do with this change it is difficult to doubt.
Stss.
SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHY IN NAPLES—DEPARTURE OP THE DAVENPORT
BROTHERS POR INDIA AND AUSTRALIA.
Sir,—I send you by this post the two spiritual photographs
representing a nun, and which I mentioned in my previous letter.
Be pleased to exhibit them at the reading-rooms of your Associa¬
tion, handing them afterwards to Mr. Charles Blackburn, for whom
they are intended.
The letter of M. A. Aksakof, of St. Petersburg, addressed to you
under date of 10th November, and sent by you to Mr. Blackburn,
was received by me four days ago, and shown to Messrs. Davenport
and Fay. They thank M. Aksakof for his invitation for them to
go to St. Petersburg, but their itinerary having been fixed, and the
season being too advanced, they have left Naples for Alexandria,
on their way to India, Australia, and California. These wonderful
mediums have only given three seances here, one private, and two at
the fashionable theatre of the Fiorentini. They meant to have
given two more, but finding the public neither numerous nor en¬
thusiastic, they suddenly left Naples on Wednesday last. The fact
is that their exhibition was not properly advertised some time
before their arrival, their names and mediumship being entirely
unknown to the public; and the people here being led by the adver¬
tisements to believe they were only conjurors, of whom we have
lately had a regular invasion, did not show that interest which would
have been the case had the word “ Spiritualism ” been mentioned
in connection with the exhibition. The day after their departure
for Egypt, one of their two couriers, who has been left behind, and
perhaps displeased, has had Naples placarded with an announce¬
ment that he is going to show how the tricks were performed by the
Brothers, without even the aid of a cabinet. The race of the ex¬
posing Doblers will never be extinct.
Q. Damiani.
Naples, 11th December, 1875.
^nibiimal fletoa.
SOUTHAMPTON.
CLAIRVOYANCE EXTRAORDINARY.
To the Editor of “ The Hampshire Advertiser," Dec. 11<A.
Sir,—During) Dr. Monck’s stay in this town I have had
several opportunities of closely testing his remarkable gifts as
a medium, and the single instance I am about to relate is so
extraordinary, that I am induced to request you to give it pub¬
licity in your columns. The Monarch, ironclad steamship, was
damaged by collision with a merchant vessel last Sunday, at
4 o clock in the morning. On that Sunday Dr. Monck came straight
from his bedroom to me, my wife, and daughter, and, exhibiting
great concern, said, “I have had a vision, in which I saw the
Monarch in collision with a foreign vessel. The Monarch was
severely damaged.” He added that he had often had similar
visions of events occurring far away, and as they always proved
to be correct, he feared the Monarch must have suffered in the
way described. He explained that two of her officers had
frequented his seances at Portsmouth, and a friendship con¬
sequently existed between them; hence he was en rapport with
them, and would be likely to have early intimation in this sin¬
gular manner of anything of importance that affected them. When,
on a subsequent day, we read of the disaster, we were astounded.
Dr. Monck could not possibly have obtained the information pre¬
viously by any ordinary means. The vision occurred at the precise
time of the accident, and the doctor related it to us about six hours
afterwards. I could tell of numerous marvels of this kind con¬
nected with his mediumship in this town, having reference not only
to my own family, but also to those of several public men, in
particular a local alderman and a physician. The doctor refers all
these marvels to “ Spiritualism,” and it would be well if intelligent
men, before pooh-poohing the subject, were to carefully examine
its alleged facts for themselves, with a view to eliciting the truth
concerning this peculiar science, which is spreading so rapidly in
this country. If it be a delusion, let it be exploded by all means;
but if a truth, we ought to admit it. Neither can be legitimately
done without judicious investigation. An Investigator.
NEWCASTLE.
NEWCASTLE SPIRITUALIST SOCIETY.
The late exposures of sham mediumsbip in Liverpool and else¬
where caused a certain feeling of not exactly suspicion, but a
desire to have stricter test conditions, and the consequence waa
that on Wednesday, last week, several members of the society took
part in securing Miss Wood:with tapes and string as she satin the
cabinet previous to the seance for materialisation. The medium
while entranced complained bitterly of the want of harmony. The
result of the seance was that a small figure about three feet in
height appeared on one side at the entrance of the cabinet but did
not come out. At the close of the seance Mr. Bhodes was allowed
to cut off the tapes; which,he says, he observed were not tampered
with in any way.
Mr. Walton, one of the members of the society, who is a good
organist, is actively engaged in raising subscriptions towards »
Dec. 17, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
299
ne'tv harmonium. He has now in hand about £6, and requires an
additional similar amount, towards which he would be glad to
receive any sums that members or Spiritualists will forward to him.
It is in contemplation to have a social meeting once a month, on
the first Monday probably; all friends who are willing to take part
in the same by giving readings, recitations, or songs, will oblige by
letting" Mr. Pickup, the secretary, know their intention, as it
is considered that such meetings will tend to harmonious action
and feeling among the members, and be a good means of intro¬
ducing strangers to the place. Some members also wish for more
intellectual meetings than there are at present; also that a library
may be established.
On Sunday last, about four-and-twenty persons assembled,
including visitors from Shields, Flatfield, and other places; for
a morning seance. At 11 a.m. Miss Wood was secured to a chair
outside the cabinet, and in a dim light, but visible to all, a small
figure appeared several times but did not come out into the circle.
The bell was rung in accompaniment to the singing, and articles
moved about inside the cabinet. The figure was apparently the
same as on Wednesday evening, and was certainly not the medium,
or produced by her.
PORTSMOUTH.
A New Medium.—A correspondent writes: “ Dr. Monck has
left, and we have another medium, a dockyard labourer, who gives
seances after work-hours. He had a little power before he sat
with Dr. Monck, but now has developed in a physical direction. I
have had the ring test with him twice, under circumstances impos¬
sible for fraud. Indeed the man is such a simple-minded nervous
little fellow, that trickery could not find a more unlikely subject.
The ring was a brass curtain one, that would not go on by ordinary
means, and would not come off. He wears it until his control,
Alexander Fox, takes it off at the next sitting. His spirit-lights
are brilliant, large, and numerous; as many as eight or ten have
been seen at once. The lifting power is very strong; heavy
articles move about like straws. Elongation and levitation are
also parts of his development. We shall sit for materialisation
with him during the winter.”
BIRMINGHAM.
j, Public Meetings.—A correspondent writes: “ Mr. J. J. Morse
gave two interesting addresses from his spirit guides on the even¬
ings of the 7th and 8th December, to small but appreciative audi¬
ences. On the 9th Mr. Morse, with Mr. W. H. Harrison, editor of
The Spiritualist newspaper, were entertained at a soiree: the elite of
the Birmingham Spiritualists were present, to give a hearty wel¬
come to the guests of the evening. The tables were presided over
by Mrs. Wykes, Mrs. Yalter, Mrs. Kendrick, Mrs. Wood, Miss
Ibbotson, Mrs. Franklin, and Mrs. Simkiss, of Wolverhampton.
The friends present appeared to thoroughly enjoy themselves.
During the soiree Mr. Wood presided at the harmonium; he did so
likewise at each of the evening lectures. Mr. Morse, in the course
of his remarks, referred to the National Association of Spiritualists,
directing attention to the benefits resulting to members. Copies of
Mr. Blyton’s paper, reprinted from The Spiritualist, on the ‘ Neces¬
sity for combined action amongst Spiritualists,’ were freely distri¬
buted amongst the friends, several expressing a desire to join that
Association. Thanks are especially due to Mr. 0. Gray, of Per-
shore-road, who kindly entertained Mr. Morse during his stay in
Birmingham. Thanks are likewise due from the Spiritualists of
Birmingham to Messrs. Kendrick and Chamberlain, for their praise¬
worthy exertions in securing the services of so excellent a medium
as Mr. Morse, and for their indefatigable labours in endeavouring
to make the meetings as successful as the soiree proved to be.”
Mr. and Mrs. Everitt in Birmingham.—On Sunday a
gathering of Spiritualists took place at the Athenasum Room,
Temple-row, in this town, to show respect to Mrs. and Mr. Everitt,
of London, the one a well-known medium, and the other a lecturer.
Although there were few present at the tea in the afternoon, the
evening meeting, to hear Mrs. Everitt, was well attended. Mr.
Harper presided.
LIVERPOOL.
SUNDAY SERVICES.—VISIT OF MR. HERNE.
On Sunday last Mr. Ainsworth addressed the Liverpool Psycho¬
logical Society both afternoon and evening, Mr. Jas. Coates in the
chair.
Mr. Ainsworth spoke upon “Prayer." He did not deny the
utility of prayer, acting in conformity with certain psychological
laws, but he ridiculed the idea of the Archbishop of Canterbury
issuing special forms of prayer, informing the Lord that the farmers
of this realm are dissatisfied with His arrangements, providential
or otherwise; he illustrated this portion of his lecture by quoting
extracts from prayers offered up foh rain, and for the Prince of
Wales. He thought that in the first case they might as well pray
for a shower of overcoats as expect the Deity to go out of His way to
violate His law. In the last portion of his address he said, “ When¬
ever a desire leads us by its influence to purer feelings and nobler
deeds, then such prayer should be encouraged. I am not one of
those who would preach or teach contentment under all circum¬
stances, or forbid the uprising and liberalising feelings of the heart
from ascending to their God.”
Mr. Pemberton, trance medium, passed under control, and made
a few remarks upon the same subject.
In the evening the subject was “ Christ’s Life, Considered from a
Spiritual Standpoint.” Messrs. Wason, Casson, and Priest were
on the platform.
Mr. Cassou spoke of a coming visit to Liverpool by Mr. Herne,
physical medium, from London; he said he hoped that those who
went to his seances would go without prejudice, take all their com¬
mon sense with them, and not be satisfied unless the medium sat
under test conditions, such as all mediums ought to give to a truth¬
seeking public, especially when they took money for their services.
Mr. Wason, president of the society, said that he had attended a
seance given by Mr. Herne some two years ago, and he was per¬
fectly satisfied with the conditions and the genuineness of the
manifestations, but of course he expected everyone would exercise
their own judgment about the coming seances.
Mr. Ainsworth then delivered his lecture.
THE PERSECUTION OF SPIRITUALISTS IN PARIS.
**" ACTION OP ENGLISH SPIRITUALISTS IN M. LEYMASIE’S CASE. .
Mr. O’Sullivan, of Paris, has favoured us with an
early copy of a memorial, proposed to be extensively
signed by Spiritualists throughout Great Britain, solicit¬
ing Marshal MacMahon to liberate M. Leymarie in the
event of his being condemned by the Court of Cassa¬
tion, which cannot deal with flaws in evidence; it re¬
cognises only errors in methods of procedure. Copies
of the memorial may be obtained from The Spiritualist
newspaper office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C., and what is desired is that the secretaries of
local spiritual societies and influential Spiritualists re¬
siding in provincial towns and elsewhere, shall get
signatures to the memorial, accompanied by the full
addresses of the signers. Afterwards they are desired
to return the memorials to our office, each one accom¬
panied by a letter certifying the genuineness of every
signature.
We think that the case sot forth in the memorial
wojild be strengthened if Mr. O’Sullivan were to obtain
a certificate from Mr. W. M. Wilkinson that the report
published some years ago in the Spiritual Magazine of
the trial and acquittal of Mr. Mumler was drawn up
for that journal by the late Mr. J. W. Edmonds, Judge
of the Supreme Court, New York. This certificate,
accompanied by a printed translation of the article,
should be presented to Marshal MacMahon. The evi¬
dence at that trial in favour of the reality of spiritual
photography was so strong that the court, in spite of
its prejudices and ignorance of the subject, was obliged
to acquit Mumler. The latter is a powerful medium,
but—according to the account printed of him by Mr.
Epes Sargent in his book Planchette—is just about as
reliable and truthful as Buguet, late of Paris.
We shall send the memorial to Messrs. Colby and
Rich, of the Banner of Light newspaper, Boston, U.S.,
asking them to invite American Spiritualists to sign it;
the same request will also be made to the Spiritualists
of Belgium and Austria. With other Spiritual organi¬
sations in Europe our National Association has not yet
entered into alliance, so their members cannot be
quickly reached by us ; thus in reaching some parts
of Europe there is a check upon prompt action. It
would be very useful to the cause if the British
National Association of Spiritualists were to draw up
a list of the names and offices of all the Spiritual
organisations in the world, the date of their establish¬
ment, and the number of their members. A list of all
the Spiritual periodicals should also be obtained, and
copies of all of them should find their way regularly to
the office in Great Russell-street.
300
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 17, 1875.
There is further work in connection with this sub¬
ject which American Spiritualists ought to take in
hand, namely, the getting up of an international
testimonial to M. Leymarie, for the benefit of himself
and family, to be presented to him in prison, in the
event of the President of the French Republic paying
no attention to the memorial. In the matter of sub¬
scriptions English Spiritualists, especially some few
capitalists who work upon principle, have been alto¬
gether overburdened this year, in the work of putting
right and upon a sound foundation for the future much
that was wrong in connection with the movement in
this country, so that the total expenses this year have
probably been three times greater than they were in
1874. French Spiritualists also have had to bear
unparalleled legal expenses in connection with the
Paris persecutions, so have had no financial aid in this
matter from England. If America will take this
matter in hand, expecting names of friends and small
subscriptions only from England and France, while the
United States subscribes in the most substantial manner
possible, the financial expenses which it has been the
duty of the whole movement to incur this year, will
have been fairly distributed between the three nations
in which Spiritualism has the strongest hold.
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOG r, MES¬
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY,
ON SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST" NEWSPAPER
38, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON, tV.O.
(Entrance in Woburn-streot).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
1HE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Kobort Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A standard work con¬
taining interesting and well authenticated facts, proving the reality of spirit
communion. It also contains an elaborate essay defining the author’s views
of the relationship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD,
by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorbing interest, replete with
well authenticated narratives, describing manifestations produced by spirits.
7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of the Dialec¬
tical Society. This committee consisted of literary, scientific, and other pro¬
fessional men who investigated Spiritualism for two years without engaging
the services of any professionai medium, after which they published the
report. Original edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM,
by William Crookes. E.R.S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate the reality of some of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism,
5s. ,
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Alfred
Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly argument in reply to
Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also records a large number of interesting
spiritual manifestations, and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr.
Wallace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE, by Epes
Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well authenticated spiritual phenomena.
Information about the relationship of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is
also given. 7s. 6d.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey. A brilliant
well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly bound, with gilt edges. 2a’
The Spiritualist may be obtained regularly in Birmingham of Mr.
Aaron Franklin, 100, Suffolk-street.
Mrs. Corner, (Florence Cook) sailed for Shanghai, China, this
week, in company with her husband, Captain Corner.
The offices of the National Association of Spiritualists, at 38,
Great Russell-street, will be closed from Friday, Dec. 24th, to
Tuesday, Dec. 28th, inclusive.
To-morrow (Saturday) evening, at eight o’clock,Mr. J. J. Morse
will give a seance to the members and friends of the Brixton Psycho¬
logical Society, 6, Loughborough-road North. Admission one
shilling each.
Mr. J. Ashworth, secretary to the Nottingham Society of Spirit¬
ualists, asks us to state that Mr. Everitt would not accept travelling
expenses on the occasion of his recent visit to Nottingham. Mr.
Ashworth further states that Mr. Bamford, of Macclesfield, is about
to take his two medial boys to Nottingham to give seances.
In response to an invitation from the Council, sent to Signor
Damiani, of Naples, to become an honorary member of the British
National Association of Spiritualists, that gentleman writes: “I
gladly accept this mark of distinction, and I shall feel obliged if you
will mention the fact in The Spiritualist."
Winter Meetings oi? the National Association.—A meeting
for the discussion of subjects connected with Spiritualism will be
held on Monday evening next, December 20th, at 8 o’clock, at 38,
Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury. Subjects—“ Spirit Photography,”
by Mr. T. Slater; and “Experiences in Mesmerism,” by various
speakers.
Mr. Morse in the Provinces.—Mr'. J. J. Morse expects to leave
London about the end of this month on a lecturing tom-. Ho will
probably visit Liverpool, Wolverhampton, Newcastle, and Glasgow.
Other places desiring his services are requested to communicate
with him at once. His address is Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, Lbndpn, E.
Friends who intend to contribute to the “ Harrison Testimonial
Fund ” are requested to remember that the time is now fast
approaching when the list will bo closed. They are therefore
requested to make their intentions known as soon as possible to
the secretary. A revised list of subscriptions to this date is
printed in our advertising columns.
Spiritualism in Islington.—Last Sunday night Mr. J. J.
Morse delivered a trance address at Mr. Bullock’s Hall, 19, Church-
street, Upper-street, Islington, under the presidency of Mr. R.
Barbei*. There was a crowded attendance, and a good collection.
The chairman explained to the strangers present the nature of
trance mediumsliip. The Sunday meetings at Islington might be
well supported by the members of the Dalston Association, since
trams run direct from several parts of Dalston, Kingsland, and
Hackney to the end of Church-street.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
C. C. Massey.—Anybody who knows anything of the fierce
jealousy powerful physical mediums usually bear to each
other, will see that there is great simplicity in the Spiritual
Scientist thinking that Mrs. Huntoon ought to have consented to
be tested by Dr. Slade. It is an act of impertinence and insult
for one medium to offer to test another.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U. 8. This book consists of essays on
the Social, Moral, and Scientific aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. fid.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR SPIRITUALISM EX¬
PLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work for inquirers,
giving general information about English professional and non-professional,
mediums, also about the periodical and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN
ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important facts connected
with the early movement in this country with which the author was Identified,
and an account of some of the most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant at Law. An
introduction to Psychology. This book admits the reality of some of the
Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but argues that they are produced by an
alleged Physic Force, unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of
the medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of tills book, which deals
chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev. F. G.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts and Traditions relating
to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions, Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft- The
author admits the reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spirit¬
ualism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, previously unpub¬
lished, and prints the only authorised and complete account of the Apparition
seen by one of the ancestors of Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the medium-
ship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give life experiences, scenes,
incidents, and conditions illustrative of spirit life. The preface says:—“Experi¬
enced spirits state propositions to man in the flesh as they would state them
to each other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for granted
because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in the light of all the
reason and experience possessed by those who receive their instructions.’*
5s. fid.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes Sargent.
This work, by an American author of acknowledged ability, gives an account
of the materialisation of Spirits in England and America during the past few
years in the presence of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated
witnesses of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also con¬
tains remarks on the relations of the facts to! theology, morals, and religion,
and it is prefaced with a portrait of the materialised spirit Katie King, copied
from a photograph of her taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium
light. 7s. fid. '
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev. William
Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous thinker, and a writer of un¬
questioned ability. Contents: The Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age :
Science!and the Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the
Believing Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles and Science:
the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-Supernatural Misunderstandings;
the Last Ecstatic; Matter and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism ; Thoughts
on Spiritualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and the
Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature: Miracles and Pneumatology:
the Spirit and the Old Testament; the Old Testament and the New: the
Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit; Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the
Spirit. 12mo., 600 pp. Cloth 10s. fid.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “ SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell). 7s. 6d.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTE
1710R the CURE OF NERVOUS AND MUSCULAR
Bj DISEASES, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church, 74, Queen’s-road,
Everton, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Operators sent to all parts. Terms
per arrangement. J. Coates, Principal.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
Dec. 17, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
111
A CHRISTMAS GATHERING FOR BIRMINGHAM
SPIRITUALISTS.
H- J. W. MAHONYbegs to announce to the friends
in Birmingham and district that he is making' arrangements for a
Christmas gathering, to take place on Monday, December 27th, 1875, at the
Atheneeum, Temple-street. Tea on the table at half past five o’clock. After
tea Mr. Mahony will recite the following popular pieces:—“Charge of the
Light Brigade” (Tennyson), “The Heart’s Charity” (Eliza Cook), “The
Field of Waterloo ” (Byron), “Better than Gold,” Dimes and Dollars,” and
the celebrated piece on the Irish Rebellion of 1798, entitled “Shamus
O’Brien.” Mr. Pyvies will exhibit his beautiful dissolving views and spirit-
photographs by lime-light. Several friends with ability have promised
their services to enhance the enjoyment of the evening. Music, singing,
dancing, and Christmas games will be included in the programme.
Tickets Is. each, which may be obtained from Messrs. Gowe, Perks,
Gifford, Turner, Smith, Rooke, J. W. Russell, and Mr. Mahony, 1,
Cambrian-place, Anglesey-street, Lozells.
Admission after tea 6d. each. Entertainment to commence at seven.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
SEANCE WITH MR. MORSE.—Mr. Morse has kindly
volunteered to give one of his trance Seances for the benefit of the
Association, on Thursday evening next, Dec. 23rd, to member* of the
Association. Admission 2s. The purchaser of each ticket will have the
right of introducing a friend.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
USICAL BOX.—The raffle for the Musical Box,
advertised last week, will take place at 38, Great Russell-street, on
Monday evening next, at a quarter before 8 o’ clock p.m. Subscribers who
desire to be present are requested to accept this notice. E. Kislingbury,
Secretary.
THE QUARTERLY TEA MEETING in aid of Mr.
Cogman’s work at the East-end of London, will be held at his resi¬
dence, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end, E., on Sunday, December 19lh, at five
o’clock. Tickets one shilling each.
CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR’S PRESENTS.
rpH E ‘ ‘ STURMBERG ’ ’ PLANCHETTE writesanswers
JL to your thoughts, whether by Spirit Agency or not, all should judge
for themselves. Of most fancy dealers, or from J. Stormont, 59a, Consti-
tutiun-hill, Birmingham, 8s., 5s. 6d., 4s. 4d., 2s. 9d., and Is. 9d. post free.
MAGNETIC HEALING.
LADY MAGNETISER attends patients at their own
homes for Headache, Neuralgia, Sore-throat, Qtout, Rheumatism,
Sprains, &o. To Public Singers and Speakers the benefit is invaluable.
Letters to Mrs. Newton, 53, Hollywood-road, West Brompton, S.W.
Mr. j. humby, galyanist and magnetic
HEALER, attends patients by appointment at their residences.
Very successful in nervous and other diseases. Highest references and
testimonials. Address, Parade House, Grosvenor-road, Pimlico, S.W., or
4, Cottage-grove, Stockwell, S.W.
T>SyCHOPATHIC INSTITUTION FOR THE CURE
JT OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Islington. A good “ Magnetic ”
healer in attendance daily, from 11 a.m.until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. Gd.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
THE SPIBITUA L SCIENTIST, of Boston, U.S., will,
early in January, commence the publication of a translation of the
works of H. Cornelius Agrippa, and it is devoting considerable space to
Occult Philosophy. Subscriptions, 13s. per annum, including postage, from
America. Money orders to be made payable to J. Selwood, 88, Great
Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O,
IMPORTANT NEW PUBLICATION.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
A PAMPHLET, the full size of The Spiritualist, containing a large
amount of information, compiled especially for inquirers, will be shortly
issued from The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office at 38, Great Russell-
street, London, for sale at public meetings,
PRICE ONE PENNY.
There has long been a demand for some such publication as this, the
current spiritual newspapers not always containing the most suitable or
most condensed information for persons to whom the subject of Spirit¬
ualism is a strange one.
Many thousands of copies of the publication will be printed, and kept on
sale by vendors of spiritual literature, and at spiritual meetings throughout
the country.
From the large circulation thus secured, it will be a
valuable channel for advertisements
To Mediums, Mesmerists, Authors of Spiritual Books, and others. The
charge for Advertisements will be One Shilling for the first twenty-five
words, and Sixpence for every additional twenty-five words, or portion
thereof. Displayed advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
All advertisements should be sent in as soon as possible, as the publica¬
tion will come out in a few weeks’ time.
Special arrangements will be made to supply local societies with copies
at a cheap rate, if ordered in large quantities; the said societies may thus
considerably increase their income by the profits on sales.
All communications on this subject should be addressed to the Editor of
The Spiritualist, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.—Rivista
Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published on the 15th of every
month, at Turin, Tip, Baglione, via Bogino, No. 23.
PROSPECTUS OF THE MANCHESTER FREE PLATFORM
AND SPIRITUAL INSTITUTE.
has been often a source of remark and surprise that in
this populous, industrial and intellectual centre, abounding as it does
with freethinking Spiritualists, there should be no institution in existence
at which Spiritualism may find a centralised home. And this we say with¬
out the slightest disparagement of any present existing institution, since it
will be seen that the present scheme will work upon such a widely different
basis as not in any degree deleteriously to interfere, but will rather
strengthen the hands of all reformatory workers, in whatever sphere
of action.
THE PROPOSAL
then, briefly, is as followsTo start upon a very small scale, so as to allow
full scope for development, an institute under the above title. The objects
in view are, to form a
CENTRAL HOME FOR SPIRITUALISM,
at which Spiritualists of all grades of opinion may freely mingle, and
facilities be given for social conference, and the reception of public and
private travelling Spiritualists, together with their introduction to the Man¬
chester public and Spiritualists.
In short, to offer, as far as possible, upon the small basis upon which it
will originate all the facilities of a
SPIRITUALISTIC CLUB
At which progressive workers generally may also feel at home.
Also to establish courses of readings, lectures, seances, &c., as may be
afterwards determined, together with a public shop and free reading-room,
at which the English spiritual journals, and, as far as possible, foreign
papers will be exposed for sale and perusal.
It is also proposed in time to establish a progressive library.
METHOD OF FLOATING THE CONCERN.
That not less than fifty persons donate £1 each, to be considered as a
gratuity, which fund in the aggregate will be devoted solely and entirely
to the establishment of the affair.
TO WORK THE INSTITUTE
It will be necessary to establish a permanent income—to ensure which it
will also be necessary to have at least eighty members, at a subscription of
2s. Gd. per month, or 7s. Gd. per quarter, payable in advance, which,
together with the profit upon literature, seances, &c., is considered adequate
to commence upon.
THE COMMITTEE
Is to consist of fifteen, elected from and by the members, and will remain
in office six months. All officers to be honorary, save the manager, who
will also act as secretary. >
Voting by ballot.
It is requested that all promises of membership and of subscriptions to
the £50 fund, and all inquiries may be forwarded to R. Buxton, 44, Princes-
street, Sussex-street, Lower Broughton, Manchester, before the 15th ult.
It is also announced that a public meeting will be held to discuss the
project and hear suggestions thereon on Friday December 3rd, at the
Temperance Hall, Ordsall -lane, Regent-road, Salford, at eight p.m.
COMMITTEE, PRO TEM.
Me. Chxswell,
„ George Dawson,
„ Edwin Hall,
„ Archibald Proctoe,
„ Thomas Perris,
„ Rowland Buxton, Secretary, pro tern.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED ENGLISH¬
MEN. A practical suggestion for a model colony—Congenial English
society, lovely scenery, a delightful climate, and the most fertile of soils.
By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
TO MR. RICHMOND.—Geo. Smith would be glad of
an opportunity to correspond with the gentleman named Richmond,
who was staying at Richmond Hotel, Bowling Green, Kentucky. U.S., in
December, 187v, if ne will kindly send his address to G. J. fcjmith,
Spiritualist office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, till called for.
PARTS.—Parisian, readers of The Spiritualist may obtain
it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Tltulaire du Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des
Capucines, Paris.
MR. S. R. REDMAN, Professor of Animal Magnetism,
begs to inform inquirers and others, that he is prepared to attend
Private Stances at the houses of investigators, and give unique illustrations
of Mesmeric and Psychological Phenomena, as recently given by him
before the members of “ The Brixton Psychological Society.” For terms
and particulars apply by letter to Professor Redman, Brixton-hill, S.W
Mesmerism, electro - biology, fascina¬
tion.
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological phenomena.
How to know Sensitive Subjects.
How to develop Clairvoyant Media.
How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DR. MOSES RIGG can teach any person efficiently by post. Pamphlet
and testimonials gratis, or by post, .id. stamp. Address, 9, Granville-
square, London, W.O. At home daily from 10 till 5.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Lifcge
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
T> EYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psyohologiques,
fondfi par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de lille. Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec., 17, 1875
. iv
Established in 1S6&.
pHAEGE FOE ADYEETISEMENTS Half-a-crown for
the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and sixpence for every ten
words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures count as one word. Displayed
Advertisements Five Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
" The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements, because it circu¬
lates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an advertisement
is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn
up when read, but preserved for binding.'
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper, to be
addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London ; and orders intended,
for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later than by the first post on the
previous .Wednesday morning. All communications for the Literary Department
should be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by a remittance.
“ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post free, to any address within the
United Kingdom on receipt of the annual subscription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C. City Pub¬
lishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rPHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
-L Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom, and is
the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-speaking countries
throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of readers on the Continent
of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more experienced
Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Literature, Art, Science, and
the Peerage. Among those who have published their names in connection with
their communications in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. Wil¬
liam Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who admits the
reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time expressed no decided
opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R Wallace, the N aturalist: Prince Emile
de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; the Duke of
Leuchtenberg; Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isham, Bart.;
Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory: the Hon. Alex¬
andre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburg);• the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dun-
phy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C.
Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin
Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn: Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon): Mr.
James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe ; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White
(author of the V Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev.C. Maurice
Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London”; Mr. S. 0. Hall, F.S.A.: Mr. H. D.
Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A.,
LL.M.: Mr. C. Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley;
Miss Kislingbury,; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D.
(Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd. To residents
in the United States. 4 dols. 17 cents per annum, which may be paid in to Messrs.
Colhy and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.. and their receipt forwarded
to “ The Manager, Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street
London, W.C.”
[December, 1875.]  
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. W. H. HARRISON.
Martin R. Smith, Esq.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
8ir Chas. Isham, Bart.
Baroness Adelma von Yay.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
H. D. Jencken, Esq. M.R.I.
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq, M.S.Tel K
N. F. Dawe, Esq.
Miss Douglas.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.
Secretary and Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Since the year 1869 Spiritualists have been indebted to Mr. Wm. H.
Harrison for the excellent journal of which he is the editor. This journal
has been a credit and strength to the movement in every respect. It bas
been printed in clear type and on good paper, and has been conducted
with ability, caution, courage, and public spirit. It is hardly necessary to
say that up to the present time the paper has been by no means self-
supporting; indeed, during the first.three years of its existence it entailed
upon Mr. Harrison a very heavy loss, which he bore single-handed. This
loss was aggravated by the fact that, in order the more completely to
devote his attention to fhe Spiritualist newspaper, Mr. Harrison voluntarily
relinquished a considerable portion (estimated, upon reliable information,
at an average of not less than £200 per annum) of the income which he
was deriving from literary work on the Engineer newspaper and other
journals. Mr. Harrison has indeed done more than this, for during the
past eight years he has given up one or two evenings every week to a
practical observation of spiritual phenomena at seances. By his
unwearied and intelligent observation he has- been enabled to collect
a mass of reliable information as to the facts and principles of Spiritualism,
which fits him in the highest degree to be the editor of a newspaper
devoted to the religious and scientific aspects of the subject.
It is a matter of notoriety that the Medium newspaper, which was in¬
augurated the year after thfe appearance of the Spiritualist, has been
annually subsidized by large ubscriptions, which its editor, Mr. Burns,
has always called for as justly due to his exertions. Whilst we fully ac¬
knowledge the services which have been thus rendered to Spiritualism,
we would call attention to the fact that no appeal to the public for help has
ever, except upon one occasion, and that fora special purposd. appeared in
the pages of the Spiritualist for six years. The work was done, and the
whole expense borne for three of those years by Mr. Harrison alone;
during the last tnree •years'ah annual sum of about two hundred pounds
has bhen privately subfcriued by a few friends, which has, doubtless,
Committee.
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgenstein.
Mrs. Honywood.
Alexander Calder, Esq.
Alexander Tod, Esq.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S.
James Wason, Esq.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
James Mylne, Esq.
greatly relieved the burden upon the shoulders of Mr. Harrison, but this in
no way touches the fact that Mr. Harrisorf has for years cheerfully sub¬
mitted to a heavy pecuniary loss in. order'to supply to the movement a
paper in many, if not in all, respects worthy of it.
The undersigned ladies aqd gentlemen are of opinion that it is not
to the credit of the movement that this pecuniary loss should be bomo
alone by Mr. Harrison, ""T
Had he appealed to the public for subscriptions, they would doubtless
have been forthcoming, as they have been- for some years past in
answer to the appeals of the Medium ever sincAits establishment—-but ha
has not dope so. >
It is proposed, therefore, that a subscription,'in addition to the existing
Guarantee Fund, shall be opened, which shall takethe form of a testimonial
to Mr. Harrison, and which, it is hoped, maWo some extent, relieve him
from the heavy sacrifices which he has made in money, time, and work in
the interests of Spiritualism. t ■>
All subscriptions to this fund will be payable on the 1st January, 1876.
Friends desiring to contribute' are requested sehd in their names to
Martin R. Smith, Esq., care of Miss Kiaiingbury, 38, Great Russell-street
London, W.C.
List of Subscriptions to NdvEUBifR'15th,
Mr. Martin R. Smith   1   £50 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn  jLGAt   50 0 0
Mr. J. N. T. Martheze      ......L'..'.  50 0 0
Mr. James Mylne   40 0 0
Mr. Alexander Calder ...-       20 0 0
A Friend     •.   20 0 0
Mr. Alexander Tod  .i.iv.V..!  20 0 0
Comte de Bullet    ' 20 0 0
Mr. N. F, Dawe ,. 15 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.     .'...A.  10 0 0
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgenstein       6 0 0
F. S. A     5 6 0
Mr. O. F. Varley, F.R.S.       5 0 0
Mr. Eugene Crowell, M.D      5 0 0
Mrs. Louisa Lowe ......'.  5 0 0
Mr. Charles Massey    5 0 0
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald ....;..   500
Signor Damiani        3 3 0
Mrs. Honywood          2 2 0-
Mr. Morell Theobald 1 ;  2 2 0
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S      2 2 0
Mr. S. Chinnery      2 2 0
Mr. S. Templeman Speer, M.D?....    2 2 0
“ Ennesfallen ”   2 2 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory       2 0 0
Mr. Epes Sargent    2 0 0
Dr. Baikie       '200
Miss Douglas       2 0 0
M. H. C  2 0 0
M. Gustave de Veh       2 0 0
Mr. Keningale Cook      • 1 11 -6
Mr. Geo. King           1 10
Mr. F. A. Binney         110
Mr. J. Coates   «  110
Mrs. Maltby.....    1 1 0
Mrs. Kislingbury  ;  110
Mr. B. W. Py cock      110
MA B. Coleman  110
Mr. R. Fitton       110
Major Menars.   110
Mr. John Lamont     110
Mr. Archibald Lamont   110
Mr. T. B. Griffin  110
Mr. J. B. Stones  110
Mr. J. Regan     110
Mrs. Regan j 110
Mr. G. W. F. Wiese    1 1 0
Rev. W. Whitear     110
Miss WhiteaV  110
Mr. O. E. Williams   110
Mr. A. Glendinniog  11 0
Mr. H. Witball    110
Captain James   1 10
Mr. F. W. Percival      110
Mr. Christian Reimers  110
Mr. Thos. Hinde  110
Mr. Thos. Grant      110
Mrs. Geo. Neville    110
Mr. G. R. Tapp      110
Mr. J. Clark Ferguson       110
Mr. Woodforde   1 1 0
Mr. T. M. Simkiss      110
A Friend  ;   110
A Friend, per Miss Williamson    110
Baroness von Yay  10 0
Dr. W. M. Buchanan    10 0
Miss E. D. Ponder    10 0
A Subscriber      1 0 0
Amicus  1 0 0
Mr. A. O. Swinton   1 0 0
M.A. (Oxon.)      10 0
Mr. Geo. Lee     0 10 . 6
Mr. W. E. Bassett    0 10 6
Mr. T. H. Edmands     0 10 6
Mr. J.S. Crisp       f> 10 0
Miss F. J. Theobald  0 10 0
Mr. St. George Stock       0 10 0
Mr. Geo Bl) ton    0 10 0
J. F. 0  0 10 0
Mr. Algernon Joy   0 5 0
Miss Kislingbnry     0 5 0
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fulljvood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St,. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lano London E.C.
