AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 122.—(Vol. Y.—No. 26.) LONDON: DECEMBER 25j 1874. Published Weekly; Price Twopence-
Contents.
Spirit Teachings. No. XXTY    
Other World Order. By William White, author of “The Life of Swe¬
denborg.”    
Mr. and Mrs. Holmes. By Robert Dale Owen   ' 
The Mediumship of the Eddy Brothers:—Appearance of Materialised
Spirits from Persia, Circassia, and Eastern Countries—Marvellous
Evidence of Spirit Identity    
Mr. and Mrs. Everitt in Liverpool. By John Lament
“The Mysterious Man” ' ... ...   
Spiritualism in Dundee  
The Education of the Children of Spiritualists ..
Spiritualism in Birmingham ... ... ... ■ 
Dr. Franz Hoffmann    
Parisian Magicians ...    
Correspondence:—Miss Fay’s Mediumship 
Paragraphs:—Spiritualism in America, 308; Mr. Morse in
311; Spiritualism and Spiritualists, 311; Trance Addresses
Royal Institution, 312; Spirit Photography, 312; Spiritualism in East
London i   
America,
312; The
306
306
3v7
309
310
310
310
311
312
... 312
RAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSURANCE
COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated under Act of Parliament, 25 26 Viet., cap. 89.)
42, POULTRY (CORNER OF OLD JEWRY), LONDON.
SIMPLE PORM'OF ASSURANCE.
Single premium covering the whole life, hut payable in two instalments
if preferred.
Cost of assurance reduced by two-thirds.
Profits divided amongst the members.
Trustees.—James Abbiss, Esq., Andrew Johnston, Esq., K. Blddulph
Martin, Esq., Sir John Murray Bart., James White, Esq.
Directors.—Sir John Murrav, Bart. (Chairman), Michael Angelo, Esq.,
John Brown, Esq., O. N. O. Button, Esq., J.P. Arthur lago, Esq., H. E.
Knight, Esq , Alderman, M. E. Marsden, Es R B Martin, Esq., M.A.,
F S.S., Captain W. S. M. Rayner, H. Osborne White, Esq., Major J.'O.
Wray.
Consulting Actuary.—Peter Gray, Esq., F.R.A.S., Hon. Fellow Institute of
Actuaries.
Medical Officer.—Thos. Boor Crosby, M.D., F.R.C.S., England.
Bankers.—Messrs. Martin and Co , 68, Lombard-street.
Solicitors.:—Messrs. Oarr, Bannister, Davidson and Morfiss.
Auditors.—Robert Lucas Nash, Efeq., H. W. S. Whiffln, Esq. (Messrs.
Lovelock and Whiffin).
Managing Director.—Mr. William Burr, F.R.S.
CLASS.
■ A. B "Insuringa sum
if KilLd, and Allow¬
ance Weekly if in¬
jured.
“ A.” Death only.
“ B." Weekly Allow¬
ance only.
£
1000
500
250
100
1000
500
Weekly Allow¬
ance for
Total
Disable¬
ment.
£ s d.
6 0 0
3 0 0
1 10 0
10 0
6 0 0
3 0 0
Partial
Disable¬
ment.
£ s. d.
1 10 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
1 10 0
0 18 0
PREMIUMS.
Single
Paymnt
£ s. d.
3 0 0
1 14 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
110
0 11 6
2 2 0
13 0
By Two Instals.
Present
Paymt
£ s. d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
0 11 6
0 6 6
12 6
0 12 6
Pajmt
within
TwoYrs
£ s. d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
0 11 6
0 6 6
12 6
0 12 6
Forms, Prospectuses, and further particulars on application to
MR. THOMAS BLYTOlN,
12, St. Philip’s-road, Dalston, London, E.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5'francs yearly.
TVEVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
JLlU fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Snciete Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to Id Leymarie.
THE CRUSADE ! A Popular and High-class Journal:
Devoted to the Promotion of the Great Temperance Reform in nil
its Branches. Price One Penny. Two cooies by»>ost, 2jd. Published ;.-n
the 15th of each month, by the Editor, at The Holmes, Betchworth, near
Reigate, and by Abel Heywood and Son, Manchester, and 4, Catherine
street, London.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid,and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Pay chic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirer^ into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Assopiation, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London,
N.W., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules may he had upon
application.
N.B.—THE SUBSCRIPTION FOR THE CURRENT YEAR, 1874, WILL NOT BE
CLAIMED FROM MAMBERS JOINING AFTER THIS DATE.
INSPIRATIONAL DISCOURSES,
BY MRS. CORA L. Y. TAPPAN, ON SUNDAY EVENINGS.
There will be 36 Lectures, delivered on Sunday Evenings, commencing
October 25th, and ending in June next, divided into courses of
Twelve Lectures,
AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS,
71, Mortimer-Street, Regent-street, London. Doors open at 6.30;
Commence at 7 p.m.
Committee.
AlexanderOalder, Esq,, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.—Chairman.
N. Fabyan Dawe, Esq., Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.; Dr.
Gully, Bedford-bill, Balham, S.W.: Mrs. Honywood, 52, Warwick-square,
Pimlico, S.W.; Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands. Wimbledon Common,
S.W.; Thomas Slater, Esq., 136, Euston-road, N.W.; G. N. Strawbridge,
Esq., and Mrs. Strawbridge, Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Webster Glynes, Esq., 4, Gray’s Inn-square, W.C.
(Hon. Secretary and Treasurer.)
A subscriber of £5 will be entitled for the whole series to a reserved
seat for himself and friend.
Tickets to admit one person for a course of 12 lectures only, will he
issued at 24s., and 12s. each.
There will he a limited number of 6d. seats.
Tickets to he obtained of the Treasurer, Mr. Webster Glynes, 4, Gray’s-
inn-square, on application enclosing post office order.
Single Tickets sold at the doors.
Persons desirous of obtaining seats are requested to come early.
The hymns used in the service will he taken from the “ Spiritual Lyre,”
sold at the doors.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buUdings, Chaueery-iane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, hut without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT. Manager.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. .'9 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4£d. post free. It is a number compiled specially foi the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is "f special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiiitualism. so Copies should
bi kept on band by psychological societies in ail parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen 11, Ave Maria-lane E.U
THE rise and progress of spiritualism in
ENGLAND, by BKNJ AMIN rOLEMAN. The autiior «ives some
important facts connected with ills early movement in this country with
which he was identified, and an account of some of the mcstremaikable
of his peisonal experiences. E. W Allen, Ave Maria-lane; George Farmer,
4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn. Price One Shilling.
II
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Dec. 25, 1874,
THE LIYEEPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
TRtiBNER AND CO.’S PUBLICATIONS.
Office-Bearers for 1874.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.—Mr. Archibald Lamont, Mr. 'William Meredith,
Mr. Q-. Wharmby, Mr. Dinsdale, Mr. R. Casson, Mr. D. Gay, Mr. T. B.
Griffin, Mr. Riece, Mr. Davis, Mr. Knox, Mr. Garland, Mr. Dean, Mrs,
Dinsdale, Mrs. Casson, Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
D ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. {Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary. 3s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary. 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation, ot £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary at the Rooms as ab >ve.
'ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
A M. GREENE, Hon. Secretary.
N.B.—Special arrangements are made for the last Thursday evening
in each month.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Oogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
TO THE READERS OF “THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt's Letter on the British National Association
or Spiritualists. By Algernon Jot (“Iota.") Published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny.
Animal magnetism and magnetic lucid
SOMNAMBULISM, wi'h Observations and Illustrative Instances of
Analagous Phenomena occurring spontaneously, by Edwin Lee. M.D., etc.
cr. 8vo, cloth new, published at 7s. 6d. Longmans, 1866. Offered for a short
time at 3s. 6d. by Henry Kimpton, 82, High Holborn, London. Other
hooks on kindred subjects in stock.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “ An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Patemoster-row.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 61., First Series.
FAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Just published, price 2s.
CURATIYE MESMERISM,
BY
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campdeu-hill, or from
Bailliere & Co., King Wifiiam-street, Strand.
JOHN BRAY, *
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbiuditg, Printing, &c. Circuiting library, w-ll suoplied with all the
mo iern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
Q. PlRITUALlSM AND REFORM. “ The Banner of Light”
IO Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Century. Issued every Saturday, by Colby and Rich, No. 9,
Montgomery-pjace, Boston, Mass.U.S. Terms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Year, 3,00 dolars. Six Months, 1,50 dollars. T iree Months, 75 cents.
C. & R. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progressive and
Reformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
, Now ready, price Sixpence,
THE DAY OF PENTECOST AND ITS PHENOMENA.
A Sermon-Lecture by Frederic Rowland Young, Minister of the
t?ree. Christian Church, New Swindon, and formerly Editor of the
Christian Spiritualist. London: E. W. Allen, II, Ave Maria-lane.
THE HONEYMOON. Remembrance of a Bridal Tour through Scotland
By the Count de Medina Pomar. Now ready. In two vols., Crown 8vo
Price 21s.
MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN’S WORKS.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD. With
Narrative Illustrations. An enlarged English Copyright Edition.
Post 8vo„ p.p. 412, cloth, 7s. 6d.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS WORLD AND THE
NEXT. With Illustrative Narrations. Crown 8vo., pp. 456, cloth, 9s.
THREADING MY WAY: Twenty-Seven Years of Autobiography. Crown
8vo., pp. 344, cloth, 7s. 6d.
“ A very pleasant little book.’’—Saturday Review.
THE CREED OF CHRISTENDOM its Foundations contrasted with its
Superstructure By W. R. Greg. Third Edition. With a new Intro¬
duction Two Vols., crown 8vo, pp. 272 and 290, cloth, 15s.
ENIGMAS OF LIFE By W. R. Greg. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo., pp. xxi.—
308, cloth, 10s. 6d.
Contents:—Realizable Ideals—Malthus Notwithstanding—Non-Survival
of the Fittest—Limits and Pirections of Human Development—The Sig>
niflcance of Life—De Profundis—Elsewhere—Appendix.
THE LESITNY OF MAN, The Storm King, and other Poems. B
Frederick Griffin. Fcap. 8vo., pp. vi. and 90, cloth, 2s. 6d.
London: Trubner & Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
6, BLANDFORD-STREET, BAKER-STREET, W.
TWO weekly seances are held at these rooms, on Tuesday
and Friday evenings. Admission, 6d, and 3d. See Advertisement.
A discussion class on Wednesday evenings. All friends, whether
Spirituilists or not, are invited to take part in these friendly meetings.
The object of the committee and of the members generally is. to spresd
abroad a knowledge of the great and pre ious truths of Spiritualism. We
unite ana labour for this purpose, and earnestly hope for the co-operation
of all who are solicitous, that their fellow men should become acquainted
with the fact of spirit-life and spirit-communion.
Subscription, Is. per quarter, for which valuable and interesting works
on Spiritualism, &c., are lent to read.
Charles J. Hunt, Hon. Secretary.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee
. Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
Information about the society \may be obtained from the Officers of the
Association by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee Rooms,
30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
In handsome Cloth, price 2s. 6d. post free.
PSYCHOPATHY or, THE TRUE HEALING ART.
By JOSEPH ASHMAN,
Principal of the Psychopathic Institution, 254, Marylebone-ioad, London
N.W.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—Introduction.
Dissatisfaction with Ordinary Systems of Medicine—The Nature of
Disease-One primal Principle of Cure—Weak nets and Strength—Man
like an Engine—What is Vital Force?—Health, Breath, the Blood—The
Vital Principle beyond these.
Chapter ,11.—The Vital Principle.
The Stomach—Man a Plant—The Internal Sun—Man a Microcosm-
Caloric—Arterial Combustion—Temperature of the Body—The Nervous
System a Source of Heat—Nerve Force—Difference between the Gan¬
glionic and the Cerebral and Cerebro-Spinal Nerves — Office of the
Ganglia and the Cerebellum—Nature of the Vis Nervosa—The Soul
Force.
Chapter III.—On the nature and Cure of Disease.
The Perfect Magnet—' he Healthy Organism—The Source of Vital
Force—How produced—The Vital Force and Nerve-aura may be Com¬
municated—The Influence of the Old on the Young—The Hand a Psychial
Instrument—The Philosophy of Hand-Shaking.
Chapter IV.—Healing.
Two Vital Fluids—Their Signs—The Vital Magnetic Fluid: Mode of
Applying it—The Power of the Hand over the Temperature of the Body—
The Nerves the Medium of Influence—Process without Contact—
Healing at a Distance: Marvellous Cures—The Impartation of the Aura
to Water, &c.—Necessity of Passivity and Benevolence—Concluding
Remarks.
London: J. Burns, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC, ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
© SELLER, STATIONER. AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist. 39. Smallbrook street, Birmingham, supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publication.
Established 1842.
VOiLUJVIE FIVE. JHUJVIBEI^ TWENTY-^IX.
LONDON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 28th, 1874.
Spnitralxst Ifctosppr.
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good meditim for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by tbA first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address: and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of 11 The Spiritualist" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E. C., should always he informed of such impediments and irregulari-
tiis, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383. Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Oadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
,, Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 164, Bourke-street.
„ Mr H.‘G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 176, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. 0. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. 0. A., Durham, news agent, &c., 118 Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78. Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent., 74, Bruaswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. T. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Oastlemaine.—H. Bamfofd, Bull-street.
Sandhurst—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
JpEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educsted women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
lakty Secretary.
Temporary Offices'-^, Fitzroy-square, W.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
NO. XXIY.
[On the day following that on which the last communi¬
cation was written, the argument was resumed.']
We have now spoken to you of the general outcome
of Spiritualism, and have endeavoured to show you
where in you had misconceived its tendency. It is not
as you have fancied. Were it so it would be but a de¬
graded and degrading thing, to be avoided with care,
and to be crushed out rather than nurtured. We have
shown you that deep down below the scum there is a
something which the careless eye does not see : a mass
of real fact and truth far different from that of which
you have spoken. As in the days of the development
of each fresh step in the knowledge of God there are
many silent workers of whom the noisy world knows
little, who cry not aloud, nor vaunt themselves in the
world’s market-places, but who grow up silently, yet
surely, in progressive knowledge which day by day be¬
comes more and more assured, so is it in the epoch
through which you are now passing. Many there are
now who know what they have believed, who are the
silent recipients of angel guidance, and who, while
they deplore much that they see around them, are not
to be shaken from their faith, or diverted from their
progressive growth by any foolish cries or deeds which
emanate from less developed spirits. Doubtless there
is much in the communications of the less refined and
elevated spirits which is to he deplored. Doubtless,
too, the adversaries are not slow to foster and encourage
much that may discredit us, and throw contempt upon
our work. We have, many times, warned you that it
is so. But in spite of all this there is much cause for
earnest thankfulness in the growth of many a faithful
soul, far more than for sorrow at any outburst of ill-
regulated and fanatical enthusiasm.
It behoves you to remember that all intercourse be¬
tween the two spheres, ours and yours, is as yet un¬
regulated by definite andwell-gscertained laws. Neither
ye nor we know as yet many, of the causes which
interfere with our orderly intercourse. We are not
able to lay down laws for your guidance ; scarcely are
we able to formulate regulations for ourselves. The
space during which objective communications from our
spheres have been possible, is but short. Few of the
* In The Spititualist of August 16tti, 1873. an aecotuit w«s prin't-d of
some rem&ikable seances held ai the houtb of Mr.Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandr^-road, St. John's-wovri. 'hrough the mediutpship
of a gentleman in private life who does hot wish his name to he published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave t! eir namt sand proved
theiridentity; also that the extractsthe\ gave from their writings » ere found,
after laborious search in itie British Museum Libtari and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium free, to a large extent, at ail even's, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequ-ntly the “spirit teachings’’ printed above obtained
through his mediumsbip, may be assumed to be to a con.iderable extent
reliable. It L proper to stats that these communications are selected in
chiouological order froma mass which ha* 1 een g>v.-n continuously for the
past six months. Msnv of the originals are of such a personal natuiethat
they are necessarily omi ted, otherwise no change is niirie. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many; each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing peculiar to the commnnicating intelligence is always preserved
and the individuality remains throughout the same.—Ed.
302
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 25, 1874.
years, by which you mark the lapse of time, have gone
since the process by which material phenomena are
produced was first discovered : and the process is little
known even amongst that rank of spirits who most use
it. We had been accustomed to convey our messages
by less material means, and our chiefest difficulty was,
and is, to find a ready and fit instrument, and to attune
it to our purpose. That difficulty is so far from being
lessened by the prevalence of objective physical mani¬
festations, that that very fact has added to us a new
difficulty. We have warned you that an undue devo¬
tion to the mere physical side of spiritual communica¬
tion is fraught with risk. Spirits who are best able
to communicate thus are little developed, unable to give
to you true and reliable information, tricky frequently,
and on a low plane of intelligence, even where graver
charges may not be brought against them. It is not
from such that elevated and improving truths can be
elicited. Yet, too frequently their foolish words pass
current for truth, and it is alleged against us that our
information is contravened by some such utterance as
theirs. It is to us a new cause of difficulty and em¬
barrassment.
Men have not learned yet to discriminate ; and even
by those who most interest themselves, the subject of
spirit communion is very little understood. Questions
which concern the deepest mysteries, into which the
most elevated spirits long to penetrate, are asked of
some poor soul but lately emancipated from a body of
flesh which dwarfed and stunted his spirit, and he is
expected to unravel divine mysteries known only to the
highest and most progressed intelligences. Vain delu¬
sion and foolish as it is vain ! When men shall have
learned wisdom they will wonder at the foolish curiosity
which can prompt such questionings.
Moreover, no proper care is taken of our mediums.
TheTnstrument is out of tune, and every jarring note
is credited to us. The nervous system of the medium
is over-wrought, or his bodily health is weak. Rude
contact with the world has upset the mental balance,
and communications are disturbed. Or the atmo¬
spheric conditions vary : that which was easy to-day,
becomes impossible to-morrow, we know not always
why. Circles are not properly composed. No care is
taken that they who meddle with holy things should be
pure in mind, body, and intent; that no base or un¬
worthy motives intrude into that which should be free
from the base and sordid atmosphere of your lower
earth ; that no mere idle curiosity beset the path with
difficulty, and open the way to deceit; that no impure,
untruthful soul be there to draw around it congenial
spirits, and to taint the air with corruption. Men reck
little of this.
And even when a circle is duly formed, and the
communing has become regular and comparatively easy,
instead of waiting patiently for the development of
communication and for the evolution of truth, too
frequently other elements are introduced time after
time, each one bringing with it its own changed con¬
ditions, until we know not what possibility of com¬
muning we may find. We always grudge refusal when
permission is asked ; but it must be remembered that
we have usually no knowledge whatever of the person
who is to be introduced, and even when we have such
knowledge we are not able to prophecy the result of a
new combination until it has been tried.
These causes, and many others, prominent among them
the scanty interest that the higher revelations excite,
render it very difficult for even the most advanced
intelligences to make satisfactory communication with
your world. Men care little for being taught; they
seek rathen to be amused, and wile away an idle hour
by endeavouring to summon the spirits who have pro¬
gressed in knowledge to play some tricks before them.
It is little wonder, surely, that a temper of mind such
as this, so widely prevalent, should be a grievous
stumbling-block. And where it is supplemented by
low mental developmejit, or by distorted mental or
spiritual characteristics, where the curious is also base,
impure, untruthful, ignorant, the resujt is precisely
that foolish, aimless communing which you deplore.
But all is charged on us | and men, having done their
best to dwarf our power and to drag our communing
down to the level of their own requirements complain
of us that we are foolish, inaccurate, good for nothing.
Not we, friend, but they. We wait with earnest
longing for the time when men shall have learned
wisdom, and shall be fit recipients for communications
from the wise. Meantime we do what we can, ham¬
pered by many disadvantages, attacked on the one side
by the ceaseless machinations of spiritual foes, and
hindered from advance on the other by the dead, cold
faith of man, or by his undeveloped and unreceptive
spirit. Be sure that one grand law at least is known
to us and to you. Like where it is evil will draw
like ; the converse being true where the pure and the
good are fenced around and protected from assaults of
evil. As is your spirit’s tone so will be the tone of the
messages you pull receive; bad where it is bad ; foolish
where it is foolish; good and pure where it brings a
good atmosphere with it, save and except only where
the soul is subject to assault as part of its necessary
training. To the purest may come assault from the
adversaries, which their guardians will enable them to
repel. Saving this the law is absolutely without ex¬
ception. Like attracts like.
Nothing now is said of those circles into which de¬
ceit is admitted. There none but the most undeveloped
spirits can enter, and the manifestations must needs be
of a deceptive and repulsive character. On this we
do not dwell.
But much, friend, is in your power. You may help us
to crush out deceit and fraud, those genderers of evil.
You may aid us in raising man above the plane of mere
curiosity, where he can receive nothing that can do his
spirit permanent benefit. You know how by our advice,
by the cultivation of a receptive spirit, by repressing all
inclination to idle change, to curious questionings, and
to the frequent introduction of new elements to our
circle, we have enabled you to progress steadily on the
road to knowledge. You might well have progressed
more; but we have not now to deal with that. We
say that by encouraging others to form circles for the
steady evolution of truth, you may in some measure help
in putting a stop to the evils which you deprecate.
The time will come when the cloud of dust will be
blown away; but not till man has ceased to add to it.
God does not force truth on unwilling minds : and man
must have reached a higher plane of progress than that
which he now occupies before it can be possible for us
to femove evils many of which are caused by himself.
When you come to ponder this, think, friend, that we
are not responsible for all the mischief: and even admit¬
ting the evil, be thankful also for the good, remembering
that anything is better than lifeless stagnation, and
hoping for the time which shall surely come when all
Dm. 25, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
303
shall be made clear, and our communings shall he
regulated by laws which shall be thoroughly known
amongst you. + Imperatok.
[/ insert here some answers to questions which I put,
on reading the communication over more than a year
after it had been written."]
I do not quite understand what you say about the
exception to ‘ like attracts like.’ Does it not always
do so ?
Usually, hut not invariably. Evil attracts evil. A
curious, vain, frivolous, or bad man, will draw round him
frivolous or undeveloped spirits; hut it is at times not
true equally of the pure and good. They may be sub¬
ject to "attack from the undeveloped, either as part
of their own training, or from the machinations of
the adversaries.
You speak as if all physical manifestations were dan¬
gerous. Surely they are necessary.
They are needful and good in their place. It is the
resting exclusively in them that we deplored. They
are but the signs which confirm the teaching, even as.
Jesus said. It is necessary, friend, that men be con¬
stantly reminded to seek spiritual gifts. We are come
to teach, not merely to amuse or astonish. But we
cannot teach where man will not be taught. It is not
possible. We did not say what you suppose. We have
ourselves confirmed our words by signs.
Yes. I see vihat is meant. It seems that a circle
should be very carefully composed, and not changed.
It should be selected with care, and under the
guidance of the controlling spirits. When formed it
should not be added to or diminished save by direction.
It should not meet when unfavourable conditions super¬
vene : and never too frequently. You have erred by
too frequent meetings. They are not desirable, save
where those who meet have no other call upon their
strength. And a person mentally or bodily "distressed
should not sit. We have told you before.
# # * * # #
You seem to anticipate that a time will come when these
manifestations can be produced at will. Is that so ?
The time assuredly will come when the laws which
regulate them will be tabulated and known to us and
you. When that is so, phenomena can be evoked as
they are in the domains of your sciences.
Then we can challenge scientific men, but not till then,
as it seems to me. We must be able to say, “I will show
you this experiment at the Royal Institution, if you like.
How do you account for it?” We can't say that yet.
The time will come when you will be able to do and
say so. You say well that your work now is not with
your scientific men. The work that presses on you
now is not the work of proselytising, nor of publicity,
so much as it is the steady collection of facts and their
collation: the gathering up of a store of truth from which,
in the future, theory and law may be deduced. You
are but laying the foundations. The day of which you
speak is not yet. Those are best advised who confine
themselves to the collation of facts, to the earnest
seeking after truth in all its varied forms, and who are
content to leave the theorising and proselytising to the
future.
Oh, yes; I am sure of that. Still, it is good to bring
truth home to all.
Not so. Truth to you is not truth to all, or, if you
cavil at that, we will say that what is necessary truth
to one is so far from being necessary truth to all, that it
may even be prejudicial to some. They may not need it,
possibly cannot assimilate it; and so reject it, and find
that the old truth is gone, and that there is no new one
to take its place. It is not good to scatter pearls of
of truth broadcast, for there be souls, as Jesus said, who
will not accept them, but will turn again and rend you
for your services.
Yes : but still, when people Seek they should find.
Such will find, for that the fact of teaching shows
the receptivity which is required for the acceptance of
truth. It is a holy duty to aid such. But it requires
discrimination and discernment, and is not to be lightly
done. The inner faculties need to be open before such
duty is performed. A discerner of spirits who goes
warily and with discretion is needed. The seeking
soul will find in the end : but man is too impatient,
too ready to force on the work of development: crowd¬
ing the ground with too much seed, and ever digging
it up to see whether it has begun to germinate.
Very often, I know. This is the day of small things,
you think, and of prep araton for a future. When will
that be?
Nay, friend, we are not prophets that we should
gratify your curiosity. Be content to work, and to
wait in patience the fulness of the time. It will come
when man is ready : not before. Man may hasten it,
but not in the way he thinks. Mercifully, he is not
able to retard it beyond its advent to himself. But his
plans for hastening the development of truth are crude
and of human origin, and too frequently produce results
other than those intended. Truth cannot be forced
on a spirit not prepared for it. We have told you
before.
Well, it is some consolation to know that the success of
truth is assured, sjnte of man’s blunders. The best of us
can know little what we do.
Be of good heart. Man is the chosen instrument
through whom God works. Be thankful that you are
not without guidance. + Ihperator.
OTHER WORLD ORDER.
BY WILLIAM WHITE, AUTHOR OP “ THE LIFE OP
SWEDENBORG.”
Considering the large part which everlasting punish-
ment occupies in popular theology, it is surprising how
little ground there is for the notion in the Scriptures.
It has no warrant in the Old Testament, in¬
asmuch as it is questionable whether the primitive
Hebrews had any distinct conception of existence be¬
yond the grave. In the New Testament a reader will
explore in vain the Gospel of John and the Acts of the
Apostles, for any hint to the effect that if men do not
behave or believe aright in this world, they will be tor¬
mented to all eternity in the next. And more surpris¬
ing still, neither Paul in his Epistles, nor James, nor
Peter, nor John show any sign that they had ever
heard of the possibility of such a catastrophe. Indeed
in his quest for a warrant for perpetual misery, the
ingenuous reader will come across much of a decidedly
different tenor. John will tell him how Jesus declared,
“ And I, if I be lifted up from the earth will draw all
men unto me;-” and Paul, he will find, assured the
Corinthians, “ For as in Adam all die, even so in
Christ shall all be made alive.” Shut off therefore
from the vast field of Scripture, the warrant for
a realm of irretrievable misery must be found, if found
304 THE SPIRITUALIST. Dec. 25, 1874.
at all, in the Gospels of Matthew, Mark, and Luke and
the Apocalypse.
As for Luke he might rank in silence with John
were it not for the parable of Dives and Lazarus—
a singular parable, adjoining another scarcely less
perplexing, namely, that of the Unjust Steward, which
some good people think must have been reported under
a misapprehension. The apparent lesson of Dives and
Lazarus is that luxurious indulgence here is balanced
by torment in hell, and that misery here is compen¬
sated by bliss in heaven. “ Son,” said Abraham to
the rich man, “remember that thou in thy lifetime
receivedst thy good things, and likewise Lazarus evil
things; but now he is comforted and thou art tor¬
mented ”—an argument that ought to shoot a thrill of
apprehension through sleek Christians who reckon it
possible to make the best of both worlds! At the same
time, let us note that there is nothing in the parable to
sanction the opinion that Dives was never to be released
from the flames. On the contrary, the rational infer¬
ence is, that when his infernal affliction had equalled
his earthly delights, his deliverance would be achieved.
A Catholic might say, he was in purgatory and not in
hell. “ xih,” intervenes a censor, “ you forget that
Abraham cut off all hope when he said there was
a great gulf fixed between him and Dives that could not
be crossed.” True; but Abraham did not say that it
could never be crossed—that the conditions which for
the hour rendered it impassable were to continue un¬
changed. We are apt to insert our fancies into
Scripture, and the tendency is alike difficult to detect
and check. Everlasting punishment is read in to the
parable of Dives and Lazarus, but even under the most
dexterous manipulation it can never be read out of the
same.
Mark has two or three passages which are often
cited as evidence for endless misery; as, for instance,
“ If thy hand offend thee, cut it off: it is betler for
thee to enter into life maimed, than having two hands
to go to hell, into the fire that never shall be quenched:
where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not
quenched ;” the same advice being repeated about the
foot and the eye, closing with the mysterious assertion,
“ For every one shall be salted with fire, and every
sacrifice shall be salted with salt. Salt is good : but if
the salt have lost its saltness, wherewith will ye season
it ? Have salt in yourselves, and have peace one with
another.”
The first observation in connection with such sayings
is, “ What do they mean ?” Their drift and connection
are far from obvious, and we are led to suspect faulty
reporting, especially when we find the remark about
salt repeated in Matthew v. 13 in a more intelligible
relation. The counsel about cutting off hand and foot
and plucking out the eye is generally interpreted as a
recommendation to renounce whatever indulgences or
habits lead to sin, just as we might say to one who
could not enjoy wine without drunkenness, You must
abstain entirely. Again, the hell referred to is said by
critics to be Gehenna, the place where the people of
Jerusalem shot rubbish and offal to be consumed by
fire and worm. Better therefore, says Christ, to enter
into life imperfect than to be cast away as good for
nothing, to rot and burn—the inference being that, the
creature cast away was made an end of by the fire and
worm. Nevertheless one cannot pretend that such in¬
terpretations are satisfactory, for instruction that re¬
quires explanation is virtually superseded by the ex¬
planation, and is like one of those dishes where the
merit consists in the. sauce. Thus mystical expositors,
from Origen to Swedenborg, are open to the objection
that they stuff Scripture with meaning, and then affect
to discover and extract it therefrom.
Again, it is in Mark that we find the momentous
query wherewith Loyola startled and captured Xavier,
“ What shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole
world, and lose his own soul ? Or what shall a man
give in exchange for his soul?”—on which, too, the
mediaeval fancy was founded of the devil playing with
man, the stake being his soul. The Lord’s query,
however, does not bear the common construction of the
soul being lost in the same way that a jewel or other
precious article may be lost by its owner. The true
meaning appears when we read, as the Greek allows,
life for soul—“ What shall it profit a man, if he shall
gain the whole world, and lose his life Just as we
might say to a merchant, “ By what shall you be pro¬
fited if you realise i/100,000 by the transaction, and
die the next day ?” The like instruction is given in
the parable of the rich man who in his prosperity said
to himself, “ Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for
many years; take thine ease, eat, drink, and be
merry ;” a soliloquy *that was met with the reprimand,
“ Thou fool! this night thy soul shall be required of
thee: then whose shall those things be which thou
hast provided ?”
But it is in Matthew’s Gospel that what is said to be
conclusive evidence for everlasting punishment is to be
found; and if we ask where, are directed to the ac¬
count of the Last Judgment, in the 25th chapter, in
which it is predicted that, When the Son of Man
shall come in His glory, and all the holy angels with
Him, then shall He sit upon the throne of His glory :
and before Him shall be gathered all nations: and He
shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd
divideth his sheep from the goats : and He shall set
the sheep on His right hand, but the goats on the left
and, after admonition, it is written, “ These shall go
away into everlasting punishment: but the righteous
into life eternal.”
Hereon we would remark, that this conclusion of the
Last Judgment, as described by Matthew, is governed
by the introduction, and when we have literally-minded
people to deal with, it is but fair that we be rigorously
literal. Now, it is very clear that only “ When the
Son of Man shall come in His glory, and all the holy
angels with Him,” and when before Him “ shall be
gathered all nations,” that the sentence of everlasting
punishment can be pronounced. And if we have no
faith in the probability of such a final assize, we
surely err in selecting the sentences on the good and
evil with which it concludes, and dealing with them as
if they were in course of daily execution.
. Again, a literalist might be asked how he squares
Matthew’s last judgment with Luke’s parable of Dives
and Lazarus. Luke describes Dives in hell, whilst his
brethren were enjoying themselves on earth. Matthew,
on the contrary, postpones heaven and hell until “ the
Son of Man shall come in His glory, and all the holy
angels with him.”
The references to hell in the concluding chapters
the Apocalypse—to “ the lake which burneth with fire
and brimstone”—are frequently used to eke out authority
for everlasting punishments, but in our ignorance of the
scope and application of that magnificent and mysterious
prophecy, it is idle to pick out a word here and a
Dec. 25, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
305
phrase there and set them forth as serious matter of fact.
Not that I think there is anything in the Apocalypse,
otherwise than by perversion, to sanction popular
notions about damnation.
As I have said, it is out of a few words in the
Gospels of Matthew, Mark, and Luke, assisted by the
imagery of the Apocalypse, that the portentous dogma
of everlasting damnation has been conjured up and
maintained—a dogma that irritates and mortifies our
deepest convictions of equity. And the words of sanc¬
tion are not only so few, but so superficial, that an
editor with some slight touches of his pen might re¬
move them all, and leave the fabric of the Gospels un¬
affected ; and, having said so, I would suggest whether
what might be so easily effaced might not have been
furtively affixed. For let us not forget that the
Gospels have been edited; or as Tischendorf puts it,
“ I have no doubt that very shortly after the books of
the New Testament were written, and before they were
protected by the authority of the Church, many
arbitrary alterations and additions were made in them.”
And not only have they been edited by unknown hands,
but they are by no means verbatim or contemporary
reports. They are reminiscences of the Saviour’s
doings, sayings, and speeches, collected and arranged
when the hope of his imminent second advent had
grown faint. Hence it is difficult to repress, impatience
when we are entertained with elaborate disquisitions
on shades of expression ascribed to Christ, as if the
very words were his, and selected with grammatical
nicety, instead of reproductions from memories, which,
however tenacious, could only reproduce the reality
with some approach to accuracy. What Christ taught
is, I am persuaded faithfully and adequately set forth
in the New Testament. His doctrine is unmistakable
in its breadth and power, but many of its circumstances
are, to say the least, open to question, and it is a great
pity that tender consciences should be burdened and
harassed with attempts to explain and believe what
they might freely dismiss as inexplicable or incredible.
What, too, renders us doubly suspicious about these
sayings concerning everlasting punishment is the
silence of the Apostles in their Epistles. If our Lord
had taught that certain courses of conduct and belief
would terminate in perpetual and irretrievable disaster,
the lesson was one of such overwhelming importance
that it would have been the first of apostolic duties to
warn and threaten fellow-creatures on the subject.
But Paul and Peter, James and John, give not a.hint
that they had ever heard of such a frightful possibility;
and I cannot help thinking that they never did, and
that we owe “ the gospel of damnation,” as Canon
Kingsley styles it, to a subsequent generation, to the
fanaticism engendered by persecution, to souls which,
thirsting for martyrdom, delighted in words decisive,
fiery, and terrible, to which the declaration added to
Mark’s Gospel, “ He that believeth and is baptised
shall be saved, and he that believeth not shall be
damned,” would be perfectly consonant, although
wholly incongruous with the spirit of Him who ad¬
vised, “ Love your enemies, bless them that curse you,
do good to them that hate you, and pray for them that
despitefully use you, and persecute you ; that ye may
be the children of your Father which is in heaven:
for He maketh His sun to rise on the evil and on the
good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust.”
Nevertheless, it would be an ill service, if, in re¬
moving the terror of an everlasting hell, any encourage¬
ment were given to think lightly of wickedness. “Fools
make a mock of sin.” There is nothing in the Scrip¬
tures more impressive than their unwavering testimony
for righteousness—that conformity to God is strength,
peace, and welfare, whilst variance with Him is weak¬
ness, misery, and destruction. To assert that the thief,
the murderer, the adulterer and the liar are damned,
and damned everlastingly, is perfectly true, and is so com¬
fortably true that I would ask who could wishit otherwise ?
What should we think if it were written that the kingdom
of heaven included liars, adulterers, murderers, and
thieves ? A gentle old lady expressed concern over
what she considered the violence of Christ’s address to
the Scribes and Pharisees, “ Ye .serpents, ye generation
of vipers, how can ye escape the damnation of hell ?”
• But, as I said to her, the energy of the address was
justified by its accuracy, and the chastisement predicted
was an inevitable sequence. Many good people, in the
seclusion of their own paradisaical sweetness, forget or
are unconscious of the malignant side of human nature,
and are incredulous as to the tragic measures necessary
for its punishment and repression. About the damna¬
tion of evil doers I have no doubt whatever, nor that
it is everlasting. But the damnation of evil doers is
limited to their condition of unrighteousness, and when¬
ever they escape from that condition, whether by love
or fear, they escape from damnation. Ezekiel, I appre¬
hend, spoke the truth for here and hereafter, when, in
the name of Jehovah, he proclaimed, “ If the wicked
will turn from all the sins that he hath committed, and
keep all my statutes, and do that which is lawful and
right, he shall surely live, he shall not die. All his
transgressions that he hath committed, they shall not be
mentioned unto him : in his righteousness that he hath
done, he shall live. Have I any pleasure at all that
the wicked should die ? saith the Lord God : and not
that he should turn from his ways and live ?” What
right, what reason, what pretence of any sort is there
for the notion that damnation is ineffectual, that sinners
continue in sin in defiance of punishment, are whipped
for ever and ever, and for ever in vain? We have
only to state the case to recognise its wild absurdity.
An established hell, secure and invincible, is a phantasy
for Dante and Milton to horrify and amuse mankind
with, but it is a conception irreconcilable with our
ideas of order, and with our knowledge of the cowardice
and rottenness of vice. To believe in the endurance of
an empire of iniquity, it would be necessary to lose our
confidence in God; yea, more, to forget our experience
of Him.
Nor is damnation confined to the grosser forms of
activity which we are accustomed to style criminal, but
extends to all works and impulses that are contrary to
divine order. God’s will is done in Heaven; indeed
Heaven is Heaven because God’s will is done there; and
wherever God’s will is done, there is Heaven, if not con¬
summate yet incipient. And the promise is, that God’s will
as done in Heaven shall be done throughout the Universe.
Says a sceptic, “ Such may be your faith, but it
is incapable of verification, by you, at least thus far.”
I answer; That what is unconformable to the Order of
the Universe is bound to surrender or be swept away,
the alternative being Conformity or death. “ Every
plant that my heavenly Father hath not planted shall
be rooted up,” testified Jesus Christ. And it seems to
me that all our discoveries, physical and social, tend to
establish the position; that welfare is inseparable from
righteousness as perdition is from unrighteousness. It
306
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Dec. 25, 1874.
is true, all this is a very old story, “ old as the world
and young as the sun,” but to be revived and announced
in every age.
MR. AND MRS. HOLMES.
BY BOBERT DALE OWEN.
Circumstantial evidence, which I have only just
obtained, induces me to withdraw the assurances which
I have heretofore given, of my confidence in the
genuine character of certain manifestations presented
last summer in my presence, through Mr. and Mrs.
Nelson Holmes.*
Philadelphia, Dec. 6, 1874.
THE MEDIUMSHIP OF THE EDDY BROTHERS.
APPEARANCE OP MATERIALISED SPIRITS PROM PERSIA, CIRCASSIA,
AND EASTERN COUNTRIES.—MARVELLOUS EVIDENCE OP SPIRIT
IDENTITY.
The New York Graphic recently published an article written
by one Dr. Beard, purporting to be an expose of the manifesta¬
tions in the Eddy family. The following is a portion of a
refutation which also appeared in the Graphic. It was written
by Madame Blavatsky, a Russian lady, now residing in New
York. She says
Dozens of visitors have remained at the Eddys’ for weeks,
and even for months. Not a single seance has taken place but
some of them realised the personal presence of a friend, a
relative, a mother, father, or dear departed child. But lo !
here comes Dr. Beard, stops less than two days, applies his
powerful electrical battery, under which the spirit does not
even wink or flinch, closely examines the cabinet (in which he
finds nothing), and then turns his back and declares most
emphatically “ that he wishes it to be perfectly understood
that if his scientific name ever appears in connection with the
Eddy family, it must be only to expose them as the greatest
rogues, who cannot do even good trickery.” . . . Didn’t the
learned doctor say to Colonel Olcott while at the Eddys’ that
three dollars worth of second hand drapery would be enough
for him to show how to materialise all the spirits that visit
the Eddy homestead ? To this I reply, backed as I am by the
testimony of hundreds of reliable witnesses, that all the ward¬
robe of Niblo’s Theatre would not suffice to attire the numbers
of spirits that emerge night after night from an empty little
closet. Let Dr. Beard explain* the following facts if he can :
I remained fourteen days at the Eddys’. In that short period
of time I saw and recognised fully,, out of 119 apparitions,
seven spirits. I admit that I was the only one to recognise
them, the rest of the audience not having been with me in my
numerous travels throughout the East, but their various
dresses and costumes were plainly seen and closely examined
by all.
The first was a Georgian boy, dressed in the historical
Caucasian attire. I recognised and questioned him in
Georgian upon circumstances known only to myself. I was
understood and answered. Requested by me in his mother
tongue (upon the whispered suggestion of Colonel Olcott) to
play the “ Lezguinka,” a Circassian dance, he did so immedi¬
ately upon the guitar.
Second.—A little old man appears. He is dressed as Per¬
sian merchants generally are. His dress is perfect as a
national costume. Every thing is in its right place, down to
the “ babouches” that are off his feet, he stepping out in his
stockings. He speaks his name in a loud whisper. It is
*' Hassan Aga,” an old man whom I and my family have
known for twenty years at Tiflis. He says, half in Georgian
and half in Persian, that he has got a “ big secret to tell me,”
and comes at three different times, vainly seeking to finish his
sentence.
Third.—A man of gigantic stature emerges forth, dressed in
the picturesque attire of the warriors of Kurdistan. He does
not speak, but bows in the Oriental fashion, and lifts up his
spear ornamented with bright coloured feathers, shaking it in
token of welcome. I recognise him immediately as Saffar Ali
Bek, a young chief of a tribe of Kurds, who used to accompany
* In our first article on the two Katie Kings,, we warned our American
readers not to accept any manifestations through the mediumship of the
Holmes's hut those which took place under test conditrons.—Ed.
me in my trips around Ararat in Armenia on horseback, and
who, on one occasion saved my life. More, he bends to the
ground as though picking up a handful of mould and scatter¬
ing it around, presses his hand to his bosom—a gesture
familiar only to the tribes of the Kurdistan.
Fourth.—A Circassian comes out. I can imagine myself at
Tiflis, so perfect is his costume of ” nouker” (a man who
either runs before or behind one on horseback). This one
speaks. More, he corrects his name, which I pronounced
wrong on recognising him, and when I repeat it he bows,
smiling, and says in the purest guttural Tarter, which sounds
so familiar to my ear, ” Tehoch yachtchi” (all right), and goes
away.
Fifth.—An old woman appears with a Russian headgear.
She comes out and addresses me in Russian, calling me by an
endearing term that she used in my childhood. I recognise an
old servant of my family, a nurse of my sister.
Sixth.—A large, powerful negro next appears on the platform.
His head is ornamented with a wonderful coiffure something
•like horns wound about with white and gold. His looks are
familiar to me, but Ido not at first recollect where I have seen
him. Very soon he begins to make some vivacious gestures, and
his mimicry helps me to recognise him. It is a conjuror from
Central Africa. He grins and disappears.
Seventh and Last.—A large, gray-haired gentleman comes
out attired in the conventional suit of black. The Russian
decoration of Saint Ann hangs suspended by a large red moire
ribbon with two black stripes—a ribbon, as every Russian will
know, belonging to said decoration. This ribbon is worn
around his neck. I feel faint, for I think of recognising my
father. But the latter was a great deal taller. In my excite¬
ment I address him in English, and ask him : “ Are you my
father?” He shakes his head in the negative, and answers as
plainly as any mortal man can speak, and in Russian, “ No ;
I am your uncle.” The word “ diadia” has been heard
and remembered by all the audience. It means “ uncle.”
But what of that ? Dr. Beard knows it to be but a pitiful
trick, and we must submit in silence. People that know me,
know that I am far from being credulous. Though a Spirit¬
ualist of many years’ standing, I am more sceptical in receiv¬
ing evidence from paid mediums than many unbelievers.
But when I receive such evidence as I received at theEddys’,
I feel bound on my honour and under the penalty of confessing
myself a moral coward, to defend the mediums as well as the
thousands of my brother and sister Spiritualists, against the
conceit and slander of one man, who has nothing and no one
to back him in his assertions. I now hereby finally and pub¬
licly challenge Dr. Beard to the amount of 500 dollars to pro¬
duce before a public audience and under the same conditions
the manifestations herein attested; or, failing this, to bear
the ignominous consequences of his proposed expose.
124, East Sixteenth-street, Oct. 27. H. P. Blavatsky.
MR. AND MRS. EVERITT IN LIYERPOOL.
BY JOHN LAM0NT.
On Sunday, Dec. 13th, Mr. Everitt, of Hendon, delivered
two addresses in the Islington Assembly Rooms, Liverpool, to
large and appreciative audiences. The Hall in the evening
was crowded, and the subject of the address was “ Direct
Spirit Writing (through the mediumship of Mrs. Everitt) on
the Historical Evidences of the Truthfulness of the Christian
Religion.” The papers read on this occasion were part of a
series on the same subject. The papers were not written by
the hand of the medium, but by direct spirit agency, the
sheets of paper and pencil being taken up into the air over
the table, and covered with writing in the space of a few
seconds. One sheet contained on one side as many as seven
hundred words—so small was the writing—yet it was so legible
that with the aid of glasses it could easily be read.
To those who are disposed to say that the matter is due to a
reflex action of the medium’s mind, suffice it to say that Mrs.
Everitt declares that she knew nothing of the history or
opinions of the persons professing to give the communications,
nor even when they lived. It may be here observed that at a
seance previous to the production of the said papers, Mrs.
Everitt saw clairvoyantly three men, clad in robes of blue,
purple, and scarlet respectively; they said that they were
Boyle, Locke, and Newton, and intended to give a series of
papers on the subjects named above. Mrs. Everitt knew
nothing of the fact that these worthies lived contemporane¬
ously, and were members of the Royal Society, then in its
infancy. I am well aware that I am here writing what is
f
Dec. 25, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
307
already well known- to many of your readers, but as The
falls into the hands of many persons who do not
know these facts, that must be my excuse for so far trespassing
on your' valuable space, and I will conclude this part of my
report by stating that the audience was highly delighted, and
at the close .Dr. Hitchman and other gentlemen present ex¬
pressed in eulogistic terms the pleasure they felt in listening
to Mrs. Everitt’s address, and to the papers.
. The leading features of Mrs. Everitt’s mediumship are so
well known to your readers, that I do not intend to dwell in
detail on the manifestations presented at the few sittings we
had the privilege of attending, but I must briefly relate some of
them. My brother’s wife, who passed to spirit life Nov. 19th
last, has repeatedly expressed at our home circles, since her
departure, her pleasure at the prospect of Mrs. Everitt coming
to Liverpool, since she believed that she could, in Mrs. Everitt’s
presence, speak to us by the direct voice. She gave instruc¬
tions on the Wednesday before Mrs. Everitt’s arrival,; that
we were to sit on Sunday night in the bedroom in which she
passed away, and it was discovered on Mrs. Everitt’s arrival
that the spirit of Mrs. Lament had given her the same in¬
structions, so that here at least are concurrent desires expressed
through different media—one in Leeds (as Mrs. Everitt was
there at the time)—the other in Liverpool.
Accordingly, after service on Sunday evening, Dec. 18th, a
circle was formed in the bedroom in which our sister passed
to the realms of light, present Mr. and Mrs. Everitt, Miss
Julia Boyd (five years ,a resident in the same house with Mrs.
Lament), Mr. Archibald Lamont (the husband,of the risen
one), and the writer—five in all. On extinguishing the light,
one verse of a hymn was sung, when a voice—certainly not
emanating from any of the sitters—feebly and softly said,
“ Have a little patience, and I shall be able to speak plainer.”
’ In a few minutes the voice (this time unmistakably recog¬
nisable) expressed the pleasure it afforded her to speak once
again to her loved ones. On Miss Boyd remarking how like
the voice was to Mrs. Lamont’s, the reply was immediately
made, “ Yek, Julia, it’s me ; be gentle with Maggie, for my
sake.” Maggie is Mrs. Lamont’s daughter, six years old.
And here permit me to say that within the sacred precincts of
that room we had the most irrefragable proofs that those who
pass out of our sight are still near us in spirit, for another
spirit, nearly related to my wife, also spoke, and soft hands
freely touched us and clasped our hands. For the benefit of
those sceptical friends who will say that Mrs. Everitt tricked
us, I may say that happily that lady is far above suspicion; she
is the mother of a family in the midst of which similar pheno¬
mena present themselves. But apart from all this, Mrs. Everitt
on this occasion was so deeply moved, and her emotional nature
so affected, that she was audibly sobbing while the spirit
friends were calmly speaking to us, and expressing their joy,
and their thanks to God for the possibility of thus proving
their presence and identity. My wife’s relative, who was a
dear friend of my own in earth-life, laid her hand on my
shoulder, and said, “Dear John, give my love to Mary.”
Mary is my wife, who was not present. When our sitting was
drawing to a close, a member of the circle expressed a desire
to know if John Watt were present, when instantly a fine
manly voice in clear tones replied, “ Yes, friends,! am here,
and am glad your dear ones have been so well able to express
themselves.” After a few observations, and his benediction,
John bade us “ Good-night.” And thus terminated an inter¬
view with the invisibles as real as any we ever had with them
while in the body. For reasons which will be obvious to your
readers, I cannot here reproduce the conversation.
Our second seance took place at my house, on Monday
evening, and twenty-three were present. The large number
led us to expect little ; but John Watt spoke well, the per-’
fumes were abundant, and a few spirit lights were seen by all,
while many of the company were touched. Questions were
freely answered. A little girl, who was a favourite of mine,
was described, and her name given. At the same time I felt
soft, child-like hands touching me freely. There is something
strangely real in these touches. There is a character about
them which plainly indicates whether the spirit was old or
young, and often individual characteristics are traced through
them.
Our third seance on Tuesday evening was of much the same
character as that on Sunday, at Islington; present, Mrs.
and Mr. Everitt, Mr. Adshead, of Derby, Mr. A. Lamont, Mr.
and Mrs. John Lamont. At this sitting our spirit friends
again spoke freely to us all. My wife, who is an invalid, and
had to sit away from the circle, received special kindly atten¬
tion. Mr. Adshead’s late wife conversed with him for twenty
minutes, at the same time lovingly touching his hands and
face, and by request touching the hands of all the members
of the circle. I may say that all these meetings were opened
in the way that is invariably the custom with Mr. and Mrs.
Everitt, viz.* by reading Scripture and prayer, the spirits
always selecting the passages to be read, and the hymns to be
sung. A tenth has not been told of what has been a too
short, but pleasant visit from our Hendon friends, who have
kindly promised to repeat it next summer, when we trust that
some of those at present outside the ranks of Spiritualism
may have an opportunity of seeing something of the pheno¬
mena, through the power of one who is a true woman and a
good medium.
5, Nursery-street, Fairfield, Liverpool.
“ THE MYSTERIOUS MAH.”
Recently Mr. Dunphy, published in these pages, an interest¬
ing narrative given to him by a lady who knew nothing of
Spiritualism, and who resided in Dublin, setting forth how she
was haunted from time to time by “ a brown little man.” She
consulted the doctors, who could do nothing in the matter :
but on visiting friends in London, she began to sit for
Spiritual manifestations.
Since that narrative was published, the lady has discovered
herself to be a trance, clairvoyant, and physical medium; and
on Sunday, last week, a seance with her took place at the house
of Mr.George Neville, 9, Regent’s-park-terrace, London, Mr.and
Mrs. Neville, Mr. H. M. Dunphy, and Mr. Harrison, were pre¬
sent. A week or two since the little brown man announced
himself to be Dean Swift, and afterwards the lady recognised
him when she saw his portrait among those on public view at
Kensington.
At the seance last Sunday week, the five sitters, including the
medium, were seated round a small table, by fire-light. The
cool wind so often felt at seances swept over their hands, and
in this instance it was unusually strong; raps tCnd table
motions began; soon a message was given for “less light,”
upon which the light from the fire was screened, so that it no
longer fell directly,upon the face of the medium. A bad spirit
named Yanessa then tried to entrance her, but was driven off
by Mr. George Neville, who understands mesmerism, and who
by passes and the exercise of will-power, removed the
influence. For a time the hands of the medium were clenched,
and the battle between the contending forces threw her into a
state of exhaustion and palpitation.
A spirit who gave the name of Dean Swift then entranced
her, and said: A revolution in religious thefught is being
brought about, not through ignorance, but in consequence of
the worship of the intellect; those who will not believe in an
after-world through faith, must have something to make
them believe. It troubles me that my medium depends more
upon intellect than faith ; had it not been so, you would have
heard from me sooner. She has too great a mind, and cannot
realise the facts ; she wants to know the why and the where¬
fore, instead of believing.
When this spirit left, Vanessa made another attempt to con¬
trol the medium, but was driven off.
A spirit, who gave the name, of Samuel Lover, then en¬
tranced the medium, and said :—I am sorry to say some bad
spirits are coming to my medium; they convulse her at
night—
Here Yanessa made another attempt to control, and was
driven off by mesmeric passes; the medium then woke up, and
said that she was “ all right, but very tired.” She then be¬
came fixed and rigid, with her eyes wide open, and as motion¬
less as marble for several minutes ; she is like this every time
she passes into the clairvoyant state, and afterwards she de¬
scribes what she has seen. On this occasion she said she had
been to Dublin, and seen something disagreeable connected
with friends of hers, and would rather not tell the particulars.
She was then entranced by a spirit who gave-the name of
Abraham Sarson, who said :—I lived in the reign of Queen
Elizabeth, and have come back to earth to teach. I have long
been seeking for a medium ; I found one once in Berne, but
that was a long time ago. I possessed him, and men said that
he was mad, and men persecuted him, as when I lived on the
earth men persecuted me, and said that I was mad. I knew
of this faith, but the time was not ripe, and when I spoke of
it, men said that I was mad ; the women ran from me, and
snatched their children from my path, for they said that I
had an evil eye. I told them things I had no control over;
they said that I was a traitor, and they persecuted me; they
308
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 25, 1874.
said that I had dealings with the devil, and I became almost
what they said I was. I did not understand these things
properly, and nobody else understood them. I have been
looking for a medium, and Dean Swift allows me to speak
through this one; she attracts numbers of male spirits; for
she has the intellect of a man combined with the sensitive¬
ness of a woman. She will get materialisation manifestations,
and they may kill her; but she must do it, for she was sent
into the world for the purpose. Many spirits wish to take
possession of her; she ought to have known of Spiritualism
many years ago, before her mind became filled too much with
the things of this life; they hindered her development, and
rendered her more difficult to control, for she has had an
eventful life; at last one of us—the Dean—was able to
materialise, and he assumed an ordinary form in order not to
frighten her.
Again the evil spirit, Vanessa, tried to control the medium,
and she seemed to have most power to make her attempts at
the time other spirits were leaving. She was driven off as
before, the medium woke up somewhat exhausted, and on
being questioned, stated that on one occasion she saw Vanessa
clairvoyantly ; she had white drkpery round her head, and was
very beautiful, but stern.
The medium then passed into the clairvoyant state again ;
she was rigid and motionless, with her eyes wide open, and
the eyelids never closed for an instant during the five or seven
minutes the vision lasted. She then awoke and said that the
friends present gradually faded from her sight; Mr. Harrison’s
head grew luminous, then faded, and other persons came into
into view ; she found herself in an elegantly furnished room,
where several ladies and gentlemen were present, holding a
seance. She remembered one man there quite well, but not
the ladies; he had a pallid face, dark eyes, and dark whiskers ;
he was not a young man; there were dark curtains in the
room, and a lamp was alight in one corner; it was not on
the floor, but on a table or something. They were not sit¬
ting round a table, but were irregularly spread about the
room.
Here the lady was entranced again, and the spirit, who gave
the name of Dean Swift, said: I love my medium, and will
not distress her. [Here he looked round, watching the
attempts of Vanessa to gain control.] A powerful male spirit
tried to get possession of her last night, and he gave her
dreadful dreams. Samuel Lover is a friend and good spirit.
Abraham Sarson is a strange spirit, who will say strange
things which you cannot reconcile, but must listen to ; he
has not progressed since he has been in the spirit world; he
will speak quaintly, but let him have his say ; he
knows much, and will teach much that will be of
use; you must recollect and compare, and you will find
that his utterances will bear examination, and tend
towards the truth of what is called Spiritualism, which
will be the religion of the world, and will abolish sects. All
true religion tends to give knowledge of a future existence, and
this will be pre-eminently done by Spiritualism. Men have
lack of faith in these days ; they worship reason ; they reduce
everything to their own puny reason, but when they see these
things they must believe. Materialisations will be given
through my medium; it may kill her, but she has been rein¬
carnated for that special purpose, and the manifestation must
come, I will show myself, Vanessa also will come; she will tell
you scandals, blasphemous things, but you must not believe
her. She is a part of my curse. She is very cunning—she
is a woman.
Here the medium passed into the clairvoyant state again,
and on awaking said that she had been to the other seance
again; it was going on in a nice room, evidently in a private
house. She saw the same man as before, and a lady there
very like herself; she would know the room again if she saw
it, but had never been in it in her normal state. She thought
that about eight persons were in it; they were seated here
and there, and not round a table, but she thought they were
at a seance. >The man she particularly noticed had a large
dark beard, over a large white shirt-front; he had heavy eye¬
brows ; she thought she would know him if she met him any¬
where in society; he looked important, and seemed to be the
chief man in the room.
The two visions just described occurred between 9.30 p.m.
and 10 p.m., on Sunday, Dec. 13th last; those present at the
seance did not know of another going on anywhere else, and
could not imagine where the distant scene could be.
The following letter from Mrs. Neville tells how inspirational
poetry is now given through the lips of the medium when en¬
tranced
9, Regent’s-park-terrace, N.W.
Dear Me. Habeison,—After you and Mr. Dunphy had gone
the other evening, our friend went off into a long trance, and
two spirits spoke beautifully. This week I have been to see
her twice, and she goes off without touching the table, while in
the middle of conversation, or when working.
Abraham Sarson now gives poetry and hymns, he sings
them, but I cannot give you the tune. The words were taken
down, as he said them, by Miss Clem&s. She and I were pre¬
sent when the medium spoke them, Abraham using her throat.
If you think the words good enough to print (we all think
them beautiful) do so.
The medium delivered the lines in accents not her own, and
when she came out of the trance, she had no idea of anything
she had said. After a trance, she says she feels as if she had
been asleep. Maeie 0. H. Neville.
The following are the lines:—'
SPIRIT POETRY.
See the hosts are coming
Bright and pure and fair,
Souls in expiation,
Throngiog through the air.
See! They come! They come! They come!
Some are Spirits bright,
See! They come ! They come! They come!
Some are dark as night.
Doomfcd souls are they who come,
Flitting through the dark,
Vengeful, sorrowful, are some,
Full of care a nd cark.
See! They come! They come! They come!
Gravo, and sad, and slow,
See! They come! They come! They come 1
Seeking those below.
Then the trm and earnest ones,
“Who overcame the strife,
With their sad and chastened hearts,
Teaching what is life.
See! They come! They come! They come
A grave and chastened band—
See they lead the favoured one,
To the far-off land.
They who on this weary earth,
Suffered toil and grief,
Seek all souls like this dear one,
Looking for relief.
See! They come! They come! They come!
Borne upon the wind,
See! They come! They come! They come!
With hearts so true and kind.
And the tender little ones,
So free, so pure, so sweet,
With their gentle voices,
And tripping little feet—
See! They come! They come! They come!
Running hand in hand—
See! They come ! They come! They come!
A joyous, happy band.
Let us lead you there, dear friends,
Help us with your prayers,
We are with the loved on earth,
Lightening their cares.
Thus we come! We come ! We come!
From the realms above.
Thus we come! We come! We come!
To the souls we love.
Spiritualism ih America.—In the course of a letter to
us, dated Philadelphia, Nov. 23rd, Mr.. Robert Dale Owen
says:—“ The progress of Spiritualism during the last six
months in this country has been rapid, far beyond all former
precedent. Magazine after magazine, one daily paper after
another, have been taking it up and discussing it, usually in a
fair and respectful way. It has become a leading topic with
the (New York) Daily Graphic; that paper having had, for
two months past, an able correspondent, Colonel Olcott, living
with the Eddys, and sending twice a week, enough to fill a
page of their paper. It is said that the course they have taken,
admitting numerous articles for and against, has nearly
doubled their circulation. The Atlantic—our leading literary
magazine.—has accepted three articles from me on the subject,
one for November, published about a month ago; one (just
issued) for December, which I here enclose, and the third for
January. The article enclosed discusses the position to which
Spiritualism is entitled as a religious element, and in its
connection with civilization and soul progress. It is a reply
to the enquiry which is constantly coming up in our papers
here.—Supposing the phenomena of Spiritualism is true, of
what use is it ? What has it ever taught the world, or what is
it ever likely to teach it. It contains, I think, the most con¬
densed view I have ever offered of Spiritualism as a civilising
and reformatory agent. I read The Spiritualist with interest;
liking its tolerant and dispassionate tone.”
Deo. 25, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
309
SPIRITUALISM IN DUNDEE.
Spiritualism has been established in Edinburgh and Glas¬
gow for years, yet has been almost entirely unknown in the
important town in Dundee, where Mr. William Oxley has just
introduced the subject in a most efficient manner, so that
there is no doubt it will strike root there as vigorously as in
other places. Mr. Oxley writes:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sir,—I send you two reports taken from the Dundee Adver¬
tiser and Dundee Courier and Argus, of three seances at my
rooms here, Messrs. Peck and Sadler, of Cardiff, mediums. We
have had six seances in all, at which about 120 persons have
attended. These seances have created an intense excitement
in this town and neighbourhood, the newspaper placards
announcing them in large letters, as “A night with the Spirit¬
ualists iu Dundee,” and “ Startling Manifestations.” Strange
to say, the results on the first four evenings were not quite
satisfactory, and the general impression outside was that the
whole was trickery. On the Wednesday evening I placed the
two mediums in the hands of the reporter of the Dundee
Advertiser to secure them as he himself should think fit; the
result was a crowning success, and as you will see by the second
account by the same reporter, the mediums are fully exone¬
rated from any supposition of fraud. Now the^public are on
our side, and the general verdict is that the “ fling” of the re¬
porter, at the close of his second narrative, is ungentlemanly
and quite uncalled for.
If a good trance medium were now to come to Dundee, or a
good lecturer, such as Dr. Sexton, I have no doubt he would
have overflowing audiences.
As the reports contain a very fair account of what occurred,
you will probably select what you think of interest for your
columns. William Oxley.
In another letter Mr. Oxley speaks in the highest terms of
the mediumship of Messrs. Peck and Sadler. The following
report from the Dundee Advertiser of Dec. 16th shows the
nature of the manifestations they obtain:—
On Wednesday another spiritual seance was held in the
same place as the former one already recorded, and by the
kindness of the gentleman who has arranged these meetings
we were again invited to attend. The company numbered about
18, and when all had arrived they took seats around the same
large mahogany telescope table, forming a complete band
around it. The two mediums were seated, one at the head
and the other at the foot of the table, and at the express
desire of one of them we took our seat close to the right side
of the medium at the top, with our left leg pressing against
his right. The medium now took up a pencil, and placing his
hand over a sheet of paper the pencil began to gyrate in a
most erratic manner upon the paper, and at length, at a most
astonishing speed, spelt out, ” You are sitting all right,” in
answer to a question to that effect. All hands were then
lightly laid upon the table, some songs were sung, and in the
course of five minutes or so the table began to beat time to
the music.
The company then joined hands and raised them up from
the table, when, notwithstanding, it rose at least a couple of
inches from the floor and floated to and fro in the circle. We
kept our leg firmly pressed against that of the medium all the
time, and can safely say that at least with one leg he did not
touch the table, while the movements themselves were such
as seemed to be beyond the powers of the two mediums com¬
bined, sitting as they were, to effect. Richard was himself
again, and indicated his presence with as vigorous knocks as
ever, and he promised' to do all in his power to interest the
company and convert sceptics. Beyond this no results of
importance were elicited at this sitting, so the gas, which had
been turned low, was screwed up, and the company began to
re-arrange themselves for the dark seance.
The arrangement was different from the sitting of Mon¬
day evening, so that several suggestions we intended propos¬
ing for the proper securing of the mediums had to be aban¬
doned. These two young gentlemen offered to submit to be
secured in any way we chose ; but the tantalising thing was
they declared their power was fast ebbing away, and that un¬
less the fastening was done swiftly no manifestations could
take place. At length it was agreed that they should be tied
to their chairs with whipcord. Both sat down upon chairs
close to each other, and within easy reach of the table. The
wrist of the one was secured to the back of the other's chair,
and the same thing was done-to the other; then the arms,
which thus crossed each other, were tied at the elbows, and all
the knots were secured with wax. We then sat down at the
side of the younger medium, grasping his left hand firmly in
our right, and keeping our arm pressed against his chest, to
prevent his body touching the table. The right hand
of the other medium was grasped by a gentleman of
the company, and, thus secured, it seemed next to an im¬
possibility for either of them to Yeach the instruments
placed on the centre of the table. These consisted of a
guitar, a banjo, a tambourine, and a musical box of at least
twenty pounds in weight.
When the circle had been formed, by all grasping hands
round the table, the host turned out the lights and left the
room in darkness. The musical box had been wound up, and
when it had run through its tunes the medium at our side
began to shiver violently, and his head dropped upon our
shoulder. The other medium was heard to shiver in the
same way, and after a considerable lapse of time the lively
spirit called Sam declared his presence through the mouth of
the medium farthest away from us, and said, “ Spirits not got
nuff power, massa ; too much light.” A small streak of light
was visible between the window curtains, and the gas had to
be lighted and the curtains re-arranged to exclude the faint
glimmer before Sam would consent to perform. It may
be mentioned that when the light was up we observed that the
mediums seemed to be asleep, and their arms were still firmly
secured to the chairs. No sooner was the gas again turned
down than Richard, through the mouth of the young medium
at our side, desired that a tune should be struck up, and that
it be ” something jolly.” “ Auld Lang Syne” was the jolliest
song at the command of the company, but it seemed to give
both Richard and Sam great satisfaction, Sam declaring that
he could “ nebber hab too much ob a good ting,” and Richard
affirming his determination to convince the sceptic at his side.
In fulfilment of this promise the guitar began to dance about the
table, to have its strings struck as if a finger had been drawn
heavily across them, while the instrument itself was knocked
and dashed about the table in a manner rather alarming to
all round about it. But this was only the beginning. Richard
declared he had good power, and soon the instruments began
to be smashed violently about, to go rattling among the crystals
in the gasaliers, and to have their strings struck simultane¬
ously. Nor was this all, for the lid of the musical box was
opened and shut with loud snaps, while the box seemed to be
lifted up bodily and to be dropped with a bang that made it
very curious how the box could stand such usage and play.
The din of the instruments became, in fact, deafening; and,
as all the energies of the “ spirits” were avowedly bent upon
convincing the “ sceptic,” our seat became the reverse of com¬
fortable with an instrument grazing one’s nose every second
at a velocity that raised a durrent that could be felt. When
the din was at the loudest the guitar came whack upon the
crown of our head; nor did Richard’s attentions in this way
cease till at the third blow we acknowledged his power by
giving vent to a cry, when away the guitar went clattering
along the table,.
Richard then announced to the company that he would lift
the ” sceptic” to the ceiling, and we held our breath for a
hoist; but Richard is evidently given to boasting, for in a
minute or two after this he declared that his power was leav¬
ing him, and after addressing a few moral reflections to
the company, he bade all a solemn good night, and took his
departure for a more congenial sphere of usefulness and a
more elevated occupation, it is to be hoped, than knocking
about musical instruments. Sam wa? evidently discouraged
by the want of Richard’s company, for he also took his leave,
when another spirit from the young man at our side pro¬
nounced a benediction, declared the proceedings over, and
asked that alight be struck. When the gases were lighted we
examined the cords with which they had been bound, and
found them as securely fastened as ever. This frank confes¬
sion is due to the mediums. In whatever way these “ physical
manifestations” are produced, we can at least say that we
cannot see how it could have been possible for the medium
whose hand we held all the time to have taken any part in
them. The gentleman who held the other medium declares
that he never for one moment quitted his hold. These are
the facts, explain"them who may. \ That spirits have anything
to do with the manifestations we do not for one moment
believe. If it were possible to imagine that spirits had any¬
thing to do with such nonsense, then may we be saved from
the fate, or even the companionship of such ethereal fools,
310
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 25, 1874.
who, having a universe to roam in, can yet come down to
earth and .seek to establish a truth by such contemptible
means.
THE EDUCATION OF THE CHILDREN OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The following is a letter which Mr.. Calder wrote to Mr.
Martheze, on the subject of schools for the children of Spirit¬
ualists :—
The Elms, Patney-hill, 10th Nov., 1874.
To J. N. T. Martheze, Esq., Palmeira-square, Brighton.
My Dear Sir,—I have much pleasure in replying to your
letter of the 14th inst., approving the brief exposition of my
reasons for the establishment of a college for Spiritualist chil¬
dren ; and, as you take a warm interest in the subject, I am
sure you will allow me further to dwell thereon.
I am of opinion that a seminary, conducted under the
patronage of well-known Spiritualists, with perhaps other
liberal-minded men, if supplied with a grant of about £300
per annum for three years, should become self-supporting. If
it did not succeed during that period, it may be feared that ten
times that sum will not effect the object.
I believe there is a great want of a seminary based on purely
rational principles, where facts, and not fiction, shall form the
groundwork of educatibn, and, therefore, of character. If the
mind were carefully guarded from the intrusion of all absurd
ideas, while sterling merit, upright conduct, and good beha¬
viour, were made the goal, the institution would be frequented
not only by Spiritualists, but by the children of other unfet¬
tered persons of this as well as of foreign countries.
For who can doubt that the current theology, falsely called
Christian, weakens and makes shipwreck of human judgment ;
and with it too often destroys the brightest hopes ? Who
is surprised to hear of thinking men seeking shelter in
materialism, when they perceive that the doctrines in which
they once trusted are illusory ? And who does not feel that
parents should exercise a jealous care as to the source whence
instruction should be derived for their offspring ? For should
they not of all others be alarmed at the prospect of their chil¬
dren fleeing in mature years to the barren fields of negation, if
not of atheism ?
The youth nourished in an atmosphere where to read is to
understand, grows up into manhood far better qualified to en¬
counter the difficulties and trials of life, than he who is reared
in the shadow of mysteries, however venerable their antiquity,
or high their authority, and he will derive far more enduring
consolation and strength from a clear knowledge of the way of
life, than in the blind and gloomy paths of faith.
Besides, thorough sincerity of character, and consistency of
conduct, can scarcely be expected of those who do not fully
believe in, and realise the ways of true religion. Belying on
its forms they fail to obtain its benefits. They scarcely can be
said to grow in goodness; for instead of being fed and strength¬
ened they are famished.
The laws of the Author of all nature should be closely ob¬
served, so as to become the standard or governing power for
the attainment of health and morals, the two chief properties
of happiness; and those will he found to be as much sciences
as are mathematics and astronomy. Reason points to the em¬
ployment of this standard, as the only force calculated to
secure well-being. But if reason is ever suspended, how can it
work its great purposes ? A system aiming at the prevention
of sin and disease, by the establishment of harmon'y and
hygiene should have preference over theories which have fos¬
tered strife and misery from the earliest days of the Christian
era down to our time. Briefly, the best education will be found
where the mind can rest with satisfaction in the assurance
that principles, everlasting in their nature and character, and
general in their application, form the foundation of instruc¬
tion, with all-sufficient-reason to illuminate the mind, and
control the actions, just as the light of the sun does our foot¬
steps.
Of course, the usual school-books would be taught. The Bible,
I agree with you, should be no more regarded as divine than
other books containing good precepts, whether of Confucius,
Buddha, or others. It is surely time that all superstitious
veneration for this book should be abandoned. Chiefly a his¬
tory of the Jews, it contains, like all histories, ancient and
modern, much that is untrue. The majority of its pages pre¬
sent us with impious transactions, which in no manner are
rendered sacred by being bound up in a volume called holy.
The New Testament is more interesting; and, as you are
aware, by the light of the phenomena of Spiritualism, contains
greater truths, and is therefore more valuable ; but to neither
should we be bound by any slavish feeling. Unless we can
discriminate between purity and impurity wherever met, our
religion is of little worth, and the condition of our judgment
should surely excite alarm if we are so feeble as to accept
black for white.
I shall be glad at any time to see you, and talk over these
matters, and if you are willing to contribute the sum you have
named, I shall invite the committee to meet on business any
day you may appoint.—Yours faithfully, Alex. Caldeb.
SPIRITUALISM IN BIRMINGHAM.
At the regular meeting of the public circle, at the rooms of
the Spiritual Society, Suffolk-street, Birmingham, on Wed¬
nesday evening, last week, the phenomena through Mrs.
Groom’s mediumship, were of the usual character. Flowers
were brought by the spirits and placed in the hands of the
sitters ; a rather large slip of laurustinus was thrown on to
the shoulder of Mr. Franklin, who was in the outer circle,
there being double circles as usual. Seventeen persons were
present. Spirit hands were felt, spirit voices were heard, and
the tambourine and bells floated towards the ceiling and
around the outside of the circle. The tambourine jingled on
the heads of the sitters in a jocular manner, keeping time to
the singing.
On Sunday evening last, at the public circle, a more
numerous attendance of strangers was apparent, and in the
early part of the seance, in consequence of the questionings
of a well-known M.D. of the town, and the uncomplimentary
remarks of another person, the sensitive medium, Mrs. Groom,
was rather disconcerted, and few manifestations occurred
while they were present, but they both acknowledged that
something touched their hands. One said it was “ a piece of
ribbon,” the other that it was “ like a hand with a cuff on
the wrist, and g, sleeve,” but we were not surprised when sub¬
sequently we learnt that our medical friend had, early in the
evening, assured an elderly lady that he would not believe
even if he saio a spirit. The two gentlemen having left; there
was quite an uproar on the part of the spirits; what with the
clanging of the bells, the banging of the tambourine, and the
loud spirit voice all mingling together, the effect was powerful.
The communicating spirit discouraged admitting investiga¬
tors of that nature, as they caused pain to the medium and
unpleasant feelings to the friends forming the circle.
Mr. Hawkes (the spirit) promised to do all he could on the
following evening to make the sitters happy, as the seance
was for a good object—the helping of a family of Spiritualists
which was in distress. The seance closed at 10.30 by the
singing of “ Praise God, from whom all blessings flow.”
DR. FRANZ HOFFMANN.
Db. Feanz Hoffmann, a Professor at Wurzburg, in Bavaria,
after expressing his pleasure in accepting the offer of honorary
membership made to him by the British National Association
of Spiritualists, writes thus to the Foreign Secretary :—
“ I will send you before long a list of my literary writings.
At present I will mention only my edition of the complete
works of Franz von Baader, in sixteen volumes, and the
cpllection of my Philosophical Writings, now amounting
to ten volumes, of which at present, on account of in¬
credible obstructions, only three volumes have been pub¬
lished. Pantheism, naturalism, materialism command the
market, and works on profounder subjects, such as the
history of philosophy, are systematically set aside,
whereas the extravagant, not to say monstrous publications of
Schapenhauer, Strauss, and Hartmann, appear in suc¬
cessive editions, and in translations in other languages. In
point of geniality and style, Baader is equal to the greatest
philosophers of Germany; in soundness of thought he sur¬
passes them; and it is for that very reason that he is sup¬
pressed by our present literary leaders in books and periodicals.
I have long wondered that in England no voice has been
raised in favour of Baader, since his philosophy is more deeply
impregnated with the spirit of Christianity than any other
writer of equal power. His writings are also of deep import to
Spiritualism, as you may see from my article in The Spiritist-
Rationalistic Journal, Nos. 5, 6, 7, 8, 1873 You will
recognise Baader as the greatest forerunner of Spiritualism.
I shall also hope to show, in my future contributions to the
British National Association, that also, and on what grounds,
Dec. Pt 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
311
Sclielling is to be considered in the same light, but only from
the time that he, through Baader’s influence, inclined to
Theism, though he never reached to the same height of purity.
“ I shall be happy to send in papers to the Association, and
I shall endeavour to follow out the investigation from the
philosophical standpoint. In doing so, however, I shall take
into account whatever facts are and shall be accessible to me,
but I should also stipulate beforehand for a free use of all
those that have taken place, for example, in the period
between Mesmer and Beichenbach; such at least, as can be
said to rest upon good evidence.
“I shall not be able to fix any time for sending in a paper.
My answer to you was chiefly delayed by the circumstance
that I was first obliged to finish a critique on the third edition
of Buchner’s work On Nature and Science, which will appear
under the title of Anti Materialism, in Professor Ulrici’s
Philosophical Journal at Halle. As this critique is fourteen
written pages in length, making four or five in print, I did not
venture to send it to you or to the Association, although it is
written with a distinct bearing on Spiritualism. .... The
refutation of Materialism is of great importance, because it
clears the way for Spiritualism ; space should therefore be
given for this purpose in spiritual journals, a point which is,
I consider, erroneously overlooked. Tyndall’s address, favour¬
ing Materialism, will surely call forth answers in England. . .
In Germany it has already appeared in two different transla¬
tions, and has had great influence upon many minds.”
PARISTAN MAGICIANS.
So long as people exist who credit the old fables, who
actually believe that the French, as a nation, are more intelli¬
gent, polished, gentle, better educated than the English, it
cannot be beyond my duty to give such evidence as may
enable them to test their faith. Infatuations of this sort still
linger, I believe, in remote country places where Laurence
Sterne keeps them alive by his immortal apostrophe to the
unknown gentleman, “ They manage these things better in
France!” In regard to the matter of politeness I am not
going to speak now or at any other time. There may be
different opinions as to politeness—enough to say that one
does not consider a gentleman’s manners absolutely complete
and perfect when he has gained a trick of flourishing his hat
every five minutes. The question of kindliness I try to put
well before your readers from time to time in statistics of
murder and violence. We have three or four cases every day.
Official returns give the murders or attempts at murder in the
one department of the Seine, between January 1 and October
31 of this year, at 52. I think English people may find com¬
fort there. But the education and actual knowledge pos¬
sessed by the average Frenchman are perhaps of even more
importance to consider. You often hear it said that magic,
witchcraft, and such superstitions no longer survive here. I
would not deny that for a while they became torpid. But of
late the breath of life has returned to them. What wonder,
when millions go on the pilgrimage and miraculous cures are
daily reported ! At the trial of the new bridge at Surennes
two days since, accusations of witchcraft were launched against
an old idiot woman. The Zouave Jacob, whose fame you may
dimly remember, is still at work, curing consumption with a
glance, and setting paralytic old women to run a race. He
has two or three disciples, or rivals, who all do a rattling
trade. Then there are sorcerers simple. In Paris, at this day
money can be made on no larger capital than impudence and
coffee-grounds. Amongst professors of the art ranks highest
the “ good woman of the Rue de Chaillot.” Alchemists are to
be discovered by those who look. There is one in the Rue de
Sevres, who has simples for every complaint, physical or
moral. And then the prophets 1 By the Odeon you will find
M. Ledos, who dispenses at once with odic fluid, coffee-
grounds, and herbs gathered under influence of This or That.
M. Ledos just seats you opposite his desk, looks you all over,
and proceeds to prophesy. Then there is Edmond, the oracle
of the Quartier Breda. Edmond goes in for stuffed owls, and
crocodiles, and robes of velvet with devil’s devices on them.
He is not a high-class humbug, but he makes a desperate lot
of money. - This man was the first hermit at Mabille ; a pru¬
dent philosopher, he saved his ill-gotten coppers, and in due
time moved to the quarter Notre Dame des Lorettes, and from
thence to one of the most aristocratic streets of the Champs
Ely sees. There he receives his clients from one to four p.m.,
in a pointed cap and a tinselled girdle. On his card is printed
as a crest, an arrow pointing downwards, with a crescent on
its tip, and a newt or other reptile climbing up the shaft. In
a swarm of stars appears the rather unmysterious name
” Edmond.” So much for the absence of superstition amongst
the modern French.—r.Z)a% Telegraph.
Me. Moese in Ameeica.—A letter from Mr. Morse,
dated Philadelphia, December 8th, says:—“ I had a very nice
passage out; a fine ship, capital accommodation, and an
excellent trip. I remained in New York only four days,
and 1 must admit I do not like it as a city at all. I left it
on the fifth day for Baltimore, State of Maryland, lately a
slave-owning State. There I was engaged to speak a month.
I found a weak society of Spiritualists and butr poor meet¬
ings ; I left them stronger, and doubled their congregation.
My labours proved a decided success, and a farewell meeting
was arranged ; it was most enjoyable. I had been treated so
kindly, and received .so warmly, that I felt quite sorry to part
from my new friends. You will find reports of the above
meeting in the papers I have sent you by this mail. I arrived
in Philadelphia on Friday last, and on Saturday I was joined
by my good friend, Mr. R. Cooper, of Eastbourne, who will
travel with me to see the country. On Sunday, the 6th
December, I spoke here for the first time, in the morning.
Lincoln Hall is the scene of my labours. It is a large, hand¬
some structure, beautifully furnished and seated; the admis¬
sion is free, and a collection at the close. In the morning
over four hundred persons assembled, and in the evening,
though it poured with rain, over seven hundred were pre¬
sent. Deep satisfaction was expressed. I expect the hall will
be crowded on each of the three remaining Sundays. I am
received in the warmest and most cordial manner everywhere;
still I do not forget my old friends in dear old England; I
love them all, and long to see them once again. Spiritualism
here is distracted, or more truly, divided, on the “Free
Love ” question. I trust that curse may never be [imported
on our shores ; if so, it will divide us, as it has divided our
American brethren. The teachings here are broad and pro¬
gressive, but the better class avoid licence, but strive for
liberty; while I am in favour of the latter, I decidedly and
firmly oppose the former. Address me, care of A. J. Davis
and Co., 24, East Fourth-street, New York, U.S.A. My time
is now all engaged, except one month, but that is nearly
gone too.”
Spieitctalism and Spieiixjalists.—In the course of a
letter to the Darlington and JRichmond Herald, Mr. T. P.
Hinde of Darlington says :—•“ Your statement, that America
has sent missionaries to the mother country, to carry on a
campaign against Christianity, I must join issue with. Spirit¬
ualism carries on no campaign against Christianity or any
other religion; it recognises in all religions more or less of
truth ; it combines amongst its adherents all classes of
Christians and other religionists in every, part of the world.
The bulk of the Spiritualists in this country in the present
day are in communion with the various churches, Spiritualism
can hardly, therefore, make war against Christianity. Another
mistake stated is that Spiritualism is something like a vast
juggling concern, got up for the sharps to catch the flats, and
at which there is nothing but 1 pay.’ This idea is altogether
erroneous. There are a few, very few, public mediums in this
country, nearly every one English, and these, if they travel
about must be maintained, as an itinerant minister of the
churches must; but where there is one public there are a
thousand private mediums, that is, persons whd accept no
fee, but who are made the means of demonstrating the great
fact that those who leave this world by death can communi¬
cate with those who are left behind. Nearly every Spiritualist
is ready to assert that he was convinced of the fact of spirit
communion, not by public mediums, but by private persons—
often the members of his own family. It is estimated on good
data that one person out of every six is a medium. My ex¬
perience would certainly confirm the estimate. It will, there¬
fore, be readily seen that payment to attend a service is very
rare. If mediums be so plentiful, as I have assumed, i't may
readily be conceived that they are neither better nor worse
than other people. No great saintliness is necessary to
mediumship, as the writer of your article assumes, though
every Spiritualist is ready to admit that the higher the moral
and spiritual nature of the individual, the more perfect the
instrument—the more reliable and perfect the communication.
Spiritualists, therefore, prefer those who are examples ‘in
their lives of the views they promulgate,’ although they do
not thrust those aside who, by reason of their inferior educa¬
tion or moral training, are not on so high an elevation.”
312
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 25, 1874.
(Eotrespontience.
[Ortat freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
iametrically opposed to those of this journal and itsreaders.]
MISS FAT’S MEDIFMSHIP.
Sib,—I wish to inform my friends, through the columns
of your valuable paper, that in consequence of illness my
seances are no longer under the management of J. A. Pad-
deck, but my health permitting, I shall be pleased to accept
invitations from my friends, free of charge.
1, Maddox-street, Regent-street, W., Annie Eva Fat.
December 17th, 1874.
A soiree, in connection with the Dalston Association of
Enquirers into Spiritualism, will be held at the Luxemburgh
Hall, on the 21st of next month.
The Northern Whig of Belfast, has republished accounts
of Messrs. Peck and Sadler’s seances in Dundep.
The foreign circulation of a newspaper takes years to
establish; that of The Spiritualist has been growing most
satisfactorily, for, practically speaking, this journal is now the
organ of all the Spiritualists of education and culture throughout
the world, who understand the English language. Mr. Terry
has written from Australia ordering a larger supply, and saying
that it gives general satisfaction.
The Royal Institution.—The lecture session at the
Royal Institution begins next Tuesday afternoon, when Dr.
J. H. Gladstone will give the first of a course of six experi¬
mental lectures, adapted to a juvenile auditory, on the “Vol¬
taic Battery.” These Christmas lectures are attended by ladies
and gentlemen of all ages, and were raised to their present
status by the ability of the late Professor Faraday. The
Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S., will give an evening lecture in March,
on a subject not yet selected; his recent experiences in Spirit¬
ualism may be suggested to him as a good subject—one sure to
draw a full attendance. Mr. James Dewar will lecture on
“ The Physiological Action of Light,” which will be of interest
to Spiritualists, in consequence of the pain which light inflicts
upon most mediums and mesmeric sensitives when in the
trance state. Professor Huxley, Sir John Lubbock, Professor
Tyndall, and others will deliver lectures. Programmes may
be obtained on application to the Secretary, Royal Institution,
Albemarle-street, Piccadilly.
Spirit Photography :—Mrs. and Miss Showers have
written to us about some successful spirit pictures taken in
the presence of the latter lady, who says :—“ Peter has at
length been photographed. Mr. W. came here the other night,
and we had a short sitting with him. Peter volunteered to
show himself at the earliest opportunity. Mr. W. accordingly
called to-day with some glass plates which he had purchased
at another photographer's, and which were all marked by
himself. On arriving at Mr. Hudson’s, Peter entranced me,
and as soon as I was quite unconscious loud raps came,
according to the pre-arranged signal that Hudson was to
uncover the camera as soon as he heard them. On the very first
plate I, on awaking, recognised the Peter I have so often seen,
and on the next plate there was an object which I cannot find
words to describe adequately, but it was evidently allegorical,
and Peter has promised to explain its meaning. In the
enclosed photograph, mamma, to my great gratification,
recognises Florence Maples from the classical outline of the
face.”
Spiritualism in East London.—Last Sunday, Mr.
Cogman’s quarterly tea-meeting was held at 15, St. Peter’s-
road, Mile-end, an*d the proceedings had a special interest,
because the new trance mediums in course of development
spoke under influence before the public. Miss Young and
Miss Eager gave trance addresses of fair quality and consider¬
able promise, and Mrs. Gender and Mrs. Bradley spoke con¬
versationally while under influence ; the latter was controlled
by a remarkably sharp spirit, who snapped up the utterances
of two medical students before their questions were half out
of their mouths, somewhat to their confusion. One of the
speakers narrated that a powerful physical medium was
developing in the neighbourhood, and that a broom came
walking into the kitchen while she was busy there. One
morning, also, one of her children cried out, “ Oh ! mother,
look at the table ! Here’s a lark!” The table was walking
along with books on it; it tilted and upset them on the floor;
a whistling noise was then heard, and all the books flew back
into their places on the top of the table.
Trance Addresses.—Next Sunday evening, the 27th
instant, Mr. Cogman, of 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile End,
will be present at Goswell Hall, 86, Goswell-road, and de¬
liver an address in the trance state. On the same evening
Mrs. Bullock will occupy Mr. Oogman’s place at the Insti¬
tution, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end, and give an address
under the control of her spirit guides. Service at the two
meetings will commence at seven o’clock; admission free;
collections will be made to defray expenses. A soiree to aid
the Sunday .meetings will be held at Goswell Hall on Thurs¬
day evening, the 7th January, 1875. The evening’s enter¬
tainment will be similar to the last soiree given on Mrs.
Bullock’s behalf. Many friends have given in their names to
take part in the entertainment.
A SOIREE DANSANTE, IN COMMEMORATION OF THE
FOURTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
“DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM,”
will tie held at the
LUXEMBURGH HALL,
(Opposite Dalston Junction Station, North London Railway), on or about
THURSDAY, 21st of JANUARY, 1875.
The chair will be taken by the President,
ALFRED E. LOYELL, ESQ.
Dancing to cortimence at 9 o'clock.
Paintings, Drawings, Photographs, and other objects of interest will be
exhibited by various friends; and mfiny influential Spiritualists maybe
expected to take part in the evening’s proceedings.
Further particulars will be duly announced.
Any Spiritualist friends willing to aid the executive by the loan of
articles of interest to “ Spiritualists,” or by contributing in any way to the
proceediugs, please communicate with the Honorary Secretary, A. M.
Greene, at his private residence, 7, Ca-tledine-road, Anerley-park, S.E.,
or to Thomas Blj ton, 12, St. Phillip's-road, Dalston, E.
Tea and Coffee at 6 o clock.
Admission:—Single Ticket, 3s.; Members of the Association, 2s. 6d.
Double do. (for Lady and Gentleman), 5s.; Members, 8s. 6d. Family do
(to admit Four Persons), 7s. 6d.; Members, 5s.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
Treasurer.—Il.miBTt.UT N. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane.
Offices —64, BERNERS STREET.
Hon. Sec.—Mrs. LOWB (LOUISA).
The Best Book for Inquirers. 2nd Edition, price 3s.
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz.
London Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributers to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection wi h their communications in its columns are
Mr. 0. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science ( who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Etnile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Count de Medina
Pomar; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston. U.S); Sir Charles Islam, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H.
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B. A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe;
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. G. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor-
’ ttwdox London’, Mr. S. C. Hail, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barris-
ter-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr.O.
■Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. E. L. S. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury ; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W.Lindesay Richardson,
M.D. (Australia); aud many other ladies and gentlemen.
171 PARKES, SPIRITUALIST PHOTOGRAPHER.
' • Sittings a la seance by appointment, Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays. The magnesium light used in dull weather or when required.
Fee, one guinea per sitting. Address, 6, Gaynes Park Terrace, Grove-road,
Bow, E.
Dec. 25, 1874,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CL AIRY 0 Y ANTE, whose reputation is
■well known throughout Europe and America, can be consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
12 to 8 (Sundays exceptei.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 21, Princes-
street, Hanover sqtyiro, two doors from Regent-street.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturdqv evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bernard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (30 Tears estab¬
lished) ATTENDS Patients from Two till Five o’clock, at his
residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington, W. Consulta¬
tions by letter.
MR. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-roid, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
JV. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, aDswers Sealed
. Letters, at 381, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Registeb your Letters.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return in
or about the month of June next. AH letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—War wick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.
DR. M’LEOD AND SIBYL—MAGNETIC HEALING
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefltted. fit/ letters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfleld, Esq., 15,
Lower Belgrave-street, Pimlico. S. W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture. Terms 2 guineas.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Monay refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
MESSRS. PECK AND SADLER, Trance and Physical
Mediums, are open to Engagements for Private or Public Seances.
Terms as per arrangements. Messrs. Peck and Sadler also give Public
Seances every Monday, Tuesday, and Saturday Evenings, at Eight o’clock,
Tickets Is. each (limited number only), and Thursday evenings at Eight
o’clock, Tickets 2s. 6d. each. Tickets to be had at 157, Bute road. Seances
at 126, Cowbridge-road, Canton, Cardiff.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J.Tyerman,
Price Threepence. To be had of W, H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russbll-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
COATES’ BAZAAR, 126, West Derby-road, Liverpool,
Mrs. Coates, begs to inform her friends and customers that her well-
selected stock of Christmas and New Year’s Stationery, Toys and Fancy
Goods have now arrived and invites inspection. Mrs. C. has no hesitation
in stating that for price and value, her Christmas, New Year’s and
Birthday Cards, are unequalled. White and fancy coloured tissue paper
from 4d.; Playing Cards from 8£d. per packet; also, a large assortment of
English, French, and German toys to choose from'at equally reasonable
prices.
L epot for the sale of progressive literature. Estimates given for Printing,
Bookbinding, etc.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Futney-hill, S.W.
Coleman. Benjamin, 1, Bernard-viUas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Filz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21. Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple,E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer. S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wasoh’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thomham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Bichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road. Blackheath. S.E.
Davies, Rev. 0.Maurice, D.D, 44,Netherwood-rd., West Kensington-pk., W.
Dawe, N. F., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendo Middlesex, N. W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road] North,
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A.S , 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thus., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delame re- crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.}
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-sti eet, Hyde-park, W.
Joy, Algernon', M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road. Notting-hill, W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.O
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road, ;st. John's-wood.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., 'Hub-chambers, Regent street.’
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29, Daly ell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, M.A.,M.D., LL D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road/.OldKent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J.. 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, Hazel Down, Teignmoutb.
SneHing, G. F., Gamden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbiidge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood,
drawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Cen'ral-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M-, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietkens, E. A., 18, Oakley-square, N.W.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., ana 3, Altenburg-terraee, Clapbam Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square. Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Efq.,25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. {Home Corres¬
pondence.)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hiU, W. {Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary {pro tem.).
Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London, N.W.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emils de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. 1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vsy, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz bei Potschach, Styria, via Qratz
Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko. Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor (Progressive Spiriwalist), Melbourne, Austral i.
Mrs ’Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Babco Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. C instant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Berne, Switzerland
Epee Sargent, Esq., Box 3,556, Boston, U.S. A.
W Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, Fsq., 96, Russ ill
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Rue de Rome, Paris
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M, Edouard Buguet, 5, Boulevard, Montmartre, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris
Mme G. de Veh. 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Gr. 0. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 35, Leipsic
iv
THE SPIRITUALIST. -Dec. 25, 1874.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries bn the globe; it has alsb
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical,, Society, A.dam-street, Adelphi, under, the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomenal The Committee was appointed on the. 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H. Gh Atkinson, Esq.,F.G.S., Gh Wheatley Bennett,’Esq.; J. S. Bergheiml
Esq., C.E.; H. R. Pox Bpurne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D. ; J[ohn Chapman,-Esq., M.D.; Rev. 01 Maurice Davies,'
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James- Edmunds, Esq„'.M.D.;.-Mrs.Edmunds,, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert’Hannah, Esq., P.G.S.; Jenner Gale
'Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. 'Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.O.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac.L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, lilsq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Pox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary,.Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., P.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture;; the floor and. walls or the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1, Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather, than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
hall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
ouch, each other or not is usually of no importance. Any.table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does ho harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
- 3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,"
one means “ No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the' plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
-be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits,
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media arb ladies.
Tne best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle,are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations arc bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of j
msdiumship han tilts or raps may make their appearance.
THE “ PIONEER OF PROGRESS ” PRINTING AND
PUBLISHING COMPANY,
4, KINGSGAT is STREET, BOLBJHN, LONDON, W.C.,
In the Priutiog Department every arrangement has beeu made for the
prompexecution of all orders. Printing of all kinds done cheaply and
well. Estimates given.
In. the Publishing Department is .kept a complete assortment of
Spiritual, Progressive, Reform and Miscellaneous books at wholesale and
retail prices. London and countiy agents supplied with all kinds of
Spiritual Literature in oue parcel immediately on publication. Terms:
, Cash Payments. Catalogues of books, giving prices, &c., may be had upon
application. ■ , — 
TO SPIRITUALISTS AND OTHERS.—All who desire
to read the literature of Spiritualism and other progressive move¬
ments, should subscribe to
THE “PIONEER OP PROGRESS” LIBRARY,
Which contains a large collection of Spiritual and other Progres¬
sive Works. Additions of new and choice hooks are being, made
daily.;
Terms: £1 Is. per annum. 10s. fid. Half yearly. 2s. Monthly.’ Cata¬
logues 3d. each.
EVERY THURSDAY MORNING.
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS,”
A Weekly Record of Spiritualism, Scientific and Ethical. ‘
And contains articles by Mrs. Oora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton,-.“-Prifz,”
Rev. Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes, Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, and other
general information. .
ONE PENNY.
Published at 4, Kingsgate-street, Holbom; Wholesale Agent, F. Pitman
20, Paternoster-row, London, K.O.. andean be ordered of any bookseller.
; INVESTIGATORS AND ENQUIRERS into Spiritualism may obtain
gratis, all informa'ionconcerning the various societies, national and local
seances, mediums, lecturers, &o.
All communications to be addressed, GEORGE PARMER, 4, Kingsgate-street,
Holborn, W.C. - . , ' ■ -
THE WONDER OP THE AGE. JUST ISSUED.
mHE TWO
DISCOVERIES, OR KEY TO PINE’S
.SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH.
This Key not only unlocks the abstruse labyrinths of Mathematical
Science, but enables every person, who values the privilege, to converse as
freely in.domestic retirement with friends in spirit life, as when they were
on earth; and contains a series of communications of the" m6st intense
interest, received by this new Invention, with an engraving of the
instrument.
BY CLEMENT PINE.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, and Stationers’ Hall
court, E,C.
Also published by the Author at Bridgewater. To be had of all Booksellers.^,
In substantial paper covers, 152 pp., 8vd. Price Is. postage 2d. Sjextf&t
typed and copyright secured.
THE SPIRITUAL DEPARTMENT contains the confessions atfd:
conditions of eight spirits, well known to the Author in Earth-life, who haa
deviated from the path of duty; also _the experiences of as many more
spirits well known to him, who had performed their duty on earth, and
, experienced a happy entrance into the spirit realm. The conditions of
spiritual existence, even their divine unions in marriage, are completely
exeinplifled by this new mode.
The mathematical discovery increases the accuracy of astroromical
observations, tenfold, by a process so simple as to suit the public
schools. -
“PINE’S SPIRITUAL TELEurRAPH.”
THIS is so popular that orders are coming in rapidly
from all parts of the Queendom. So send, your orders as soon as
possible, accompanied with a P. 0. order, as followsFor No 1, £2 7s. 6d,
No. 2, £1 12s. 6d ; No. .3, 17s. fid.;, No. 4, 10s.; . addressed to CLEMENT
PINE, Taunton-road, Bridgwater.
N.B.—The above prices include a box (2s. 6d.) in which are full instruc¬
tions, returnable as therein directed, excepting the No. 4. All orders will
be executed in rotation as promptly as possible.
Ready by January 1st,1875. Suitable for a New-V ear’s Gift Book. A new
work on
SPIRITUALISM, SCIENCE, AND, CHRISTIANITY';
showing their Harmony ard Relationship, and will he speciallv
adapted for cliculation amongst members of Christian Churches. It will
also be essentially a guidebook for enquirers, and will treat of the fol¬
lowing topics relative to the subject, in a scientiflc manner;—Spirit Circles,
Mediumship, Physical Manifestaiions, Test Mediumship, Healing Mediums,
Speak'ng and Wilting Mediumship, Moral influence of Mediumship, Dan¬
gers of Mediumship, Obsession-, Identity of Spirits, Good and Bad Spirits,
Contradictions of Spirits, the Ultimate of Spiritualism, and many other
points of interest both to Spiritualists and Enquirers. Published price,
33. < d ; to Subscribers, 2s.; or 12 Copies for £1 Is.
All orders to be sent, with remittance, address to GkorGb Farmer, 4,
Kingsgate-street, H>.lborn, London, W. C. -'  •  
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND -HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on he shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
END OF VOL. V.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
1 Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.C.
