A f^ECOF^D Of THE PROQREgf Of THE gCIEfICE /ND ETHICg OF gPIF^ITU/iUgM.
No. 10.—Vol. I. LONDON : WEDNESDAY, JUNE 15, 1870. mon^PriS, Thr^n^r617
DR. NEWTON’S HEALING MEDIUMSHIP.
Dr. J. R. Newton, the healing medium, was horn in
Newport, Rhode Island, United States, September 8th,
1810, consequently he is now about sixty years of age,
and it was eleven years and a half ago when he first
began to devote the whole of his time to the healing of
the sick. In his lifetime he has passed through many
changes and sorrows, and has both made and lost
several fortunes. He has often been in great danger
of losing his life. When he was eight years old, a
playmate gave him a push one day as he was whittling
with a knife; he fell, and the blade of the knife went
into his breast right up to the handle, but he recovered
from the effects of this accident. At the age of ten he
fell from a tree, and was so much injured that his lower
limbs were paralysed, and he could only draw himself
along the ground by his arms; he recovered from this
state in a single night, he believes in consequence of
the healing ministrations of his unseen friends, the
spirits. When about eighteen years of age he fell from
the masthead of a vessel, but he was caught in the
rigging, near the deck. At the age of nineteen, he,
with seven other sailors, was out at sea upon a wreck
for thirty-six days, yet they were saved. Since he has
worked as a healing medium, he has often been in
danger from mobs in different cities in America, before
Spiritualism began to be understood there, and once at
Havana in Cuba, the crowds were so large, and some
among the people so antagonistic, that a file of soldiers
was brought out to keep order.
The last number of this journal contained an account
of the public reception given to Dr. J. R. Newton, on
the 12th May, directly after his arrival in London.
On the following day he hired the Cambridge Hall,
Newman-street, Oxford-street, for a week, and at the
Cavendish Rooms, on Sunday evening, May 15th, after
the close of the lecture by Mr. Peebles, he announced
that every morning during the coming week he would
bo at the Cambridge Hall from nine till twelve o’clock,
for • the purpose of healing as many of the sick as he
could, without any charge either for admission, or for
cure of disease.
As no bills were printed, nor anything beyond this
verbal announcement made, the attendance at Cam¬
bridge Hall during the next three mornings was rather
thin, and the few Spiritualists who knew of the work
he was doing there, attended, and had many of their
ailments cured. As will be seen by the list of a portion
of. the cures effected which is included in this article,
some, of the results of his work were very wonderful,
and as the friends and neighbours of those relieved
saw what remarkable things were being done, they also
began to attend in large numbers. On Thursday, May
19th, some of the newspapers began to abuse and mis¬
represent Dr. Newton, calling him a “ professed miracle
worker,” which he is not, and this tended to increase
the number of observers to such an extent, that on
Saturday the inside of the hall was completely
blockaded, and Dr. Newton had to give up attendance
there, to search for a larger building. He tried for a
week to get a larger hall, but was unsuccessful, in con¬
sequence of the untruthful reports about him in the
London daily papers. On Sunday, May 29th, he went
to [Swindon, Wiltshire, to heal the sick, and some of
the metropolitan newspapers printed false statements
that he had found it judicious to run away from
London. On Tuesday, May 31st, he returned to town,
and because of the difficulty of getting a hall on any
terms, in which to execute his work, ho gave notice
that he would heal the sick, free of charge, in the
London Fields, Hackney, but as ho was afterwards in¬
formed that if he did so he would be in danger of being
arrested, he did not think it worth while to run the risk
by attending. From Friday, June 3rd, he has been
healing the sick daily, Sundays excepted, free of charge,
from ten till twelve o’clock, at “ The Repository,”
Gray’s-inn-road.
To the intelligent reader it is scarcely necessary to
state that we disown miracles of every kind in connec¬
tion with Spiritualism, and assert, that so far as our
experience goes, the marvellous manifestations witnessed
at spiritual seances are produced by the aid of natural
laws, wielded by disembodied human beings who are
liable to error, but who are in a state of life where they
are surrounded by phenomena which are as high above
those of the animal world, as the phenomena of the
animal world are above those of the mineral kingdom.
All through the history of mesmerism will be found
cases of wonderful cures effected by its aid. The late
Dr. Elliottson recorded a vast number of authenticated
cases of cures by mesmerism in his periodical called
The Zoist, and he was much persecuted by his brother
physicians for telling the truth on this subject. Dr.
Newton is naturally a good mesmerist, but he is also
a powerful medium and a Spiritualist; he, therefore,
has some of the powers of Spiritualism superadded to
those of mesmerism. He cures some people, relieves
others, and fails with the remainder. From observa¬
tion we think that his cures by laying on of hands are
produced partly by the mesmeric effects of his own
will-power, but partly, and perhaps chiefly, by the aid
of disembodied spirits. There is no miracle; he has
never claimed the power of working miracles, nor have
his friends done so for him.
Now as to his method of working. A few friends
keep a clear space near him as well as they can, and
one by one those who are afflicted come under his
hands; he finishes off most cases in one or two minutes,
but some of them require his attention for five or more
minutes. He talks little, but lays his hands on the
afflicted parts, sometimes with a short invocation, some¬
thing like this—“ May the Almighty Father and His
holy angels pour out their love upon this afflicted one,
and remove his disease from him. Be healed! You
are well!” When a person comes up to him, in many
cases without the interchange of a word, he lays his
hands on the seat of the disease, and says what is the
matter; he also tells some of them at once that they
are incurable; others, he remarks, he can cure at once,
and he tells some that he will partially relieve them
at once, but that they will be well within a given
number of days. Some come Up to him, and he does
not know what is the matter with them, but asks them
the nature of their complaint. Others consult him
about sick friends at a distance, and in some cases he
suddenly stops the speaker, and accurately describes to
him or her the sick friend. With respect to the clair¬
voyant powers already mentioned, which are occa¬
sionally exhibited by Dr. Newton, in one instance at
the Cambridge Hall, he said:—“ Your sick friend has a
yellow sallow complexion, as if he had had the jaundice,
and he has bushy black whiskers ; I dare say you won¬
der how I know this, and I can hardly tell you myself,
but I see him by a kind of clairvoyance, reflected, I
suppose, from some image in your brain.” But another
case occurred on the Wednesday morning that Dr.
Newton was healing the sick in Cambridge Hall, when
a lady told him that her son was ill at home with
diseased lungs, and Dr. Newton said, “ I can relieve
him; I will make him get right; up, and he feels a shock
passing through him at this moment. Now he says,
‘ I’m going to get up? and he coughs and breathes
freely.” This was at 11.10 a.m. We inquired this
lady’s name and address, which- she does not desire
should be published, and went to her residence at
Dalston, to learn what actually took place in the sick
room, while she was at Cambridge Hall. The patient
had felt no shock, and was not perceptibly better,, but
he had made some casual remarks to the servant about
an inclination to get up. This case then furnishes an
instance of the unreliability of clairvoyance, and expe¬
rienced Spiritualists know that the reliability of clair¬
voyant manifestations, is apt to vary even with the
same medium. In the American papers there are
several narratives of Dr. Newton having healed the
sick while at a distance from the patient. In the two
cases of Dr. Newton’s clairvoyance just mentioned, it
will be noticed that the conditions were not the same,
for in the successful instance what he saw was in the
brain of the person speaking to him, but in the failure
such knowledge was not in the mind of the lady to
whom he was speaking.
Each person, after passing under the hands of Dr.
Newton, mixes with the crowd, and is soon surrounded
by a knot of questioners, among whom he is soon lost to
view. Almost the only way to get at the facts about
the cures effected by Dr. Newton in public, is to stop
these persons then and there, and take down their
cases from their own lips. Our reporter spent two
mornings at this work in the Cambridge Hall, and
found that Dr. Newton got through his work so expe¬
ditiously that there was no time to question more than
about one in every six of the sick persons who passed
under his hands. Among those who were thus ques¬
tioned, some were found to be in a nervous state, but
not perceptibly better than before they passed under
the hands of Dr. Newton; some were three-parts cured
and in great joy thereat; and the remainder, amount¬
ing perhaps to one-fifth of the total number questioned,
had been cured on the spot, in a most marvellous man¬
ner, of such things as blindness, lameness, paralysis, and
afflictions which orthodox doctors had been unable to
relieve. A list of some of these cases, with the names
and addresses of the patients, is given further on.
Blindness, when cured, was usually completely cured
on the spot, with such suddenness as to coincide with
the popular ideas of a miracle. Lameness, when cured,
was usually so removed that the patient could carry his
crutches away on his shoulders ; but there was, as a
rule, a weakness in the gait, which Dr. Newton often
remarked would pass off in two or three days. In
one instance, a little boy, rolled up like a ball in his
mother’s arms, and having an idiotic expression of face,
was brought under the notice of the healer. Dr. New¬
ton at once remarked—“ This child is what in old times
was called possessed by devils, but 1 will drive away
the evil influences so that they shall annoy him no
more.” He then made some passes over the child,
whose limbs then slowly extended themselves, until at
last they stood out straight. Dr. Newton then took his
hands, and said, “ Come now, walk my little darling,”
but although the legs were straight, they doubled up at
the knees, in consequence of weakness there, and the
child not knowing how to walk. Dr. Newton told his
mother to take him home, to apply water as hot as he
could bear it once a day to his back, and added that in
a few days the boy would be quite well, and must be
taught to walk.
Dr. Newton is a man of action and of few words, and
it is only now and then, while doing his work, that he
makes a few remarks. In those remarks he often stated
that love is a positive substance, and that it is in con¬
sequence of the love which he bears to all mankind,
that the spirits have the power to enable him to effect
his marvellous cures; he also states that the love of
those he has cured, as well as of others, strengthens
his healing powers wherever he may be. He cannot
cure anybody who comes to him in a state of mind
antagonistic to him and his work. He says that a
great number of bright and glorious spirits are helping
him in his work, and that among them is Jesus Him¬
self, who like the others is progressing in love and
wisdom, and says that were He to return to earth-life
again with His present knowledge, He would never use
such harsh words as “ 0 generation of vipers!” to any
of His fellow creatures.
LIST OF SOME OF DR. NEWTON’S CURES.
The following list of twenty-three cases, was made
up on the mornings of the 18th and 19th May, in the
Cambridge Hall, by our reporter, who took down the
statements here given, from the lips of the persons
benefitted:—
1. Charles Clutterbuck, 33, Cursitor-street, Chancery-lane,
lame, and when he came to the hall could not walk a step
without the aid of a stick. Cured on the spot, and pains
removed.
2. James Armstrong, 44, Brindley-street, Harrow-road,
farrier, afflicted with paralysis and rheumatics, and for two
years had been upon crutches. Came to the hall utterly
unable to walk without crutches, but was cured on the spot so
as to be able to walk up and down stairs, and to carry away
his crutches on his shoulders.
3. Gustav Schumann, 14, London-street, Fitzroy-square, a
boy who works at Messrs. Schorers, cabinet-makers, 16,
Bemers-mews, Goodge-street, Oxford-street, had only been
able to speak in a whisper for the last three years. Was
almost completely cured on the spot, and enabled to speak
loudly and distinctly. Dr. Newton said that he would be
well in a few days.
4. Stephen Witherden, 38, Richmond-street, Edgeware-
road, driver of cab No. 12,315. Had been blind of one eye
for four or five years. Dr. Newton rubbed the blind eye a
little with his thumb, and at once the owner could see with
it as well as he can see with the other.
5. Thomas Felstead, 12, Gospel Oak-road, Kentish Town,
mat maker, eyesight so bad for the last two years that he
could only read with glasses, and then with the utmost diffi¬
culty. Dr. Newton immediately cured him so that he can see
to read small print with the naked eye.
6. Robert Keats, 65, Upper Bemington-street, Caledonian-
road, severely injured by the falling in of a shore at Dudley-
street, May 8th, 1866. Was taken to the Royal Free Hospital
and was attacked with paralysis after coming out. When he
entered the Cambridge Hall could only walk by the aid of a
74
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 15, 1870.
stick ; after treatment by Dr. Newton could walk without a
stick, and had his pains removed.
7. H. Pursey, 40, Earl-street, Edgeware-road, coach trimmer.
Had been deaf of one year for last eight years, but directly
after Dr. Newton’s treatment could hear with it as perfectly
as with the other.
8. Esther Judd, 32a, New Church-street, Edgware-road,
aged 23. Had fever when five years old, and has been so deaf
ever since that there was much difficulty in making her hear.
Dr. Newton cuied her so that she could hear ordinary con¬
versation, and he said that she would be quite well in three
days.
9. Eobert Allen, 8, John-street, Hanway-street, Oxford-
street. Had been lame for twelve years, and was three-parts
cured by Dr. Newton.
10. Hannah Felton, 73, Castle-street, Oxford-street, had
been in pain with rheumatics for last six weeks, and Dr. New¬
ton cured her at once. She brought her son to him, but he
could not cure him, because the ball of his eye was gone.
11. Henry Tesch, 96, Milton-street, Chiswell-street, Fins-
bury-square. Ill the preceding Monday with paralysis or
rheumatics, the doctors did not tell him what it was. Was
brought to Cambridge Hall in a cab, and was helped in by
two men. Was nearly cured, and could walk by himself.
12. Samuel Chaston, 2, Harford-place, Drury-1 ane, cook.
Had been lame and unable to attend to business for seven
years, because of chronic rheumatics and rheumatic gout.
When he entered Cambridge Hall Could only walk by the aid
of two sticks ; by Dr. Newton’s treatment bad his pains
removed, and could walk without sticks. Had once been
under the treatment of Dr. Harley and others, at King’s
College Hospital. Dr. Johnson, of King’s College Hospital,
knew his case three years ago. Was once cook to the 96fch
Kegiment, but Dr. Armstrong, the surgeon, did not cure him.
13. John Young, 47, Great Tichfield-street, Portland-street.
Hip had been excised, and he could only walk with crutches.
Had been lame for four years. Dr. Newton cured him go that
he could walk with a limp without crutches. Dr. De Morgan
knew his case. This sufferer was a pale-faced little boy, who
said that he had been told by a lady that Dr. Newton cured
people for nothing, so he came there by himself to try; his
parents would be much surprised to see his improved condi¬
tion when he returned home.
14. Richard Price, 8, Harrington-street, Hampstead-road.
HI for last year and a-half, and could not turn his head.
Cured.
15. George Goulder, 9, Bath-place, Caledonian-road, butcher.
Afflicted with stammering, and had been under treatment for
it at St. George’s Hospital for about two months, with little
benefit. Almost completely cured.
16. George Richards, 58, Earl-street East, Lisson-grove,
farrier. Had paralysis for three years, and was partially
cured on the spot by Dr. Newton, who said that further im¬
provements would follow.
17. Caroline .Gough, 21, University-street, Gower-street.
Born nearly blind, and since then eyesight growing worse
rather than better. Cured on the spot so as to be able to see
small print.
18. Ellen Short, Chestnut-walk, Walthamstow, Essex. Aged
16. Suffered from “ contracted paralysis ” for eight months,
and for about six. months past had been unable to open her
hand; Dr. Newton enabled her to open her hand at once,
and very nearly cured her. Could open and close her hand
with ease while talking to our reporter. She had been an
out-patient at St. George’s Hospital, also at the National
Hospital. Drs. Yates and Twining, of Grove-lane, Waltham¬
stow, knew her case.
19. Mary Ann Andrews, 59, Metropolitan Meat-market.
Aged 15. Total blindness of one eye, could not see with it at
all. Dr. Newton cured her on the spot, and she can now read
the newspaper with the eye which was blind.
20. Robert Andrews, father of the preceding, Mary Ann
Andrews, 59, Metropolitan Meat-market. Relieved at once
by Dr. Newton of indigestion, pains in chest and head, and
weakness of eyes of long standing.
21. Edward Jones, painter and glazier, 1, Wellington-street,
Shacklewell, Kingsland. Afflicted with rheumatic gout since
Christmas, and could not bend his limbs. After treatment by
Dr. Newton for a few minutes, the swellings went out of his
feet, and he could bend his limbs freely. He said that Dr.
Forman, of Stoke Newington-road, a gentleman much re¬
spected in the locality, and a clever man, knew his case.
The two following cases have previously been pub¬
lished in this journal:—
22. The Rev. F. Rowland Young, minister of the Free
Christian Church, Swindon, suffering from neuralgic affec¬
tions in the head for eleven years. Went from England to
Rhode Island, United States, in 1868, on purpose to see Dr.
Newton, who cured him on the spot. No symptoms of the
return of the complaint since.
23. Mr. Ashley, retired merchant, 5, Catherine-street,
Liverpool. In rapid consumption, given over by the doctors,
and on Saturday, May 7th last, burst a blood-vessel. On
Sunday, May 8th, Dr. Newton saw him, and in five or six
minutes brought him down stairs in such good condition
that he attended a public meeting the same evening. Had
not been out of his bed for five months previously, next day
was able to walk out, to eat a meat dinner, and to drink ale
with it.
The two next cases of cures effected by Dr. Newton,
since bis arrival in London, have been supplied to us
by Mr. Benjamin Coleman, of 1, Bernard Yillas, Upper
Norwood, in a letter dated May 18th, 1870 :—
24. Edwin Cowper, 16 years of age, son of Mr. Frederick
Cowper, 388, Edgeware-road, saw Dr. Newton, for the first
time, on Sunday last about five o’clock, at Cleveland Hall.
The Doctor seeing that the boy was lame, asked “what was the
matter.” The'mother told him the case, and said the boy had
been obliged to use crutches for the last five years. The Doc¬
tor straightened the boy’s leg, and made him stand on the fiat
of his foot ; and then, taking away the crutches, told him to
walk away, he would never require them again. He did so,
and accompanied his mother to a friend’s house about three-
quarters of a mile distant, and in the evening walked another
three-quarters of a mile. I saw the boy on the day following
—Monday the 16th May—and he was walking without
crutches, and said he felt strong enough to walk further than on
the previous day. The boy, Edwin Cowper, has been under
the treatment and advice of Mr. Paget, Mr. Webb, Mr.
Adams, Mr. Hutton, and Dr. Stuart.”
25. “ I met at Dr. Newton’s first reception on Monday last
at Cambridge Hall, Mr. George Pulsford. of 4. Yernon-square.
King’s Cross-road, who had just been operated upon for deaf¬
ness in his right ear. For fourteen years, he said he had lost
the hearing of that ear, and was so deaf that he could not
hear a pistol shot, and he could now hear a whisper. I tested
him by asking him after he had closed his left ear, if he heard
me, and though I spoke in the lowest tone of voice, he
answered my question readily. These two cases can be relied
upon ” #Yours truly, B. Coleman.
The following cases of cures effected by Dr. Newton
in the Free Christian Church, Swindon, on Sunday,
May 29th, 1870, are extracted from ihv North Wilts
Herald, of the 4th of this month; in some instances
where the North Wilts Herald gives only the name of
the street in which the healed person lives, we have
added the word “ Swindon,” assuming Swindon to be
meant by the reporter :—
26. Alfred Jeffries, Paul-street, Corsham. Paralysis, six
months. Entered the church with crutch, and walked out
without it.
27. Ann Wasley, 2, Westcott-place, Swindon. Stiff wrist
and hand, said | He's done it good,” at the same time crying
out with joy, and moving the hand.
.28. Richard Chanter, 2, Westcott-place, Swindon. Rheu¬
matic hip, five years. Yery much relieved.
29. E. lies, Regent-street, Swindon. Paralysis, seventeen
years. Much relieved.
30. Thomas Howard, North Liddiard. Heart disease.
Much improved.
31. Mary Hutton, Blunsdon. Diseased heart and liver, said
“ My heart don’t beat like it did.’’
32. William Hillman, 3, Church-place, Swindon. Asthma
ten years. Felt better.
33. S. Leonard, Queen-street, Swindon. Rheumatics, three
years. Felt better.
34. Joseph Jacobs, Westcott-place, Swindon, rheumatics
for years. Better.
35. John Tilly, John-street, Swindon, could not stoop for
twenty years. Now can stoop and pick up anything.
36. Thomas Money, Oxford-street, Swindon, stuttering.
Much improved at once, and could speak fluently in the after¬
noon.
37. Mary Morse, Liddiard Milicent, blind oE one eye. Can
see out of it now.
38. Mr. Paffard, Portsmouth, rheumatics. Better, and able
to dance.
39. William Harding, Shorthedge, crooked feet and weak
legs, came with irons on. Yery much improved.
40. Jeffrey Robson, 27, Reading-street, Swindon, deafness.
Could hear better.
41. M. A. Croft, 3, Alma-terrace, Swindon, deafness. Could
hear ordinary reading after treatment.
42. William Horsted, 1,“ Alma-terrace, Swindon, heart
disease. Could breathe better.
43. Mrs. Miller, Regent-street, Swindon, swelling in throat.
Better.
44. E. Hallett, High-street, Swindon, rheumatics. Cured
so that he did not feel any of it when questioned.
45. T. Lewis, Falcon-terrace, Swindon, stuttering. Cured.
46. Mrs. Beasant, Liddiard, neuralgia. Much better.
47. T. Willis, Uffington, paralysis ten years. Much
better.
48. M. Woolford, Liddiard, bad knee. Cured.
49. Mrs. Fairbarn, FleetWay-terrace, Swindon, Sciatic hip
joint. Better.
50. Henry Davis, Swindon, chronic vertigo. Cured.
51. S. Jeffries, Albert-street, Swindon, partial blindness.
Could see a great deal better at once.
52. T. Jones, 10, Gloucester-street, Swindon, short-sighted.
Better. ■
. 53. Mrs. Selby, Westcott-street, Swindon, stiff arm. Nearly
cured, but felt a little of it.
54. James Millard, Westcott-place, Swindon, rheumatics in
head. Much better.
55. Cornish Askew, High-street, Swindon, deafness. Much
improved or cured.
56. William Hayward, 2, East-place, Swindon, deafness.
Cured.
The particulars of the following cases of relief by
Dr. Newton, were furnished to us by Mr. N. Fabyan
Daw, Portman Chambers, Portman-street :—
57. H. Williams, 25, Warbarton-street, Mayor-street, Hack¬
ney. Blind of left eye. Cured.
58. W. Elliott, 103, Haggerstone-road, N.E. Total deaf¬
ness of one ear for forty years. Can now hear ordinary con¬
versation with it, but still a little deaf.
The following statements were taken down from the
lips of those relieved, at “ The Depository,” Gray’s-inn-
road, on Wednesday, June 8th :—
59. John Blackburn, Bottom Salterhebble, Halifax, York¬
shire. Nearly stone blind of both eyes for eight years; could
just tell when it was daylight, and when it was night. Cured
so as to be able to see persons, and houses, and writing, and
to find his way by himself about the London streets.
60. John Curtuin, 8, Bull-court, Tooley-street, labourer.
Fell into hold of ship, eleven feet deep, at Cotton’s Wharf;
was taken to Guy’s Hospital, and had been out of work for
six weeks. So bad when he caine to Dr. Newton that he
could only hobble with a stick. Cured, and could jump with
ease without a stick.
61. Jabez Thurgood, 7, Nelson-buildings, Remington-street,
City-road, wholesale butter-dealer. Blind of one eye. Can
now read with it.
62. Miss Howard, 334, Essex-road, Islington. Sight so bad
that she could not recognise her own friends when six yards
off. Eyesight much improved; eyes had a warm sensation in
them after Dr. Newton’s treatment.
The following statements as to relief received from
Dr. Newton’s treatment were taken down from the lips
of the patients, usually within a few minutes after they
came from under bis hands, at “The Depository,”
Gray’s-inn-road, on Thursday, June 9th. These cases,
as usual, were selected from many unsuccessful ones :—
63. Mrs. Breakspeare, 73, Cromer-street, Gray’s-inn-road.
Her baby, twelve months’ old, had curvature of the spine for
last six months. The curvature entirely disappeared in one
minute, under the hands of Dr. Newton.
64. William Gage, 76, New Wellington-street, Holloway,
bricklayer. Numbness of muscles of arm and hand for six
weeks, so that he could not perform particular branches of his
work. Cured at once.
65. John Pearson, 17, Leek-street, King’s-cross-road, tailor,
chronic rheumatics. Unable to work at his trade for last ten
years. Perfectly cured at once.
66. W. Wallace, 105, Islip-street, Kentish-town-road. Severe
case of rheumatics ; could not walk properly. Cured.
67. Charles Lenton, 20a, London-street, Paddington. Driver
of cab No. 4,828. Intense suffering from rheumatics for two
or three years, and had been under the hands of seven doctors.
Cured at once, although he had been in incessant pain for
several days up to the minute of coming under Dr. Newton’s
hands.
68. Mrs. G. Way, 3, Circus-street, Marylebone-road. Painful
lump on knee, about as big as a nut, caused by a fall. Lump
and pain disappeared at once.
The details of the following case will be found in our
report of the farewell meeting to Mr. Peebles, printed
in another column :—
69. H. D. Jencken, barrister-at-law, Kilmorey House, Penge.
Defective vision of left eye. Cured.
The following cases are reprinted from The Medium
newspaper:—
70. Henry Teson, • 96, Milton-street, Finsbury, had been
given up by Dr. Walker as incurably lame. He was carried
in to Dr. Newton, and after treatment could walk without
crutches.
71. Elizabeth Fowler, 5b, Bedford-street, Bedford-square,
came with a large internal tumour; before she left Dr. New¬
ton’s presence the swelling had considerably lessened, and she
expressed herself much relieved.
72. Miss Shaw, 5, Cambridge-road, Junction, Kilburn,
walked bent and lame from the effects of carrying a child
about when a growing girl. Dr. Newton rectified the hip-
joint, making it snap. The cure progressed during the night
under spirit influence, and next day she walked straight, and
her limb was half an inch longer than before.
73. H. Wooderson, “ King’s Arms,” Hampton Court, had
been afflicted with eczema since last autumn, has suffered
much and been under a deal of medical treatment with some
benefit lately. He visited Dr. Newton at Cambridge Hall,
and is now active, vigorous and hearty, though nearly sixty
years of age and seventeen stone weight.
74. Mr. Browning, Great Yarmouth-villas, College-avenue,
Hackney, had a stiff knee from slipping off the curb ; a cancer
on the left breast six to eight inches in breadth ; had been
five months in bed, and paid from two to four guineas weekly
for medical attendance. He was taken in a cart to Dr. Newton
at Cambridge Hall; the cancer burst the same evening; he has
been walking about since, has a good appetite, and is fast re¬
covering health.
75. Mr. G. Richards, 58, Earl-street, Edgware-road, had
left hand and arm paralysed for three years, was cured by Dr.
Newton at Grgy’s-inn-road; and is daily telling all who will
listen to him.
76. Miss Mathew, 32a, New Church-street, Edgware-road,
a member of Dr. Burns’ congregation, had her spine injured
by a railway accident, so that the bone was much displaced.
Had been under medical attendance for twelve months, and
had to use a water bed for nine months. She went to Dr.
Newton’s house and had the spine rectified, and she can now
walk about.
77. A most indisputable and astonishing cure was per¬
formed by Dr. Newton on the Rev. W. C. Van Meter, superin¬
tendent of the Howard Mission' and Home for Little
Wanderers, New York, at the Progressive Library, 15, South¬
ampton-row, on Tuesday morning. Mr. Van Meter gave an
account of his case in the presence of Messrs. Jencken, Daw,
and other gentlemen, the same morning. He stated that on
June 20, 1869, he stepped on a piece of orange-peel, which
threw him down, and he broke two ligaments in his back. He
was confined to bed for some time, and was under the medical
care of Drs. Wood and Palmer, of New York. The best
medical advice in that city could do nothing for him, and he
was advised to go to Italy, to see whether the climate would
benefit his general health, and promote a cure. He reached
Paris, but was in such a weak state that he could not proceed
further. He put himself under the care of Dr. Ricard, who
did him some good, and he was enabled to proceed .on his
journey to Lyons, Marseilles, and Nice, where he resided one
month. He determined to go to Naples, but got out at
Genoa, and proceeded to Florence, where he remained one
week ; and to Rome, where he spent two weeks—all of which
time he was under eminent medical treatment. He ultimately
reached Naples, but the climate was so bad that he left it and
went to Sorento, then returned to Florence, where he suffered
more than he had done at any period of his illness. He was
advised to go to the German baths, and, after nine days’
painful travelling, he reached his destination. He took seven
baths, which did him good ; he could walk with the assistance
of a cane. After he had taken seventeen baths, he left,
much better, and proceeded to Paris, where he had a relapse,
and again sought the advice of Dr. Lticard, who congratulated him
on the general progress he bad made: recommended him to try
the Turkish bath at Mr. Metcalf’s establishment, Paddington-
green, London ; and told him to be of good cheer, and that
after a long time he might recover. He came to London on
Friday last, and took some hydropathic treatment at Mr.
Metcalfe’s establishment. It happened that he met with
Mr. Cowper, of Edgware-road, whose son was so success¬
fully treated [Case 24], as stated in the last number of The
Medium. Mr. Cowper informed Mr. Van Meter of his son’s
case ; but Mr. Van Meter said he did not believe a word
of it, and that it was all humbug. He had heard of Dr.
Newton in America, and of jiis having cured one of his
Sunday-school attendants, but had never given the matter
any attention, having contented himself with entertaining
the popular notion that the Doctor’s powers were of a delusive
nature. Some one said, “ The power proceeded from the
devil,” and Mr. Van Meter replied, “ Hurrah for the devil,
then, if he can do good at the rate which is reported of Dr.
Newton ! ” He was in doubts of being considered a fool for
consulting Dr. Newton, and he determined on taking his
friend, Dr. Smith, of Chicago, with him to see what took
place. He accordingly came to the Progressive Library on
Monday afternoon, on his crutches, but could not see Dr".
Newton, who afterwards met with him, and made an appoint¬
ment for Tuesday morning at ten o’clock. Mr. Van Meter
and Dr. Smith were punctual in attendance. The patient
had walked with great difficulty from Euston-square, on his
crutches, to Southampton-row — the lameness being caused
by paralysis of the lower extremities proceeding from pres¬
sure of the last joint of the back upon the spinal cord,
which caused him great pain, as well as unfitted him for
walking, except with great difficulty on two crutches. One
of his legs was drawn up. Dr. Newton soon arrived, and
June 15, 1870.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
75
Mr. Van Meter was about to describe his case, but the doctor
immediately stopped him, and placed his hand on his spine,
enabling him to walk at once as well as he had ever done in
in his life. He ran up and down stairs with ease and
pleasure ; went round to Euston and Tavistock-squares;
visited various charitable institutions, and was now com¬
pletely recovered from his painful illness. This narrative was
given about two hours after the cure was performed. From
the patient’s statements we infer that he had despaired of ever
getting cured, and, at some period of his sufferings considered
himself a dead man. He is now residing at 60, Euston-
square, and is ready to attest the truthfulness of this state¬
ment. The crutches were left at the Progressive Library.
Mr. Van Meter is, perhaps, the most eminent philanthropist in
America. He is the Muller of the United States. He has
received thousands of orphan children and little wanderers
into his family, and does an immense deal of good. He is
busily engaged in London in discovering the methods of pro¬
moting human happiness at work in that city. He is a large
powerful man, full of true humanity, good nature, and love to
all, especially to little children.
Last Monday the following statements of relief were
taken down by our reporter at The depository, Gray’s-
inn-road:—
78. James Morgan, 21, Warwick-square, City, E.C., age 49
tailor. Chronic rheumatics for last five years, and could not
walk without the aid of two sticks. Pains removed by Dr.
Newton, and can walk easily with one stick, which he could
not do before.
79. Ann Nicholson, 36, Liverpool-road, Islington. Wind
and swellings in chest for more than a year, and often in
danger of losing her life from the same. Cured, and hopes
she will have no return of the ailment. •
80. George Huckle, 18, Great James-street, Bedford-row,
builder. Bad for five years with what the doctors told him
was chronic sciatica of the hip joint. For last two years
could only walk with difficulty by the aid of a stick. Was
quite cured last Friday, and no symptoms of return of pains
since. Is a Conservative and a reader of the Standard news¬
paper, and feels highly indignant at the misrepresentations
of Dr. Newton, published in that paper last Saturday.
81. Harriett Morgan, 21, Warwick-square, City, E.C.
Subject to epileptic fits about once in a fortnight. Has had no
fit for the past month, and saw Dr. Newton a fortnight ago
when another attack was due.
82. Sarah Chatman, 3, Bandall’s cottages, Vork-road,
King’s-cross. Nearly blind of both eyes. Can now see very
much better and clearer, but eyes still weak.
83. Mary Ann Smith, 22, Gray’s-inn-lane, japanner. Burnt
in face by a gas-flame two years ago, and eyes bad ever since.
Eyesight much improved and strengthened by Dr. Newton.
Could not see anybody’s features across the street before, but
now can do so with ease.
84. J. S. Steele, 36, Great Sutton-street, Clerkenwell,
watchmaker, and member of the St. John’s Association of
Spiritualists. Knee-cap fixed by an accident, and could get
to Cambridge Hall three weeks ago, only with much difficulty
and pain. Was then cured by Dr. Newton, and made better
in health generally. No return of pains since.
85. Isaac Pentecost, 10, York-hill, PentonvBle-road. Rheu¬
matic gout and cold spasms. Could hardly breathe before
coming under Dr. Newton’s hands. Now does so easily, feels
his rheumatic pains slightly, and hopes that the relief is per¬
manent.
86. Sarah Cole, 25, War burton-road, London-fields. Nearly
blind of both eyes ; could not see to read, and could just see
enough to be able to dress her children. Can now read the
newspaper. This 'statement was confirmed on the spot by
somebody who gave her a newspaper to read.
87. William Ellis, 4, Phoenix-place, Mount-pleasant, Clerken¬
well. Chronic rheumatics and lameness; First came under
Dr. Newton’s hands last Friday. Rheumatic pains removed,
and some of his lamenesss, but still obliged to use crutches.
Feels gradual improvement.
88. Peter Mcfarlane, 21, Clinger-street, Hoxton, managing
clerk to an attorney. Three parts cured by Dr. Newton, of
deafness of the right ear of some months standing.
89. Charles Barnes, 116, Pentonville-hill, cook. Deafness
of left ear for five years, and rheumatics for’ one year. Deaf¬
ness cured. Rheumatics partially cured.
90. John Smith, 15, Little Coram-street, Bloomsbury, car¬
man. Defective sight—an apparent mist before the eyes,
concealing distant objects for last six months. Eyes now
very much better, and can see to read, which he could not do
before, but not quite cured.
91. Henry Bennett, 61, Compton-street, Burton-crescent.
Weakness of eyes and imperfect sight. Cured.
The preceding cases, as usual, were selected from
many wherein no apparent benefit had been derived,
but one boy in the crowd, said that his eyes had been
made worse by Dr. Newton’s treatment. He gave us
the address, “ William Radcliffe, 33, Liverpool-street,
King’s-cross-road.” He had weak eyes, and had been
under Dr. Newton’s hands four times. As it was the
only case we have met wherein anybody said they felt
the worse for treatment, the boy was cross-questioned,
and said that he did not notice any difference in his
eyesight, but his friends told him that the lower eye¬
lid of his left eye was more swollen than it was before,
and he thought so too. His companions remarked that
cures had been taken down for publication, so this case
ought to be taken down as well, and the assurance that
it would be done seemed to give great satisfaction to the
youths assembled.
On Sunday, June 5th, Dr. Newton and Mr. Peebles
visited Nottingham. Dr. Newton was fatigued with
his journey, and was less successful at Nottingham in
healing diseases than usual, but the following cases
are published in the Nottingham Journal of June 6th,
1870:—
92. Joseph Cresswell, 7, Hedderley-street, Nottingham.
Rheumatism. Obliged to walk with sticks or crutches.
Cured.
93. George Hackett, 46, Mansfield-road, Nottingham.
Injured by fall some years ago, and obliged to walk with
crutches. Cured so as to walk without crutches.
94. Charles Ringrose, Castleditch, Carnarvon, North Wales.
Came to Nottingham to see Dr. Newton. Dislocated hip,
necessitating use of crutch. Cured, but could not walk quite
freely.
95. Eliza Billington, 12, Bullivant-street, Nottingham,
Jane Mayhood, South-street, Nottingham, Mrs. Wales, Pierre-
pont-street, Nottingham, and a host of others suffering from
complaints, declared themselves benefitted, though* many
received no relief at all.
The following cases were collected yesterday by our
reporter at the Eepository, Gray’s-inn-road, when he
looked in upon Dr. Newton at his work for half-an-
hour:—
96. W. H. Tucker, age 35, 2, Augusta-terrace, York-road,
King’s-cross, porter on Great Northern Railway. Chest in¬
jured by accident; jammed between buffers of railway trucks.
Had done no work for last eight months. Could scarcely speak,
and only make people hear with difficulty. Relieved at once
by Dr. Newton, so as to be able to converse easily, but voice
not quite restored as yet.
97. George Wright, 10, Charlotte-place, Paddington, W.,
age 36, hassock-maker. Gall stones about three months, and
yellow in face in consequence. Came under Dr. Newton’s
hand three weeks ago. Cured, and returned yesterday to
thank him.
98. A. Bishop, 20, Canterbury-road, Maida-vale, commercial
traveller. Hard lump under knee for seven years, interfering
with his walking. Lump now soft and can walk better;
thinks it is going away.
99. Maria Mordle, 71, Willow-walk, Bermondsey. Total
deafness of right ear for two years. Cured.
100. Amy Kiddeoo, 19, Willow-walk, Bermondsey. Rheu¬
matic gout in feet and hands, of several years’ standing.
Cured by Dr. Newton. Had previously been to great expense
for medical attendance.
101. John Palmer, 285, Gray’s-inn-road, refreshment-house¬
keeper. Deaf of left ear for twenty-five years. Cured.
102. Emma Ansell, 5, Compton-place, King’s-cross, St. Pan-
eras. A little girl. Pains in chest; much relieved by Dr.
Newton, and|mother benefitted in health.
103. Michael Kelly, 2, Market-street, John-street-road,
labouring builder. Rheumatics in hands, feet, and knees, for
three months. Could scarcely walk before passing under Dr.
Newton’s hands. Cured.
104. James Burrus, 19, Phillip’s-buiidings, Somers-town,
locksmith and bellhanger. Ulcer wounds on ankle, and lame
for last two years. Could only hobble by the aid of a stick,
but directly after he passed under Dr. Newton’s hands, found
that he could walk without stick, and was a changed man in
health. Has since been a wonder both to himself and his
neighbours.
105. Richard Cearney, 14, Ashby-street, King’s-cross, gas-
factory labourer at the Imperial Gas Works. Rheumatics in
arms and legs. Three parts cured by Dr. Newton.
Sucli are a few of the cures performed by Dr. Newton,
and they probably do not amount to one-twentieth of
the total number effected by him within the last four
weeks. Since he-landed in England, he must have
greatly alleviated the sufferings of more than a thou¬
sand persons. The Daily Telegraph, in an article on
the subject, gave its readers the following inaccurate
information:—-“ The man must be stopped—by public
opinion, if he is a mere crazy visionary ; by Scotland-
yard, if be is a rogue. We have had, of recent times,
too many Yankee tricks in which there has rarely failed
to be a strong infusion of disgusting blasphemy. Such
jugglers have pandered long enough to the vanity and
credulity of the fools in society. They have brought
about quite enough of madness and misery in private
life; and there is a latent inference of Spiritualism in
the spurious prodigies of ‘ Doctor ’ Newton. He has
CUBED HO BEAL AILMENT; HE IS OBVIOUSLV POWERLESS,
BY THE MIRACULOUS MEANS HE HAS THE AUDACITY TO
INVOKE, TO REMOVE A CHILBLAIN OR A BUNION. His
appearance under the scandalous circumstances of last
week’s exhibition is at once an insult to the civilisation
of the age, and a humiliating proof that—notwith¬
standing all our boasted enlightenment—a vast num^
ber of persons remain as grossly credulous, as idiotically
superstitious, as the African idolaters who bow down be¬
fore fetishes and worship Mumbo-Jumbo.” The largest
amount of misrepresentation of Dr. Newton was pub¬
lished in the Daily Telegraph and the Echo, the said
misrepresentation being calculated to interfere with the
personal safety of Dr. Newton, by rousing the passions
and prejudices of an uninformed mob. In all the worst
newspaper attacks upon Dr. Newton, the writers were
obliged to suppress what they knew well, namely, that
Dr. Newton made no charge for healing rich or poor,
because had they inserted this item of truth, it would
have spoilt the whole of every article calling him a
swindler and an impostor. The Daily News had a
tolerably fair article on the proceedings at Cambridge
Hall, considering that it was written from a prejudiced
point of view, and that the author did not trouble him¬
self to investigate the cases of cure coming under his
notice, by taking down the particulars from the lips of
each patient. It is utterly impossible for an observer
standing with his hands in his pockets, watching Dr.
Newton at his work, to get an accurate ideas of what is
really taking place. Thus, at Cambridge Hall a woman
went up to Dr. Newton on crutches, and after treat¬
ment by him, walked away with her crutches over her
shoulder, amid tremendous applause from all observers.
Our reporter took her aside and questioned her; she
was in a very nervous state, and said that she was able
to walk a little without crutches before passing under
Dr. Newton’s hands; also she did not know whether
he had given her any relief or not. On the other hand,
some persons passed under the Doctor’s hands for a
minute, and were then lost in the crowd, without the
observers knowing what was the matter with them, or
what had been done; yet on questioning some of these
patients, our reporter found cases where in the one
short minute, they had been cured of blindness, or some
other serious ailment. Now and then Dr. Newtou tells
the crowd the nature of a remarkable cure just effected,
and makes the patient speak out to confirm it, but this
is very rarely done, because he is usually too
busy about his work. Hence observers cannot
gain accurate knowledge of what takes place when
they simply look on and do not investigate. This
will explain why all reports drawn up by people
who merely lounge in and out of the building must
of necessity be to some extent unreliable, apart from
those instances of very gross abuse, showered down
upon the head of Dr. Newton by some of the journa¬
lists. It is a remarkable thing that although Dr.
Newton has left family, friends, and a luxurious
home although he has crossed the Atlantic, taken a
large house on Haverstock-hill, and hired public halls
to heal the sick; although he has done all this at very
great expense to himself, and then has cured many
hundreds of people of their diseases for nothing, not
a single secular paper has given him one' kind word.
If they did not choose to investigate cases of cure,
instead of picking out cases of failure, they might at
least have said that although he was a fanatic, he had
a benevolent look, and went through the farce of
attempting to heal people with benevolent intentions.
Dr. Newton, in the early days of Spiritualism, was so
inured to newspaper untruth in America, that it has
little effect upon him, but during the worst days of
Spiritualism in America the press was not so thoroughly
unscrupulous towards him as the London newspapers
have been during the past four weeks. Had he brought
over from the United States a woolly-haired rhinosce-
ros, or a troupe of performing monkeys, the London
newspapers would have been loud in his praise, and
would have described the keeper as a benevolent-
looking individual. But as Dr. Newton simply comes
to heal as many as he can of the sick and afflicted,
free of charge, he is subjected to newspaper misrepre¬
sentation, in lieu of the crucifixion which sometimes
befel such workers in the days of old. Every pulpit in
the land condemns to everlasting torments those who
do not believe, on traditionary testimony, that healing
by laying on of hands was performed more than 1800
years ago, but most of the same pulpits, backed by the
newspapers, will condemn as lunatics and impostors
those who believe and know, from personal observa¬
tion and personal investigation, that such things take
place to-day.
As regards his treatment by the crowds who have
surrounded him at his work. Dr. Newton has not met
with more opposition here than was the case in the
early days of Spiritualism in some of the cities of
America. Last Saturday, however, some roughs
attempted to mob him at the Depository, and there was
some disturbance. Usually in such cases, there is a
strong division of opinion among the people, and those
who have experienced or witnessed cures, expostulate
with those who want to interfere; so that between the
two parties. Dr. Newton can go On with his work in
tolerable peace. These discussions often last long after
he has left the building, and one Sunday night, a full
hour after he and the auditory had left the Cavendish
Booms, a gentleman found a knot of men still discussing
the matter out in the street, and two of them pre¬
preparing to fight over it, when he interfered. While
Dr. Newton has worked at the Depository, he has been
very much aided by Mr. N. E. Daw, who attended
with him very regularly, and by his gentlemanly
bearing and good temper, did much to preserve
harmony and order, as ;well as to tone down
those persons disposed to be unruly. This aid from a
true friend made Dr. Newton’s work very much easier
than it otherwise would have been.
In the list of persons relieved, published in this
article, there is the possibility of a patient having
under-stated or over-stated his case; or there may
possibly be a hoax or two among the number, though it
is unlikely, as most of the persons appeared to be very
seriously impressed. A single case of this kind proves
nothing; but it is quite plain that anybody by taking
a cab, and calling upon say two dozen of the sufferers
mentioned in the list, can get for himself unanswerable
proof of the truth or falsehood of Dr. Newton’s pre¬
tensions. If a cabman has been blind of one eye for
years before consulting Dr. Newton, and afterwards
could see, the fact must be patent to all his friends and
neighbours, beyond the ' possibility of collusion or
deception.
Upon reviewing all that has here been placed on
record, the question very naturally arises whether the
cures performed by Dr. Newton are due to the action
of the mind of the patient upon the ailments of the
physical body, such mental action being aroused by
confidence in the powers possessed by the operator.
This explanation does not apply to case 63, where a
baby was cured of curvature of the spine, for mani¬
festly the imagination of an infant a year old did not
come into play. About a fortnight ago, Mr. Thomas
Everitt, of 26, Penton-street, Pentonville, went with
Dr. Newton in a cab to see a patient at Dais ton. On
76
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 15, 1870.
the way the cab horse was seized with the “ blind
staggers,” and pulled up; a knot of five or six men
gathered round, and the cabman prepared to bleed the
horse, which he said was subject to such fits. Dr.
Newton told the man not to touch the horse, then he
made a few mesmeric passes over its head, the swollen
veins of the head subsided, and in a few minutes the
horse was well enough to proceed, much to the astonish¬
ment of the cabman, who was profuse in his thanks.
In this case the cure can scarcely be attributed to
mental impressions aroused in the brain of the patient.
Then comes the question whether mesmerism will
account for the cures effected, and undoubtedly this
explanation would by itself cover a great number of the
cases already recorded. The orthodox members of the
medical profession have, to a large extent, been forced
of late years to recognise mesmerism, which is included
in many of their books under the name of “ artificial
somnambulism.” Mesmeric periodicals, such as the
Zoist, contain very many perfectly authenticated cases
of cures by mesmerism. The Biological Review, of
October, 1858, conducted by Mr. K. E. H. Mackenzie,
P.S.A., F.A.S.L., contains a list of cures effected by
Mr. Capern, a remarkably powerful mesmerist, at the
Mesmeric Infirmary, between the 14th September,
1855, and 13th March, 1856, as follows :—
Two females of pains in teeth, and face  in 3 minutes
One female and one man of ditto   „ 6 „
Two men and one female of ditto   „ 7 „
One man of rheumatism ... ™   ... „ 7 „
Two men of ditto      „ 8 „
One man of relaxed sore throat   „ 8 „
Two men of rheumatism  „ 10- „
One man of chalky gout in finger  „ 10 „
Two mens of pains from wounds   „ 10 „
One man of injury from a fall  10 „
One man.of a sprained hack ... .1. ...    „ 14 „
One woman of injury  „ 15
One man of pains in gums and teeth   „ 15 „
One man of rheumatism   „ 20 „
One man of Crimean ague  „ 30 „
The difference, then, between Dr. Newton and this
very powerful mesmeric operator, is that Dr. Newton
performs much more remarkable cures, and more of
them, in [one morning than were effected by a good
operator at the Mesmeric Infirmary in six months.
Moreover, Dr. Newton, on an average, only gives two
or three minutes to each patient. Hence, with the
knowledge of the fact that Dr. Newton is a medium,
and that spirits have the power more or less of acting
upon the bodies and minds of human beings, the most
simple explanation of Dr. Newton’s success is, that he
is a powerful mediumistic mesmerist, assisted in his
work by disembodied spirits.
Tery often Dr. Newton lays his hands on a patient,
and [says at once “ I cannot cure this person. Some¬
times he gives a reason, such as—ff One leg is shorter
than the other, and I cannot lengthen it; ” or, “ The
drums of the ear are gone in this case, and I cannot
give new ones.” Deaf and dumb cases he refused to
attempt to cure; but not cases of partial deafness, or
partial dumbness. Paralysis he often fails with, but he
does not refuse to make the attempt, knowing that a
few successful cases will be mingled with the failures.
When any part of the body has been cut with a surgical
instrument, or knife, he usually is unable to effect a
cure. Dr. Newton, also, does not cure quite so many
people as he himself believes that he does; for many
pass too quickly under his hands for him to know
accurately the circumstances of the case, or the exact
measure of relief given.
Dr. Newton has had'mediumistic powers from a child,
and when a boy at school, he would often spend his
Saturday holidays in the fields talking to spirits, who
he knew could hear him, though he at that time, could
not see them, nor has he any but occasional seeing
powers at present. When young he was an im-
pressional medium, and often intuitively knew many
of the coming events of his life, though at first he
placed little reliance of those impressional glimpses of
the future. He states that fourteen years ago, before
he began to heal the afflicted in public at all, he was
spiritually impressed to know that in the future he
would be healing the sick in Liverpool and London, as
at present. At times Dr. Newton has clairaudient
powers, and can hear the spirits speaking to him.
While talking to Dr. Newton about the develop¬
ment of his powers, he said under spirit in¬
fluence—“ I am a man of sorrows and acquainted
with grief. This is how this healing power was
developed, and so requisite is sorrow for develop¬
ment in righteousness and truth, that I thank
God for every grief and trial I have had. I
know that I have to wear the crown of thorns
through life, to bear the cross, and to be persecuted,.
for these are the pre-requisites of the power of heal¬
ing. These alone can give the power, and they are
positively as necesary as light is necessary to enable
man to see with the natural eyes. So, when I am
persecuted, I feel that I am living a life of practical
Christianity, for ‘blessed are ye when men shall re¬
vile you and persecute you, and say all manner of
evil against you falsely.’ ”
To sum up all that has gone before, Dr. Newton
possesses the power of performing many wonderful
cures, intermixed with many unsuccessful cases. His
mediumship varies in power a little, but not much, at
different times, for it acted less effectually when he was
fatigued by his journey to Nottingham. His clairvoyant
powers are not often excited, and when they are so, the
results 'are sometimes reliable and sometimes the re¬
verse. He is a kind-hearted good man, with a cheerful
and attractive face, having nothing of the visionary in
it, as anybody may see by his photographic portrait.
His ways and thoughts are not the ways and thoughts
of conventional people; he has all the simplicity and
trust of a little child, and trusts himself implicitly in
the hands of his spirit guides. If they told him to
salute a brother upon a public platform with a holy
kiss, he would do it, although the performance of such
a Scriptural and spiritual injunction, would of course
form a fine source of fun and ridicule to those who
desire to raise prejudices against him and his friends.
Dr. Newton is seen to most advantage while in the
performance of his healing work, for he has kind words
and healing powers to benefit all who come under his
hands; he treats rich and poor alike, and to see Dr.
Newton standing with his hands upon the shoulders of
some poor sick boy or girl, all rags, and tatters, and dirt
from head to foot—to hear him pouring loving words
into their ears, and healing their diseases with his
hands—is living evidence to the observer of the powers
of practical Christianity. Dr. Newton is engaged in
somewhat dangerous work, for to heal the sick by the
laying on of hands, is an offence in the eyes of society,
which must be put down by newspaper abuse and mis¬
representation, or by mobbing. Hence, whatever his
future course may be in England, his hands should be
strengthened in every possible way by all friends of the
Spiritual movement.
Reports of JBmmgs.
FAREWELL MEETING TO ME. PEEBLES.
Ox Thursday evening, June 2nd, a meeting convened to bid
farewell to Mr. J. M. Peebles, American Consul at Trebizond,
before his departure to the United States, was held in the
Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-street, Regent-street. Mr. Peebles
during his few months stay in England, had worked so hard
on behalf of the cause of Spiritualism, and had made so many
friends by his kindly disposition, that the hall was crowded to
excess in every part. Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., F.R.G.S.,
barrister-at-law, presided.
The President, in his opening remarks, stated the purpose
for which [the meeting had been called, and spoke highly of
the capacity for work and the disinterestedness of Mr. Peebles;
he told how Mr. Peebles had organised the Sunday evening
meetings in the Cavendish Rooms, and that not upon a
sectarian narrow type, but upon principles which would admit
all kinds of Spiritualists. He had also aided similar institu¬
tions in other towns, and had been endeavouring to found
children’s lyceums for the education of children—in fact, he
now has a book on that subject in the press. The merits of
Mr. Peebles had been recognised in Paris, and he had been
made an honorary fellow of the Socidtd Parisienne des Etudes
Spirites, as would be seen by the following letter :—
Soci6t6 Parisienne des Etudes Spirites Fondfie k Paris, le ler Avril, 1858,
par Allan Kardee, Rue Molifere, 27.
Paris, le 28 Mai, 1870.
Monsieur et cher confrere.—La Socidtd Parisienne des Etudes
Spirites me charge de vous remercier de I’offre que vous lui avez faite de
1’un de vos excellents ouvrage (The Seers of the Ages) dont un de ses
membres doit lui rendre compte dans une de ses proohaines stances.
Elle vous sait dgalement un grd inflni de 1’intention ou vous paraissez etre,
de faire connaitre les livres d’Allan Hardee en Amdrique et de travailler
ainsi h I’unification des croyances, qui ne sera possible qu’k mesure que
I’explication de la doctrine supdrieure de la reincarnation viendra s’allier les
hommes sur le terrain d’une thdorie rationelle de la vie et du progrfes.
11 nous semble trfes important que, sans tenir compte des nationality tous
ceux qui rapprochent une foi commune soient toujours en communion de
coeur et d’intelligence et que le Spiritism prenne un caractfere international.
Aussi notre socMte serait-elle tres fibre de pouvoir vous compter parmi
les siennes, et de vous voir accepter le titre de membre correspondant
honoraire qu’elle est heureuse de vous offirir.
Agrdez, Monsieur et cher confrfere I’assurance des mes sentiments les plus
distingubs. E. Bonnemere, President de la Society
Parisienne des Etudes Spirites, Membre de la Socidtd
des gens de lettres et de la Socidtd des auteurs dra-
matiques. 31, Rue de Boulogne, a Paris.
Monsieur Peebles.*
Of late years Spiritualism has been spreading very rapidly
in England, and he was indebted to Mr. Harrison, who sat by
his side, for the idea that at first Spiritualism, like a stone
thrown into water, made only a small ring, but gradually
threw out larger and larger circles, till at the present time it
covers a very extensive area, and before long it will begin to
clash with vested interests ; when that is the case, there will
be considerable agitation and disturbance. Recently, when in
Paris, he had met M. Leon Favre, Consul-General of France,
a highly intelligent Spiritualist, who told him that in that
nation some very warm work in connection with the move¬
ment would begin before long, for already it is in opposition
to some of the vested interests which have ruled the country
for the last thousand years.
Mr. Jencken then read the following resolution, which
had been placed in his hands by Mr. T. Shorter :—
“ That this meeting heartily expresses its warm appreciation of Ihe dis¬
tinguished services "of Mr. J. M. Peebles as a lecturer, author, and eloquent
expounder of the important truths and high moral teachings of Spiritua¬
lism.”
* Translation.
The Paris Socibtb for Spiritual Studies. Pounded at Paris on the 1st of
April, 1858, by Allan Kardec, 27, Rue Moliere.
Paris, May 28th, 1870.
Sir and Dear Brother,—The Paris Society for Spiritual Studies desires
me to thank you for the present which you have made them of one of your
excellent works, “ The Seers of the Ages.” One of their members will
report on it at a forthcoming stance of the society.
They moreover are gratefnl to you for the intention which you appear to
have of making the books of Allan kardec known in America. You are
thus working towards a unity of belief which can only he accomplished to
the extent that the lofty doctrine of re-incarnation is made clear, on
the basis of a rational theory concerning life and progress.
It seems to us a matter of great importance that, without regard to
differences of nationality, all those who share in a common belief should
be' in constant communion of heart and intellect, and that Spiritualism
should take an international character.
Our Society would be proud to count you among those belonging to
them. They beg you to accept the title of honorary and corresponding
member, which they are pleased te offer you.—Accept our, &c.,
E. Bonnehere, President of the Paris Society
for Spiritual studies, member of the Literary Society, and of
the Society of Dramatic Authors. 31, Rue de Boulogne,
Paris.
Mr. Peebles.
Mr. Thomas Shorter said—I have great pleasure in being
with you this evening, to express in the terms of the resolution
my warm appreciation of the distinguished services of Mr. J.
M. Peebles as a lecturer, author, and eloquent expounder of
the important truths and high moral teaching of Spiritualism ;
and in that expression I am sure you will all most cordially
concur. I feel the more satisfaction at being present on this
occasion as I was unavoidably absent at the reception given
to Mr. Peebles on his arrival in this country. I have, however,
an advantage now which I could not have had then. I,
indeed, knew him as an elegant scholarly writer—an earnest
and able worker, always spoken of to me by mutual friends in
terms of the highest commendation ; but I had not then the
privilege of personally knowing him, and of witnessing in
social intercourse those frank and genial qualities, that
cheerful disposition and kindly nature, which have so endeared
him to all. Of the value of his public ministrations in this
place, you, who have attended them during the last four
months, are fully qualified to judge. I hate not been able to
attend them regularly, but I have attended them sufficiently
to make me regret that I have not been able to avail myself
more fully of those opportunities of profiting by the excellent
discourses Mr. Peebles has delivered. The predominant im¬
pression left on my mind by those I have heard, has but con¬
firmed that received from personal intercourse with him to
which I have already referred. It is not so much what he has
said, though he has said many excellent things, which we
should all do well to remember, and be all the better for
remembering, which we should not only carry about in our
memory, but carry out in our life ; but that which has most
impressed me has been the true catholic spirit, the Christian
temper, combining firmness in the assertion of principle with
suavity and gentleness in so presenting it as to win the
affections no less than to convince the judgment. He has
presented truth in the spirit of truth—which is the spirit of
charity. He has given us an example of absolute mental
independence—the utmost freedom of thought and expression,
combined wiih the most reverential feeling, and with all
respect for those whose theological opinions may, in some im¬
portant respects, differ from his own. He has shown not only
that these qualities are compatible, but that they blend in per¬
fect harmony—that the one is the natural product of the other;
for an enlightened reverence—that highest reverence we owe
to God—naturally leads us to respect all whom He has formed
in the image of His own Divine nature, and who, therefore,
are measureably partakers of his spirit. This union of know¬
ledge and reverence, this blended action of free intellect and
religious feeling, seems to me pre-eminently the great need of
our present age. We have many men who know much of
many things ; who can count the stars of heaven, and classify
the products and inhabitants of the earth, and of the sea; who
can tell you why the grass is green, and why the sky is blue ;
and talk learnedly of the genesis of life and its developments,
but who seem touched with no sense of awe and unutterable
wonder at the mystery which life presents,—no feeling of
reverence as before an Infinite Presence, a Holy and Eternal
Love which, like the blue sky, bends over all;—One in whom
we live and move and have our being—One with whom we
can hold communion, and in whose faithfulness we can trust;
—a consciousness which, when deeply felt, thrills the heart,
causing it to raise the grateful prayer, or hymn of praise, or
to muse in silent worship. On the other hand, how many per¬
sons there are of sincere and fervent but narrow piety, with
no ample stores of varied knowledge, no large and liberal cul¬
ture, no intellectual expanse, with horizon stretching out to¬
wards the infinite, but who sluggishly move through life,
pacing round and round, and never passing out of or beyond
the old narrow tracks of custom and tradition. "We want
neither an undevout science nor an ignorant devotion. It is
not good, but most harmful to the individual and to society
for either the spiritual offertories or the intellectual faculties
to remain thus torpid. Let us not pamper any one portion of
our nature, and allow another to go lean and starved. We
want both mind-culture and soul-culture :—
Let knowledge grow from more to more.
But more of reverence in us dwell,
That mind and soul, according well,
May make one music.
That is the true music of the spheres. The music of angels—
music to the heavenly song of “ Peace on earth, good-will to
men;” for these will naturally flow from a well-balanced,
harmoniously developed nature. That is the true “ Harmonial
Philosophy,” whether it be that so-called or not; and this is
the philosophy of which, if I rightly interpret him, our friend
is the able exponent. We have to-night on the platform our
good brother Dr. Newton, who is doing so much amongst us
in the cure of physical disease, but there are other diseases and
infirmities than those of the body, and which are more
difficult of cure. To unseal the blind eyes of ignorance, to
unstop the deaf ears of prejudice, to restore vigour to the
paralyzed affections, and cause the vital currents of spiri¬
tual life to freely flow through all the veins and arteries of
the moral nature—this, indeed, so far as we can be mediums
for its accomplishment, is more truly “ miraculous ” than any
healing of bodily disease, for spiritual disease is of our inner
nature, and has its source and spring in the very fountains of
our life. This is the other side of the gift of healing, its neces¬
sary complement and completion. This spiritual healing is
the work in which our honoured guest has been, as it seems
to me, more especially engaged amongst us. He has sought
to allay irritation of feeling, to soften the asperities of con¬
troversy, to exorcise the evil demons of anger and resentment,
to do the blessed work of the peacemaker, and to enforce the
importance and urgent need of working out those essential
truths in which we agree, instead of wrangling over those
things concerning which we differ. There is one considera¬
tion which qualifies the pleasure of our present meeting.
This is a Farewell Soiree : there is always a tone of sadness
in that word farewell—and yet it has another side—it is a
word very beautiful and full of meaning; with us, at least, I
am sure it is most appropriate and expressive ; for wherever
'our friend may be, whether personally present with us, or
absent from us, our hearts’ sincere wish towards him is, and
will ever be—fare you well! It is true we anticipate with
lively satisfaction that our friend will ere long return—we
hope with renovated health, to carry on the good work he has
so well begun—not only here in London, but in the provinces.
It is, however, barely possible that all within the sound of my
voice will ever on earth meet again, but it is one of the conso¬
lations of our philosophy and our faith that no bodily absence,
no mountain barrier or interposing ocean, or even change of
worlds, can effectually separate those who are one in sympathy
and in soul. The “ Communion of Saints,” affirmed by the
Church, is but the theological form’of expression of a universal
truth. It is to me one of the most beautiful and beneficent
dispensations of Providence that gradually, as we advance in
June 15, 1870.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
77
life, the balance of attraction changes, drawing ns with
steadily increasing force from the natural to the spiritual
world. In the early hours of our brief day of mortal life we
are surrounded by kindred and playmates, and friends and
lovers, all is hope and promise, flowers spring up in our path,
the lark carols joyfully his matin-song, and no cloud dims
our bright blue sky ; but as the sun passes its meridian and
the shadows lengthen before ns, and the cool hours of even¬
tide draw on, friend after friend departs, the father’s protect¬
ing arm is no longer around us, we feel not the mother’s
nightly kiss upon our cheek, nor hear the ringing laughter and
the merry voices of our early home ; the balance has turned,
and now dips ever more heavily to the other side ;—as this
world recedes from us, the other looms larger and draws
nearer, and as our pilgrim feet near the broad and
shining river that rolls between, loved voices call to us, and
the angel-forms of the departed stretch forth eager arms to
welcome us, and we are ready to exclaim with Simeon of old,
“ Lord, now lettest Thou Thy servant depart in peace !” We
need not, however, wait for the Death-angel to usher us into
the heavenly kingdom; we may, if we will, enter into heaven
here, and now; or, rather, we may let it enter into us; for, as
a great philosopher has said, “ Certainly it is Heaven npon
Earth for a man’s mind to move in Charity, trust in Provi¬
dence, and rest upon the poles of Truth.”
Mr. W. Tebb then seconded the resolution, and reviewed
the work performed by Mr. Peebles during his stay in London.
He said that Mr. Peebles had given his hearers most hopeful
views about the other life, although he had said little about such
dogmas of worship as total depravity, original sin,' and endless
misery, and instead of such subjects had said a great deal about
those Divine enunciations contained in the “ Sermon on the
Monnt.” Mr. Peebles also had said very little about the sins of
the Jews, and a great deal about the shortcomings of Spiri¬
tualists, which plan he thought quite as calculated to do good
as those teachings which the English public are accustomed
to hear. (Hear, hear.) At the present time there are certain
political difficulties between this country and America, and
if there is one nation to which we are bound by closer ties
than to another, it is America; he, however, had no doubt
that the differences would be amicably settled.
The Chairman then put the resolution to the meeting, and
it was carried amid loud applause. He afterwards read the
second resolution, placed in his hands by the Eev. Jabez
Bums, D.D., of Paddington
“That Mr. Peebles be cordially invited to return to this country again as
soon as convenient to him, to further the good work of spiritual enlighten¬
ment and organisation in London and the provinces, which he has so de¬
votedly and successfully inaugurated during the last four and a half
months.”
Dr. Burns said that he was exceedingly pleased with both
the resolutions which had been read by the chairman, and
that he had listened with very much pleasure to the address
which had been delivered by Mr. Shorter, for it met his own
views as to the right method of promulgating truth of any
and every kind. He had not heard much that Mr. Peebles
had said, but with such of his teachings as he had read, he
was delighted. Whatever was true in Spiritualism would
abide, and whatever was not true in the movement, those who
were listening to him, did not wish to abide—(Hear, hear,
and overwhelming applause)—therefore he (Dr. Burns) was
of the same opinion as themselves. All being thus desirous
to gain truth, it must be remembered that truth is never
gained except at a sacrifice, and in buying the knowlege of
trath, many cherished and pre-conceived views must be sur¬
rendered. As for the theologies of the day, he wished that
every form of theology might perish, that had not truth in it;
just in proportion to the amount of truth which they contain
should those theologies live : when they are not true, let them
die, and the sooner they die the better. (Applause.) Those
who have truth should be manly enough to profess what they
believe, and not to be ashamed of it, though this course of
action sometimes requires great courage to follow. He was very
much pleased with what had been said in Mr. Shorter’s address
about charity and love ; for these virtues should be used even in
the promulgation of truth. Mr. Peebles had once done him the
honour to come to a meeting over which he (Dr. Burns)
presided; and directly he saw Mr. Peebles, he fell in love with
him at first sight, for many years ago he had learnt some
phrenological truth, so that when he looked at Mr. Peebles,
he could not help admiring his noble head, with so much
benevolence and affection written thereon. At the present
meeting he had marked with delight the gentleness of coun¬
tenance which Mr. Peebles displayed to everybody : he loved
him because of his lovable spirit; he felt that there was com¬
munion of mind between them, and should for one, be rejoiced
to hear when Mr. Peebles come back from America. He (Dr.
Bums) had once been to America, and at Boston, before
leaving, they gave him a farewell soiree, so he could
sympathise with Mr. Peebles in his situation that evening.
He hoped before long to visit America again, and to go round
the world by way of China, Japan, New Zealand, and Aus¬
tralia, a journey which can now be made in not much more
time than it took George Whitfield to go from London to the
United States. He prayed for uninterrupted peace between
America and Great Britain. He would rather have the
healing power to remove sadness and sorrow from human
beings, than be the monarch of the universe ; and he trusted
that God would bless Dr. Newton and his friend Mr. Peebles.
He thanked those listening to him for their patience, and
moved the adoption of the resolution.
Mr. J. Burns seconded the resolution, and spoke of the de¬
votion and labour of the ladies in getting up the meeting,
which was entirely their work. He did not repine at Mr.
Peebles’ leaving them, but was rather thankful that he ever
came ; to grieve would be selfishness—ingratitude ; his heart
was full of joy and gladness at the wealth of affection which
he felt for the guest of the evening. Mr. Peebles had done a
great work, not only in England, in London, but throughout
Europe and the East; he was a living embodiment of the
cosmopolitan genius of Spiritualism which owned all men as
brothers, and the wide universe of God as the home of the
human soul. Every man gave off an influence as he moved
about in the world, and if it were one of love and goodness,
then to travel amongst various nations would unite them all
in one bond or net of sympathy. He hoped to see Mr. Peebles
in London again soon. His return had been predicted by
spirit agency. Mr. Peebles was in every respect a Spiritualist;
he called his teaching by no other names, and kept it pure
from all creeds. He was almost constantly under spirit in¬
fluence and direction, as regards his writings and speaking on
this subject. Even in matters of health and daily life, he was
the special care of dear friends in the spirit world, who,
through him had a work to do for humanity; he felt, there¬
fore, that it would be well with their friend wherever he was.
God and good angels were with him.
Mrs. C. F. VARLEYthen stepped upon the platform, and pre¬
sented Mr. Peebles with a handsome purse, upon a crimson
cushion, saying:—“ I am desired by the ladies of the committee
to present you with this purse as a mark of gratitude.” The
purse contained rather more than £25, the proceeds derived
from the sale of tickets of admission to the meeting. The
Chairman repeated Mrs. Yarley’s words to the audience. As
this Was totally unexpected by Mr. Peebles, he was for the
moment evidently overcome, and unable to collect his thoughts.
Some friends present also presented him with an album, con¬
taining good portraits of many of the chief celebrities in
Europe.
Mr. J. M. Peebles then said—Mr. President, Ladies and
Gentlemen,—It seldom falls to the lot of a mortal to experi¬
ence a moment so full of real enjoyment as this—when rising
to return thanks for the honour you have done me upon this
occasion—an occasion to me of both joy and sadness. It is
not so much myself you intend to honour as the heavenly
principles of the spiritual philosophy of which I am but a
humble advocate. Your terms of commendation I fear are
above my deserts, however sincerely and conscientiously I
may have advocated the truth, and discharged my duty as a
public teacher. Still, fully appreciating them, I shall most
gratefully treasure your kind works and expressions of good¬
will in the silent memory chambers of my soul’s sanctuary—
treasure them as the generous overflow of hearts that beat in
unison with mine, and whose aspirations are to promote the
best mental and spiritual interests of a common humanity. It
is not my purpose to make a speech ; infinitely do I prefer
listening to others. Looking around, it quite overjoys me to
see so many familiar faces, so many noble-minded English¬
men, some of whom have already made their mark upon this
illustrious age in science and literature—so many kind-
hearted and earnest believers in the ministry of angels—those
angels of God who delight in returning to earth to demon¬
strate immortality, and to aid their mortal brothers and
sisters in their weary journeyings towards the shores of the
better land. The- sympathy and friendship of such a con¬
gregation as I see before me this evening constitute the
proudest laurels a man can win. Be assured I shall wear them
in my heart of hearts till I meet you in the upper kingdoms of
eternity ; where affection is power, where love is life, and life
a perpetual growth in the good, the beautiful, and the true.
The address of the chairman, so clear and cogent, of Mr.
Shorter, sound and well-timed, of Mr. Tebb, breathing the
spirit of sincerity and goo’d-will, of the Eev. Dr. Bums, rich,
racy, eloquent and full of charity, of Mr. James Bums,
earnest and truly heartfelt—these, coupled with the excellent
remarks of others bountiful in expressions of a general soul-
sympathy, all tend to bind your better natures to mine with
that threefold strand not easily broken. The presentations are
most acceptable. I shall endeavour to prove myself worthy, not
only of your friendship, but of the valuable gifts which you have
been so kind as to tender me. The address of the Eev. Dr.
Bums, when speaking of Whitfield, reminds me of this anec¬
dote. Whitfield, when speaking once, in one of the States of
America, suddenly stopped and turned his eyes ^heavenward,
exclaimed, ‘ ‘ Father Abram, are there any Baptists in heaven ? ”
“ No ! ” was the response. ‘ ‘ Are any Methodists in Heaven ?• ”
“No!” Any Presbyterians?” “No!” Any Churchmen? ”
“No!” “Any Unitarians?” “No!” “Who are in
Heaven then ? ” Father Abraham replied, “ They are all
Christians, that is, good men. They have left their sectarian
names and dogmatic theologies all behind them.” It is not
faith, not metaphysical belief, but works and good deeds that
entitle to happiness. Beautiful is this spirit of charity
which crops out from progressive souls in all lands and climes.
I cannot let this occasion pass without thanking the ladies for
their efficiency in conceiving and executing the arrangements
upon this occasion. It has been truthfully said that woman
is first in every good word and work—it is certain that she
was last at the cross and first at the grave of the risen
Saviour. Woman’s influence has swayed sceptres, dethroned
rulers, and ever exercises an uplifting, a healing, and holy
influence. Though oceans roll between us, though mountains
lift their hoary heads to separrte us, I shall never forget
the warmth of English hearts, nor the social enjoyments of
English homes, and though I shonld never meet you again
face to face upon the shores of mortality, it is to me a beau¬
tiful thought that I shall meet you, know you, aud love
you in that world of immortality where farewells are never
heard, and where friendships and soul unions are eternal.
The President next called upon Dr. Newton to address the
meeting, and added that he had called casually upon Dr.
Newton at his hotel, without telling him that he was suffering
from astigmatism; in fact, in consequence of terrible injuries
which he had received in Spain, he saw all things double with
his left eye, and the field of view had a brownish tint. Dr.
Newton mesmerised the eye at once, removed the evil of
double vision, and so far restored the eye that he can now
read the smallest print with it, which h'e could not do before.
Dr. Newton said that in Mr. Peebles his hearers had re¬
ceived not only a righteous man, but a prophet, who had given
them evidence that the same power exists now which existed
years ago. Among the spirits aiding him in his (Dr. Newton’s)
work of healing the sick, was Jesus himself. “ These signs
shall follow them that believe—they shall lay their hands
upon the sick and they shall recover.” Are these signs in the
churches ? Do they follow the churches ? He (Dr. Newton)
had been sent to this country more for spiritual healing, than
for healing the pains of the body, and this power of healing
would do a great work in England. The dough has already
been raised, soon the bread will be put into the oven, and be
brought forth for the benefit of’ those hungry souls who have
been fed on husks, and who dread an angry God, and a burn¬
ing hell. It is a happy knowledge that the brightest spirits
that ever walked the earth are with us by day and by night,
and that their love becomes more intensified because they are
in spirit life. He then announced that for some weeks to
come he would attend at “ The Depository,” Gray’s-inn-road,
every morning from ten to twelve o’clock, to heal the sick
without charge of any kind. He closed with a few words of
kindness to Mr. Peebles.
Mr. Shorter proposed and Mr. Burns seconded a vote of
thanks to the ladies, and those who had aided in various ways
the purposes of the meeting. Lastly, Mr. Harrison proposed
and Mr. F. N. Daw seconded, a vote of thanks to Mr. Jencken,
the president.
Some of the intervals between the speeches here recorded
were filled up music, songs, and recitations. Mrs. Yarley sang
Gounod’s “ Serenade ” with much good taste; also “ The
Guardian Angel ” ( Gounod,'); the rendering of this latter song
was much admired, and the words were very clearly heard
throughout the hall. Miss Keene accompanied the singing
with some excellent music. Mr. Shepard, the musical medium,
in the course of the evening, performed on the piano, in a
highly successful manner. Mr. Peele recited a stirring noem
written by Mrs. Mary Howitt, and he did so with much good
taste. Mr. James Hicks, Mrs. Morris, and others, also aided in
entertaining the company with music. Some of the decora¬
tions and objects of interest in the room, were furnished or
lent by Mr. Lander, Mr. Taylor, Mr. Slous, Mr. Hockley, Mrs.
Berry, Mr. Henderson, Mr. Dixon, Mr. Duguid, Mr. Everitt,
Mrs. Yarley, Mr. Eippon, Miss Hay, Mr. Childs, and Mr.
E. T. Bennett.
In consequence of the pressure on space this month, it
has been found necessary to omit the usual leading article.
Mr. J. M. Peebles was elected an honorary fellow of
the Anthropological Society of London, shortly before he left
England for the United States.
Mr. Home’s Mediumship.—Mr. Home was at Ems for a
few days last month, on a visit to the Emperor of Eussia, and
at the stances some good manifestations were obtained.
Mrs. Marshall’s Mediumship.—On inquiry at the
residence of Mrs. Mary Marshall, we have been informed
that she has left town for a time for the benefit of her
health, and that she will probably be back at 2, Bennett-
street, St. James’s, S.W., early in July.
Mr. Morse’s Mediumship.—During the past month, the
mediumship and the health of Mr. Morse have somewhat im¬
proved. We have shorthand notes of some of the communi¬
cations received through him, but unfortunately have not
space to spare for them this month.
Dr. Newton’s Future Movements.—After this morning
(Wednesday), Dr. Newton will cease to heal the sick publicly
at the Eepository, Gray’s-inn-road, but will wait till he can
hire a proper and suitable public building to go on with his
work. The Eepository is only an open space roofed in, and
surrounded by stables. Dr. Newton’s private address is 34,
Upper-park-road, Haverstock-hill, and he is at home from two
to six p.m., Sundays excepted. His private secretary, Mr.
Watson, also Mrs. Watson, who both came over from America
with him, reside in the same house.
Spiritualism in Halifax.— Mr. Culpan of Union-
street, Halifax, writes :—Our mediums are uneducated men
and women. Mr. John Blackburn, Halifax, is a speaking
medium, having been under the influence twelve or fourteen
years. A great variety of intelligences manifest through
him ; the quality of such appears to be determined by the
state of his own mind and the character of his surroundings.
Like attracts like. It is observed that harmony in himself and
those about him attract the more elevated spirit intelligences,
and under less favourable conditions, the partially developed
spirits manifest. There have been recently produced under
his mediumship spirit-paintings ; paint, brushes, and water
being previously supplied ; in a state of darkness the
paintings were produced without any physical hand.
Anti-Spiritualism at Norwich.—The Eev. T. Kidd,
of St. George’s Colegate, Norwich, has preached during the
past month four sermons against modern Spiritualism and its
teachings. As evidence of the baneful tendency of Spiritual¬
ism, he read an extract from a spiritualistic publication, the
name of which he did not give, justifying lying and murder.
He further urged as reasons why this investigation should
be discountenanced that it denied the Trinity, taught that the
blood of Jesus Christ did not cleanse from sin, that eternal
punishment was contrary to the teachings of Christ, and that
there was not a devil. Copies of the Spiritualist and
Medium, to the number of over a hundred, were distributed
at the doors of the church after the concluding sermon.
A Strange Story.—The Cork Examiner says :—“A
correspondent who sends us the account of the death by
drowning of two fishermen off Darrynane, makes the follow¬
ing curious addendum to his narrative. The casualty occurred
by the striking of their boat upon a sunken rock, and out of
eleven men who composed the crew two were lost. The
rescued men say that when embarking they were called on by
some unseen person to return. Not heeding the warning they
rowed on, when they heard a horn sounded, to. which also they
paid no attention. A few moments before the boat upset they
say they heard laughter and other sounds quite close to them,
but the darkness rendered every object invisible. There is
we believe no doubt of the good faith in which these state
ments are made, or that the men themselves are fully con¬
vinced that they heard the noises they describe.”
The Royal Institution.—On Friday, June 3rd, Pro¬
fessor Max Muller, M.A., delivered an amjising and very in¬
teresting lecture, at the Eoyal Institution, on' “ The Migration
of Fables.” The proverb, “ Do not count your chickens before
they are hatched,” is derived from a fable which the lecturer
traced back through many of the chief nations and languages
of Europe and Asia, to the literature of India 300 years before
Christ. The migration of fables has usually been from east to
west, across Europe, and seldom in the reverse direction. He
also pointed out how Buddha at last was made a saint in the
Eomish Church nnder the name of Saint Josephat. This an¬
nouncement caused a burst of laughter, which the lecturer
stopped by remarking that if Buddha lived as he is said to
have done, no man ever better deserved to be made into a
saint by his fellow-creatures. On Thursday, May 19th, Pro¬
fessor Tyndall, in a lecture upon “ Electricity,” described many
of the inventions of Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., and exhibited the
apparatus at work; Mrs. Yarley, Lord Lindsay, and many
other Spiritualists, were among the listeners. At the close
of the lecture Professor Tyndall invited Mr. Yarley to
address the meeting, and he did so, after being received
with considerable applause. The following notice of
the lecture is from the Daily Telegraph of May the 20th :—
“ Yesterday afternoon, at the lecture by Professor Tyndall, at
the Eoyal Institution, Mr. C. F. Yarley’s artificial telegraphic
line between London and Australia was exhibited. The
electrical resistances of the copper conductor between the
different stations were imitated by U-shaped tubes, filled
with a solution of sulphate of zinc, through which the galvanic
current was made to pass. The mirrors in the galvano¬
meters, placed at the several stations, such as Gibraltar, Malta,
Alexandria, Aden, Bombay, and Melbourne, were made to
reflect spots of light upon the screen, so that the whole
audience could see the arrival .of the signals at the different
stations, by the motion of the spots. This represented what
would really occur in a stretch of cable 14,000 miles long, and
the apparatus was the same which was used in the calculation
of the dimensions of the first Atlantic cable. By means of
Mr. Yarley’s 1,000 cell Daniells battery, in connection with
50 condensers, Professor Tyndall performed some brilliant ex¬
periments ; metallic wires were heated, went to pieces, and
evaporated. By means of some of the apparatus, galvanic was
changed into frictional electricity, and made to give long
sparks outside a Leyden jar. The shocks from this apparatus
would have been fatal to any human being,”
78
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 15, 1870,
THE WORLD.
The following is part of an inspirational poem given througli tlie medium-
ship of Mr. T. L. Harris:—
, ‘ Yes, the aged world is dead—
Dead are all its mystic dreams;
Angels from its thoughts are fled,
Angels from its groves and streams!
Faith is lost, and being fled.
In its loss the world is dead.
Yes, the aged world is dead—
Mirth is gone from court and shrine;
And a sensual pall is spread
O’er the tomb of life divine
Hope is lost, and being fled,
In its loss the world is dead.
Yes, the aged world is dead—
Cold the heart, and dim the brain;
Wise men filch the orphan’s bread,
Fate and hate in temples reign.
Love is lost, and being fled,
In its loss the world is dead.
‘ Then through all the midnight speeding,
Like the wind Euroclydon
O’er the sounding' seas receding,
Swept the stormy chorus on.
The day of burning comes at last,
The world is dead—the world is dead!
Spring, summer, autumn, winter past—
Youth, manhood, age, like vapours fled.
Alas! Alas!
“ Sun moon, and stars—groves, fields, and flowers,
Ye pass away, ye pass away!
Shrines, temples, minarets, and towers,
Ye are but tombs where minds decay.
Alas! Alas! ”
^nttesponlintce.
[Great ■freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers].
AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—My attention has been directed to the following para¬
graph in The Spiritualist of May 15th, from the pen of
Mr. John Jones:—
“ America is said to contain several millions of Spiritualists; if so, where
are they ? What are they doing ? They are scattered to the winds—have
no cohesion, because the ‘wildest, theory’ men leap on to the platform and
bear sway. Men of knowledge, of sense, retire, and refuse to co-operate.
It may be said, that American serial literature consists of only one weekly
journal, which has a weakly existence, because it has been and is a cesspool
of theories, - ■ “John Jones.
“Enmore-park, South Norwood.
“May 2nd, 1870.”
Though having no aspirations in the line of newspaper con¬
troversies, I confess to the pleasure, only excelled by the
moral duty, of enlightening inquirers and correcting all mis¬
statements concerning the Spiritualists of my own, this, or
any other country. Certainly America “ contains several
millions of Spiritualists ’—that is, believers in a present
intercourse and communion between the inhabitants of this
and the world of. spirits. _ .
“ What are they doing ?” Well, while exercising quite as
much charity and “ cohesion ” as English Spiritualists—while
refusing to support orthodox churches with their cramping
creeds and dogmas, and while refraining from sending their
children to Sectarian Sunday-schools, to be taught among
other Christian doctrines, 'total depravity, and a vicarious
atonement, a future general judgment and endless hell tor¬
ments ; they are erecting free-church edifices, leasing elegant
and commodious halls for seances and Sunday services,
organising children's progressive lyceums for physical, mental,
and moral instruction, and deeply interesting themselves,
generally, in the reform movements of the age.
That men of “knowledge and sense” refuse to co-operate
with Spiritualists in America is squarely untrue^ unless Judge
Edmunds, Eobert Dale Owen, ' and William L. Garrison—
unless General Banks, Senators Wade, Howard, Harris, and
many others justly distinguished, either as judges, jurists,
congressmen, poets, or authors, are utterly devoid of “ know¬
ledge and sense.” During the delivery of our last lecture but
one in New York, Judge Edmunds sat near us in the congre¬
gation, a quiet listener; and at the May anniversaries last
season in Boston, Eobert Dale Owen and Judge Ladd not only
occupied the platform with us and other speakers, but Mr.
Owen delivered a very sound and logical address.
Instead of “ American serial literature, consisting of only
one weekly journal, which has a weakly existence,” f as
alleged, it consists of The Banner of Light, American Spiri¬
tualist, The Beligio-Philosophical Journal, The Universe, The
Present Age, and several others devoted in part to the advo¬
cacy of the phenomena and philosophy of Spiritualism. The
Banner of Light alone has a weekly circulation list of at least
five times the number of all the English periodicals devoted
to Spiritualism put together. The genius of all genuine
Spiritualism, like that “ charity I recommended by the
Gentile apostle, “ rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in
the truth.” J. M. Peebles.
June 1st, 1870.
THE BIBLE.—THE UNSEEN.—A CREED.
Sir,—In lieu of the silly attacks on the Bible and Chris¬
tianity by some of your correspondents calling themselves
“ Spiritualists,” I suggested last month that men of matured
knowledge should send a series of articles on the unseen
elements which make the physical of man, and which pro¬
duce the wonderful phases of power manifested by him. By
so doing practical knowledge would be givdh to your readers.
The Spiritualist would be the medium for thought, instead
of slap-dash wordage, which, besides showing gross ignorance
in the writers, is doing serious mischief to our common cause,
by leading men who know better to avoid our company.
In passing, I say on my own behalf, and of others called
when needed “ leading Spiritualists,” we declare our convic¬
tion to be | That the Bible is the Text Book of Spiritualists:
the New Testament ethics the ideal or spiritual for us and
our families to copy, its teachings having supernatural authority
having been heralded to man by signs and wonders.”
So far as I am personally, concerned, I have only leisure to
suggest an energetic movement in the direction of the natural
of man. I pursued the natural in years gone by, and the
experience and knowledge then acquired, have been of im¬
mense service tome during the past fifteen years, in investiga¬
tions connected with the supernatural branches, and have
guarded me from calling many natural results, super¬
natural.
Other men have doubtless also so studied the natural in
relation to the super-natural, and they can and will forward
the desired communications. I suggest that they commence
by giving a list of the chemical substances physical man is
composed of, and the relative quantity of each. The colour
each chemical produces on combustion, and the colour in
mass. The medicinal qualities of those substances, and their
force in their natural condition, and their force when com¬
bined or charged with the life-power of man as a spirit, and
thrown by him with energy on a man full of inertness.
If this method were adopted, your readers would soon solve
the problem of the so-called “ teachings of Spirits ” at circles,
through mediums who are mere rush-lights, compared to the
miracle mediums who founded the Christian creed—“God is
Love. That heaven is a place and a state which man may
enjoy when denuded of his flesh-body.”
My heart’s thought and desire is to gather in all men of all
divisional creeds to subscribe to our common faith. To effect
this, a concrete foundation . must be laid, by forming a
spiritualistic creed. Then there would be a oneness of
opinion, a oneness of action, a concentration of power, by men
in the churches, with men out of the churches. Men in the
churches would bring their families and their church com¬
panions to spiritualistic gatherings, instead of avoiding them
as at present; men of the churches would then distribute
spiritualistic literature as they do not at present. Then the
tens of thousands of our population, would be operated upon
on a life-question, as they now are on any national question,
irrespective of sectional opinions, the intrusion of which in
great gatherings of the people is at once put down.
Such a creed is easily formed, and I have no objection to be
one of a committee to draw it up, for the sanction of and
adoption by Spiritualists. John Jones.
Enmore-park, Norwood.Junction, May 30,1870.
[The product of the combustion of any substance with oxygen, has not
necessarily one particular colour; iron, for instance, may after union
with oxygen be of a red or black colour. There may be combustion with¬
out oxygen, as in the union of iron filings and sulphur, and thus further
varieties of colour may be produced. We have never, to our knowledge,
witnessed anything “supernatural” at spiritual stances.—Ed.]
DR. NEWTON’S WORK.
Sir,—A gentleman from your office has taken (with my
consent) my name and address, in reference to a forty years’
total deafness of my right ear, which was not cured but re¬
lieved by the specially gifted Dr. Newton. He has not, how¬
ever, made a “perfect cure” of me, which some may think to
be quite needless. As far as I have seen, however, and expe¬
rienced myself in the matter, I am to that extent assured
that our worthy friend, the Doctor, is spiritually gifted as a
healing medium; at the same time, I presume there are other
spiritual gifts of still higher importance. Wm. Elliott.
103, Haggqrstone-road, N.E.
THE BIBLE-SPIRITUALISM CONTROVERSY.
SIR,—Some of our worthy Spiritualists appear to deprecate
the introduction into the Spiritualistic journals the discussion
of theological subjects. There is, probably, soundness in this
advice, as it may be well to be careful not to needlessly arouse
the enmity of the sects. But it may not be out of place ,'for
one to observe that, finding the teachings of Spiritualism do not
uphold as necessary for belief many of the dogmas of the
churches, I was led to read the New Testament, to discover if
any other interpretation could be found respecting the doc¬
trine of Christ’s righteousness and death, than is commonly
received, as relating to the saving of souls by faith therein.
I was in consequence led on to conclude that, scripturally, His
personal righteousness and death or atonement, referred to His
mission to redeem the Jews from Mosaic institutions and
ordinations into His gospel, as a higher dispensation of truth
and love ; and that men are benefited by Him, not as by any
saving faith in His earthly substituted and atoning merits,
but by embracing in their lives the spirit of truth and love,
which He both manifested and taught. Hence was He also
a “ light to lighten the Gentiles ;” and perceiving all this, I
became satisfied the personal gospel or teaching of Jesus is not
really opposed to, but is in harmony with the high teachings
of Spiritualism. But for this discovery I may have concluded
Spiritualism to be opposed to Christianity, as many do.
Stoke Newington, May 17th, 1870. W.Y.
Sir,—I am one of a rather numerous class who believe that
there is some truth in “ Spiritualism,” but who1 yet think it is
mixed up with a large amount of error—in fact that the error
preponderates greatly. I have conversed with believers in
Spiritualism, who as a consequence of such belief, have adopted
sceptical notions with regard to religion, going so far as to
deny even the existence of Christ as an historical character,
whilst I have read that others have become more orthodox
through the teachings of spirits, and Dr. Newton, the Spiritua¬
list, now on a visit to this country, even professes to work
miracles through the power of Jesus Christ. I cannot reconcile
these not mere apparent but real contradictions, and I shall
be glad if some of your readers will help me out of my
difficulty. Thomas Vaughan.
Kensington-gardens, Haverfordwest,
. South Wales, May 31, 1870.
[The back numbers of this journal and of other spiritual periodicals, will
throw Ijght on your difficulties.—Ed.]
Reason is of the understanding. ... The Understanding must teach.—
Swedenborg.
I obtained my knowledge by being en rapport with the “spirit” of
things.—A. J. Davis.
Sir.—Truth is a diamond, having uncounted facets; no mind
has yet compassed it, for it is boundless ; all the recorded
thoughts of past ages are precious jewels from the mine of the
unfathomable. Each child of the Divine, reveals more of the
Divine than the world knew before; each unit of humanity
bom into the world is a new revelation of the All-Father.
The finite is of and from the Infinite ; his finite brother can¬
not reveal God to Him, for God is within Him, and He reveals
Himself.
Humanity’s mind being part of the Infinite Mind, of a
necessity it yields to truth, when truth meets it in the special
channel Divine Wisdom has cut for it; therefore discussion,
by which many of the facets of the diamond are shown, must
result in good ; for no being can be wilfully blind to himself,
though he may for a time refuse to tell his brethren that
though once he was blind, yet now he can see.
Deity is unchangeable. He is the same to day as yesterday.
He still shines upon us in the golden beams of the glorious sun,
in the silvery rays of the crystal moon-, and in the sparkling
glitter of the far-off stars—day unto day uttereth knowledge
—night unto night, showeth forth praise. He speaks to us
now, as of old, in the still small voice of the zephyr, and in
the hoarse roar of the storm; in the chirp of the grasshopper,
and the shrill trumpeting of the elephant; in the sweet music
of the nightingale’s voice, and in the hum of the bee. There
is no speech nor language in which his voice is not
heard.
Humanity of to-day cannot see God through eyes which
saw 2,000 years ago, nor hear him through ears of 2,000 years
since ; to suppose so, is to suppose the present shut out from
the Divine : and we are able only to perceive him, when Moses,
Isaiah, Jesus, Peter, or Paul speaks.
Whence came humanity ? How came humanity ? Man
knows his presence in the world is due to the never-failing
action of a Divine law. Whence came the power to walk l
That phase of the child’s manifestation was within the germ
of the child—a part of the Divine plan, and, without the
Divine life fo sustain it, no power to walk could exist.
Whence came the child’s intelligence ? There is but one
source of intelligence, and that source is the Author of it;
nor is it possible to effect a separation between the source and
the stream, and the stream then to continue.
Thought lies behind all forms, and controls all forces. Be¬
fore the visible stellar systems were formed, the plan of
them, their form, and ultimate, existed in the mind of the
Omniscient. As they now are, they are but the externali-
sation of the thought. Every object we see is but the
externalisation of a thought of God : the grass upon which
we tread, is an evergreen expression of tender thought; the
flowers, with their varied hues and odours, are thoughts per¬
fumed by the breath of God ; the songs of the birds are
musical thoughts filling the world with the harmony of His
presence. And man?—Man is the externalisation of the
noblest thought of which Deity is capable; the image of Him¬
self is man.
Can any thought of God’s be evil ? Can any manifestation
of God’s thought be evil ? The ultimate of all Deity’s work
is perfection, but the end is not yet. Deity works in his own
way.
He thinks to make man in His image. The first expression
of His thought (of which we are conscious) appears in a con¬
densation of the elemental forces into (what we call) nebulous
matter; then the relatively concrete globe; next, the
first and comparatively imperfect vegetable life; then
the animal; afterwards the more perfect herb and the more
perfect animal; then the relatively perfect herb and animal;
and then—man.
The Divine thought was to make Man. Why did he not
make him at once ? Why does not an acorn become a full-
grown oak immediately it is planted in the ground? Why
need it be put in the ground at all ? Why does not the child
become a man immediately it is born ? Why need there be
such a birth at all ? Why ? Because the law is—all higher
forms are preceded by lower ones, out of which the higher
are developed.
The Omnipotent manifested His thought through matter in
its earlier stages in the most perfect manner possible; but
ages after, the expression of the thought would appear to
superficial observers more perfect, and still more so in future
ages.
And thus, as matter has been educated by the Divine Spirit
—first, the herb, having life without intelligence (as far as we
know) ; next, the animal, with life and wiconscious intelli¬
gence ; and then man, with life and conscious intelligence—
so is intelligence, or man, being educated.
Man is dual natured, having animal unconscious intelli¬
gence, instinct (in man called feeling), and Divine percep¬
tion (called intuition), which is conscious intelligence. This
conscious intelligence has to develop the selfish animal
instinct or feeling into the nnselfish or Divine, that the end
of life—^conscious happiness—may be attained.
Observe the child. Its first manifestations are purely
animal, selfish ; all it sees it wants ; it obtains possession,
and is happy ; by-and-bye its friends call it greedy, and shun
it. This gives pain; it then divides its possession with others ;
this gives a higher pleasure, because more spiritual; it is
then called unselfish. A continued repetition of the experience
reveals to it that to be unselfish, to distribute, brings the
highest happiness.
As with the child, so with man. Humanity, first selfish, as
it is now; then unselfish, as it will be. But this can only
be attained by teaching the truth; and this, the present
system cannot, will not do. All the so-called religion of the
present is founded upon selfishness, and maintained by brnte
force. Might is right. Those get who have the power ; those
keep who can. All are taught that they can get rid of their
selfishness by shifting it to the shoulders of Him who lived
mselfishly' (2,000 years since), to show each that such a life
is possible.
The earth, and the fulness thereof, which is the Lord’s, and
therefore equally humanity’s, is largely appropriated by the
men and their Mends, who say they are divinely appointed
(by Him who had not where to lay his head) to teach their
brethren the lesson He taught the rich young man, who
asked what he should do to inherit eternal life, viz., “ Sell
all that thou hast and give to the poor.” Do they do as they
teach ? Nay, rather they employ lawyers to make laws to
legalise their selfishness; they employ judges to direct
punishment to those who infringe such laws, and policemen
and jailors to inflict the punishment; and soldiers, with
cannon, rifle, sword, and bayonet to overawe the people, who
otherwise would insist upon their rights.
This religion of coveteousness, the expression of the present
development of the world, is the outgrowth of the animal
selfishness imperfectly controlled by intelligence. To over¬
come it, let every man who feels he is one, have nought to do
with the thing; but living true to his internal convictions
of truth, though it bring upon him (in the present state) per¬
secution, tribulation, and death, let him be at once a living
protest against the self-degrading impositions of mystical
religion, which is soul-bondage, and let him be an example
of what man is when the angel-dictates of his divine nature
are complied with. This action will hasten the time “ when
all men shall know the Lord,” and then will be that millenium
so long foretold, so earnestly worked for, by all men in every
age and of every clime, in which all will fulfil the simple
precept so faithfully exemplified by Jesus of Nazareth, and
taught by his bosom friend John, namely :
“Brethren, love one another!”
C. W. Pearce.
6, Cambridge-road, Kilburn, N.W.
Sir,—I would not now have troubled you but to correct
three errors that somehow slipped into my letter in your last
issue ; they influence the sense materially. ' In the first para¬
graph,-instead of “ all existence,’’ read “ all evidence." In the
second, for “ inspired,” read “insphered,” and in the last para¬
graph for “ or equally honest,” read “ i/-equally honest.”
As my pen is in hand, and you intimate that there will not
be another opportunity for some time, allow me room for a
June 15, 1870.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
79
few lines in reply to Mr. Pearce’s letter in your last. As I
must be brief, pardon me if I seem a little dogmatic.
If religion is to be taught in any form there must be a
creed, and in some sense a sectarian one. “ I believe in one
God,” that is a creed, and as the question is one of pure
speculation, men will differ in their opinions upon it. Hence
various sections or sects. The fullest charity is compatible
with any difference of opinion. I deny Mr. Pearce’s “ theo¬
retical definition of religion.” When religion becomes a set
of duties, it ceases to be religion, and sinks from the spiritual
to the moral plane. It is of no use applying our mensura-
tive perception to a subject, which from its infinite nature can
only be approached by the ideal faculty. Spontaneity is the
chief element in all religious action.
I wish Mr. Pearce would not think so much about “ what
they say,” but about what the Bible says. I “believe the
Bible to be the inspired word of God;” but I am not therefore
to believe that God would supply finite men with infinite
intelligence. Mr. Pearce ought to see that we can never know
anything about infinite intelligence, the relation of the finite
to the infinite is a problem yet unsolved by ontological science,
and therefore all we can know must be conditioned, and
God’s revelation to us must have a relation to us as finite and
relative beings. And every “well-read man knows ’’ (as Mr.
Pearce has it), or ought to know, that therein lyeththe sublime
philosophy of Christianity—God manifest in man. Christ is
the everlasting manifestation of God, “ the high and lofty One
whose name is holy,” and yet He stands at the door of every
sick, worn, spirit, using the melting words, “ Come unto me
all ye that are weary.”
To conclude. As a Spiritualist, I find the truth and potency
of the Christian philosophy in its application. It is of no use
for Mr. Pearce to write about a. council that has sat, or may
be sitting, upon it. He might, as well talk against a specific
for a disease, on account of its not being in harmony with
orthodox treatment. The question would remain—Does it
ewe? John Beattie.
2, Westbourne-place, Clifton, Bristol.
PRIVATE SEANCES.
ME. CHILD'S CIRCLE—THE DEVELOPMENT OF VOICE MANIFESTATIONS—
MOVEMENT OF SOLID OBJECTS BY SPIRIT POWER—SPIRIT IDENTITY-
JOCULAR MANIFESTATIONS—DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING.
During the past three years much has been published in the
spiritual periodicals, about the wonderful physical manifesta¬
tions obtained through the mediumship of Mr. Edward Childs,
of 21, Offord-street, Caledonian-road, Islington, N. At his circle
chairs, stools, and other heavy articles are carried about the
room by the spirits, who also speak with audible voices, play
musical instruments, and produce direct spirit drawings and
writings. Several members of the Dialectical Society have
been present at the stances, and the manifestations have been
witnessed by many scores of people; some of the most re¬
markable phenomena seen at the circle have been published in
different numbers of Human Nature.
Until two years ago, Mr. Edward Childs knew little or
nothing of Spiritualism, and had never been to a spirit circle,
although his brother, Mr. George Childs, was well acquainted
with the subject, and was moreover a writing and drawing
medium. Mr. Edward Childs considered the whole subject a
delusion. One evening early in May, 1868, at the conclusion
of a seance under Mrs. Everitt’s mediumship, held in the
house of Mr. George Childs, Mr. Edward Childs entered the
room, and stopped to supper with the other guests. While
there he saw a little table move towards Mrs. Everitt, with
nobody touching it, and loud raps spelt out “ George William,”
the name of a little nephew of his own, in the spirit world.
These things considerably excited his curiosity.
A.few days later—May 16th, 1868—he sat alone at a table,
trying to obtain manifestations by himself, and he heard faint
scratching and other noises, which became louder when his
brother sat with him. Raps then again spelt out “ George
William,” the name of the little son of Mr. George Childs,
and afterwards they spelt out some kind messages to “ Pa,
dear,” and “ Ma, dear.” The little communicant also gave
proofs of personal identity, by reminding his father and
mother of little occurrences they had forgotten, such as how
they used to play at “ postman ” with him, and how he de¬
livered letters after giving double knocks at the folding doors
of the back room. The child was six or seven years old when
he died. Some conversation took place, to the effect that the
mediumistic power possessed by Mr. Edward Childs was a
serious thing, and required care in its development, upon
which the message was given—“ God will lead you through, if
you wish it. You will have other powers if you are faithful.”
Mr. Edward Childs was advised in another message, not to sit
alone for manifestations, or with anybody but his brother
George.
Other sittings then took place occasionally, and some low
spirits were sometimes at work who indulged in a little hard
swearing; their influence was removed from the medium by
means of mesmeric passes, made by Mr. George Childs, over
his brother, under the guidance of higher spirits. Once, when
Mr. Edward Childs sat by himself for manifestations, he re¬
ceived the message—“ Why do you sit alone 1 You were told
not to do so. If you seek such things you will get a class of
spirits round you that you will not be able to get rid of any
more.—Samuel.” This “ Samuel ’’ said that he was a clergyman
in earth life. However, in spite of these warnings, Mr. Childs
sat again by himself during a thunderstorm, and had a mes¬
sage containing rough language and swearing. He narrated
this to his brother next day, and his brother went into a room
alone to pray for advice, after which he received the following
message :—“ Have patience—be firm. Have assurance and
faith in your God. Be very calm ; your brother and you will
be freed from this evil spirit.”
On the 4th June, 1868, Mr. George Childs was told,"through
his writing mediumship, to invite an old friend and Spiritua¬
list, Mr. Thomas Jones, of 34, Rah ere-street, Goswell-road, to
sit with them that evening, and they would get something re¬
markable in the shape of direct spirit writing. They required
paper, pencil, and darkness for this manifestation, which is
now common enough at spirit circles. In a short time the
pencil was heard at work, and some sheets of paper were
heard to fall under the table; other sheets were folded up,
and thrown at one or other of the sitters. When a .light was
struck the sheets under the table were found to contain
failures, in the shape of imperfect sentences, but the others
contained affectionate messages from George William to
“ Dear Pa.” After supper, another sitting was held, at which
Mrs. Childs was present, and the little spirit wrote—“ Dear
Ma, bless you, I do not forget you.” Mr. George Childs asked
him whether he remembered and would write a pet name which
he was called by at home ; a paper was then thrown at his
feet, on which was written, “ Cub, dear Pa.” This was true,
and the name was given him because his hair in long flowing
ringlets gave him a lion-like appearance.
The circle was then instructed to sit regularly for the spirit
voice, and it met often for that purpose. All this time plenty
of messages by direct writing and other methods were given.
On one occasion, in the dark, something struck Mr. George
Childs in the face ; he picked it up, and found it to be a piece
of paper with a flower inside, and on the paper was written—
“ Here’s the flower from Uncle’s coat; he is almost asleep from
fear. G. W. C.” Mr. Edward Childs then missed the flower
from his button-hole; he acknowledged that he did feel
alarmed, and had been sitting with his coat over his head.
His brother expostulated with him, but he replied—“ It’s no
use ; if I sit for a hundred years I shall not be able to get over
it.” On another occasion, by direct writing, the following
mesage was given—“ Do not speak, dears, when I write—it
disturbs me.” Silence assists direct spirit writing, yet it is not
good to aid in, the production of the spirit voice, “for,” says
Mr. George Childs, “ now, when the voices are so strong that
they can be heard all over the house, anxiety on the part of
the sitters will prevent each voice from developing itself into
anything like a loud tone ; we are constantly told to converse
among ourselves, when anything is about to be done.”
During the time that the circle sat for the voices, accord¬
ing to instructions a light paper tube, as described on page 80
of this issue, was placed on the table, for at first such tubes
much aid the spirits in producing audible voices, although in
time they may be abolished. The early attempts to speak
were very interesting, and. were often heard by the company ;
the power gradually increased, and it became plain that the
spirit was trying to say “ Pa,” but the sound was exactly like
that made by puffing out a candle. After one of these attempts,
a message was written : “ I tried to speak, but Uncle was
alarmed.” As the medium became more passive, the power
increased. At last, on the 23rd of July, 1868, the words “ Pa !
Ma ! ” were clearly pronounced, and Mr. George Childs, on
hearing these loved words coming from beyond the grave,
said, in a state of great excitement, “ Pa 1 Ma! There !
There ! I heard it! ” The delight was reciprocal, for little
George William knew by the exclamations of his father that
he had made himself heard, and began beating the table in¬
cessantly and frantically with the paper tube, as if he could
not sufficiently control his delight. The voice gradually in¬
creased in strength, and at last it resembled a strong whisper.
The voice was not, and is not, that of the little boy as he spoke
in the flesh, but the proofs of identity given at different times,
quite satisfied "Mr. and Mrs. Childs that they were in direct
communication with their son in the next world.
After a time another voice, and a strong one, was indis¬
tinctly heard, and the owner thereof by raps on the table,
spelt out his name as “Amos Ferguson, a friend.” He then
asked George William to speak for him, and said that he was
a Scotchman and a soldier ; he lived at the same time as
Robert Burns, the poet, and saw him once while in the body.
Amos taught little George to speak a few sentences in the
Scotch dialect through the tube, and when those present could
not understand them, he spelt out the words in full. Amos,
after attempts, extending over two or three weeks, was first
able to make himself heard clearly on the 13th August, 1868,
but at the present time his voice is not louder than a strong
whisper. He began to attend the meetings of the circle re¬
gularly, and at first was very respectful and somewhat formal
to those present; he usually closed with a “ Good night,
Madam,” to Mrs. Childs. After a time he grew more familiar,
and now calls Mr. Childs “ George,” and Mrs. Childs “ Ellen.”
All the members of the circle find him to be very truthful, and
now look upon him as a most sincere friend ; once, after tell¬
ing him of their confidence in him, he replied—“ I am glad
you understand me, for I have been to other circles, and was
repulsed, being considered an evil spirit.” Amos after a time
began to produce direct writing, but usually finished by
throwing down the pencils, and breaking the points; Mr.
Childs expostulated with him, but on one occasion remarked,
“ If you give me a good drawing, I don’t mind the points
being broken.” A good drawing was then made, after which
Amos said—“ I suppose you don’t mind my keeping your
Word. There they go. Ha 1 Ha ! Ha ! ”—and down went
the pencils on the floor. Mr. Childs said—“Amos ! Amos ! ”
He replied—“ Can you tell me why you are like an actor who
has lost his cue ? ” The riddle being given up, Amos said—
“ Because I have spoilt your points.” On one occasion when
those present were talking about how shocked many of the
outside public are at the idea of spirits cracking jokes and
asking riddles, Amos made some remarks to the effect that the
ordinary notions about disembodied spirits are very erroneous;
spirits are not furnished with great pairs of wings, and do not
go off to a place of happiness all at once.
Mr. Austin, a friend of the Messrs. Childs, was afterwards
invited to come to the circle to see the wonderful manifesta¬
tions, and immediately there was a great increase of power.
It was supposed that Mr. Austin was a medium before he
came to the circle, because on one occasion he had seen the
spirit of his deceased aunt. The second time Mr. Austin sat
at the circle a third spirit, who gave the name of “ Sancto,”
made his voice heard, and asked for a concertina. This was
furnished him, and a few minutes afterwards he played upon
it “ The Soldier’s Chorus ” from Gounod’s Faust. He after¬
wards produced good music both on the flute and violin. He
gave his history, and said that he was born at Nice, and was
in eaath-life a gentlemen amateur musician. Articles weigh¬
ing from a few ounces to thirty or forty pounds were often
carried noiselessly about the room while the music was going
on, and all the members of the circle were holding each others
hands. The growth of the spirit power to such a marvellous
extent, at first caused a little alarm, but no harm was done to
anybody, nor was anything ever broken. Whenever the
spirits asked anybody to hold out a hand, something would
always be placed in it with unerring accuracy, showing that
the spirits could see perfectly in pitch darkness.
Three more spirits were afterwards introduced by Amos, and
their voices are very powerful. One of these was “ Joe,”
who describes himself as an agricultural labourer; the second
was Ebenezer Wyatt, who speaks with a whining voice, is
very jocular, and produces extraordinary music by means of
a piece of paper and a comb. With this primitive instrument
he often accompanies Sancto, while the latter plays the violin
or flute. Ebenezer Wyatt first spoke on the 8th of April,
1869. The third spirit, “ Alonzo Bates,” was introduced by
Amos on the 3rd of June, 1869, as follows :—“ My boy, I will
with your permission, introduce another one who was a
humble individual upon earth, indeed he was a street singer,
but he possessed capabilities which were not developed here.
He will amuse you very much by his singing and reciting, and
I have no doubt you will 16am from him too. I am sure, if
you will allow him to come, he will, as I do, bless you for per¬
mitting it, for it will help him to progress.” Afterwards,
another friend of Mr. Edward Childs, Mr. Macmillan, was
invited to the circle. He proved to be a medium, and his
presence enabled another spirit, an Irishman, Dennis O’ Bryan,
to make his voice heard. The povver of the voices is now so
strong that the paper tubes have been abolished. The voices
often can be heard all over the house and in the street out¬
side. Sometimes they have been feebly heard in broad day¬
light, and they are often heard near Mr. Edward Childs when
he is out walking at night, or when the light is not strong.
Soon after Mr. Austin joined the circle, the little boy,
George William, ceased to come to it and speak audibly,
and the other spirits say that he has now risen too high in
spirit life to be able to make his voice heard by mortals. The
last time he spoke, Mrs. Emma Hardinge was there. She saw
and described him. Mr. W. D. Meers, seeing-medium, who is
now in New Zealand, also attended the circle before he left
England, and saw the spirit-child, whom he had also known in
earth life. The spirits said that while the child came and
spoke at the circle, attracted there by love, he could have
been higher in spirit-life had he chosen, and since then he
has risen considerably.-
One evening in April last, Amos remarked, “ You said you
would like some physical manifestations. You shall have
them.” Many were given duiing the evening, and then Amos
said—1 You shall have a literary curiosity. Let me have a
pencil. I will give Ted something to put his initials on.”
The Irishman, O’Bryan, then began talking to keep the
members of the circle in a passive state. Shortly after¬
wards Amos said, “ I have put him to sleep, don’t say a word,”
and a few seconds later Amos ordered a light to be struck.
Mr. Edward Childs then said—“ I have been asleep, I do
think,” and on looking up to the ceiling the initials of'Mr.
Edward Childs, and the name of Amos Ferguson were seen
to be written theieon, Mr. Childs having been taken up to the
ceiling in the trance state, and made to do the writing.
White finger-marks on the ceiling caused by the right and
left hands of Mr. Childs having rubbed away some of the
smoke stains produced by the gas, were also visible. The
ceiling was ten feet from the floor. Mr. Childs, to this day,
has no recollection of being moved, or of having done the
writing.
Mr. George Childs has, from the first, very wisely kept a
diary in which he has noted down all the facts witnessed
and communications received during the development of
his brother’s mediumship. To him, consequently, we are
indebted for the foregoing particulars. He says that there is
something very remarkable in the way spirits place things in
the hands of those present, and he adds : “ If I give out of
my hands anything to another person, although it is done
instantaneously, yet we both convey a sensation and percep¬
tion of weight to each other—I in giving the weight, and he
in taking it. I do not release the object till the other person
has it firmly. There is nothing of this in connection with
the articles the spirits move about, the object is evidently
controlled differently and more completely.” Similar facts
are mentioned in the little pamphlet by Mr. William Howitt,
on “ The throwing of stones by Spirits,” which pamphlet is
still in print. In spiritualistic literature the instances where
heavy articles, after being moved through the air with the
utmost velocity, come to rest as if they had no more weight
than a feather, are very numerous, and such things are often
witnessed at those spirit circles where powerful physical
manifestations are obtained.
Mr. Edward Childs and Mr. Austin were very old friends
of each other, and frequently together, yet the first evening
they sat with each other for spiritual manifestations, the
presence of Mr; Austin caused Mr. Childs intolerable pain,
showing that ordinary conditions were changed under the
circumstances. At further sittings the painful,reeling quickly
passed away. One night, at the close of a seance, Mr. Austin
said, “ Try if you can find out where the voice comes from.”
Mr. George Childs then heard Sancto’s voice, coming appa¬
rently from Mr. Austin’s breast. He accordingly placed his
ear there, and then the voice seemed to come from Mr.
Austin’s back. Mr. Childs then put his head there, and then
Sancto’s voice came apparently from his brother, two yards
off, and said, “Ha! ha! ha! catch me if you can.’” Fear,
or want of passivity, on the part of the medium, will often
suddenly stop the voices, and if the spirits chance to be using
the paper tubes at the time, they will fall. Anxiety on the
part of fresh visitors to the circle will often very consider¬
ably reduce the strength of the voices. Since the first out¬
break of Mr. Childs’s mediumship, the circle has sat for mani¬
festations once or twice a week with much regularity. The
power has been taken away from the medium three or four
times for short internals, and then no manifestations could be
obtained; in two or three cases this was done because sitting
too much weakened the medium, and sometimes no reason was
given by the‘spirits for the temporary removal of the power.
As regards the direct spirit-writing obtained at Mr. Childs’s
circle, it is done as usual with extraordinary velocity, long
sentences being written out almost instantaneously, and some¬
times when both paper and pencil are in mid air.
In closing, it may be remarked that Mr. Childs is not a
professional medium; neither he nor his friends derive any
income in any way from the manifestations which are pro¬
duced in their presence. Experienced Spiritualists accustomed
to the phenomena nbw common in those private circles where
voice-manifestations are obtained, know them in this case to
be genuine, but, as stated in our published advice to outsiders,
investigators should begin by testing the genuine character of
the raps, table motions, and other things which are obtain¬
able in daylight, and as dark circles offer such opportunities for
deception, they should be held only by those who know each
other.
Details of many of the remarkable seances which have been
held under the mediumship of Mr. E. Childs have been written
by Dr. Dixon, of 8, Great Ormond-street, W.C., and published
in some of the back numbers of Human Nature.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
W. R. T., Isle of Wight.—A. G., Glasgow.—A. C, S., Ellburn.—J.
B., Southampton.—Your communications unavoidably kept over
for want of space, caused by the necessity of placing accurate
details of Dr. Newton’s work on record.
J.—While you think that opinions diametrically at variance with
your own should not be published, some of those who hold such
opinions, are equally desirous that yours should be suppressed.
We think that you have a right to express your opinions.
***•—V0 are much obliged to those friends who so often post us
newspapers containing matters of psychological interest. When
such papers are not used, it is because of pressure upon space by
unpublished news. There is reason to suppose that perhaps not
more than one country newspaper put of every five or ten con¬
taining articles on Spiritualism, reaches pur office, and we wish
that provincial subscribers would think to send copies of such
journals.
80
THE SPIRITUALIST
June 15, 1870
FACTS FOB, NON-SPIEITUALISTS.
The phenomena seen p.t spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
within the ordinary range of human experi¬
ence, that it is quite right not to accept them
oh the testimony of others. Each individual
should witness and test them personally, and
believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
is gained that denial is impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses . that the phenomena of Spiritualism are
actual facts, and not imposture or delusion, has of
late years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Robert
' Chambers, Mr. 0. E. Varley, Dr. Gully, Mr.' and
Mrs. S. C. Hall, and others, all made affidavits
strongly in favour of Mr Home. The following
was .the affidavit of Mr. O. F. Varley, C.E.,
F.R.G.S.,'M.R.I..
“ I, Cromwell Fleetwood Varley, of Fleetwood House,
Beckenham, in the County of Kent, Esquire, make oath
and say as follows:—■
“I haveheen a student of electricity, chemistry, and
natural philosophy for twenty-six years, and a tele¬
graphic engineer by profession for twenty-one years,
and I am the consulting electrician of the Atlantic Tele¬
graph Company, and of the Electric and International
Company.
“About nine or ten years ago, having had my atten¬
tion directed to the subject of Spiritualism by its spon¬
taneous and unexpected development in my own family
in the form of clairvoyant visions and communications,
I determined to test the truth of the alleged physical
phenomena to the best of my ability, and to ascertain,
if possible, the nature of the force which produced them.
“ Accordingly, about eight years ago, I called on Mr.
Home, the defendant in this suit, and stated that I had
not yet witnessed any of the physical phenomena, but
that I was a scientific man and wished to investigate
them carefully.
“ He immediately gave me every facility for the pur¬
pose, and desired me to satisfy myself in every possible
way, and I have been with him on divers occasions
when the phenomena have occurred. I have examined
and tested them with him and with others, under con¬
ditions of my own choice, under a bright light, and have
made the most jealous and searching scrutiny. I have
been, since then, for seven months in America, where
the subject attracts great attention and study, and where
it is cultivated by some of the ablest men, and having
experimented with and compared the forces with elec¬
tricity and magnetism, and after having applied me-
chanical-and mental tests, I entertain no doubt whatever
that the manifestations which I have myself examined
were not due to the operation of any of the recognised
physical laws of nature, and that there has been present
on the occasions above-mentioned some intelligence
other than that of the medium and observers.
“The subject of course offers many opportunities and
inducements for fraud, and I only speak of what I have
myself seen and tested. Since my acquaintance with
Mr. Home began I have pursued the enquiry, and I have
found engaged in it able, learned, and scientific men,
who are convinced as I am, that the physical manifesta¬
tions are but the introduction to an-extensive field of
mental and physical knowledge which will in a great
measure explain and reconcile the beliefs of all ages and
nations. I know of several instances both in Europe
and America in which this course of study has awak¬
ened the perception of the purest and loftiest truths and
principles. There have been no doubt cases in which
the intellect has been too feeble for the stimulus, and
has been overpowered by it, just as frequently results
from excessive application to religion and other exciting
topics, but such cases have not come within my own
observation.
“Mr. Home, like several other non-professional me¬
diums whose cases I have studied, was passive during
the occurrence of the manifestations. He, like the
other mediums, is extremely susceptible to external in¬
fluences, and has a mind better suited to receive impres¬
sions than to prosecute enquiries. I willingly testify my
entire conviction Of his truthfulness and honesty.
“ 0. F. Yarley
It also came out in Hie evidence given at the
trial, that Mr. Home had been the invited and un¬
paid guest of the Emperor and the Empress of the
French, the Emperor, Empress, and the late Em-
.press Dowager of Russia, the Grand Duke •Con¬
stantine,-the King of Prussia, the late King-of.
Bavaria, the late King of Wurtemburg, and the,
Queen of Holland. Mr. Home says that, all his
life he has never taken a farthing of pay for his
seances. In March, 1869, the Spiritual Magazine
gaye the names of the following gentlemen as
those who have long been investigating the sub¬
ject:—
; “Cromwell F. Yarley, Esq., Fleetwood-house, Becken.-
ham Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., 9, St. Mark’s-crescent,
N.W.; Professor De Morgan, 91, Adelaide-road, N.W.;
Captain Drayson, B.A., Woolwich; Dr. J. M. Gully,
The Priory, Great Malvern: Dr. J. J. G. Wilkinson, 4,
St. John’s-wood-villas, N.W.; Dr. Dixon, 8, Great Or-
mond-street, W.C.: S. C. Hall, Esq., 15, Ashley-placC,
Yietoria-street, S.W.; Newton Crosland, Esq.:; William
Howitt, Esq., The Orchard, Hare-green, Esher, Surrey,
Robert Chambers, Esq., St. Andrew’s, Edinburgh; H.
D. Jencken, Esq., Kilmorey-house, Norwood; J. G.
Crawford, Esq., 52,. Gloucester-crescent, N.W.; W. M.
Wilkinson, Esq.; " Oakfleld, Kilbum; Lord Adare, 5,
Buckingham-gate; The Master of Lindsay, Grosvenor-
.square.”,,
Mrs. De Morgan has written a book, entitled
From Matter to Spirit (Longmans), where she
gives many'-interesting particulars, the result of
ten years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in his preface to the boob, says:—
“ I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by
a rational being to be capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. : So far I feel the ground
firm under me.” •
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address^ as President
of the British Association at Norwich 'in l868,
spoke very highly of the scientific attainm'ents-of
Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, F.L.S. Mr. Wallace is-an
avowed Spiritualist. . Professor Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that Faraday’s’“unconscious muscular
action’’-theory explained all the facts. A friend
wrote to him detailing things fie had seen which
were inexplicable by that theory. Hare at once,
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
resiilt was that he came into communication with
Some of his own departed relatives. He .then
made mechanical telegraphic machines, which
were intelligently worked by spirits wlule the
apparatus was screened from the sight of the-'
medium, and he wrote a boob recording all these
facts. That book is now in the British Museum
Library. Judge Edmonds, of New York, is another
very eminent American Spiritualist, who has also
written interesting books on the subject. Recently,
in England, Viscount Adare has written a book
bearing testimony to the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and movements of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley.
Signor G. Damiani, a Sicilian gentleman living
at Clifton, has written a pamphlet, still in print,
in which he severely censures Professor Tyndall,
Mr. G. H. Lewes, and others like them, for refus¬
ing to investigate the subject. He further offers a
reward of 1,000 guineas to any respectable, 'scien¬
tific ’or educated men, who will investigate the
subject and prove it to be an imposture. The
following are his words:—
“ I now offer you two challenges.
“First, I challenge you, or either of you, or any of
the public who, like you, disbelieve in the genuine cha¬
racter of spiritualistic phenomena, to deposit in the
hands of any well-known London banker whom you or
they may name, the sum of .five hundred guineas; and
I pledge myself to immediately deposit in the same bank
a like amount,—the ownership of such sum of one thou¬
sand guineas to depend upon my proving by evidence
sufficient to establish any .fact in history or in a criminal
or civil court of justice.
First—That intelligent communications and answers
to questions put, proceed from dead and inert matter in
a manner inexplicable by any generally recognised law
of nature.
“ Secondly—That dead and inert matter does move
without the aid of any mechanical or known chemical
agency, and in defiance of all the admitted laws of gravi¬
tation.
“ Thirdly—That voices appertaining to no one in the
flesh are heard to speak and hold rational converse with
men.
“A jury of twenty-four gentlemen, twelve to be chosen
by each party (such jury to consist exclusively of mem¬
bers of the learned, professions and literary men), to
decide whether or not the facts contained in the above
propositions are conclusively proved per testes—i.e., by
witnesses of established character. A majority of
the twenty-four to decide. If the verdict be that these
facts have not been established, the thousand guineas
are to belong to the party accepting this challenge; if
the verdict be that these facts are established, the thou¬
sand guineas to be mine.
“ Secondly—Immediately after the above 'wager being
decided, either way, I offer a like challenge of five hun¬
dred guineas (to be met on the other side in like maimer
as above)—the ownership of the second sum of one
thousand guineas to depend upon the establishment of
the facts contained in the propositions already given, by
experiments conducted, in the actual presence of the twenty-
four gentlemen who have decided the previous wager;
the verdict of the majority to decide in this case likewise.
“ In either case, the seances are to be conducted in any
public or private building which the jury may select,
and which may be available for the purpose.
“The result of these challenges (if accepted and de¬
cided) to be advertised by the victorious party, at the
expense of the defeated party, in all the London daily
papers.
“ I hope this is plain English.
“Awaiting a reply to this letter, and to the challenge
with which it concludes, I am, gentlemen; your obedient
servant, G. Damiani.
“Clifton, Oct. 1,1868.
“P.S.—Letters addressed ‘Sigr. Damiani, care of
Manager of West of England and South Wales District
Bank, Corn-street, Bristol,’ will always reach the writer.”
In addition to'the above evidence, there is the
testimony of numbers that the modern spiritual
manifestations are realities. Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New America estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United States at rather less than
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybqdy has made. There are no accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in their esti-
'mates frpm three to eleven millions.
When reports of the speeches of spirits are printed in this
Journal,.nom-Bpiritualists should understand that spirits
out of the body are wise or foolish, truthful or untruthful,
just the same as spirits in the body. Moreover, they are but
'.individuals, so do not know everything. The statements of a
spirjt are but the assertions of an individual; but by com¬
paring the statements of many spirits, it may in time, be
possible to 'discover in what points they agree, and to sift
out the unreliable communications. Many spirits cannot
see each'other, any more than we can see them, cmd as some,
of them are thus in different state's of life, it does not follow
.that contradictory messages j are therefore untruthful^
Spirits are of different religions, consequently their teach¬
ings do not altogether agreethere is no. more, uniformity
in the. next world than in this one. It is the business of thjs
journal to report facts, so. we are in no way responsible'for
the religious, scientific, or any other teachings given by indi¬
vidual spirits.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family
friends and relatives, often gives the most satis¬
factory evidence of, the reality, of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the same,-time,’as no fully developed
medium is present among those who have never
obtained manifestations .before, the probability is
that'there will be no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
to be obtained in this, way at the first sitting of a
family circle; - perhaps for every- one successful
new circle thus started without a medium, there,
are six or seven failures, but no accurate statistics
on-this point have yet been collected. , When
once manif estations have been obtained, they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive sittings. The following is a good plan of
action:—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but
cool rather than warm—let arrangements be made that
nobody shall enter it, and that there ‘shall be no inter¬
ruption for one hour during the sitting of the icircle.
Wet, damp, and foggy weather is bad for the production
of physical phenomena. ,
' 2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of' each sex. Sft round afi un¬
covered wooden table, with all the palms of-the hands
tn contact ..with its top surface. Whether,'the,hands
'touch' each other or not is usually of no’;importance.’
Any. table will do, just large ‘enough to conveniently
accommodate the sifters. The removal of a hand from
the-table for a fewfeeconds does no harm, but when one
of the sitters breaks:the circle by leaving the table if
sometimes,.but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may be
obtained.
4. People who do nOt.like each other should not sit in,
the same circle, for.such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, except with well-developed
physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, but an
aerid feeling against them is a weakening influence.
6. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature. A prayerful,
earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely, to avoid confusion, let one person only speak,
and talk to the table as to an intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that three tilts, or raps mean
“Yes,” one means “No,” and two.mean “Doubtful,”
and ask whether the arrangement is understood. If
three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, aud spell us out a
message ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards, the .question should be put, “Are we
sitting in the.right order to get the best manifestations ?”
Probably some members of the circle will then be told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will be
afterwards strengthened. -Next, ask, “ Who ,is the
medium ? ” When spirits come asserting themselves to
be related or known to anybody present, well-chosen
questions should be put to test the accuracy-of the
statements, as spirits out of the body have all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms
of other forms of medinmship than tilts or raps
may make their appearance. Information respect¬
ing the many kinds of medinmship will be found
in Mrs. Professor De Morgan’s book, From Matter
to Spirit, published by Longmans; and this is a
good book to read before trying to start a new
circle.
There are in England several very interesting
circles for physical manifestations, where the
spirits speak with audible voices, but, unfortu¬
nately, total darkness is a necessary condition.
Non-spiritualists who are inquiring into the sub¬
ject should have nothing to do with dark seances,
which should be held only by those who know
each other, since they offer so many facilities for
fraud. , When any circle regularly obtains power¬
ful physical manifestations, they may desire to sit
for the voices. The very slightest glimmer of
light must be excluded from the room, while the
members of the circle sit round the table in the
ordinary way. One or two paper tubes, each
twelve or eighteen inches long, with an orifice
about an inch-and-a-halt in diameter, should be
placed on the table. They may be readily made
by rolling up a piece ox music and tying a few
pieces of cotton round the rough tube thus formed.
In the early stages of a voice-circle these tubes
are necessary for the use of the spirits, but after¬
wards they may be dispensed with except , when
the weather and other conditions are unfavour¬
able. When first trying to obtain the voices the
spirits may not be able to lift the tubes from the
table, afterwards they often get them up in the
air a foot or two and let them drop again. When
they get full control over them they can carry
them about up to the ceiling and to all parts of
the room, and they talk to the members of the
circle often while floating about above their heads.
Very beautiful luminous phenomena are some¬
times shown by the spirits at dark circles. While
sitting for the voices, the spirits will tell by the
ordinary table signals how they are progressing in
their work of getting control of the tubes.
The good but not expensive
CLOTHING ESTABLISHMENT.
T. EVEBITT & SON,
26, PENTON-STBEET, PENTONVILLE, N.,
Desire to call'attention to their new and well-selected
stock of SPRING AND SUMMER FABRICS.
Fancy Trousers from 14s. 6d.; Black Doeskins from
16s. 6d. (all wool); Frock or Dress Coat from the woaded
fast-coloured cloth, £2 2s.
Style, Fit, and Workmanship guaranteed.
HUMAN NATUBE, a Monthly Becord
of Zoistic Science, Intelligence, and Popular
Anthropology. Recent numbers give full details of the
extraordinary Manifestations through the celebrated
Medium, D. D. Home; Esq., with philosophical reason¬
ings as to the nature and cause of the phenomena: a
new series of lesspns on Phrenology and the Tempera¬
ments is being given, containing some new instructions
of great value to the student; first-class Portraits of
eminent men and women, with Biographies and Phreno¬
logical delineations are frequently introduced; a serial
Tale.of great power and beauty; articles on Physiology,
Diet, Temperance, and Health) translations from Con¬
tinental Works and Periodicals; treatises on Mesmerism,
Clairvoyance, Spiritualism; reviews of Books; reports
of Lectures, Meetings, and Societies, renders this the
cheapest, most varied, and instructive Periodical of the
kind in the world. The fact that this Periodical is en¬
tirely unbiased and devoted to the truth respecting all
the .topics on which it treats, is a point not to be over-,
looked by all earnest investigators, whatever their
opinions maybe. Post free, 7s. per annum, or 6d. per
month from the Booksellers. James Burns, Progres¬
sive Library, 15, Southampton-row, Bloomsbury-square,
Holborn,. London, W.C.
THE PB0GBESSIVE LIBBABY and
i SPIRITUALIST DEPOSITORY has been re¬
moved from Camberwell to No. 15, Southampton-row, ,
Bloomsbury-square, Holborn, W.C.
. There is a Publishing Office and Shop for the sale of
Books; a Circulating Library of all Works on Spiritualism,
&c.; a Reading-Room supplied with the Spiritual and
Progressive’ Publications of the World; a Drawing-
Room fori the special use of Ladies and Subscribers;
Private Rooms for Stances, Committees, Meetings, &c.,.
and where all information respecting the Cause and the
ProgfesAof. events may be obtained.
' The Subscription, entitling do all the privileges of the
Establishment, including the use of two Books at a
time from the Library for home perusal, is 21s. per annum
VA wfell-assorted Stock of' Stationery, Periodicals, cur¬
rent 'Progressive' Literature,' Standard Works, Cheap
Books and. Tracts, .Planchettes, Materials for . Writing
and Drawing Mediums; also Works, and Appliances on
Plirehology, Physiology, Health, and Dietetic Reform,
Temperance, ' Hydropathy, Gymnastics, Mesmerism,
Clairvoyance, Anthropology, &c., will be kept on sale. §j
As the responsibilities .incurred in: establishing: this
“Home for Spiritualism" and the Science !of Man are
very heavy,' the Proprietor-earnestly solicits1 the kind
co-operation and support of all who sympathise-.with
the enterprise. Strangers in London should at once
call at the Progressive Library, where they may hear of
Lodgings and get other useful information,
J. Burns, Progressive Library, 15, Southampton-row,
Bloomsbury-square, Holbom, London, W.C.
HE SPIBITUAL MAGAZINE, pub¬
lished Monthly, contains all the- news of Spiri¬
tualism, and psychological articles by writers of ability.
Publisher, James Burns, 15, Southampton-row, Holborn,
W.C.
A COMPLETE Set of SPIRITUAL
MAGAZINES for SALE, besides several Odd
Volumes,
HEYWOOD AND CO, 335, STRAND, W.C.
"Where also may be obtained Spiritual Magazine, Human
Nature, Daybreak, and the Spiritualist on day of
Publication, 'Wholesale and Retail.
JOSEPH BARKER’S AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
Now ready, neatly bound in cloth, price 2s. 6d.
Teachings of experience; or,
Lessons I have Learned on my Way through
Life.
London: James Beveridge, 9, 10, 11, Fullwood’s-rents,
Holbom, W.C.
On the first of every month.
THE TRUTHSEEKER, a Review,
devoted to the advocacy of reverent free
thought in mattersipertaining to Religion.” Edited by
the Rev. J. PAGE.HOPPS. Price Threepence.
London: Triibner and Co., 60, Patemoster-row. Man¬
chester: -Johnson arid Rawson, and John Heywood; and
through all'booksellers and agents.
The o nly Cheap Weekly Horticutural Jouma.
2d. Weekly; and in Monthly Parts, lOd.
THE GARDENER’S MAGAZINE for
Amateur .Cultivators, Collectors, and Exhibitors
of Plants, Flowers and Fruits, for Gentlemen’s Gar¬
deners, Florists, Nurserymen, and Seedsmen; for Na¬
turalists, Botanists, Bee-keepers, and Lovers of the
Country. Conducted by Shirlby Hibberd, Esq.,
F.R.H.S.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Aye Maria-lane, E.C.
And by Order of all Booksellers and Newsagents in
Town and Country.
The west London spiritual in¬
stitute, 1, MARYLANDROAD, HARROW-
ROAD, W. (Opposite Lock Hospital). Spiritualists and
Inquirers, are invited to the Developing and other Circles,
on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday evenings, at 8 p.m.
Conducted by Mrs. Olive and other Mediums. Further
particulars, or any information relative to Spiritualism,
by addressing, Mr. J. Olive, 1, Maryland-road, Harrow-
road, W. (Opposite Lock Hospital).
F
EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
Vice-Patrons:
His Grace the Duke of Argyll, K.T.
Her Grace the Duchess of ArgyU.
The Baroness de Rothschild.
The Countess de Noailles.
President:
The Right Honourable the'Earl of Shaftesbury, K.G.
Treasurer:
Henry Charles Stephens, Esq., 171 Aldersgate-street, E.C-
Honorary Secretary:
James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.
Lady Secretary:
Mrs: Blangy.
Bankers:
The London and County Bank, 441, Oxford-street.
The Female Medical,Society is. established for the
following objects:—
1. —To promote Re employment of properly educated
women in the practice of Midwifery, and the treatment
of the Diseases of Women and Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities
for learning the theory and practice of Midwifery, and
the accessory branches of Medical Science.
Midwifery and the accessory branches of medicine
offer a wide field of honourable and lucrative employ¬
ment for educated women; also a means of intellectual
culture and social usefulness to lajiies who may not be
dependent upon their own exertions. For want of
properly qualified ladies the best portion of the practice
of midwifery has drifted into the hands of gentlemen,,
though female practitioners still attend the bulk of the
population. But any person may undertake the duties
of a midwife. Proper means of . study have never been
provided for women, and there has never been any
public examination, by which women when well qualified
might be distinguished from those who are illiterate and
unqualified.
The Society has carried on for five years the Ladies’ %
Medical College, which has taught the theory arid prac¬
tice of Midwifery and the accessory branches of medi¬
cine. Eighty-two ladies have alreadyavailed themselves
of its advantages, and many of these ladies are settled
in practice, and succeeding admirably.
A life subscription of ten guineas, or an annual sub¬
scription of. one guinea, constitutes a member of the
Society, but stamps or other small contributions will be
gladly received.,
. Lady subscriBers of not less than one guinea are
invited to visit any Lectures in which- they are likely to
•be; interested.; >y -, t
The addresses of skilled, Lady Midwives, Prospectuses,
of the'Cotlege, and all particulars as to the operations Of
the Society, inay be obtairied of the Lady Secretary. '
Temporary Offices—A Fitzroy-square, W.
Cheques to be crossed London and County Bank.
■'VTO. 1 of The Spiritualist is from be-
JLv ginning to end a.compact mass of good evidence
that the facts of Spiritualism are. true. It contains a
summary of the evidence given before the: Dialectical
Society, by twenty witnesses :of eminence and ability; it
also gives the testimony of respectable non-Spiritualists;
therefore, it is a valuable publication to- place in the
hands of non-Spiritualists, and Should be selected-for
that purpose rather than later numbers of the same
journal, as the later numbers will run'out of print first
and should be ordered while they are still obtainable by
those who wish to preserve them for binding. A few
copies of No. 1 should be kept on hand for the benefit of
non-Spiritualists, but later numbers should be retained in
the possession of the early friends of- the movement,
before they become scarce and unobtainable. Covers
with stringed backs, to keep copies clean till required
for binding, 2s. 6d. each.
London: E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.; or J.
• Burns, 15, Southampton-row, Holborn, W.C.
(ftontentg.
Dr. Newton’s Healing Mediumship  73
Reports of Meetings -.—Farewell Meeting to. Mr.
Peebles ... ..: ' ... • ... * ... ... • ...• 76
POEThY:—The World ... ... ... ... ... 78
Correspondence :—American Spiritualism; The
Rible—-The -Unseen,—A Creed; Dr. Newton’s
Work; The Bible-Spiritualism Controversy "... 78
'Private Stances.—Wi. Child’s Circle—The Dovelop-
; ment of Voice Manifestations—-Movement of Solid
.- Objects by Spirit Power—Spirit Identity-—Jocular
Manifestations—Direct Spirit Writing 79
Paragraphs Mr. Home’s, Mediumship, 77; Mrs.
Marshall's Mediumship,' 77; Mr. Morse’s Medium-
, ship, 77; Dr. Newton’s Future Movements, 77;
Spiritualism in Halifax, 77; Anti-Spiritualism-at ,,,
Norwich,. 77 ; A Strange Story, 77; The Royal
Institution, 77.
Answers to’Correspondents ... ;  ... 79
Printed for the Proprietor by James Beveridge, at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High
Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and
St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E
W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
