■ «c>-
• op ' °F:' ;t^E' 3C! E;NGEv D • Hi 0^ :pF. ^1^.T.
.xurnac i
LONDON: FRIDAY, ^OYDMBER/i9j;.186-9.;
mmrMi0^0<§0. jq^;we^^’s EA^te. '
-.‘i;;.. ' ;':ri ' '. IN*‘'1®!?' ^^TS.^-PiET' CiNE,* '.' J: ' ''.'
... Uv^s.*rT;.;: , jsfi r.1 ’.j. :r i"
!■? /5N>j-‘oi^ie. Mtjst?'.pfcrfeet}T-:aiGtheuv-if‘.ate>l *iasfe\nees of
■ spirit-ra^priJirr; 'm^TicuVil hefore ■ tin*. T>tc-innina; of the
i Wo^orn,-matfifestatfOrLgf^took! place Liu tut* family of
Jphn ?j.y\-(;slpyj.; thCvifainent -is'ligipiiaf fpfprmor. The
facts'’ iyoreiyfesvtfcit ■ fiq^&hv onl tho. spot, and dho various
dociiinfsiv Idmi h"' -uman^-•« i T,eiT ciomt c i ot tlm
’A t ^Ivv 'fu hcmc h tlir nn-- ; rjui o> t the
dog^^t’jjts"'ruse iulutUl(id oa all hands to-be Indisputably
genuine,’ ahd'-H'ro authenticated by John Wesley him-
ThefyfJiole; rite letters ct- the'members of the
of the ' (hJhgs of
l.jt hjaffi.-:'wif^bo,,gfhdvally reprinted in this .journal;
in h'^l’jei ttn. ji drose spiritualists,-Wesleyans, and
i ."cadets,' ^ho 'aae'' nhaerjuaiuied'witb, cht uotnal
.. . tvlivulilifihsii-Ji'orthl^ibciysr
itfc. often warned, her.'of eomiug' u.fliieti!)Ti.s..;; For reasorir,
WgigSSBmS/BmBE/mEiBmSBgtti
la
their own. 4h© :\Vosloy 'family.'-..eoncliuled' that. Ib’e.i coii; 'iib.';,'jfcv Vro learn thatfin .'fSirS lm
nainp or ihgit Spirit Tyas ^ JeffreyJ’/ i: . • t" .. .■ | estimated thb. -hi\E|h:ei' fof ^P'ritualisisiin, 'the’'
^-.'Wesley often adjured the spirit to talk to. hiinjb. he abouf ^^.hunbred’dnd-tM^r
phousaud
to
T1„
ritunhstff are aT^re that !if . Whslfry■• hiad;-'i ii>rniBlied. 1 ^ ObTi-yints, ./iyi^rcHt
i x ii}5’iir noises ana other.phonQinpna tpok place
S the end of the 3rear l-Vld,' athiBe,-pai-sonag-e-house of
TMi. Samu'el Wesley, JEo^vorth, Lincdjb.ebtre, and they
lasted for/about We mopilts. ‘ Pu) in;; fb'aiji'im>; thoy;
'earn,e. under the obtervat-iori of. uiji'v ‘i!.jiv u., -.t.niv
aM ;'§0Etiptimps he,acd two; or three ' feeble sr<iieaks."i4;,i.'
reply'i'.a liptle louder' than tiTeJhirjj'mb of a; bird/
the light; pf:.iheijbetter , knowledge now. gaiuei;^’•^pi- ? Vu
'ft T witl; a pi i' ih 0 b1. iot m md j Iuli tub< uj /
paper,_ afiout /15. inches long;. .-1|. inch*, iti^lmm^lor,
tec Sjtiut vrbnhl' herr - i)n,ui;nbli ro'trjk t j loia.;,/;!1 mi!‘s. v< >rnx%
audible voice. At the first; t >’ n * .i, i-i'-Khiper ■
M.'b, tu< spirits alwaysaSk%!• ’suen/tujibs, t..^ rj . > 11. >’n is
ihe hid" h\s hi' i j,ii -.h I Inn. emu-i, i. , -1 1 't ’ ’ 1
-Trianxf&i.ations tdl'hecotrte •powerful. •th.e 'tehfe^ma-r fplli
Jh
seaBfiysi
on
ta'tef
dflwit
hd
iron
th
ousana.
, 'stiihit. * /]\r,v ■
[F^ih. ijJh /y- m»tkv
.. 'Warr^A 4 fifas^’v^
,-/j.; eslijcaci-s' thcif;:
to iiie
abolished, except.vdien the weather i 1 .m, e, ,. <h
corn) Unfavourable. ■ >'V1 iLL^'r-?^ m/1lr
—:---r T^P'i, | -h ejn million^'
WWW * aa ^ ~
jm...
■iple .Jp 'the t>T%
. 'about ^ghi; -piSlipa^, „
an J^timpte-^^Hrfe3ia^
....-... 0 Cbuneil- of- ilomcn. Catboiio- jCLdipps/^rn'i-;;
^^^^^%s|6'n4blcd/.that■ yeah-.S../i. ■J f : -. ji’;
’i36Spr^)
M vAHE PHJLOSOUiY 0SF- BPATTf
t^LTS ^nd medifimSy clairvoyants an'd/Spers^lWgroe^ ||
very cloself m the dcscnptions thoygne ci the natuialiM
Qpfcniltal'McMrtziMj
•luid’-Rbi os hi
ppl'so ad Cd/_lie ^
/pc .jOb ^iiV- ^csfiT nai e,
e’-'jifeh*. Itdivin' 'Mari'iebiL.'
• d J'-e-" j" <- n \ * lulK 1 1 .In L ' ffw P’VfJ W>h‘'
fenl4i^-o|tS.paifc life ! / liyCc.baih'. not beheld, human;
Imltflhhw not hanceived, the truths that deatn will
s;'J3.^iT,h: i, jyhen thejnflse is fl.uttering, when
-'Wesleys; tiu- tney
ImClfeto satisfy the liige always exhibited- by the world
towards those who are much in advance of, the tempb-
rary and arbitrary standards set up by society. The
modern manifestations first broke out at; Hydesville,
U.B., and the hox family, though-frightened at. first,:
isoqn grew accustomed to the noises. When the mis¬
chief-loving little Kate Fox said, “ Kow then, old
^Splitfobtl'KapThree times !” three knocks-were given;'
after which a further step than thought of by the
Wesleys was fried, and communication established by
.jmeans of the alphabet. The present age of science andr
freedom of . thought then protected the investigators
^who first examined the phenomena in search of truth.
There is evidence that the spirit in the house of the
Wesley’s was on the whole a well-meaning, good-
natured kind of ghost. Mr. S. Wesley was not always
civil to him., for one night he called him “a'deaf and
'dumb devil,” and told him to leave off frightening the
children by making a noise in their.ropm. ! The spirit
then in a temper gave one crashing "knock, but kept
quiet for the rest of the night, as so rudely requested.
Mrs. Wesley'asked the spirit not to disturb her sleep
early in the morning, and not to interrupt her at
prayers | both requests were faithfully attended to, and
she was never again disturbed at the stated hours.
Emilia Wesley; afterwards Mrs. Harper, was a physical
.medium, and this same spirit afterwards occasionally
made manifestations in her presence for no less than
thirty-four years. During the two months the spirit
was at Epworth the fears of the family respecting the
disturbance soon -died away, and Mrs. Harper, who
had longer experience of him than any of the others, at
last expressed a doubt as to his being an evil spirit, for
tha t'these'lessonsfbayeioade so profound'SnTraf
They prepare.ydur spirits to elicit from’each mahifesta-
tion the real. object of-, its 'teachings, and.-, has ten the
time when.you can behold, eye to eye, and face to face,
the lo’ved ones who have gone oh a little while before
you.” .
There is no Death.
Monday^ th e//hi
Dark, will probably
. rehdersJ’^flliv'
sfpf8i
r. v;-
li Mr. Jofe
invited l$P
Np”PP
•' '"I
IS^e^-.Di^bfeiiswbll,- Mj'. y-
-jfeu.fji''lJrt«3$|yj£/ f r-opi'T
the"
and th
xja,.the
THE KIJMBEE OF SP.TE1TE ALISTS IH A.MERICA.
Thebe are no accurate statistics of the number of
spiritualists in the United States, and it is to be hoped
That at the approaching, census the American Govern¬
ment will take steps to collect the much desired evi¬
dence, What is required to be known is, “1. The
number of Spiritualists not belonging to any other
religious denomination. 2. The number of Spiritualists
belonging also to other religious denominations.” In
the absence of such statistics, the following paragraph
from the Spiritual Magazine contains the best informa¬
tion which can he given on the point; “About eight
years ago, Mr, A. H. Kewton, of Boston, in an admir¬
able article which.we hope to republish, estimated the
number of Spiritualists in the United States as between
two and three millions. Uriah Clark, in his Plain
Guide to Spiritualism,. published in 1863,'tells us | The
decisive believers number about two millions, while the
nominal are nearly five millions.’ Mr. Andrew Leigh¬
ton who visited America in 1865, in his I Notes oh
Spiritualisyn and Spiritualists in the United States,’
published in this Magazine, estimated the number of
Spiritualists there as about three millions. Mr. Hep-
worth Dixon, in his New America, (published about two
years ago), considered three millions to be rather an
'i?iend of-Mv, ,'.;ne3!s>.-^u.;
Homt- ul'Mi ^'ucsjAtie il/r^V^ent. Tue rocmj_n^
wfai^ the ;mi^assdim^^/^a|iAnd well lighted^
the'light' being s'nfiicidht' tb"f;se' {he maker 's name upon
a watch in very small1 characters.' ‘ Uavip.g been- f;hp.\yn.
some spirit-drawings arid'portrait’s, we wereunvitechtd
inspect the table ^which was .to he operated u pod—If-wap
la somewhat heavy mahogany dinirig;.table,' on forir legs*'
and with brass castors. We were' allowed to move it
about, and there ■ certainly . appeated To be /no -secret
mechanism in the table itself, or»an, any way pdnneoted
with it.. . The cloth having been removed. from the;
table, we all sat round it, our hands resting on it,<?and '
entered into conversation’upon various subjects. Mr.
Home sat in an easy unconstrained manner,, joining in
the conversation, at times moving his hands frOm-the
table, and generally apparently tmedneerhed. >
“After sitting for some ten or fifteen minutes, a
slight vibratioff of the table was felt, and. then - raps
were heard, apparently on various parts; of thectable.
These raps wered hpard for some time, sometimes more
and som.etimep.legs*'distinct; they were heard also %hen.
Mr.-^Home’s temds were off the table. The t sceptics
(Dr. Cresswellj Mr. Bremner, Mr. Ward, and ourselves,
looked in turn under the table at Mr. Home’s legs arid
feet during the continuance.'of the sitting, and they
were quite motionless. The table then rose slightly off
the ground and moved up to the persons sitting at one
end and the other, and the raps becoming more distinct
Mr. Home stated that a message was about to be given.
One of the party repeated the alphabet, and , as the
letter required to be used was nairied, raps were heard.
The following words were thus formed:—* We no all
THAT WE CAN TO CONVINCE YOB THAT WE LIVE AND THAT
2
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 19, 1869.
God is dote.’ At each, letter of the name of God a
tremulous motion of the table was perceptible.
“ At Mr. Home’s suggestion one of the sceptics asked
that the table should be made light, and to his surprise,
when he placed his hand under the edge of the table it
moved up as lightly as a sheet of paper. He then said,
‘ Please let it be heavy,’ and it required considerable
exertion to move it off the ground. Each of the sceptics
tried this experiment in turn, and with the same result.
Two of them then went with Mr. Home into another
room where there was a heavy mahogany loo table on
a pillar and claw, and immediately they placed their
hands on it, it tilted from one side to the other; and
when Mr. Home was sitting some three feet away from
it, it moved about two feet in the opposite direction to
that in which Mr. Home was sitting. The table be¬
came very light and very heavy by turns, and oscillated
violently without shaking off a small statuette standing
under a glass shade in the centre of it. The chairs
also moved, and the room appeared to shake, whilst
raps were heard on the walls, the windows, and on the
table itself, lieturning to the other room, the whole
party sat again round the table, and an accordion of
Mr. Jones’s, which had been previously inspected by
the sceptics, was observed to rock upon the table; and
Mr. Home, having asked whether the spirits wished to
play upon it, and being answered in the affirmative, he
held the accordion at arm’s length by the lower end of
it (that is, not the key end) under the table, one of the
sceptics moving his seat so that he could observe the
movements of the accordion. The accordion then com¬
menced playing, and the ‘ Blue Bells of Scotland ’ being
mentioned by Mr. Bremner, a bar or two of that air
was played; then Mr. Jones asked for some echoes, and
a series of echoes proceeded from the accordion with
remarkable precision and a very beautiful effect. Some
louder strains then proceeded from the accordion, and
Mr. Home held the accordion close to the feet of the
writer hereof, so that he could feel the keys moving up
and down against his feet. Mr. Ward was asked to
look under the table; he did so, and saw the accordion
playing—MK Home only holding it by the reverse end,
and with one hand, his other hand being upon the
table. The accordion then ceased playing, and repeated
raps being heard, the alphabet was called over, and the
following words spelt out: c We regret that we can do
no more.’
“We do not intend to enter upon any speculations
as to the cause of the manifestations we have related.
We are not believers in Spiritualism, although we
confess ourselves totally unable to discover the cause,
or the motive power of what we here relate. Mr. Home
was at times sitting away from the table when raps
were heard and movements felt. The accordion he
certainly only held by one hand. We were allowed
to watch him as closely as we pleased. He did not
fix his attention upon any of us, or we might have
imagined ourselves under mesmeric influence. We
were permitted to examine the furniture, to move it
about, to make any remarks, and to ask any questions
we pleased. We were perfectly sober. Some tea and
coffee had been served out—the writer partook of none;
and we are as we have said, utterly unable to say from
what cause or by what power the various incidents
occurred. We can only say that they certainly hap¬
pened very nearly as we have recorded them, and we
have to thank Mr. Jones and Mr. Home for their
courtesy towards us. We went to Mr .Jones’s house disbe¬
lieving his statements of fact: we saw phenomena which
were sufficient to show us that all he has related pould
occur by the same power, whatever that power may be.”
WHY GALILEO WAS PERSECUTED.
In the days of old, men who taught unpopular
scientific truths received proper attention at the hands
of the Holy Inquisition. In these days things are not
so bad. Because of the backward state of education in
England, the public and the newspapers begin by ridi¬
culing and abusing unpopular facts, but when they find
the facts too strong for them, it is possible to raise the
cry of—“ Investigate ! investigate !”—which cry ought
to be raised at the outset. The reason why Galileo
was imprisoned, and threatened with (if he did not
actually receive) the torture, is shown in the official
condemnation giving the following dogmatical declara¬
tion of the Cardinals :—“ That the sun is the centre of
the world, and immoevable in respect of local motion, is
an absurd proposition, false in philosophy, and formally
heretical; seeing it is expressly contrary to Holy Scrip¬
ture. That the earth is not the centre of the world,
nor immoveable, but moves even with a diurnal motion,
is also an absurd proposition, false in philosophy, and,
considered theologically, is at least an error in faith.”
For these heretical, absurd propositions, Galileo was
condemned to the prison of the Holy Inquisition, and
enjoined, under the title of salutary penitence, that
during three years he was to recite once a week the
seven penitential psalms. At seventy years of age he
was compelled on his knees to abjure and recant the
false dogma, that the sun is the centre of the motion of
the world, and immoveable, and that the earth is not the
centre, and moves.
of iUtetmgs.
ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
On Thursday, November 4th, a lecture on Spiritualism was
delivered in connection with the St. John’s Association of
Spiritualists, at the St. John’s Temperance Hall, 7, Corpora¬
tion-row, Clerkenwell, by Mr. John Jones, of Enmore-park,
South Norwood. Mr. Jones is a retired City merchant, and a
well-known friend of Spiritualism. The admission was free,
and the room was completely filled with an audience who
listened to the lecturer with respectful attention through¬
out. The lecture was illustrated by a series of dissolving
views, painted and thrown on the screen by Mr. Henry Biel-
field.
Mr. Jones said that his lecture was probably but the first
of a series of the same description, which it is intended to
deliver in all parts of London during the coming winter. At
one time the public when speaking of a Spiritualist would
tap their foreheads with the finger, and say, “ Ah ! poor
fellow 1 There’s something wrong here ! ” Now, all that
feeling is dying out, and one of deep and absorbing interest
in Spiritualism is taking its place. Many now wish to under¬
stand it, which it is not so easy to do ; the supernatural can¬
not be understood because it is so high above our own powers
of mind and body. On the preceding evening he had been
present at a meeting of the Dialectical Society—a body of
materialists, who look upon themselves as something like
grasshoppers, having a brief existence here, and then going
off somewhere, they are not sure where, but they believe
neither in devils nor in angels. In a reply which he (Mr.
Jones) read on the preceding evening at the Dialectical
Society, in answer to some attacks on Spiritualism, he ven¬
tured to give definitions of his opinion of the natural
and supernatural. In one sense there is nothing super¬
natural, for all universal nature seen or unseen is natural,
whether organic or inorganic. He stated that there were
two classes of intelligent beings in nature, some of them
in a body of flesh, and the others outside of it. All
movements which man can make, whether physical or chemi¬
cal, he defined to be natural. All movements which spirits
can make by means of the visible or invisible forces of
nature which man cannot make, he defined as supematuraL
Spiritual ideas are difficult of acceptance to thorough ma¬
terialists. If one fish told another that there were strange
beings in another atmosphere, who did not use fins for loco¬
motion, but who walked on two legs, other fishes, materialists,
would laugh at the statement. In like manner spirits are in a
different state to man, and they think and act differently
from us. People often say in a conceited way, “ Well, if there
are spirits in our midst, why don’t they do so and so ?”—ex¬
pecting beings in a higher state of existence to be at the
beck and call of anybody who makes idle suggestions. Even
though spirits be but human beings out of the flesh, they
stand upon a higher plane of existence. To go into some of
the details of the subject, he would state that there are
essences or forces emanating from all substances, which pro¬
duce effects on matter visible to the eye. He might, for
illustration, quote the fact that if a plate of bright easily
oxidisable metal was suspended for a moderate length
of time over a manure heap, its surface would become tar¬
nished by the simple chemical- action of the gases emanat¬
ing below, but there are also emanations of a more subtle
nature from all substances. God had given him (Mr. Jones)
thirteen children, five of whom are now alive, and as he was
a man who never sought publicity or public honours of any
description, his delight had always been to spend his evenings
with his children at home trying experiments of a somewhat
strange nature. He had thus found out many curious facts as
to the action of the emanations from shells and minerals upon
clairvoyant sensitives, and when he first heard of Spiritualism
he came to’'the conclusion that it was all caused by the action
upon clairvoyants of the forces emanating from surrounding
material objects, but the sight of a few of the simplest of the
phenomena of Spiritualism soon convinced him of his error.
His experiments with shells and minerals were conducted in
a room absolutely and perfectly dark. One of his best clair¬
voyant patients was a lady, and in her presence he one by
one took some English and foreign shells out of the paper in
which they were wrapped, and placed them on the top of the
piano. The sensitive, who saw luminous emanations from the
shells, would say of one shell, “ That’s blue,” and of another,
“ That’s pink.” From some she saw long lambent flames and
smoke arising, which sometimes reached as high as the ceil¬
ing ; some shells looked dark like pewter, and had a painful
influence upon the clairvoyant. After being in the dark room
some time she said she could see him and everything in it
quite distinctly. His hearers might say, “ How did he know
that he was not duped by the girl ?” Well, he tested that by
means of a fresh lot of perhaps two dozen shells, bringing
each of them for a short time within range of her eyes in the
dark room, and then taking it into the light, and writing
down what she said about each shell. The clairvoyant never
saw them in the light at all. He then placed them on the
top of the piano, and told the clairvoyant to write out in the
pitch dark room a description of the emanations from each
shell, and place the description on the shell itself. This was
done, and when lights were admitted he found that the two
descriptions of each shell agreed exactly, in every case but
one. Lately he had been regretting that he did not think at
the time to break up that one shell, and give her the pieces to
examine separately, to see whether there was much difference
in the emanations from the different parts. The aura from
the shells is disturbed by the motion of the air, and sensitives
are sometimes made very ill by shells containing traces of
putrefying matter. The lecturer then spoke of the aura from
magnets, as seen in the experiments of Reichenbach and
others, and pointed out how iron filings or Taranaki iron sand
may be sifted over a table, and the particles made to arrange
themselves in the lines of magnetic force, when a magnet is
placed at some little distance beneath. Here, then, is an
invisible force proceeding right through a wooden table, and
moving solid matter on the other side. . Give a spirit the
necessary conditions, and it can also throw invisible power to
make solid objects move. A mesmeric aura, seen by sensi¬
tives, proceeds from every human being, and influences the
actions of people more than most of them are aware. As
combustion of the elements of food goes on in the body, this
aura is thrown out, and by the exercise of the will-power it
can be sent in any desired direction. This aura often has
health-giving properties, so that certain individuals have the
power to a large extent of curing the sick by mesmeric influ¬
ence. Many may doubt the reality of these emanations
because they themselves cannot see them, still that is no
proof that they do not exist. Sunlight is built up of many
colours, which nobody can see in the light itself, but the
philospher takes his prism, disentangles the mixed rays in
white light, and spreads them out in all the beautiful colours
of the rainbow. By invisible forces then, the spirits, when
the necessary conditions are supplied them, can act upon solid
matter. He had seen an accordion belonging to himself, with
no hidden machinery inside, which, when held in only one of
the hands of Mr. Home, the medium, produced the most ex¬
quisite music. The accordion is so much used by spirits,
because no tricks of man can possibly get music out of it
under these conditions. The spirits give different tunes,
grave or gay, according to the humour of the circle at the
time, and when in a serious mood they will sometimes give
music of the most exquisite and ethereal beauty, now swelling
out with a grand roll as if from a great organ, and gradually
dying away. Such music no man could bring out of the same
instrument.
A Voice—Did the accordion move, sir ?
Mr. Jones—Yes; it expanded and contracted. He con¬
tinued by saying that he had seen it sometimes travel round
the room playing in the air, touched by no visible person, and
this too in the presence of from eight to twelve witnesses.
He had seen a table go up to the ceiling in the presence of
seven individuals, holding distinguished positions in life, and
one of them wrote about it in The Cornhill Magazine, in an
article headed “ Stranger than Fiction.” Friends of his,
whose statements he could perfectly trust, had seen three
tables floating round the room at the same time, but he had
not seen this himself. Sometimes the spirits controlled the
hand of a person—of a writing medium—and while he was
talking with those around him, would make him write out
intelligent messages, sometimes with as much velocity as if
his arm were driven by a steam engine.
A Voice—I suppose you want us to believe all this 1
Mr. Jones calling attention to a very pretty picture of a
chrysalis, caterpillar, and butterfly, upon the screen, said that
it was a picture of a natural resurrection, and asked if they
had never seen the insect except in this condition (the cater¬
pillar), would they ever believe it would come to that (point¬
ing to the butterfly). Very beautiful invisible phenomena
are diffused everywhere in nature. The rose and the flowers
of the garden throw off their invisible fragrance, and where
there is fragrance there must be substance. To spirits, who
see the aura thrown off by flowers, a garden glows with all
the varied hues of the rainbow. [At this point another pic¬
ture was thrown upon the screen, representing the spirit leav¬
ing the head of a dying woman, and angels receiving the
newly-born spirit]. Here, said Mr. Jones, is the spiritual
resurrection. Here is the thing called death. I know some¬
thing of death, for I have lost eight children, and have also
sat by the dying bed of brothers and sisters. Once I sat at
such scenes weeping and wailing, but now I no longer grieve
so deeply, and sorrow only because they are leaving me alone
in my old age, though going from me to a land of beauty,
light, and love. Mr. Jones continued that the next picture
represented an angel pointing out to St. John the beauties
the New Jerusalem, and he had had the picture introduced
because he was one of those who believed in the Old and
New Testaments. They would remember that when the
angel gave St. John the Revelation, the latter fell down on his
knees to worship, but the angel said to him, “ I am of thy
fellow-servants and thy brethren the prophets.” An angel,
then, is only a spiritualised prophet. The very best text-book
of Spiritualism is the Bible. (Applause). Nearly all the
phenomena seen at the present day in spiritual circles, are
clearly described in the Bible, though in those days there
may have been greater power at work. Still Spiritualism is
spreading in England far and wide. The literature of Eng¬
land is saturated with Spiritualism, for very many of the
writers are well up in the subject, though most of them do
not wish it to be known; it has even forced its way among
the scientific journals, and the literature of England works
its way all over the world.*
The lecturer then sat down amid loud applause, and the
meeting closed with the usual votes of thanks.
SUMMARY OF THE EVIDENCE GIVEN BEFORE
THE DIALECTICAL SOCIETY.
Of all the subjects that ever engaged the attention of a
learned society, Spiritualism has proved to be the strangest,
as shown by the evidence given before the Dialectical Society,
and reported in a fragmentary way by most of the daily
papers during the present year. Portions of the evidence
of those witnesses who would allow their statements to be
made public were regularly reported in a good east-London
paper, called The Eastern Post. Some of the witnesses, in
consequence of fear of adverse public opinion, or of injury to
business reputation, would not let their evidence be reported
at all in the public papers; others requested the suppression of
their names, but most of them took no shelter of this kind.
The following information is abstracted by us for the most
part from long reports in The Eastern Post, extending over the
issues of some months.
The London Dialectical Society was established three years
ago; to consider “ all subjects with a view to the elucidation of
truth,” taking up questions not ordinarily investigated by
other scientific societies. Sir John Lubbock, Bart., F.R.S., is
the president of the Society, and among the vice-presidents
are Professor Huxley, F.R.S., Lord Amberley, Mr. G. H.
Lewes, and Miss Frances Power Cobbe. At one of the meet¬
ings a physician read a paper on some very extraordinary
phenomena which he had witnessed himself, and it was stated
that the physical and other facts of Spiritualism were believed
to be real by Professor De Morgan (President of the Mathe¬
matical Society of London), Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.G.S.,
Mr. Robert Chambers, Mr. and Mrs. S. C. Hall, Mr. William
Howitt, and others of like eminence. A somewhat acrimonious
debate followed, in which the Spiritualists were in a great
minority, and a committee of thirty persons was appointed to
investigate the phenomena aUeged to be spiritual manifesta¬
tions, and to report thereon.” This committee, under the
chairmanship of Dr. Edmunds, comprises members of the
legal, medical, and clerical professions, as well as a few engi¬
neers and architects, and some gentlemen of general scientific
and literary attainments. Mr. Serjeant Cox has all along
taken a very prominent part in questioning the witnesses.
The plan of proceedings is to take the evidence of witnesses
(which will be published hereafter in a book), and to witness
all the phenomena which can be brought under the notice of
the investigators. Of the great quantity of testimony already
given, the following are a few of the most striking items :—
* Practical information about sensitives, who are very numerous in
society, and how to perform many of the curious experiments mentioned
by Mr, Jones, will be found in Baron Yon Beichenbach’s book on Mag-,
netism. There is a work on the action of sheila and minerals upon sensitives
entitled The Soul of Things, by Denton.—Ed.
Nov. 19, 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
B
Mr. H. D. Jencken, F.R.G.S., Barrister-at-Law,* of
Kilmorey House, Penge, deposed that he had often seen the
levitations of Mr. Home’s body. He had seen Mr. Home’s
body rise in the air, and pass out of one open window and into
another at Ashley House, near the Victoria Railway Station,
and he had seen him gliding in the air, several feet above the
ground, at Adare Manor. He had often heard the raps, and
seen tables suspended in the air without visible means of sup¬
port, and once, at the house of Dr. Gully, at Great Malvern,
he had seen an accordion suspended in space, and played by
invisible agencies, the music being accompanied by three
spirit voices chanting a hymn. He also deposed that he had
seen Lord Adare hold in his bare hand, without pain, a burn¬
ing live coal which Mr. Home had placed there, and which
burnt the hands of other persons who only touched it momen¬
tarily. He had likewise seen a burning coal similarly placed
on the top of the head of Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A., Barrister-
at-Law, without any injury resulting. He had seen Mr. Home
place his head in the flames of the grate, and seen the flames
playing between the locks of Mr. Home’s hair, but no injury
or pain resulted. He had seen the elongation and the con¬
traction both of the body of Mr. Home and Miss Bertolacci;
he had also often seen spirit hands and forms at circles.
Many witnesses besides himself had seen these things at the
same time.
The Rev. J. Mttkray Spear, of 14, Ampthill-square, Hamp-
stead-road, IST.W., deposed that he was an American, and had
no belief in Spiritualism, till one day he found his hand moved
as a writing medium. The first message was—“ We wish you
to go to Abingdon to see David Binning.” He knew no such
person, but made inquiries for David Binning at Abingdon,
U.S., and found him very ill with neuralgia. Instantly some¬
thing passed from his (Mr. Spear’s) hand to Mr. Binning, the
latter felt a shock or two, then all pain ceased, and he was
cured. These facts he considered proved intelligence and
benevolence on the part of the unseen power. Mr. Spear nar¬
rated also other incidents*
Mr. E. L. Blanchard, the well-known author, deposed
that he went to Marshalls’, the paid mediums, for the express
purpose of showing them up in the newspapers. The mani¬
festations he saw there compelled him to know that they came
from spirits. He had seen a small spark appear on the floor,
and gradually grow into a hand, which had power to lift up a
handkerchief when thrown upon it. He had been uplifted by
the spirits himself, and kept for some time in the air, but for
some years past he had refused to let them use him as a
medium, as it was inconvenient to be interfered with by them
when printers were waiting for " copy.”
Mr. J. Jones, of Enmore-park, South Norwood, deposed,
that when in Mr. Home’s presence he had seen a chair floating
through the air, and had seen his own mother, an aged lady,
raised off the ground, chair and all, by invisible agencies.
These things all occurred in the presence of many witnesses.
Apart from the physical manifestations, the communications
made by the spirits were of a high order of intelligence and
benevolence, and had done much good in his family.
Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.G.S., the electrician, deposed
that the first spiritual message he ever received told him that
on a certain day, hour, and minute, an ulcer would break in
the throat of a lady relative, and that if he made certain pre¬
parations there was a chance that she would survive the trial.
Everything took place as predicted. As he did not know
beforehand that the ulcer would break then, and as the lady
did not know it, and was not told of the message till the
danger was over, he believed that his communicants told the
truth when they said they were spirits. He also narrated how
a spirit gave the same message to himself at Beckenham, and
to a gentleman at Birmingham on the same night, neither of
them expecting any such message, or anticipating the con¬
tents. The forces called electricity and magnetism by Spiri¬
tualists are not electricity, and are not magnetism. He said
that all who give evidence on Spiritualism should always
doubt the accuracy of the observing instrument, namely,
“themselves,” and chiefly select cases in which their testi¬
mony can be amply supported by other witnesses of the same
facts.f
' Mrs. Honeywood said that at one of her sittings, at which
Mr. Home was the medium, the table rose, and the room
vibrated so violently that an engineer present said that
nothing but the strongest machinery would cause such oscilla¬
tion. An accordion was played in the air, Mr. Home holding
one strap. Three or four persons mentally wished for par¬
ticular tunes, unknown to Mr. Home, and they were played.
The Hon. Mrs. EgehTON deposed—The most remarkable
manifestations I have seen were those of last Sunday evening
at my house. We were seated in a room which would have
been dark but for the light outside. We first heard raps, and
then we saw a figure at the window. It entered, and then
figures came trooping in by dozens. One waved its hand and
passed through us—the atmosphere became fearfully cold. A
figure—that of a relative—passed behind my chair, leaned
over, and brushed my hair lightly with its hand. It was eight
feet high, and approaching the person of Lindsay, passed
through him. He sobbed hysterically from the intense cold.
But the most extraordinary thing of all was, the laughter.
One of us said something, and all the spirits laughed with
joy. The sound was indescribably strange, and it appeared to
us as if it came from the ground. We were seven in number.
Five of the seven saw just what I have described, and the
others saw something, but not so distinctly. Mr. Home said
there were nineteen spirits in the room at one time, and I
could see their eyes—^peculiarly brilliant eyes—looking at us.
Mr. Home said to me, “ Don’t be frightened, there is a spirit
coming to you 1 ” and in a few moments I saw the bright eyes
of the spirit looking at me. The figure was defined. There
were no clothes, but there was a peculiar rustle like that of
silk. The faces were not defined to my view, but Mr. Home
said he could see them; they had bare faces. Mr. Home was
in the trance state, walking about the room. I did not sleep
much that night, for the spirits followed me to my room.
Mr. Home had no previous access to the room where the
stance took place beyond having dined there.
Mr. Daniel D. Home, in the course of his deposition, said
that once his body was elongated about eight inches, when
Lord Adare had hold of his head, and the Master of Lindsay
had hold of his feet. He had seen a pencil lifted by a spirit
hand write on paper in the presence of the Emperor Napoleon.
This took place in a large room, the Salon Louis Quinze. The
Empress was also present. The hand, after writing, went to
the Emperor, who kissed it; it then went to the Empress; she
withdrew from the touch, and the hand followed her. The
* The English gentleman who was recently nearly murdered by a mob In
Spain, as reported in The Times.
t A burlesque of the weakest part of Mr. Yarley’s evidence was published
in The Echo newspaper. In the report he was made to speak in the first
person words which he never uttered, and the few paragraphs forming the
burlesque were printed as if they constituted the whole of his evidence
before the Dialectical Society, which occupied more than an hour in delivery.
Emperor said, “Do not be frightened, kiss it!” She then
kissed it, and it shortly afterwards disappeared. The writing
was an autograph of the Emperor Napoleon I. The Emperor
of Russia has also seen and handled spirit hands, which after¬
wards seemed to melt away into thin air.
Mrs. Cox, of Cox’s Hotel, Jermyn-street, said that she had
seen Mr. Home, as well as furniture, floating in the air, and
that the spirits had cured her of an ailment (something the
matter with her side) of many years’ standing.
The Countess de Pomar said that she had witnessed the
handling of red hot coals with bare fingers without pain
resulting.
Signor Damiani, a Sicilian gentleman, residing at Clifton,
Bristol, said that at Mrs. Mary Marshall’s, who did not know
him, a spirit had communicated with him, professing to be his
sister. He replied that he had never had a sister of that name.
The spirit answered that he was mistaken. Accordingly, he
wrote to his mother, then in Sicily, and learnt that a sister of
that name had died in infancy. The spirits, he said, are good,
bad, and indifferent, as upon earth, and some of them are
ragamuffins.
The Master of Lindsay, Grosvenor-square, deposed that
he had seen Mr. Home elongated, that he had seen him float¬
ing through the air, and that he had seen him float out of the
window at Ashley House, as narrated by Mr. Jencken. He
had also, while in bed in the same room with Mr. Home, seen
the spirit of Mr. Home’s wife in a long, flowing gown, which
hung without belt from the shoulders. The figure appeared
quite solid, and not at all transparent.
Mr. B. Coleman, Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood, said that
some years ago, soon after he had arrived in New York, he
called upon Miss Kate Fox, the celebrated American medium,
and expressed his curiosity to learn something of this latest
and most remarkable phase of Spiritualism. While seated by
her side on the sofa three loud raps were heard on the table
(which was in the centre of the room), apparently in answer
to some jocular remark he had made. “It seems we have
listeners here,” he said. The three raps were repeated. It
may be remarked, for the sake of the uninitiated, that in the
spiritualistic system of telegraphy three raps are generally
understood to imply an affirmative. “ Shall we come to the
table 1 ” Three raps. “ Is there any spirit here waiting to
communicate with me?” Three raps again. “Will you tell
me your name?” he asked. The answer was spelt out by
means of an alphabet, “ Your stepson Harry.” (The medium
could scarcely have known the fact of his having a stepson of
that name, for he was an entire stranger in the city.) “ How
happy I am to be able once more to converse with you.” Here
there appeared to be a break in the sentence, for the table
proceeded to rap out the words, “Let me speak;” and Miss
Fox suggested that it was perhaps another spirit who desired
to speak to him. The table rapped assent. “ Is there another
spirit present, then, who wishes to communicate with me? ” I
then asked. “Yes.” “Are you a friend of mine?” “Yes.”
“ A relative ? ” “ Yes.” “ Your name ? ” “ Annie.” Mr.
Coleman assured the committee that he had been unable at
the moment to recollect any one in his family of that name,
and that he had accordingly denied stoutly that he had any
such relative. The words were then spelt out—“ 0 how your
voice recaUs the memory of the past. How rejoiced I am to
be able to thank you for your kindness to my daughter Eliza.”
It was his wife’s mother who had “ passed away ” twenty-five
years ago. He also mentioned a rather remarkable fact that
had occurred while he was staying at Malvern. He had been
conversing on Spiritualism with the family at whose house he
was lodging, and had afterwards gone out to see a friend in
the neighbourhood. On his return he was proceeding straight¬
way to bed, when the master of the house came rushing into
his room, and asked him, for Heaven’s sake, to come down
stairs immediately. He accordingly went, and upon entering
the drawing-room a strange sight met his gaze. Miss , a
young lady who was staying in the house, was lying on the
sofa in violent hysterics. Mrs.  appeared overwhelmed
with terror, and a small tripod table was dancing frantically
up and down the room, as if delighted beyond measure at the
consternation it had created. On Mr. Coleman’s entrance the
table ambled towards the door, made a low bow to him, and
then proceeded to execute a series of Terpsichorean extrava¬
gances of a most curious and remarkable description. He then
strove to calm the young lady; she was just beginning to re¬
cover when the table came bobbing towards her in a most
extraordinary manner, and sent her off again. Mr. Coleman
then went to the table, and placing his hand upon it, said,
“ We, have had enough of this nonsense. In God’s name, go;.”
when the movements instantly ceased. Upon explanation, it
appeared that during hisabsence -tRey thought they would try
for themselves whether there was any truth in Spiritualism or
not. A circle was formed, consisting of the father, mother,
and daughter, her friend Miss , and a bluff, incredulous
Yorkshireman. The most surprising results were obtained.
“ It was the most extraordinary thing I ever saw,” said the
Yorkshireman afterwards to me, “that table talked to me,
and told me of my father and mother for all the world like a
human ” [sic]. At another sea/nee at which Mr. Coleman had
been present with Mr. D. D. Home, the table rose right up to
the ceiling, he all the time holding Mr. Home’s hands firmly
in his own. This, too, was in a private house, where all the
persons in the circle were friends of his own, and incapable of
trickery or imposture. He had also seen, while sitting with
the same circle, a beautiful hand and arm, which he was cer¬
tain could not have belonged to any one present, appear above
the table and ring a bell. The same hand was afterwards
placed in his hand.
Mr. Serjeant Cox remarked that he had heard of women
who could make people believe they were tormented by a
wasp; that they could smell flowers, and so on, by the mere
exercise of their will. He desired to ask Mr. Coleman how he
could be certain he was not biologised at the time, and merely
imagining these things.
Mr. Coleman said—Biology might explain some of the
phenomena, but there were others that it could not possibly
account for—such, for instance, as spirit drawings. He had
been present at the production of several elaborate crayon
drawings in spaces of time varying from seven to ten seconds.
He had himself previously marked the paper so as to enable
him with certainty to identify it. These drawings were still
in his possession, and he would be glad to exhibit them to the
committee. The modus operandi for the production of these
spirit drawings was very remarkable. Clean pieces of paper,
with crayons, were placed in a covered box; a rapid
scratching of the paper was then heard, and in a few seconds
the Crayons were heard to fall, and the drawing was ready for
inspection. He would like to know how biology could account
for this.
Mr. Borthwick said that without desiring to propound any
theory with regard to the phenomena, he could certainly
substantiate the statement of Mr. Coleman with regard to
spirit drawings. The blank paper was marked by thosev
present and placed under a shawl which had been tied round
the table; a scratching noise was then heard, and in from
seven to nine seconds the drawing was completed.
M. Chevalier expressed his belief that the manifestations
were diabolical, and said that one spirit had candidly acknow¬
ledged to him that he was the Devil. The manifestations at
his house always stopped at the name of the Trinity.
The Countess Adelina de Pomar then made a few re¬
marks to the effect that it was very narrow-minded and wrong
to drive away as diabolical those poor spirits who chanced
not to believe in the Trinity.
Miss Houghton, of 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-
square, W., deposed that for years she had refused to com¬
municate with any spirits but those who confessed their belief
in the Trinity, and joined with the members of the circle in
prayer. The manifestations did not stop at the name of the
Trinity, and her spirit friends were good ones.
Miss Anna Blackwell,of the Avenue d’Eylau, Paris,deposed
that at her seances they always began with prayer. Once at
Mr. S. C. Hall’s the spirits said, “ Now, pay attention, and we
will show yon how we form things out of the air!” They
watched, and presently they saw the air become thick, fog¬
like, in one spot, and then it became solidified into cloth.
That cloth was passed around, examined, pulled, and was
seen to be such a piece of doth as might be sewn on a
trowsers. It was then put down, .and gradually melted away
into the air.
Mr. Percival, an officer in the Guards, narrated several
instances in which, after prayer, he had seen some of the
future events of his life pass before his eyes, and that these
visions, together with the persons represented in them, were
afterwards met with in reality.
Mr. Hain Friswell, author, deposed that he had seen the
manifestations in Mrs. Marshall’s presence in his own house.
He knew they were real, and the ladies of his family had
even searched Mrs. Marshall, clothes and all, thoroughly.
Raps and table movings had also been obtained by the mem¬
bers of his own family without the presence of a professional
medium. He regarded it all as the work of the Devil.
A great many other persons, also deposed that they had seen
certain remarkable manifestations. At one of the meetings
of the society, when fifty or sixty ladies and gentlemen were
present, including the reporters of several London news¬
papers, Mrs. Mary Marshall, the medium, of 2, Bennett-street,
St. James’s, W., attended. A public sea/nce was the result.
The mental tests were failures in all cases but one, when a
name asked for and unknown to the medium was signalled
out. The physical manifestations were successful, as the
table bounced about the room, and got up on a sofa, without
anybody being able to detect trickery. Baps also came upon
one of the folding doors, at a distance from the medium, in a
good light, with plenty of witnesses looking on. The pro¬
ceedings were fully reported in the Badly Telegraph next
morning. The other practical investigations made by the
Dialetical Society have been conducted in private, and have
not yet been published. The inquiry into this subject will be
continued during the winter months.
THE ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
On the evening of Tuesday, November 2nd, the first meeting
of the present session of the Anthropological Society was held
at 4, St. iMartin’s-place, Trafalgar-square, Mr. Hermann
Beigel, M.D., H.R.C.P., in the chair.—Mr. L. 0. Pike, M.A.,
read a long paper upon “ Methodical Anthropological Re¬
search,” in the course of which he made a casual remark about
the psychological branch of the subject.—After a few remarks
from Mr. Braybrook and Mr. J. Gould Avery, Mr. John
Jones said that the society ought to give more study to
psychology, and he had often said so to various mem¬
bers of the society, although his suggestion was generally
“ pooh poohed.” Psychology, he said, is to a considerable ex¬
tent an index to race, for local superstitions prevalent in par¬
ticular districts in the United Kingdom can often be traced to
their sources. Slavonic superstitions exist in our midst,
although often no tradition or historical connection can be
traced in the same direction. He should like to have permis¬
sion to bring this subject more prominently before the society
on a future occasion.—Dr. Carter Blake, after a few remarks
on the study of skulls, said that the society was in a state
of the most profound and entire ignorance about the alleged
psychological forces.—Major S. R. J. Owen, F.L.S., said that
the society in its researches might investigate many things,
some of which he was almuat afraid to name—the Davenport
Brothers, for instance’; their manifestations might be all
“ humbug ”—he would not say they were not—still, he thought
the subject a fair one for investigation.,^—Mr. W. Dendy sug¬
gested that as many 0f the members seemed afraid to talk
about spiritual things, of psychology, they should coin some
new word to represent the science of the miu^,—After some
remarks by Mr. Mackenzie and the Rev. Dunbar-Heath,
Mr. T. Bendyshe, M. A., of Cambridge University, calledX
attention to an article in the North British Beview ok
“The Early History of Man,” which he said well de?
served consideration by the members of the society. Eh
also recommended the perusal of a book on “ The Origin
of Religion and its Developments,” by the Rev. Baring
Gould, a minister of the Church of England.—Mr. L. O.
Pike said that the word “psyche” in the original Greek
meant both “ the soul ” and “ the breath,” wherefore it
may be logically used by those who do not wish to be under¬
stood to be speaking of “ the soul,” leaving also no necessity
for the coining of' aj new word, as Mr. Dendy had suggested.
Dr. Beigel, in conclusion, said a few respectful words on
the great loss sustained by the society in the death of its
founder, Dr. James Hunt, and added that he would have
spoken further on the subject were it not that it would be
brought before a future meeting of the society by the presi¬
dent. The proceedings then closed.
A Spirit on “ Ghosts.”—The editor of an old-estab¬
lished scientific periodical recently attended the “ voice ”
circle at the house of the non-professional medium,. Mr. E.
Childs, 21, Offord-street, Caledoniam-road, N. The visitor,
who had previously thoroughly tested the genuine character . f,
of the manifestations, remarked that he should not feel in the
slightest degree nervous if any or all of the spirits there
present made themselves visible to him at any time. A spirit
calling himself “ Alonzo Bates ”, replied—“ What 1 Not if I
suddenly appeared before you in a white sheet on a dark
night?” “No,” said the editor, “but surely you would not
be so foolish as to put on a white sheet ? ” “ Certainly not,’
replied the spirit, “ but you know that such is the orthodox
ghost of the servant girls! ” The pressure on the part of the
public for admission to Mr. Child’s stances is now very great.
4
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov, 19, 1869.
SPIRIT GREETINGS.
Some very interesting spirit - communications from
Swedenborg and Lord Bacon were received in the
course of the years 1853 and 1854, at Judge Edmonds’
circle'in New York. These communications were after¬
wards published in a work on Spiritualism, in two
volumes, by Judge Edmonds, Mr. G-. T. Dexter, M.D.,
and the -Governor of Wisconsin. The messages de¬
scribed much of the life and habits of the spirits in the
condition of life incidental to the two spirits who com¬
municated, and the opening greetings of the spirits
every evening before the real work began were of a
very pleasing nature. On the evening of May 1, 1853,
Swedenborg said:—
“■With feelings of affection and love to you all, and
with my spirit gushing forth with joy for the opportu¬
nities I enjoy in communicating with you, I again most
sincerely greet you in God’s most holy name.”
On April 24, 1853, he said :—
“ In our circle, where 'the spirits of those we love
most do congregate, are gathered together once more,
weekly, this number, and we celebrate what to us is
the Sabbath-day. It is indeed a beautiful thought to
you, dear friends, that we live and act almost as you
do, that we cherish a thousand associations which on
earth were most dear. With all my feelings alive to
the affectionate remembrances of life with my friends,
and eternity with my spirit companions too, I this
night greet you cordially, heartily, and truthfully, in
the name of our heavenly Father.”
On May 8, 1853, he said:—
“ The night is dark and stormy, and the air should
be chill and uncomfortable. You draw near your fire¬
sides and sit conversing with one another, and opening
your hearts to the genial influence of social connections.
With us, we do not feel the effects of storm or cold when
approaching your earth, and our spirits are not clothed
■ with such garments as hide the true purposes of our
hearts. We converse with one another, but our mean¬
ing is perceived without the expression of thought; and
the farther we progress the more is our spirit manifest
through all the developments of its covering. But to¬
night, in spite of rain and chill, I meet warm hearts
and strong desires to excel, and I give you a response
founded on the very basis of our creation—a response of
love and truth, and greet you in the name of God.”
On May 19, 1853, he said:—
“ There are to-night with me many spirits of your
friends, who have met accidentally, but who delegate
me to say that their affection surrounds you, and their
love is a part of your existence, as through it you may
receive many impressions for good, and by it you are
supported to endure many of the troubles and ills of
life. Cordially, heartily, and affectionately they, with
me, greet you to-night.”
On May 22, 1853, he said :—
“ While we are listening to thoughts from the spirit-
land, and wonder at the developments made of what
have been mysteries, have we, when our hearts have
been filled with joy at the description of the beautiful
abodes of the just, and the happiness diffused like air
through all the higher spheres of the spirits’ dwelling-
place, have we ever asked ourselves the question, for
what purpose are these teachings ? Why have spirits
left their homes, their pursuits, their affections, their
upward flight towards the ultimate point of their exist¬
ence ? Why have they come to us, and why have they
taught us the higher truths of spirit-revelation ? Why
have they selected us as the recipients of spirit-bounty ?
“ Is it not that your own natures should be made to
correspond with the pure and holy existences of those
good spirits whose habits, life, and progress we have de¬
scribed ? Is it-not that you should struggle to elevate
n-^wir own internal natures, and divest yourselves of
those characteristics which mark you as still bound in
the fetters of error ?
> “ How hard have you struggled ? How much have
• you succeeded? And how long will it be before.you
shall have cast off all that cloaks your true feelings, and
manifest the true condition and action of your life ?
How long will you battle with causes which you suffer
to influence you, and not purge yourselves of all un¬
righteousness ?
“ These are grave and important inquiries, which
should be put to every heart, and earnestly too, sincerely
too, in the spirit of truth, of love, and of strong desire
to answer truly the responses of our own hearts, before
our friends who know and the God who made us.
“ In a spirit, to-night, of affection that brings you
near my soul, and with a love that brings me to you for
the high object of doing you good, do I greet you in the
name of God.”
On June 16, 1853, Swedenborg said:—
“ My friends, could you but know the great joy there
is among us, could you see the unspeakable happiness
which animates every countenance at the spread of the
glorious truths which are being revealed to man, and
could you know the deep earnest faith we have in those
selected to give to the world the first revelations of the
higher spirits to man, you would then realise the emo¬
tions of spirit in the spheres, the emotion of unmixed love
, . at the dawning of truth. Our blessings with each and all.”
(General
The 'Spibitualist.—The first number of this Journal has
to meet a demand which at the present time is to large extent
unknown, but it is believed that a supply considerably in
excess of the probable sale, has been printed. At the
same time, as new journals of this kind, connected with a
growing movement, often run out of print before the demand
ceases, subscribers who wish to preserve copies for binding,
had either better keep those they receive in the first instance,
or let orders for additional copies reach the publisher by
Wednesday next. Up to that day this number will be still in
type, so that more copies can be printed if they are likely to
be wanted. Stiff covers, with elastic strings at the back, to
hold for reference many copies of The Spiritualist, and
to keep them clean till required for binding, may be obtained
of Mr. H. K. Judd, bookbinder, 15, Little New-street, Earring-
don-street, E.C., at various prices.
The Dialectical Societt.—A summary of the past pro¬
ceedings of the Dialectical Society is printed on another page,
and their future meetings will be regularly reported in this
journal. The evidence already given necessarily relates
mostly to physical manifestations, since these, when proved
to be facts, are beyond the reach of fancy, and cannot be con¬
sidered as obscure psychological phenomena incidental to
human beings in an abnormal state. Still, non-Spiritualists
should understand that physical phenomena at circles are
usually followed, or accompanied, by spirit communications.
After the production in our presence of some of the wonderful
phenomena incidental to Mr. Home’s mediumship, the spirits
once gave an address to the effect that they only gave the
manifestations to demonstrate that a real, practical, and intel¬
ligent power was at work. These high-class spirits disclaimed
the possession of miraculous powers, and said that they were
able to produce the effects simply because they have learnt
more of the laws of Nature than we have. Sometimes they
fail when they attempt to give manifestations.
The Gower-steeet Conference.—In November, 1868,
a Conference of London Spiritualists began to be held weekly
at Lawson’s Rooms, Gower-street, close to the Metropolitan
Railway-station. Non-spiritualists also attended largely ; the
meetings were of an interesting character; so much so that
on nearly every evening many persons could only find stand¬
ing room. These meetings lasted till the summer of 1869,
the addresses of Mrs. Emma Hardinge, the logical inspira¬
tional speaker, being a great attraction. At present it is un¬
decided when the meetings shall begin again, but the Secre¬
tary has enough surplus cash in hand from last season to
clear the expenses incidental to the next five meetings. The
committee of management consists of Mr. Luxmoore (pre¬
sident), Mr. and Mrs. Everitt, Mrs. Hardinge, Mr. T. Shorter,
Mrs. Floyd, Mrs. Wilkinson, and Mr. T. Slater.
Spiritualism in New Zealand.—Mr. W. D. Meers,
medium, in a letter dated Dunedin, New Zealand, Sept. 2,
1869, written to Mr. and Mrs. Everett, of Penton-street, Pen-
tonville, gives some information about Spiritualism in his
neighbourhood. He says that before his arrival there had
been much talk about Spiritualism, and the periodicals on the
subject had been very generally read, but few persons had
tried any practical experiments. His seances contributed to
give fresh impetus to the subject, and the result was that one
of the ministers in Dunedin gave a lecture on Spiritualism,
beginning by saying that it was all animal-magnetism, and
ending by saying that it was all the work of the Devil. He
did not deny the facts, for he admitted he had been to one
siance himself, and had had his test questions about departed
friends correctly answered—a result which he ascribed to
thought-reading. Somehow the devil-theory people are
almost always persons who have been only to three or four
stances, or who have investigated only a week or a month, and
then rushed before the public with their very valuable aiid
deep experience. The result of the lecture was a newspaper
war, and as the editors gave fair-play to both parties, the
Spiritualists, supported by hard well-attested facts, neces¬
sarily came off best. Mr. Meers is a very good seeing medium,
and is able to describe accurately the appearance and dresses
of the spirit-friends of persons present at his circles. He
also sees them at work while they are producing the physical
manifestations which are obvious to the senses of others.
Spiritualism in East London.—An East London Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists was formed a year or two_ago, and
now has a large number of spirit-ciroles at work, easy of
access to those of the publio wLo really desire to investigate.
Particulars about the association will be published in an
early number of this Journal. It is getting difficult to obtain
sittings with some of the highly-developed media whose
seances have been often recorded in the Spiritual periodicals,
most of these being persons who will not take payment, and
who cannot accommodate the large number of people who
want to be present.
Spiritualism in Clerkenwell.—The St. John’s Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists was formed in May last, and at start¬
ing had twenty-seven members, but the number has since
increased to forty. A great many strangers from all parts of
London attend its meetings at intervals. The members sub¬
scribe, when necessary, enough to clear the expenses of the
room, gas, and advertising. Seances are held every Thursday
evening at St. John’s Temperance Hall, 7, Corporation-row,
Clerkenwell, when from forty to sixty persons are usually in
attendance. The mediums are Mr. Davis and Mr. Woolnough,
who obtain trance manifestations, and a few of the physical
description also. Mr. Herne and Mr. Morse are sometimes in
attendance. During the winter it is the intention of the
society to have lectures or social meetings monthly. Strangers
are admitted by tickets, obtainable of Mr. Steele, 36, Great
Sutton-street, Clerkenwell. At one time anybody was ad¬
mitted without a ticket, but the present arrangement became
necessary because sometimes roughs attended for the express
purpose of making a disturbance. The hon. secretary is Mr.
R. Pearce, 34, Halliford-street, Downham-road, N.
Spiritualism in Bloomsbury.—Every Friday evening,
a semi-public seance is held at the Spiritual Library, 15 South¬
ampton-row, High Holborri, W.C. Admission is by introduc¬
tion, which may very easily be obtained by any stranger really
desirous to investigate ; also, a fee of one shilling each person
is charged. The medium is Mr. Morse, who does not obtain
physical manifestations, therefore this circle is not the best
for a notice to attend ; but many of the communications
received through the mediumship of Mr. Morse are of a highly
mental character. The stances begin at eight o’clock, after
which hour the doors are closed against all comers, to prevent
the annoyance of interruptions caused in many circles by the
entrance of those who are not punctual.
There are many Spiritualists, and persons interested in
Spiritualism, living in the neighbourhood of Kingsland and
Dalston. The result is likely to be the early formation of a
local society in that district. Spiritualists are numerous in
the picturesque district surrounding the Crystal Palace.
There are also many at Kingston-upon-Tbames.
Mesmerism and Clairvoyance.—Dr. Sheldon Chadwick
is now giving a course of four lectures on Mesmerism and Clair¬
voyance, at the British Schools, Stoke Newington. Three out
of the four have been delivered, and the last one will be given
next Wednesday evening, at eight o’clock. One of the most
curious of the experiments is one wherein Miss Montague, a
pretty little girl about thirteen years of age, is seated by her¬
self in the middle of a large platform, with her eyes bound
with a handkerchief. The lecturer then wTalks about among
the audience, and the name of anything which those present
choose to take out of their pockets and show the. lecturer is
spoken by the little girl. It is a common conjuring trick to
get in this way the names of ordinary articles of dress and of
figures, by wording the questions according to preconcerted
arrangement, and having a sharp grown-up blindfolded col¬
league on the platform to catch the signals and give the replies.
To Dr. Chadwick, however, nothing came amiss, whether the
articles were purses, babies’ shoes, red tape, lockets, or the
proper names inside the crowns of hats. For instance, on
Wednesday, November 10, a perfect stranger to Dr. Chadwick
wrote two words (chosen as being difficult to guess) on a
piece of paper, and suddenly pushed them into the hands of
the lecturer, by whom the action was totally unexpected.
“ What name is this ?” said the lecturer. §! Carter,” said the
blindfolded little girl. “What is the other name ? ” “Blake,”
was the reply. “ Right,” said the lecturer. The distance
between them was about ten feet, and no other words were
exchanged. About 200 witnesses were present. Dr. Chad¬
wick stated that the result was obtained by his “ willing ”
very strongly that Miss Montague should give certain answers,
and they always came. In fact, it seemed to be a clear case
of trance mediumship, only the patient was influenced by a
spirit in the body, instead of a spirit out of the body. He
then exhibited some of the usual mesmeric experiments, from
fifteen to twenty-two persons being influenced each evening,
and sometimes more than a dozen of them at the same time.
He remarked that too many were influenced, and they had too
many friends among the listeners, for the collusion theory to
hold good. A single word from the lecturer would make those
under his influence exhibit the most violent activity and
passions ; another word would instantly fix them with all the
rigidity of stone, and that, too, in uncomfortable positions,
with countenances still and immoveable. The lecturer stated
that in the first instance he gave them coins to look at, to
withdraw their attention from surrounding objects, and to
concentrate it upon one point. “ Then,” said he, “ the various
faculties of their mind began to sleep and fold up like the
leaves of a flower, and when, with a strong will, I imperiously
told them that they could not open their eyes, some of them
were unable to do so. I then had the wills of these in my own
possession, and the will is the governing power of the whole
body, so that I could make them perform many things, but
could not influence all of them in the same degree. When I
told them to wake up, it meant practically ‘ I give you your
will back again,’ and then they were all right once more.” In
answer to the theological charge that the curative powers of
mesmerism are due to demoniacal agency, he said that it was
preposterous to suppose that God sends diseases and the devil
cures them. Dr. Chadwick has lectured before the royal
household at Windsor Castle.
Charge of Imposture.—A Mr. Addison has been writing
to the Standard, alleging that he, in the presence of some of
his friends, had detected Mrs. Mary Marshall doing “ spirit¬
writing ” under the table, with a pencil held between her toes,
and that he than seized hold of her naked foot. His letters
were very rough in their style, and contained insulting remarks
about the personal appearance of Mrs. Marshall’s mother-in-
law. Mrs. Marshall wrote that his tale was wholly untrue,
and narrated instances of his misconduct. Mr. Addison then '
called two of his friends to support his assertions, which they
did not do, but they went half-way, and said they saw Mrs.
Marshall writing with her foot. One of these witnesses was a
comic actor, who spent most of his time at the seance by roll¬
ing about on the floor, pretending to be in a fit, and frighten¬
ing the Mrs. Marshall's considerably. The other witness spent
some of his time in drawing a caricature of the elder Mrs.
Marshall. In opposition to the testimony of these highly
respectable gentlemen, attention maybe called to the evidence
given before the Dialectical Society, and printed in another
column, wherein Mr. E. L. Blanchard, the author, testifies
that his body has been uplifted and held in the air by the
spirits at Mrs. Marshall’s seances. Mr. Hain Friswell, author,
testifies that table manifestations have taken place in Mrs.
Marshall’s presence in his own house, and were obtained after
she had been searched, as well as among his own relatives
after she had left the premises. The evidence given by Signor
Damiani should also be read. Mr. Epes Sargent, in his book,
The Planchette, narrates that Baron Reichenbach attended a
circle in London in 1861, at the house of Mr. Cowper, son-in-
law of Lord Palmerston; the media present were the two
Mrs. Marshall’s. Violent physical manifestations were ob¬
served, which the Baron was convinced were not caused by
imposture. The correspondence in The Standard ended with
a letter from a philosophical instrument maker, named
Faulkner, who wrote that he was a manufacturer of goods for
spirit-rapping people, he having fitted up their houses with
wires and concealed electro-magnets, to make raps. Mr.
Faulkner has since been asked for references to those whose
houses he has so fitted up, and the only reference he gives is
to Mr. Addison. Genuine spiritual phenomena go on in any
house, which the medium has never entered till the time of
the stance, and Mrs. Mary Marshall has for years been in the
habit of acepting such out-door engagements. Charges of
the kind mentioned in this paragraph, more or less beset every
paid medium, and are among the disagreeable things they
have to endure, even when the manifestations are genuine.
Where the Liars Go To.—An anecdote is told by a
correspondent of the New York World, the editors of which,
in printing it, seem charmingly unconscious of its personality.
A clergyman, catechising a little boy, was trying to impress
on his tender mind some useful lessons from the Bible,
j Where, my child, do the liars go to ? ” “ To New York, sir,
to write for the newspapers.” We think some of them have
found their way to London.—Spiritual Magazine.
The public Spiritual circles once held at 2, Great Coram
street, under the mediumship of Mr. F. Herne, have been
given up.
Mr. D. D. Home has been giving public readings during
the past few months in Bristol and other large towns in the
West of England. He is a good speaker.
Nov. 19, 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST
CHABGES FOE APVEKTISEMENTS.
1. Advertisements of Public Companies, Half-a-guinea per
sixth of a column, or every portion of sixth of a column.
2. General Advertisements, Five Shillings per twelfth of a
column, or portion of twelfth of a column.
Note.—-Advertisements at the foregoing rates will be
11 displayed" so as to occupy the full space paid for, but
advertisements at the following rates will be in closely set
type.
3. General Advertisements, Half-a-crown per first five
lines or portion offive lines, and Four pence for every line in
addition.
4. Situations Wanted, or Apartments to Let. One Shilling
per first four lines, or portion of four lines; Threepence for
every line in addition.
Ten words are allowed to the line, and six figures or
initial letters count as one word.
When five or more insertions of the same advertisement
are paid for, twenty pet cent, reduction will be made in the
above rates.
The power is reserved of refusing to insert any advertise¬
ment.
Advertisements and remittances should be sent to the
Publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's
Church-yard, London, E.C., or to Mr. J. Buens, 15,
Southampton-row, High Holborn, London, W.C.
All letters should be brief and to the point, as the amount
of space available for correspondence is at present small.
Communications intended for the Editor should be by
letter only, addressed to the care of the Publisher, Mr. E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's Church-yard, London,
E.C. Until the Spiritual movement in Englrnd, together
with this journal, have both grown considerably, time cannot
be spared for personal interviews on subjects connected with
the literary worh of The Spieittjalist, but all letters will
meet with careful consideration.
The Spieittjalist is a periodical intended to give great
freedom of expression to all the different shades of opinion
to be found among Spiritualists. There will therefore be
very little uniformity in the ideas promulgated in this journal,
more especially in the correspondence columns. Under these
circumstances every reader will find occasionally something
in The Spibitualist which he or she does not like, but the
right of reply remains. This freedom of thought given to
others, the Editor claims for himself and those who do not
like the contents of leading articles, can write against them
in the correspondence columns. This plan is thought belter
than that of reducing the contents of the journal to a
pale weak mediocrity, by inserting only those contributions
which please everybody. The preceding remarks are not
intended to imply that those who have crotchets which they
cannot get printed anywhere else, can find an outlet for them
here, for none but those letters which are considered worth
publication will be inserted.
Notices of Public Meetings in connection with Spiritualism
should be sent to the office several days in advance.
A large amount of information is printed on the last two
pages of this journal, clearly demonstrating that the facts of
Spiritualism, highly improbable as they appear to be, are
real, and deserve serious investigation by all thoughtful
people. In other columns of every number of The Spiei-
tttalist will also be found plenty of additional evidence to
the same effect.
Ca Subsmlhrs.
The first twelve numbers of The Spieittjalist will be
forwarded regularly by penny post to subscribers, who remit
four shillings in payment, to Mr. E. W. Allen, Publisher,
Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's-churchyard, E.C.
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1869.
OPENING ADDEESS.
Spieitualisii in England lias long been represented by
three periodicals, all published monthly, namely, The
Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, and Daybreak:.
The Spiritual Magazine was first published in January,
1860, Human Nature in April, 1867, and Daybreak in
June, 1868. The Spiritualist, issued for the first time
this day, is not started for the purpose of competing
with these three journals just mentioned, but is in¬
tended to occupy new ground, and to meet a want as
yet unsupplied. At the Gower-street Conferences last
winter, several of the speakers mentioned the want of
reports and records of public meetings connected with
Spiritualism, and one chief object of this new journal is
to chronicle the proceedings of such assemblies. Another
feature of The Spieitualist will be, its scientific cha¬
racter. A third feature, of considerable value to sub¬
scribers, is seen on pages seven and eight of this number,
in the shape of a large quantity of well-authenticated
evidence that Spiritualism deserves most serious investi¬
gation by all thoughtful people. This evidence, written
for the benefit of non-Spiritualists, will be republished
regularly, so that every number of The Spiritualist
will be an efficient instrument in the hands of friends of
the movement to draw the attention of the outside
public to Spiritualism. At first this journal will be
published fortnightly, to “ feel the ground,” before its
transformation into a weekly paper—a step which, to¬
gether with other improvements, is likely to be taken
before long, should all go well. Much care will be taken
to make The Spiritualist useful to the pioneers of the
greatest movement of modern times, so it is hoped that
it will meet with a friendly reception from all engaged
in the noble work of strengthening the chain of com¬
munication between this world and the spirit-land, and
of clearing away the mystery which ignorance throws
over the life beyond the grave. Nay, some of those
who are as yet unacquainted with the facts of
Spiritualism are expected to take a little kindly interest
in this journal, for their claims to attention have not
been forgotten.
the scientific investigation of spiritual phenomena.
Not much observation of the phenomena of Spiritualism
is necessary to learn that the manifestations are
governed by physical and mental laws, though very few
of these laws are at present known. Systematic,
scientific research applied to Spiritualism would there¬
fore, in the course of a few years, be sure to give very
valuable results, by clearing away much of the mystery
overhanging the border land between this world and
the next, and by strengthening the conditions which
now enable spirits to communicate. At the present
time, while most of the English people are innocently
swallowing the highly reliable information about
Spiritualism given them by the daily papers, and while
the orthodox scientific world is standing aloof, afraid to
search after truth because of the apparent danger of
being caught in the investigation of nonsense, there
may still be a sufficient number of persons in the ranks
of Spiritualism competent to begin the work of reducing
its facts to a science. In general society the proportion
of people experienced in experimental natural philoso¬
phy and mental science is very small, partly because
these subjects are generally neglected in schools and
universities, and partly because everybody has not a
liking for such pursuits. Probably the necessary mate¬
rials may now be found within the ranks of Spiritualism
to found a scientific society, but if not, the work need
not be altogether neglected.
Supposing a scientific society were formed, its first
work must be to collect a large mass of authenticated
facts, and then try to extricate some few general prin¬
ciples from the tangled mass. Anonymous articles in
periodicals cannot be accepted as good evidence, neither
can facts long stored up in the memory of witnesses be
accepted as free from error. But this necessary work
of collecting authenticated facts might as well be begun
at once, with or without the formation of a scientific
society. Perhaps the best way to begin would be to
arrange with different circles, to write down all the
manifestations observed, and all the information ob¬
tained as to how they are produced, such documents to
be drawn up directly the sittings are over, signed with
the names and addresses of witnesses, and posted to a
central quarter where the records should be preserved
and tabulated. The documents should be short, and
contain nothing but scientific facts, for a scientific body
would have nothing to do with the good or evil of
Spiritualism, or with the religious aspect of the ques¬
tion ; its only business would be to find out what
natural laws give the observed results.
If a system of this kind were now at work, evidently
great additional power in the way of investigation
would be gained. Eor instance, if a notification were
sent to all the different circles, asking them at the next
sitting to “ learn as much as possible about how the
moving of wooden articles is effected,” when the reports
afterwards came in from each circle, there would of
course be a great mass of contradictions, arising from
imperfections of spirits both in and out of the body,
but soon a few glimpses of daylight would begin to
shine through the mist. The comparison of the in¬
formation thus obtained by a few dozen well educated
and intelligent circles, independently of each other,
would be highly interesting to all engaged in the work,
and the plan is good because it would cost nothing but
paper and postage, in addition to the printing of a few
circulars. Abbreviated reports of the results might be
published at once, not necessarily with the names of all
the witnesses, if some of them are liable to persecution
from connection with Spiritualism, and the authenti¬
cated documents could be stored away, so as to form a
most valuable little mine of information for the “ Insti¬
tution of Scientific Spiritualists,” of the future.
WHICH IS THE BEST EYIDENCE?
Two statements of facts observed are quoted below, one of ‘
the statements being made by Dr. John Tyndall, F.R.S., M. R.I.,
and the other by Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A., Editor of the Art
Journal. The first of the two statements was published in
No. 105 of The Proceedings of the Royal Society, in a paper
wherein Professor Tyndall describes the formation of incipient
clouds produced in certain vapours by the action of light. He
used a glass tube 2'8 feet long and 2'5 inches internal diameter,
closed with flat discs of glass at the ends. By means of a
stopcock and air-pump the air was removed from the tube, after
which a few bubbles of air were re-admitted after passing
through certain volatile liquids, from which the air took up
traces of vapour. A bright parallel or conical beam of light
from the electric lamp, was then passed along the axis of the
tube, and the chemical rays in the light at once began to
decompose the transparent vapour, and to form very curious
clouds. The following quotation shows what he says he saw,
when experimenting thus with vapour of hydriodic acid :—
HOW PROFESSOR TTNDALL SAW A FISH!
I have seen nothing so astonishing as the effect obtained,
on the 28th of October, with hydriodic acid. The cloud ex¬
tended for about eighteen inches along the tube, and gradually
shifted its position from the end nearest the lamp to the most
distant end. The portion quitted by the cloud proper was
filled by an amorphous haze, the decomposition which was
progressing lower down, being here apparently complete. A
spectral cone turned its apex towards the distant end of the
tube, and from its circular base filmy drapery seemed to fall.
Placed on the base of the cone was an exquisite vase, from
the interior of which sprung another vase of similar shape;
over the edges of these vases fell the faintest clouds, resem¬
bling spectral sheets of liquid. From the centre of the upper
vase a straight cord of cloud passed for some distance along
the experimental tube, and at each side of this cord two in¬
volved and highly iridescent vortices were generated. The
frontal portion of the cloud, which the cord penetrated, as¬
sumed in succession the forms of roses, tulips, and sunflowers.
It also passed through the appearance of a series of beautifully
shaped bottles, placed one within the other. Once it pre¬
sented the shape of a fish, with eyes, gills, and feelers.
The witnesses who saw Dr. Tyndall’s tube experiments
performed, were his two assistants, and Mr. Ladd, the
philosophical instrument maker. Now for Mr. S. C. Hall’s
narrative, which was written in a letter from him to Judge
Edmonds of New York, and is here quoted from the British
Journal of Photography
HOW ME. S. C. HALL SAW A SPIRIT!
I have a fact to relate, apropos of the trial of Mumler—par¬
ticulars of which have reached me. It is this :—A few days
ago, sitting with Daniel Home and seven other friends, my
venerable and truly Christian sister, who passed from earth
about eight months ago, was enabled to be visible to me and
those who were with me. She was not only not a spiritualist,
but strongly and sternly objected to the. principle, as anti-
Christian or demoniacal. She had never been present at any
manifestation, never would be. But not long before her de¬
parture, I said to her, “ I am sure God will permit you to visit
me after you leave earth. You will be permitted to do so for
my comfort, and as a helper on my way to Christ. I wish you
to promise that you will do so, if God gives you power.” She
did not absolutely make me the promise ; but she did say,
“ My dear brother, if it be for your good, and God’s permits it
—and He may do so—I will be with you when He has called
me from earth.” When she appeared to us in my drawing¬
room, her face was so healthy—so full of the red and white
that exhibit health—that at the moment I did not recognise
her ; for she had been two years confined to bed, “died” of
cancer, was a great sufferer, and was naturally reduced to a
skeleton—so to speak. Suddenly I said, with ah exclamation,
“ It is my sister ! ” Three blows were struck on the table. The
eyes were closed—she had been blind during the last ten
years of her earth-life—possibly but for that I should not have
recognised her ; there was so marvellous a contrast between
the face, as I saw it on her “ death ” bed, and the face as I saw
it then ; so healthful, so beautiful, so happy, smilin'g ; but the
likeness was exact, for I recognised every feature after my
exclamation ; the hair exactly as she wore it, or plaited back,
and the cap exactly as she wore it also, which the Master of
Lindsay, the Hon. Mr. Lindsay, called a “mutch,” i. e.. the
cap of the old Scottish model. She remained before us thus
palpably for about two minutes—certainly more than one-
long enough for any photographer to have made a photograph
of her ; and I am very sure there would have been no difficulty
whatsoever in taking such a photograph if the apparatus had
been ready ; that it would have been at once recognised by
any person who knew her during her “ life ” here, and that it
would have been as distinct and palpable as any photograph
of any (so-called) living persons. I have no doubt that each
of the ei ght persons present would make exactly the statement
I have made.
Dr. Tyndall says he saw a fish form in the air, and his State¬
ment is corroborated by three witnesses. Mr. S. G. Hall says
he saw a spirit form in the air, and his statement is corrobo¬
rated by eight witnesses. Which is the best evidence ?
Belief.—Belief is not a voluntary or a meritorious act,
and is no more under the control of the individual than the
colour of the eyes or the length of the nose. For instance, no
reader of these lines can, by the hardest efforts of his own,
possibly believe that the moon is a cucumber, yet it would be
possible to do so if belief were under control, which it is not.
6
THE SPIRITUALIST.
THE POETRY OP SCIENCE.
These verses, by the Editor o/The Spiritualist, have been previously published
in several journals.
O say not Science lacketh charms
To woo the poet’s pen,
To swell the pages of romance,
Or thrill the souls of men;
Her’s is a realm of fairy-land,
A scene of endless change,
Where eye and ear are all confused
With wonders passing strange.
She hinds the eternal elements,*
She yokes them to the plough,
And iron stee’ds with hearts of fire
Speed at her bidding now;
Deep in the Ocean’s solitude
She her bright name engraves,
Unscathed she treads its golden sands
And cleaves its surging waves.
She joins the nations of the earth
With mystic net-work bands,
Binding in common brotherhood
The dwellers in all lands,
Whilst through these wondrous arteries
l The lightning pulses thrill.
Bearing glad news of “ Peace on Earth,”
To all mankind, “ Goodwill.”
some spirit wished to communicate, and we replaced our
hands on the table, when my brother-in-law immediately
manifested himself in his usual manner ;’“but he had no mes¬
sage to give, appearing only to have come in response to my
thought. I then asked if my brother and nephew were there,
both of whom have lately passed into the spirit-world. I
received an affirmative answer; and then I told the latter that
I wished him to give me a sign, adding that he would know
of what character I wished it to be.
The table moved gently backwards and forwards a few times
with a kind of undulating motion ; it then bent quite down
into Mrs. Marshall’s lap, and after remaining thus for a few
seconds, rose to its place, and then bent for the second time
into her lap ; when suddenly it turned aside, and slipped off,
down to the ground. The poor old lady was quite startled,
and could not think what it meant, but to me it was quite
clear :—first, the gentle waves of the sea, then the two days
that the unfortunate Carnatic was on the rock, and finally,
the sudden slip, when the vessel sank, and my dear nephew,
Mr. Warren, was drowned ! I had wanted something ex¬
pressive of the wreck, but had not formed any idea in my own
mind as to how it was to be exemplified.
Geohgiana Houghton.
20, Delamere-crescent, W.
TEANCE MEDIUMSHIP.
She bends their orbits, and the stars
Speed on their track of light.
Sparkling afar in heaven’s dark hall
Like glories in the night;
The planets feel her lion grasp
As their bright paths they run,
And with relentless laws she guides
The Chariot of the Sun.
The trees relate their fairy-tales,
The plants unfold their store
Of wisdom and design, and tell
Truths never dreamt before.
The lightning plays around her feet
And does her bidding well,
The very stones break forth in song,
List’ to the tales they tell:—
They tell how chaos ruled—how earth
Lay wrapped in deathlike sleep,
How silence reigned in majesty,
And darkness veiled the deep.
They tell how life uprose on earth,
How forests clothed the land.
And step by step reveal the work
Of HIS Almighty hand.
Calmly in silence and in gloom,
In caverns of the earth,
They teach vain man the nothingness
Of his ephemeral birth.
Show him dread scenes of former life
Long to destruction hurled.
And on earth’s pillars bid him read
The history of a world.
Behold another votary still—
The light her aid has given,
Light, whose bright beams of purity
Bushed angel-winged from heaven.
Then fair Aurora lit the north,
And shook her streaming bars,
Then earth awoke, awoke to life—
Then sang the morning stars.
Yet learn, Enchantress, thy domain
A limit still must know,
Thus far, 0 Science, is thine own—
Further thou canst not go.
In the councils of eternity
His wondrous ways were planned;
Ways that elude thy piercing eye,
Defy thine iron hand.
Ages of dim futurity
Shall own thy powerful sway,
Till man with all his noble works
Shall pass from earth for aye.
For ever teach him Nature’s laws,
Unfold his Maker’s will,
Guide him in paths of light and truth.
And lead him upwards stin.
(totespntience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal audits readers\
THE SEPAEATION ; BETWEEN SPIBIT SOCIETIES.
Sie,—As I chance to be aware that in the first number of
the new journal you intend to advocate an organised system
of questioning the spirits at different circles, at the same time
and upon the same subject, in order^to compare the answers
thus independently obta^ied,''Tdiave a suggestion to make.
Yqw in; fact' ip the'majority of cases, many of the
^.^j^tpHiifroinding a circle cannot see each other, any more
than' we can ^ordinarily see them. Very high spirits are
11 usually, if not always, quite invisible to very low spirits,
4 though I do not know whether the reverse is also the case.
Therefore, when questioning spirits, no two circles may be
questioning beings in the same conditions of existence, and
the answers given at the two circles, as to the mode of life of
the spirits, will be as different as answers from a German and
a Hottentot when questioned separately about their daily life.
What I suggest is, that at the very outset some knowledge
should be gained as to the amount and the causes of the sepa¬
rations. If well-educated people, who can ask questions with¬
out putting their own theories into the mouths of the spirits,
would only - get all the information they can on these points at
circles, and briefly send you the results, I am sure that the
publication of the answers would be very interesting, and of
use in further research. A Tbuth-Seekee.
THOUGHT-EEADING AND PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS.
Sie,—I called on the afternoon of Sunday, October 31st, on
the elder Mrs. Marshall, medium, 13, Bristol-gardens, W.
After chatting for some little time, she suggested that we
should have a seance, so we placed our hands on the table,
only she and I being present. There were some taps, as if in
response to questions, and she enquired if I were asking any¬
thing ; but as I had nothing to ask, we took our hands off.
I had, however, wondered (mentally) whether a brother-in-
law of mine was present, whose movement of the table is
peculiar to himself. Presently, rappings were heard, one just
under my arm, so Mrs. Marshall considered those a sign that
* “Bridges unsupported by arebes can be made to span the foaming
■current; man shall descend to the bottom of the Ocean safely, breathing
and treading with firm steps on the golden sands, never brightened by the
light of day. Call but the secret powers of Sol and Luna into action, and
behold a single steersman sitting at the helm guiding the vessel, which
divides the waves with greater rapidity than if she had been filled with a
crew of mariners toiling at the oars. And the loaded chariot, no longer
encumbered with panting steeds, darts on its course with relentless force
and activity. Let the simple elements do their duty; bind the eternal
elements, and yoke them to the same plough.”—Friar Bacon's Prophecy.
Sie,—I hail with pleasure the contemplated appearance of
a fortnightly paper devoted to the science and facts of Spiri¬
tualism. Although we have two able monthly exponents,
Human Nature and the Spiritual Magazine, yet we need a
sound weekly or bi-monthly organ ; therefore I bid the Spiri¬
tualist God speed. The other evening, while sitting with my
wife and a friend, I was entranced by an influence purporting
to be the spirit of a fire-worshipper. The language was a
strange one, of which my friend can only remember one word,
viz., “ Sin Syu.” Can you, or any of your readers, tell me the
meaning of this phrase, as it would be a good test ?
I send you a tracing of some characters written by me while
in a trance state on Sunday last. John De Moegan.
Cork, Nov. 17.
[It is an established fact in Spiritualism that trance media are sometimes
made to converse accurately in languages which they do not understand in
their normal state. There is a kind intention in complimentary remarks,
still their omission in letters intended to be printed would be preferred, in
order that the small space at present at disposal may be economised for
strictly useful purposes.—Ed.]
Feiends of Spibitualism.—At a time when Spiritualism
was far more unknown and unpopular in England than at
present, Mr. C. P. Varley, the electrician, came publicly for¬
ward, and on oath, before the Court of Chancery, bore testi¬
mony that the facts of Spiritualism were true. That affidavit
will be found on page seven of this journal. By thus risking
a high scientific reputation, at a time when many others who
were asked to bear testimony to what they knew to be true
were afraid to do the same, Mr. Varley earned a very deep
amount of respect from all Spiritualists. Accordingly, the
following testimonial, which probably has never been, pub¬
lished before, will be read with all the more interest:—
Eotal Humane Society.—^Instituted 1774. For the recovery of per¬
sons apparently drowned or dead. Patroness, Her Majesty the Queen;
Vice-Patron, His Eoyal Highness the Duke of Cambridge, K.G.; Pre¬
sident, His Grace the Duke of Norfolk, E.M., K.G.—At a committee
holden at the society’s office, 3, Trafalgar-square, on Wednesday, the 16th
day of January, I860, Benjamin Hawes, Esq., in the chair, it was resolved
unanimously “ That the grateful and sincere thanks of this committee are
hereby most cordially presented to Mr. Cromwell Fleetwood Varley, for his
courage and humanity in going upon unsound ice to the relief of Mr.
Joseph Gay, who had become exhausted while rescuing a boy immersed in
a deep pond at Hampstead, on the 6th January, 1850, and by whose timely
aid, assisted by others, two lives were saved.—(Signed) Norfolk, E.M., pre¬
sident; Benjamin Hawes, chairman; J. Chailier, secretary.”
Mr. Varley has also saved other persons than the above from
death by drowning. The following passage from the Bucks.
Herald narrates some of Mrs. Varley’s abilities as an amateur
operatic actress. It is taken from an account recently pub-
lished therein, describing an amateur performance of “ Lucrezia
Borgia ” at Winslow.: “Lucrezia (Mrs. Varley) then entered,
wearing a mask, and sang the difficult and touching song ad¬
dressed to her son in a style worthy of an artiste, the florid
passages being well executed, and taken with a precision which
showed that she was quite equal to the part. We have seldom
seen a Lucrezia who so thoroughly looked ‘ the Duchess ’ as
this lady, her dress and whole appearance being quite magni¬
ficent. She pleads for the life of Gennaro, at first mildly, but,
receiving denials from the duke, her anger is gradually raised
into fury, and she bursts forth in a splendid air, full of ven¬
geance, It was the first time either Mrs. Varley or Mrs. Prend
had ever undertaken anything of the kind.’’
Solomon, King of Iseael.—Nobody knows better than
Mrs. Emma Hardinge, the eminent medium, how to narrate a
good story with effect. In one of her anecdotes she tells how
she was dining with friends, in some American town, we
forget where, and a messenger arrived in breathless haste,
inviting her immediate attendance at a new circle then
sitting in a neighbouring street. % Please come at once,” said
the excited messenger, “ Solomon wants to speak to you.”
“ Solomon ! ” said Mrs. Hardinge, “ Solomon who ? ” “ Solo¬
mon, King of Israel,” was the reply. “ I suppose you obtained
that name through the physical manifestations ? ” said Mrs.
Hardinge. “ Yes,” replied the bearer, who did not know the
full force of the remark. Mrs. Hardinge continued—“ Then,
tell Solomon, King of Israel, I am engaged at dinner with
friends, and can’t come.” The messenger seemed to be very
much startled by the answer, which, however, he delivered to
the circle, but soon returned, saying, “ That she really must
come, Solomon wanted to speak to her very badly indeed.”
She accordingly went, and being a good seeing medium, at
once knew more of the facts of the case than did the members
of the circle. The table, which before her entrance had been
bouncing up and down, and making a great clatter, then
edged about very shyly and quietly. The members of the
circle expressed their surprise at the falling off in the vigour
of the manifestations. Mrs. Hardinge said, “ Go on, Solomon.
Don’t be afraid of me. Let me see what you can do.”
Accordingly, up and down went the table with a violence,
which placed its legs in danger of breaking. “ Solomon,”
said Mrs. Hardinge, “ How long ago is it since I saw you
buying up old hats about the streets of this city ? ” “ Three
months,” was the reply. “ Solomon, now, tell me, what do
you mean by coming here to deceive these good people in this
manner?” “Well,” said Solomon, who was not a bad sort of
fellow at bottom, “ They wouldn’t have nothin’ else, and so I
give it ’em ! ” A warning, this, to Spiritualists who have a
weak reverence for great names; the supply is sure to meet
the demand.
Nov. 19, 1869.
DR. THOMAS YOUNG ON SPIRITS.
De. Thomas Young, tbe colleague of Sir Humphrey
Davy, and one of the predecessors of Faraday and
Tyndall, as Professor of Natural Philosophy at the
Royal Institution, has placed on record some specula¬
tions of his own respecting Spiritual beings, considered
from a physical science point of view. Dr. Young was
the first in this country to work out and advocate the
wave theory of light, but he was crushed for the time
being by the great weight of authority brought to bear
against him by Sir Isaac Newton and Lord Brougham,
who held that light was not wave motion, but consisted
of particles shot out with infinite velocity from the
luminous source. It is now known that Dr. Thomas
Young was in the right, and Professor Tyndall, F.R.S.,
has scarcely delivered a single lecture on light within
the last two years, in which he has not called attention
to the eminence of Young as a philosopher, and pointed
out how his labours were long overlooked because of the
eminence of those who held opposing opinions.
Strange to say, Young held more accurate views in
his day as to the nature of spiritual beings than Fara¬
day and Tyndall ever attained, notwithstanding the rich
rain of evidence falling on every side of the latter
philosophers—evidence which they refused to examine.
Here is a long-forgotten paragraph written by Dr.
Thomas Young, and the words thereof will live in
history:—
“ We see forms of matter differing in subtilty and
mobility under the names of solids, liquids, and
gases; above these are the semi-material existences
which produce the phenomena of electricity and
magnetism, and either caloric or universal ether;
higher still perhaps are the causes of gravita¬
tion, and the immediate agents in attractions of
all kinds, which exhibit some phenomena apparently
still more remote from all that is compatible with
material bodies ; and of these different orders of beings
the more refined and immaterial seem to freely pervade
the grosser. It seems, therefore, natural to believe that
the analogy may be continued still further, until it
rises into existence absolutely immaterial and spiritual.
We know not but that thousands of spiritual worlds
may exist unseen for ever by human eyes; nor have
we any reason to suppose that even the presence of
matter in a given spot necessarily excludes those exist¬
ences from it. Those who maintain that nature always
teems with life wherever living beings can be placed,
may therefore speculate with freedom on the possibility
of independent worlds; some existing in different parts
of space, others pervading each other, unseen and un¬
known, in the same space, and others again to which
space may not be a necessary mode of existence.”
The Spibitual Libeaey.—The only lending library in
London for books on Spiritualism and kindred subjects is that
belonging to Mr. James Burns, bookseller and stationer, 15,
Southampton-row, Holborn, W.C. Mr. Burns has fitted up
rooms on the premises wherein friendly meetings for the
furtherance of the Spiritual cause often take place. In the
course of September last a meeting was held in these rooms,
under the presidency of Mr. Coleman, to welcome an eminent
American medium, Mr. J. M. Peebles, consul at Trebizonde
to the Government of the United States, and one of the
editors of The Ba/nner of Light, the chief newspaper of the
American Spiritualists. At that meeting Mr. Burns narrated
how he first began the formation of the Spiritual Library by
the importation of a small box of books from New York, and
how the undertaking grew gradually until his little establish¬
ment in Wellington-road, Camberwell, became very well
known to those who required scarce books on progressive sub¬
jects connected with man. The growth of modern Spiritualism
at last rendered it advisable for him to take his present more
extensive and central premises. Spiritualism is known to
have no more unselfish and hard-working advocate anywhere
than Mr. Burns, in evidence of which it may be stated that,
although he is the owner of one Spiritual periodical, Human
Nature, he placed every facility in the way of the issue of this
new journal, The Spiritualist, because he thought it would help
the movement. There are so many points wherein the two
periodicals entirely differ from each other that it is hoped
that injurious competition has been avoided. The work that
Mr. Burns has performed for many years past, makes it a duty
on the part of Spiritualists to strengthen his hands in every
possible way in his new establishment.
Appaeitions.—You can scarcely select bap-hazard a
dozen families, without finding one or two members of them
who have received at the moment of the death of some near
relative, a communication announcing the fact at a distance.
These communications are often made by the dying person
appearing to some member of the family at the moment of
passing away. The death moment seems the most easy one
in which to make such communications. Notwithstanding the
enormous number of such cases, some of them supported with
such striking collateral proof as to remove all doubt, the pos¬
sessors of such information are afraid to narrate these interest¬
ing facts except under the seal of confidence, because the world
at large ridicules that which it does not understand.— Varley.
ANSWEES TO COEEESPONDENTS.
B. Edinburgh.—Evidence is best obtained by industry in visiting
different circles, selecting at first those where powerful physical
manifestations are common, since these cannot be the result of
imagination or credulity. Much depends upon the medium; in
London good physical media are rare, and the rush to obtain
sittings with them is now very great. This is caused partly by
the fact that it usually takes several years to develop the most
striking manifestations through a medium, and partly because
very many who see symptons of mediumship appearing in them¬
selves, get frightened, and will not allow the spirits to use them
for manifestations. Good physical media are much wanted in
Glasgow; and perhaps you find it the same in Edinburgh. We
thank you for your good wishes.
Nov. 19, 1869
THE
SPIRITUALIST
7
FACTS FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
As this Journal will necessarily often come
under the observation of those who are not
Spiritualists, it has been thought judicious to
reprint regularly on this and the next page,
the following condensed evidence that spiri¬
tualism deserves serious investigation. The
phenomena witnessed in spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
within the ordinary range of human experi¬
ence, that it is quite right not to accept them
on the testimony of others. Each individual
should witness and test them personally, and
believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
is gained that denial is impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SPHtlTUAlISM DESEBVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses that the phenomena of Spiritualism are
actual facts, and not imposture or delusion, has of
late years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Eobert
Chambers, Mr. 0. F. Varley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
Mrs. S. 0. Hall, .and others, all made affidavits
strongly in favour of Mr. Home. The following
was the affidavit of Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E.,
F.E.G.S., M.R.I.
“ I, Oromwell Fleetwood Varley, of Fleetwood House,
Beckenham, in the County of Kent, Esquire, make oath
and say as follows:—
“ I have been a student of electricityv chemistry, and
natural philosophy for twenty-six years, and a tele¬
graphic engineer by profession for twenty-one years,
and I am the consulting electrician of the Atlantic Tele¬
graph Company, and of the Electric and International
Company.
“ About nine or ten years ago, having had my atten¬
tion directed to the subject of Spiritualism by its spon¬
taneous and unexpected development in my own family
in the form of clairvoyant visions and commumcations,
I determined to test.the truth of the alleged physical
phenomena to the best of my ability, and to ascertain,
if possible, the nature of the force which produced them.
“Accordingly, about eight years ago, I called on Mr.
Home, the defendant in this suit, and stated that I had
not yet witnessed any of the physical phenomena, but
that I was a scientific man and wished to investigate
them carefully.
“ He immediately gave me every facility for the pur¬
pose, and desired me to satisfy myself in every possible
way, and I have been with him on divers occasions
when the phenomena have occurred. I have examined
and tested them with him and with others, under con¬
ditions of my own choice, under a bright light, and have
made the most jealous and searching scrutiny. I have
been, since then, for seven months in America, where
the subject attracts great attention and study, and where
it is cultivated by some of the ablest men, and having
experimented with and compared the forces with elec¬
tricity and magnetism, and after having applied me¬
chanical and mental tests, I entertain no doubt whatever
that the manifestations which I have myself examined
were not due to the operation of any of the recognised
physical laws of nature, and that there has been present
on the occasions above-mentioned some intelligence
other than that of the medium and observers.
“ The subject of course offers many opportunities and
inducements for fraud, and I only speak of what I have
myself seen and tested. Since my acquaintance with
Mr. Home began I have pursued the enquiry, and I have
found engaged in it able, learned, and scientific men,
who are convinced as I am, that the physical manifesta¬
tions are but the introduction to an extensive field of
mental and physical knowledge which will in a great
measure explain and reconcile the beliefs of all ages and
nations. I know of several instances both in Europe
and America in which this course of study has awak¬
ened the perception of the purest and loftiest truths and
principles. There have been no doubt cases in which
the intellect has been too feeble for the stimulus, and
has been overpowered by it, just as frequently results
from excessive application to religion and other exciting
topics, but such cases have not come within my own
observation.
“ Mr. Home, like several other non-professional me¬
diums whose cases I have studied, was passive during
the occurrence of the manifestations. He, like the
other mediums, is extremely susceptible to external in¬
fluences, and has a mind better suited to receive impres¬
sions than to prosecute enquiries. I willingly testify my
entire conviction of his truthfulness and honesty.
“ 0. F. VARLEY.”
It also came out in the evidence given at the
trial, that Mr. Home had been the invited and un¬
paid guest of the Emperor and the Empress of the
French, the Emperor, Empress, and the late Em¬
press Dowager of Russia, the Grand Duke Con¬
stantine, the King of Prussia, the late King of
Bavaria, the late King of Wurtemhurg, 'and the
Queen of Holland. Mr. Home says that all his
life he has never taken a farthing of pay for his
seances. In March, 1869, the Spiritual Magazine
gave the names of the following gentlemen as
those who have long been investigating the sub¬
ject:—
“Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., Fleetwood-house, Becken¬
ham ; Alfred It. Wallace, Esq., 9, St. Mark’s-crescent,
Ff.W.; Professor De Morgan, 91, Adelaide-road, N.W.;
Captain Hrayson, BA.', Woolwich; Dr. J. M. Gully,
The Priory, Great Malvern: Dr. J. J. G. Wilkinson, 4,
St. John’s-wood-villas, N.W.; Dr. Dixon, 8, Great Or-
mond-street, W.C.: S. 0. Hall, Esq., 15, Ashley-place,
Victoria-street, S.W.; Newton Orosland, Esq.; William
Howitt, Esq., The Orchard, Hare-green, Esher, Surrey;
Bobert Chambers, Esq., St. Andrew’s, Edinburgh; H.
D. Jencken, Esq., Kilmorey-house, Norwood; J. G.
Crawford, Esq., 52, Gloucester-crescent, N.W.; W. M.
Wilkinson, Esq., Oakfleld, Kilbum; Lord Adare, 5,
Buckingham-gate; The Master of Lindsay, Grosvenor-
square.”
Mrs. De Morgan has written a boob, entitled
From Matter to Spirit (Longmans), where she
gives many interesting particulars, the result of
ten. years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in his preface to the book, says:—
“ I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by
a rational being to be capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground
firm under me.”
The following is an extract from another
affidavit, made in the suit of Lyon v. Home:—
“I, James Manby Gully, of The Priory, Great Malvern,
in the County of Worcester, doctor of medicine, make
oath and say as follows:—
“I have known the above-named defendant, Daniel
Dunglass Home, for seven years and upwards, last past,
and have during that period been in the habit of attend¬
ing him professionally, and also of receiving him in my
house as a personal friend, and I have never had the
smallest reason to doubt his character as a man of
honour and proper moral feeling.
“ I have during the past seven years witnessed both
in my own house, and elsewhere, in the presence of the
said Mr. Home many curious occurrences, which I am
unable to explain, in the way of singular phenomena,
such as displacement of objects without physical con¬
tact, &c., and from my personal and careful investiga¬
tions (which Mr. Home himself ever urges) I am positive
that it is not in consequence of any trick or device that
such phenomena occur. I have even been witness ti>
singular phenomena when the said Mr. Home was not in
the same room, and also when he has been asleep. I
have never known the said Mr. Home receive money for
what is termed ‘a seance,' but I have known him re¬
peatedly refuse offers of as much as twenty guineas for
a single stance. “ ■ M. Gully, M.D.”
Dr. Hooker, in bis opening address, as President
of the British Association at Norwich in 1868,
spoke very highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, F.L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist. Professor Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
action ” theory explained all the facts. A friend
wrote to him detailing things he had.seen which
were inexplicable by that theory. Hare at once,
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
result was that he came into communication with
some of his own departed relatives. He then
made mechanical telegraphic machines, which
were intelligently worked by spirits while the
apparatus was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote a book recording all these
facts. That book is now in the British Museum
Library. Judge Edmonds, of New York, is another
very eminent American Spiritualist, who has also i
written interesting books on the subject. Recently,
in England, Yiscount Adare has written a book
bearing testimony to the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
fapiily; for spirit rapping and movements of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley.
The Spiritual Magazine for October, 1869, gives
the following names of friends of Spiritualism
who have now and then contributed to its pages:—
“Viscount Adare; John Ashbumer, M.D., Translator
of Beichenbach, author of Philosophy of Animal Mag¬
netism and Spiritualism; T. B. Barkas, author of Outlines
of Ten Years' Investigation into the Phenomena of Modern
\Spiritualism; George Barth; Bichard Beamish, F.B.S.,
author of The Life of Brunei; Rev. S. E. Bengough,
M.A.; Edward L. Blanchard; Edward Brotherton; Cap¬
tain Bichard F. Burton (the African traveller;) William
Carpenter, author of Political Letters, The English Bible;
Captain Edward Henry Ohawner; Henry T. Child,
M.D. ^Philadelphia, U.S.A.); Benjamin Coleman, author
of Spiritualism in America; Robert Collyer, M.D., F.C.S.;
Christopher Cook; Bobert Cooper, author of Spiritual
\ Experiences; Mrs. De Morgan, author of From Matter to
\Spirit; Jacob Dixon, L.R.C.P., author of Clairvoyance,
Hygienic, and Medical; Hugh Doherty, M.D-, author of
Organic Philosophy; Captain Drayson, BA.; Judge
Edmonds (New York); Captain H. A Fawcett, B.N.;
John M. Gully, M.D.; Professor W. D. Gunning (Boston,
U.S.A.); Samuel Carter Hall, F.SA.; Emma Hardinge;
George Harris, M.A., F.SA., President of the Manches¬
ter Anthropological Society; W. E. Hickson, late editor
of the Westminster Foreign Quarterly Review; Bev. A.
W. Hobson, MA.; Baron C. Dirckinck Holmfeld; Daniel
Dunglass Home; Bev. J. Page Hopps, editor of The
Truthseeker; Mary Howitt; William Howitt; Henry D.
Jencken, M.R.I., F.G.S.; John Jones, author of Man:
Physical, Apparitional, and Spiritual; Bev. William
Ker, M. A.: Seymour Kirkup (Florence); Andrew Leigh¬
ton ; Bobert Leighton; Kenneth R. P. Mackenzie, F.SA.;
Bev. William Mountford (Boston, U.S.A.); A. E. New¬
ton (Boston, U.SA.) author of The Ministry of Angels
Realised; Mary S. Gove Nichols; J. H. Powell: Baron
Reichenbach, author of Researches on the Dynamics of
Magnetism; Elihu Rich, author of several articles in the
Encyclopedia .Metropolitana; J. Lockhart Bobertson,
M.B.C.P.J Mary C. Hume Bothery; Bev. W Hume
Bothery, M A.; Epes Sargent, author of The Planchette;
Thomas Shorter; Bev. W. B. Tomlinson, MA.; Orom¬
well F. Varley, F.B.G.S.; C. Staniland Wake, author of
Chapters on Man; Alfred B. Wallace; A. M. H. Watts;
William White, author of Emanuel Swedenborg: His
Life and Writings; W. M. Wilkinson, author of Spirit
Drawings; James J. Garth Wilkinson, M.D., author of
The Human Body, and its Connection with Man; Bev. F.
B. Young.”
Signor G. Damiani, a Sicilian gentleman living
at Clifton, bas written a pamphlet, still in print,
in which he severely censures Professor Tyndall,
Mr. G. H. Lewes, and others like them, for refus¬
ing to investigate the subject. He further offers a
reward of 1,000 guineas to any respectable, scien¬
tific or educated men, who will investigate the
subject and prove it to be an imposture. The
following are his words :—
“ I now offer you two challenges.
“First, I challenge you, or either of you, or any of
the public who, like you, disbelieve in the genuine cha¬
racter of spiritualistic phenomena, to deposit in the
hands of any well-known London banker whom you or
they may name, the sum of five hundred guineas; and
I pledge myself to immediately deposit in the same bank
a like amount,—the ownership of such sum of one thou¬
sand guineas to depend upon my proving by evidence
sufficient to establish any fact in history or in a criminal
or civil court of justice.
First—That intelligent communications and answers
to questions put, proceed from dead and inert matter in
a manner inexplicable by any generally recognised law
of nature.
“Secondly—That dead and inert matter does move
without the aid of any mechanical or known chemical
agency, and in defiance of all the admitted laws of gravi¬
tation.
“ Thirdly—That voices appertaining to no one in the
flesh are heard to speak and hold rational converse with
men.
“A jury of twenty-four gentlemen, twelve to be chosen
by each party (such jury to consist exclusively of mem¬
bers of the learned professions and literary men), to
decide whether or not the facts contained in the above
propositions are conclusively proved per testes—i.e., by
witnesses of established character. A majority of
the twenty-four to decide. If the verdict be that these
facts have not been established, the thousand guineas
are to belong to the party accepting this challenge; if
the verdict be that these facts are established, the thou¬
sand guineas to be mine.
“ Secondly—Immediately after the above wager being
decided, either way, I offer a like challenge of five hun¬
dred guineas (to be met on the other side in like manner
as above)—the ownership of the second sum of one
thousand guineas to depend upon the establishment of
the facts contained in the propositions already given, by
experiments conducted in the actual presence of the twenty-
four gentlemen who have decided the previous wager.
the verdict of the majority to decide in this case likewise.’
“ In either case, the stances are to be conducted in any
public or private building which the jury may select,
and which may be available for the purpose.
“ The result of these challenges (if accepted and de¬
cided) to be advertised by the victorious party, at the
expense of the defeated party, in all the London daily
papers.
“ I hope this is plain English.
“ Awaiting a reply to this letter, and to the challenge
with which it concludes, I am, gentlemen; your obedient
servant, G. DAMANI.
“Clifton, Oct. 1,1868.
“P.S.—Letters addressed ‘Sigr. Damiani, care of
Manager of West of England and South Wales District
Bank, Com-street, Bristol,’ will always reach the writer.”
In addition to the above evidence, there is the
testimony of numbers that the modem spiritual
manifestations are realities. Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New America estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United States at rather less than
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybody has made. There are no accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
All these facts, together with those which
follow, prove that Spiritualism deserves serious
investigation. Not a few learned men have pri¬
vately been examining the phenomena in order to
“ explode the imposture,” but these extinguishers
soon catch fire themselves. In short, in the
minds of most of the English public; Spiritualism
has to pass through the following five stages:—
1. The manifestations do not take place.
2. Spiritualism is a gross imposture.
3. It is a delusion.
4. It is the work of the Devil.
5. It is a great blessing, and we always said so.
Experience shows that the feebler the intellect,
and the lower the standard of energy and educa¬
tion, the sooner does the investigator break down
at one of the first four out of the above five steps
in the ladder of progress.
ME. HOME’S AFFIDAVIT.
In the Chancery suit of Lyon v. Home, for the
recovery of certain monies given by Mrs. Lyon
to Mr. Home against the advice of her lawyer
and her friends, Mr. Home made an affidavit, from
which the following is an extract:—
“ I, Daniel Dunglass Home, of 22, Sloane-street, in
the County of Middlesex, one of the above-named de¬
fendants, make oath and say as follows:—
“I was bom in Scotland on the 20th of March, 1833,
and from my childhood have been subject to the occa¬
sional happening of singular physical phenomena in my
presence, which are most certainly not produced by me
or by any other person in connection with me. I have
no control over them whatever: they occur irregularly,
and even when I am asleep. Sometimes I am many
months, and once I have been a year without them.
They will not happen when I wish, and my will has
nothing to do with them. I cannot account for them
further than by supposing them to be effected by intelli¬
gent beings or spirits. Similar phenomena occur to
many other persons.... These phenomena Ot jurring in
my presence have been witnessed by tb asands of
intelligent and respectable persons, including men fit
business, science, and literature, under circumstances
which would have rendered, even if I desired it, all
trickery impossible. They have been witnessed repeat¬
edly and in their own private apartments, when any
contrivance of mine must have been detected, by their
Majesties the Emperor and the Empress of the French,
their Majesties the Emperor, Empress and late Empress
Dowager of Russia, their Imperial Highnesses the Grand
Duke and Duchess Constantine of Russia and the mem¬
bers of their august family, their Majesties the King of
Prussia, the late King of Bavaria, the present and late
King of Wiirtemberg, the Queen of Holland, and the
members of the Boyal Family of Holland; and many
of these august personages have honoured, and I be¬
lieve still honour, me with their esteem and goodwill, as
I have resided in some of their palaces as a gentleman
and their guest, and not as a paid or professional per¬
son. They have had ample opportunities, which they
have used, of investigating these phenomena, and of
inquiring into my character. I have resided in America,
England, France, Italy, Germany, and Russia, and in
every country I have been received as a guest and
friend by persons in the highest position in society, who
were quite competent to discover and expose, as they
ought to have done, anything like contrivance on my
part to produce these phenomena. I do not seek, and
never have sought, the acquaintance of any of these
exalted personages. They have sought me, and I have
thus had a certain notoriety thrust upon me. I do not
take money, and never have taken it, although it has
been repeatedly offered me for or in respect of these
phenomena, or the communications which appear to be
made by them. I am not in the habit of receiving those
who are strangers to me, and I never force the subject
of Spiritualism on any one’s attention.... Some of the
phenomena in question are noble and elevated, others
appear to be grotesque and undignified. For this I am
not responsible, any more than I am for the many
grotesque and undignified things which are undoubtedly
permitted to exist in the material world. I solemnly
swear that I do not produce the phenomena aforesaid,
or in any way whatever aid in producing them,” &c.
“ I have been subjected to much persecution through¬
out my life, because of my conscientious belief as to the
meaning and great purpose of spiritual phenomena
taken as a whole. That belief I have not, like the
plaintiff, foresworn. I have always courted the strictest
investigation, although I have not condescended, to
notice all the attacks and anonymous slanders that have
been circulated respecting me. The book shown to me
at the time of swearing this affidavit, marked H 8, con¬
tains a correct list of upwards of 1,300 letters, with the
writers’ names, which I still retain (after having de¬
stroyed about 10,000), written to me by persons of every
rank and class, including persons of the highest social,
political, literary, and scientific position, who have in¬
vestigated these phenomena, and corresponded with me
about them. After the fullest opportunities of examina¬
tion, they have formed different opinions as to their
origin and meaning; but I believe that all are
thoroughly satisfied of my entire honesty in the matter;
and lately, while the plaintiff’s base and unfounded
charges of fraud and imposition have been hanging
over me, and during the months of January and
February, 1868, these phenomena have been thoroughly
tested by another scientific man, named Mr. Hawkins
Simpson, the inventor of electrical apparatus, including
one for printing at a distance by the telegraph—a
drawing and description of which were, as I am in¬
formed and believe, given in the Engineer newspaper of
the .15th November, 1867.”
Omitting the remainder of Mr. Home’s affidavit,
the following evidence given by him before the
Dialectical Society, is of interest:—
“ He had seen a pencil lifted by a spirit hand write on
paper in the presence of the Emperor Napoleon. This
took place in a large room, the Salon Louis Quinze. The
Empress was also present. The hand, after writing,
went to the Emperor, who kissed it; it then went to the
Empress; she withdrew from the touch, and the hand
followed her. The Emperor said, ‘Do not be fright¬
ened, kiss it! ’ She then kissed it, and it shortly after¬
wards disappeared. The writing was an autograph
of the Emperor Napoleon I. The Emperor of Russia
had also seen and handled spirit hands, which after¬
wards seemed to melt away into thin air.”
The Emperor Napoleon has been at a great
many of Mr. Home’s seances, and Mr. Home was
asked by members of the Dialectical Society to
state other things which had been observed on
those occasions. Mr. Home said that he did not
fee!at liberty to state any more than the Emperor
was in the habit of telling himself.
WHAT IS THE USE OF SPIRITUALISM ?
Strange to say there are people who can ask
what is the use of communication with friends
and relatives, who have passed the great barrier
of the grave. One use of Spiritualism is, that all
Spiritualists who lead moderately good lives, are
found to gradually lose the fear of death. Spirits
through the agency of suitable media have much
power in the healing of diseases, and the removal
of deformities, though such poWer is far from
absolute. The following is a narrative, published
in Daybreak, of some of the powers exercised
through Mr. Newton, the best healing medium in
the United States; he is expected to visit England
in the course of "the year 1870. The following ex¬
ample from a very boundless field of choice, is
enough for the present on the subject of the uses
of Spiritualism :—
‘ Friday, May 22, of the present year (1868) will for
ever remain one of the most memorable days of my life.
It was on that day, when the sun was shining brightly
and bathing the world with its light and heat, that I
arrived at Newport,, Rhode Island, and first came under
the healing powers of Dr. J. A. Newton. I had heard
of him through The Spiritual Magazine, Mr. William
Howitt, and Mr. Coleman, and was assured that if I
placed myself in his hands I should be speedily and
radically cured of the neuralgic affection in my head,
for which I had been suffering for eleven years. It was
not until I had become a little more familiar with some
of the facts and phenomena of modem Spiritualism
that I felt a quiet faith in the power of Dr. Newton to
remove my disease. Having once attained to that state
of mind, and becoming satisfied that it was my duty, to
cross the Atlantic in search of health, I made arrange¬
ments for doing so, and left Liverpool for New York on
Saturday, May 9, arriving at the latter place on Tuesday
evening, the 19th. * * * * The moment Dr. New¬
ton and I met, I found in his face and simple kindly
manner a human image of the outside sunshine, and
but few words had . been spoken when I was convinced
that the errand upon which I had come would be ful¬
filled. I was about to give him the history in detail of
my affliction when he stopped me by saying, ‘That
after I had been cured he would be very glad to listen
to anything I might wish to say, but that the cure itself
was the first matter to be attended to.’ He then poured
a large quantity of very hot water upon my head while
I was leaning it over a basin into which the water fell.
After my head had been dried with a coarse towel, I
was made to sit upon a moveable seat, similar to a
music-stool, the doctor standing behind me, and placing
my head against his chest with his hands crossed upon
my forehead. He then moved my head in various
directions until all at once a clicking noise was heard at
the top of my spine. The doctor immediately cried out,
‘ That noise is the sign that you will be cured; the dis¬
turbance of the nerve current has been removed.’ He
then faced me, and lifting both his hands towards
heaven, he looked me hard in the face, saying, ‘Look at
me. In the name of God our Heavenly Fattier, and of
the Lord Jesus Christ the Great Healer, I bid this
disease depart from this dear suffering brother and
never more afflict him. It is gone—it is gone—it is
gone for ever, my brother; you are cured; rise up on
your feet and be cured.’ At that instant I felt a strong
current of new life flowing into and through every part
of my body, and I was conscious that I had entered
upon an altogether new phase of existence. From that
day to the present hour, July 13, I have been entirely
free from my pain, and have felt as. well, I should think,
as it is possible for any human being to feel. Physically
speaking, I am a new creature; old things have passed
away and all things have become new. Of course it is
not for me to say absolutely that the cure will be per¬
manent, but, if I may judge from my present expe¬
rience, I see no reason why it should not be. so.
Wonderful as my case is, it is only one of thousands, so
far as Dr. Newton is concerned. He has cured almost
every form of disease, and removed almost every kind
of suffering. In fact, he appears to have done every¬
thing but raise the dead. And yet even he does not
cure all cases, and this failure enables him to keep alive
the consciousness that it is not he who cures, but God
who works in and through him. He tells me that he
has cured something like a quarter of a million of
people. * * * * Most of his cures are done without
fee or reward. In my own case he steadily, refused to
take a single dollar, and I saw him act in like manner
towards several others. During my stay I witnessed
several instances of his healing power; some of them
being so manifest as to defy all attempts at explaining
them away. On the very morning that my own cure
was effected, I witnessed his cure of a paralytic who for
three years had been unable to walk without the aid of
crutches, and even then, only in a partial degree. This
woman was brought by her parents to Newport, and, in
less than five minutes, from the time when she came
under Dr. Newtonls hands, she got up from the couch
on which she had been laid, and walked away up the.
street and back again, a full mile, and afterwards'.
walked and ran and jumped and danced, as so many
signs that her cure was a complete one. I also saw him
cure a young man who had a withered hand. Indeed, I
might have seen day by day, and hour by hour, ex¬
amples of this healing power had I chosen to have done
so. Every now and again, there are trains from Boston
and Providence freighted with the lame, the halt, the ,
blind, and the diseased, sometimes to the number of
500 or 600. These come to Newport, and a large majo¬
rity of them are sent kw&y perfectly cured. In one part
of Dr. Newton’s house there is a rooin-of- considerable
size, full of crutches, sticks, spectacles, eye^SEtdesr-
bandages, and other memorials ;bl- disease and sickness ,
which have been left behind by patients as so many
signs and trophies of their cure.
* * *. * * * *
“ Frederick Rowland Young-, •
“ Minister of the Free Christian Church, Swindon.”
There are very many healing mediums in the
United States, who can do good only in certain
diseases, or whose powers are so feeble that suc¬
cessful results may with more probability of accu¬
racy be put down to the imagination of the
patient.
A great use of Spiritualism is that it demon¬
strates the immortality of the soul. But why
ask, “ Of what use is Spiritualism ? ” for here the
thing is in our midst as much a part of nature as
the trees, the clouds, and the flowers,, and as it
cannot be abolished there is no alternative' but to
subject it to inveetigation, or to !ooky>u ; t igno¬
rance.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT UIRCi r.’i.
An experimental trial at home, among family
friends and relatives, often gives the most satis¬
factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the same time, as no fully developed
medium is present among those who have never
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will be no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations.
to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for every one successful
new circle thus started without a medium, there
are six or seven failures, but np accurate statistics
on this point have yet been collected. When
once manifestations have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive sittings. The following is a good plan of
action:—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but
cool rather than warm; let arrangements be made that
Nov. 19, 1869
&
THE SPIRITUALIST.
nobody shall enter it, and that there shall be no inter¬
ruption for one hour during the sitting of the' circle.
Wets damp, and foggy weatherds bad for the production
of physical phenomena.
,2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit round an un¬
covered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands
id contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance.
Any table will do, just large enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it
sonfetimes, but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may be
obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, except with well-developed
physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, but an
acrid feeling against them is a weakening influence.
6. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should bo of a frivolous nature. A prayerful,
earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely, to avoid confusion, let one person only speak,
and talk to the table as to an intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean
“Yea,” one means “No,” and two mean “Doubtful,”
and ask whether the arrangement is understood. If
three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, aud spell us out a
message ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “ Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations ?”
Probably some members of the circle will then be told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will be
afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the
medium ? ” When spirits come asserting themselves to
be related or known to anybody present, well-chosen
questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as spirits out of the body have all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms
of other forms of mediumship than tilts or raps
may make their appearance. Information respect¬
ing the many kinds of mediumship will be found
in Mrs. Professor De Morgan’s book, From Matter
to- Spirit, published by Longmans; and this is a I
good book to read before trying to start a new
circle. It usually takes several years for any
medium to attain full power, and it is not an
uncommon although not an everyday thing, for
chairs and other articles to move about in the
presence of a good well-developed physical medium
without anybody touching the articles at all. This
fact effectually disposes of Faraday’s “ unconscious
muscular action ” theory. Some have suggested
that the phenomena are all mental, since mental
conditions influence their production, and that
those present all believe they see and hear things
which they do not in reality see and hear. The
answer is that there is sometimes such a noise
with improperly powerful manifestations that the
sounds are heard all over the house by persons
not in the room; the furniture sometimes gets
broken by movements of too violent a character,
and the broken portions remain as evidence that
the phenomena were not of a mental character.
The upholsterers’ bills which result also serve to
convince that the occurrences are facts. The
higher spirits seem to have little power over
common matter, and the highest communications
are not usually obtained through physical mani¬
festations.
There are in England several very interesting
circles for physical manifestations, where the
spirits spoak with audible voices, but, unfortu¬
nately, total darkness is a necessary condition.
FTon-spiritualists who are inquiring into the sub¬
ject should have nothing to do with dark seances,
which should'be held only by those who, know
each- other,isince, they offer, so.m^hy:facilities, for
fraud. -' When any'circle regularly'obtains powerr
ful physical manifestatiohs/itlmy may desite;to'-sit ■
for >the\v6ices. The, very slightest'' glimmer "of'
light must' ^excluded frpjh''’the.; rop^;, wiiile .the
members of ;the,cirglevsit gojind ^tjhe^taD^ .inVthe, ■
ordinary-way. Quejor,-twbqpii^nrf'tjibes^.'jeach
twelvelior. eighteen' inches''long; ’wMn'amjorifice-i
about an inch-and-a-hitlf iri -diameter, should be
placed on the table. Thqy.maybe readily made
„by rolling, up,a.pibcefjof mu|ic*-attd tyipg' a- few-:
pieoes.-of'cb.t^onr^UBd^tJierougljituhe thus formed,
-tn tlief‘5ii;ly,^s^c^p^kpf-.ft vpice-Circie these tubes
iare^neb'eSsi^y-for thehise of the spirits, but after-
^fe^.ds’:!wey^ayhef dispensed with except when
Pthe: weather and other-conditions are unfavour-
•abie. When first trying to obtain the voices the
! spirits may .not-be able to lift the tubes from the
table, afterwards they, often get them up in the
air a foot or two and let them drop again. When
they get full control over them they can carry
them about up to the ceiling and to all parts of
the room, and they talk to the members of the
•circle often while floating about above their heads.
Very beautiful luminous phenomena are some¬
times shown by the spirits at dark circles. While
sitting for the voices, the spirits will tell by the
ordinary table signals how they are progressing in
their work of getting control of the tubes.
• By the aid of the mediumship of Mr. D. D. Home,
whose sittings nearly always take place either in
bright or subdued light, the spirits sometimes
make themselves visible, so as to be recognised
by . those who know them, and to be seen by all
present. There are two ways of seeing spirits:
in the first case the spirits materialise their own
forms till they become visible to everybody; in
the second the spiritual powers of the individual
are temporarily or permanently brought into play,
and he becomes a “ seeing medium.”
Every human being is surrounded by an atmo¬
sphere which to the spirits is luminous and mate¬
rial, and this atmosphere is largely used by the
spirits in the production of the physical manifes¬
tations. Baron Beichenbach, while he knew
nothing of Spiritualism, discovered by experiment
the presence of unknown forces emanating from
human bodies, and published the results in his
Hesearches on Animal Magnetism. All the pheno¬
mena of Spiritualism draw temporarily upon the
vital powers of those composing the circle, but
the medium is the chief source of energy.
A still atmosphere and subdued light in the
room are favourable conditions for the physical
manifestations.
SPIRITUALISM AND MEN OF SCIENCE,
Lord Brougham and Sir David Brewster many
years ago had a seance with Mr. Home. Every
facility was given them for investigation; they
witnessed some remarkable manifestations, and,
deeply impressed, parted with Mr. Home on the
most friendly terms. Some little time afterwards
Brewster, finding that he was much laughed at
for his testimony, began gradually to back out of
his first position, and to say that possibly trickery
was at the root of the manifestations. This led
to angry letters in the newspapers.. Full par¬
ticulars are published in Mr. Home’s Incidents of
My Life. Lord Brougham did not support Brews¬
ter in his later assertions.
Sir 3. Emerson Tennant once invited Faraday
to a seance at which Mr. Home was to be the
medium. Faraday wrote and asked for a pro¬
gramme df the manifestations, and as nobody
knows beforehand what will take place at a circle
any more than the details of an expected star-
shower can be given in advance, it was not pos¬
sible to comply with bis demand: Faraday also
required an answer to the following questions,
among others, before attending:—
“Would he [Mr. Home] he glad if their [the manifesta¬
tion's] delusive character were established and exposed,
and would he gladly help to expose it, or would he be
annoyed and personally offended? [The italics in this
sentence are not in the original.]
“ Does he consider the effects natural or supernatural ?
If natural, what are the laws which govern them? or
does he think that they are not subject to laws? If
supernatural, does he suppose them to be miracles, or
the work of spirits ? If the work of spirits, would an
insult to the spirits be considered as an insult to
himself?”
Mr. Home took no notice of the above insults,
and, it is believed, never wrote Faraday in the
first instance, or took any notice of him whatever.
He never even saw his letters.
Dr. John Tyndall, F.R.S., in a note dated May
8, 1868, commenting upon Faraday’s letter just
mentioned, wrote:—
“ I hold myself in readiness to witness and investigate,
in the spirit of the foregoing letter [of Faraday’s], such
phenomena as Mr. Home may wish to reveal to me
during the month of June.”
.A few days previously Mr. Home had written
in the Pall Mall Gazette:—
“ It will give me pleasure to meet Professor Tyndall,
and any two gentlemen he shall designate. On my side
I shall have at least two gentlemen whose names and
position place them above the suspicion of aiding or
abetting a fraud. I will meet Professor Tyndall and
these gentlemen when and where they please, and
under such circumstances as they may decide on. I
must only cravp their patience if nothing should occur
at the first, or even the second, siance."
From that day to this Dr. Tyndall has not
accepted the above invitation. Possibly it would
be no use if he did, for Mr. Home is like a sensi¬
tive plant, which is one reason why he is so pliant
in the hands of spirits, and the presence of any¬
body he does not like interferes seriously with
the very wonderful manifestations which we have
seen take place in his presence. Dr. Tyndall’s
best plan, if he desire to gain knowledge, is to
invite some medium, who gets common violent
physical manifestations, to meet him at the Royal
Institution.
These great errors on the part of Faraday and
Tyndall are here put on record with regret, for
men of their stamp deserve‘higher honours at the
hands of a nation than any others whatever; their
intellectual standing is of the very noblest order,
but, from a psychological point of view, their
letters show; them to be imperfect. Faraday is
now in a position to know and repent of his errors.
As for Dr. Tyndall, assuming that the dwellers in
the spirit land wish to and know how to commu¬
nicate with men, a glimmering of a great idea may
at last get inside his head, namely, that it is just
possible that the hosts of heaven may go on with
their work without asking his consent. However,
we believe him.to be very honourable and fearless,
and . think' that when he knows the facts to be true
ii&''will::jgovbeh'ind the’J&oyal Institution table and
say '-sp:,/publicly. 7
1 A demand for a programme where no programme
can-be giyen,: . and the writing of^ supercihpu-S
letters in reply to civil 4p,yi^a.titms,,^ip.ounts prtic-
tically to %jyipsai to obseirv.^ faats. . Dr. Tyndall,
ayad, meaAylip.-act like him, are recommended to
bearTh' mind ihd folloMhg'words of Galileo :—
' “Oh, my dear Kepler, how I wish that we could have
our hearty laugh together. Here, at Padua, is the prin¬
cipal professor of philosophy, whom I have repeatedly
and urgently requested to look at the moon and planets
through my glass, which he pertinaciously refuses to do.
Why are you not here ? What shouts of laughter we
should have at this glorious folly; to hear the Professor
of Philosophy at Pisa, labouring before the Grand Duke
with logical arguments, as if with magical incantations
to charm the planets out of the sky! ”
Several eminent members of the Royal Society
and of the Institution of Civil Engineers, have
recently been privately investigating Spiritualism, j
and know it to be true. Till they choose to attach
their names publicly to an unpopular truth, it is
not our business to do it for them, so names must
be withheld.
A little society Imown as the Dialectical Society,
is now investigating Spiritualism. It numbers
among its members many shrewd and intelligent
men, belonging chiefly to the legal and medical
professions. Spiritualists watch its proceedings
with a moderate amount of interest; nothing that
any man or body of men may say or do can alter
the established phenomena and laws of nature.
THE LITERATURE OF SPIRITUALISM.
The literature of Spiritualism now consists of
several hundreds of volumes, good, bad, and indif¬
ferent, and almost entirely of American origin.
Among the best volumes on the subject are Mrs
De Morgan’s From Mattes' to Spirit (Longmans)’
with a preface by Professor De Morgan, President
of the Mathematical Society of London; The
Planchette, by Epes Sargent; Spiritualism (2 vols.),
by Judge Edmonds and G. T. Dexter, of New
York; a History of Spiritualism, by Emma Hard-
inge ; and The Autobiography of Andrew Jackson
Davis. An interesting book, consisting simply of
narrations of facts witnessed at remarkable seances,
is Incidents of My Life (Longmans), by D. D.
Home. The Soul of Things, by Denton, is a curious
book indirectly connected with Spiritualism, and
worth reading. Those unacquainted with Spiri¬
tualism are recommended to read these books in
the order in which they have just been mentioned.
The only large lending library of Spiritual books
in Great Britain is that belonging to Mr. J. Burns,
15, Southampton-row, High Holborn, London,
W.C. The English periodicals on the subject
are, The Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, Day¬
break, and The Spiritualist. .
ADVICE TO INQUIRERS.
Those who know no intelligent Spiritualists,
and nothing about Spiritualism, yet who want to
investigate, are recommended to begin by reading
the first two books mentioned in the preceding
paragraph. Then they should call upon the chief
publisher of Spiritual books in London, Mr. J.
Burns, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom (where they
are sure to be treated with attention and courtesy),
and ask. for the names and addresses of say four
good professional or non-professional mediums,
accessible to the public, and “ recognised by Spiri¬
tualists as reliable for powerful physical manifes¬
tations.” There are plenty of mediums.o»r of people
who fancy themselves mediums, who can rarely show
anything satisfactory, and with whom an inquirer
might waste much. time. He should then get say
two sittings by daylight in his own house with
each of the four mediums, because the power
varies in strength at times with every medium;
at the end of the eight sittings he is sure to be
thoroughly interested in Spiritualism, and to have
thrown overboard the imposture theory, which is
the clumsiest and most superficial one of all.
Many of the public have vague ideas that electri¬
city can do all kinds of unaccountable things, but
A GENUINE MEDIUM NEVER HAS ANY HESITATION j
IN SITTING WITH A CIRCLE IN A HOUSE AND AMONG
FURNITURE WHICH HE OR SHE HAS NEVER SEEN IN
HIS OR HER LIFE BEFORE. Evfen with a good
medium it is best, if time be valuable^ not to
investigate at crowded public circles, because,
assuming imposture to be at work, there is no
telling who may not be aiding, among the
numerous spectators. Besides, where so many
people want to ask questions of the spirits, the
investigator has not time to put many himself.
Investigators are recommended to be thus careful
in the selection of mediums, because as public
attention is gradually more rivetted upon Spiri¬
tualism, impostors are sure to spring up, and even
to advertise in Spiritual periodicals, for the editors
manifestly cannot investigate the claims of every
professing medium. At present (November, 1869)
there is verjr little imposture mixed up with the
Spiritual movement in Great Britain, and there are
only four or five paid mediums in all London.
Good paid mediums deserve high praise rather
than that censure which is thrown upon them even
by Spiritualists ; they find house-room; they are
ready to receive strangers at stated times when
private circles could not sit for the convenience of
inquirers: the sittings exhaust their vitality like a
hard days’ work,- and they have to put up with
much abuse when uneducated roughs unaccus¬
tomed to investigation persecute them by attend¬
ing. The inquirer should mention to the medium,
civilly and kindly, his doubts respecting the
phenomena *he may witness; the invisible beings
around will at once, on the spot, do their best to
remove those doubts, or an explanation will be
obtained from the medium. "When there is real
foundation for suspicion, the best plan is to go
often to the medium, accompanied by witnesses,
detect the imposture, and prosecute the medium
for obtaining , money under false pretences.
Genuine manifestations are not under the control
of the medium, so that a paid medium who does
not get manifestations, is under a greait temptation
to try to make them. This fact makes it difficult
for Spiritualists to speak absolutely as to the relia¬
bility of any paid mediums, however genuiue the
majority of the manifestations may be which occur
in their presence. After getting thoroughly inte¬
rested in Spiritual phenomena, the inquirer should
take his friends to see them, and afterwards gef up
a private circle in his own house/ ■ Manifestations
will mo^t likely .not,be obtained at thp.first "sitting,
but aft'er y'erjf.few.qr very many sittings' they will
febnie j‘ gradually the .great, barrier Of thegravo
which now separates friendswjjlbe brolcondown,.
and after the experience of a* year or two the
dread--. Gf the ..beautiful ■natural process, called
fl death," will 6e destroyed, as it is destroyed in
the minds of all experienced Spiritualists, except
those who during life have done harm to their
fellow-creatures. Very high spirits and their
homes ar§ perfectly invisible to very low spirits;
this, coupled with the fact that there is no more
uniformityin the next world than there is here,
accounts for the endless contradictions about spirit
life given in Spiritual communications.
An investigator of a logical and scientific turn of
mind may possibly have to closely follow up the
subject for some weeks before gaining the absolute
knowledge that the manifestations come from
spirits. Unlike Mr. Home and a few other excep¬
tional individuals, most mediums are developed
for one or two special purposes only. Thus, vio¬
lent physical manifestations, inexplicable by any
of the recognised laws of matter, may be seen in
the presence of one medium, but mental tests and
questions may bring forth a majority of inaccurate
and unreliable answers. Where good mental tests
are obtainable through a medium, the physical
manifestations may be altogether absent.
JOSEPH BARKER’S AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
Now ready, neatly bound in cloth, price 2s. 6d.
Teachings of experience; or,
Lessons I have Learned on my Way through
Life.
“ At the time he told me of these things, I had become
rather uncharitable towards the Spiritualists, and very
distrustful of their statements, and the consequence was,
that my friend’s account of what he had witnessed,
and of the effect it had on his mind, made but little im¬
pression on me. But when I saw things resembling
what my friend had seen, his account of what he had
witnessed came back to my mind with great power, and
helped to increase my astonishment.” ... “ The result of
my visit to Dr. Redman was, that I never afterwards
felt the same impatience with Spiritualists, or the same
inclination to pronounce them foolish or dishonest, that
I had felt before. It was plain, that whether their theory
of a spirit world was true or not, they were excusable in
thinking it true. It looked like truth.”—Pp. 163, 164.
London: James Beveridge, 9, 10, 11, Fullwood’s-rents,
Holborn, W.O. •
TO LIFE POLICY-HOLDERS. — The
recent disclosures in the Chancery Court indis¬
putably prove that neither the antiquity of a life office
nor the magnitude of its income, affords to the public
any security that the premiums they have paid for the
purpose of securing a sum of money to their families
may not be frittered away in costly amalgamations, or
jeopardised by fire, marine, or accidental risks.
In order to remove this insecurity the BRITISH IM¬
PERIAL INSURANCE CORPORATION was esta¬
blished on the principle substantially adopted by Her
Majesty’s Government for small policies, and carried out
through the medium of the Post-office.
The Life Funds of the British Imperial Corporation
are placed beyond the control of the Directors, being in¬
vested in the Government Funds (for the sole purpose
of meeting policy claims) in the names of trustees, who
act independent of the Directors, and solely on behalf of
the policy-holders.
The system of investing Insurers’ net premiums in
Consolidated three per cent. Annuities in Trustees’
names for the sole purpose of meeting Policy Claims,
combined with the creation of a number of Separate'
Trusts, presents entirely new elements of security to
Insurers. Such principles are in contradistinction to
those of ordinary Life Insurance, where all the premiums
paid by Insurers are under the sole control of a Central
Board, exercising power to invest them in almost any
description of security at home or abroad.
Any section of the community who are dissatisfied
with the ordinary plan of entrusting their premiums to
the care of the Directors of a life office may, without
cost or risk, constitute themselves into a separate sec¬
tion of the British Imperial Corporation, and appoint
their own trustees to control the life insurance funds
contributed by them.
Life policies, if only in force for one, two, or three
years, may be transferred to the British Imperial Cor¬
poration on equitable terms.
Trustees:
Christopher Weguelin, Esq., Director of the Bank of
England (Messrs. Thomson, Bonar, and Co.)
Charles Oppenheim, Esq:, Director of the Union Bank of
London (Messrs. S. Oppenheim and Sons).
■William G. Goodliffe, Esq., Accountant-General, India
Office, Westminster.
Augustus F. Bayford, Esq., LL.D., Senior Registrar,
Court of Probate, Doctor’s-commons, Chancellor of'
the Diocese of Manchester.
Alderman Thomas Dilworth Crewdson, J.P., Greehheys,
Manchester.
Head Offices:
81, KING-STREET, AND 60. SPRING-GARDENS,
MANCHESTER.
Chief Offices for London:
20, COCKSPUR-STREET, PALL-MALL. -
HUMAN NATURE, a Monthly Record'
of Zoistic Science, Intelligence, and Popular-
Anthropology. Recent numbers give full details of the
extraordinary Manifestations through the celebrated-
Medium, D. D. Home, Esq., with philosophical reason¬
ings as to the nature and cause of the phenomena: a
new series of lessons on Phrenology and the. Tempera-:
ments is being given, containing some new instructions
of great value to the student; first-class Portraits of-
eminent men and women, with Biographies and Phreno-r
logical delineations are frequently introduced; a serial. *
Tale of great power and beauty; articles on Physiology,
Diet, Temperance, and Health; translations from Con¬
tinental Works and Periodicals; treatises on Mesmerism,
Clairvoyance, Spiritualism; reviews of Books; reports
of Lectures, Meetings, and Societies, renders this the
cheapest, most varied, and instructive Periodical of the
kind in the world. The fact that this Periodical is en¬
tirely unbiased and devoted to the truth respecting all
the topics on which it treats, is a point not to be over¬
looked by all earnest investigators, whatever their
opinions may be. Post free,, ,7s. per annum, or 6d. per
month from the Booksellers. James Burns, Progres¬
sive Library, IS, Southampton-row, Bloomsbury-square,
Holbom, London, W.C.
TMKE PROGRESSIVE LIBRARY and
I SPIRITUALIST DEPOSITORY . has been re-' ,
moved .|rpm Camberwell to No. 15, Sofithamptonj-rd-iv/
Bloomsbiiry-square, Holbom, W.C. J.^B.urNS hds'Cly.ch
pleasure in announcing that he^oj^ bj^]^^
named commodious Prgmisefc WhiblLhe‘iptpttfem
vote to the furtherance'of. ttfa ’csiu^e of ’Spiritualise1 andl
Kindred Studies. . .w.. u ^. i > j
■ There is a Pubiishifftf' Office"
Room for the, speclaUuse ‘brpfwiiAs
Private Rooms. }6f, ^ancfes,(Xlbmmitte^,,itoereqg§i^j‘/
and where all infomasrtion'^reSpqcjjfi'g^he Cause.'.and the' . argsas
Progresspf.eyents'rnay.'.Dd'ofcta'ihed. ..’"''"'‘.Vf 'IS
. phe Room yrJl be furnishe'd wRli 'interestja^J^pfe-
mens of Spirit Drawings, Paintings, Photographs, Efiteet-.. ..
Wfifipgs, Portraits, Devices,, and all that. can.int^Kesl; :
and instruct those who inquire into the subject'Of "
Spiritualism.
The Subscription, entitling to all the privileges of the
Establishment, Including the use of two Books at; a
time from the Library for home perusal, is 21s. per
annum.
A well-assorted Stock of Stationery, Periodicals, cur¬
rent Progressive Literature, Standard Works, Cheap
Books and Tracts, Planchettes, Materials for Writing
and Drawing Mediums; also Works and Appliances on
Phrenology, Physiology, Health, and Dietetic Reform,
Temperance, Hydropathy, Gymnastics, Mesmerism,
Clairvoyance, Anthropology, &c., will be kept on sale.
As the responsibilities incurred in establishing this
“ Home for Spiritualism ” and the Science of Man are
very heavy, the Proprietor earnestly solicits the kind
co-operation and support of all who sympathise with
the enterprise. Strangers in London should at once
call at the Progressive Library, where they may hear of
Lodgings and get other useful information.
J. Burns, Progressive Library, 15, Southampton-row,
Bloomsbury-square, Holbom, London, W.C.
intents.
Spirit-rapping in John Wesley’s Family   1
Philosophy of Death    ... ... 1
Number of Spiritualists in America  1
Testimony of Non-Spiritualists  ... ... 1
Why Galileo was Persecuted ...   ... 2
Reports of Meetings:—St. John’s Association of
Spiritualists. 2—Summary of Evidence Given be¬
fore the Dialectical Society—The Anthropological
Society      ... 2
Spirit-Greetings ...  4
General News:—The Spiritualist—The Dialectical
Society—The Gower-street Conft.mce—Spiritual¬
ism in New Zealand—Spiritualism in East London
—Spiritualism in Clerkenwell — Spiritualism in
Bloomsbury — Mesmerism and Clairvoyance —
Charge of Imposture—Where the Liars go to ... 4
Leaders:—Opening Address—The Scientific Inves¬
tigation of Spiritual Phenomena ...   5
Which is the Best Evidence   ...   5
Poetry ... ... ...     6
Correspondence—The Separation between Spirit
Societies—Thought-reading aud Physical Manifes¬
tations—Trance Mediumship 6
Dr. Thomas Young on Spirits  6
Answers to Correspondents ... ™ ™ ... 6
Paragraphs:—A Spirit on Ghosts, 3—Friends of
Spiritualism, 6—Solomon, King of Israel, 6—The
Spiritual Library, 6 -Apparitions, 6.
Printed for the Proprietor by James Beveridge, at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High
Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and
St George the Martyr, London.
