[Registered AS A Newspaper.
#Itef ll^bs|japr toxilj Sphiinalism m (&tmt gnfaxir.
No. 184.—(Vox, VIIL—No. 9.)
LONDON: FRIDAY. MARCH 3, 1876.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
OTontems.
Organic Changes in the Spiritual Movement 
A Vision of Healing Spirits. By Fanny Theobald  
Seances with Dr. Slade    
Provincial News :—South Shields, Spiritualism as a Fact—
Liverpool, Spiritualism and Mesmeric Phenomena 
A Lecture by Dr. Orookes  
Seances at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory's  
The Psychological Society of Great Britain 
Transactions of the National Association of Spiritualists:—
Mesmerism and its Phenomena—Mr. Duguid’s Painting
MediumShip—Automatic "VI riting—Clairvoyant Pheno¬
mena—Is it Possible to Forget ?—The Travelling of the
Spirit during the Sleep of the Body—Mesmerism and
Physiology—Writing Mediumship—The Integrity of the
Spirit Body—The Sensations of Persons with Ampu¬
tated Limbs—Clairvoyance apart from Mind-Reading
—^Meetingsof the Council  ...
The Duties of SpiritualistsMeeting of the Dalston
Association of Spiritualists   ...  
The Influence of Spiritualism on the Moral Character
Spiritualism at Camden Town ... ... ...  
Poetry:—To my Child in Church ...' 
Correspondence:—The late Archbishop Whately’s Ideas
about Spiritualism—Spiritualistic Nomenclature—Spirit¬
ualism in South London—Spirit Hand Moulds in Man¬
chester—Seances with Mr. W. Eglington  
Answers to Correspondents   ...
ParagraphsThe Loss of the Strathmore, 100; Spirit¬
ualism in Wolverhampton, 1015 A Dream Story, 107;
Mr. Morse Permanently Engaged, 107; Spiritualism in
Glasgow. 107 ; Spiritualism in Blackfriars  
97
97
98
100
101
102
102
107
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street,
London : and orders intended for the Friday s issue should reach the
office not later than by the first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist” will be_ posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London,
W.O City Publishing Office, E \V. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
London, E.C.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, & GENERAL OUTFITTER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including
hats, shirts, and umbrellas.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY'S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE FOR TWO
GUINEAS PER MONTH.
With Immediate Possession and no Rent to pay.—Apply at the
Office of the Birkbeck Building Society, 29 & 30, South-
ampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF LAND FOR
FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH.
With Immediate Possession, either for Building or Gardening
purposes.—Apply at the Office of the Birkbeck Freehold
Land Society, 29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-
lane.
HOW TO INVEST YOUR MONEY WITH SAFETY.
Apply at the Office of the Birkbeck Bank, 29 and 30, South¬
ampton buildings, Chancery-lane. All sums under £60
repayable upon demand.
Current Accounts opened, and Interest allowed on the
minimum monthly balances. Cheque-books supplied. English
and Foreign Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
Advances made thereon.
Office hours from ten to four; except on Saturdays, when the
Bank closes at two o’clock. On Mondays the Bank is open
until nine o’clock in the evening,
A Pamphlet with full particulars may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
BOARD and RESIDENCE, Upper Norwood.—
A lady, of liberal views, and Nonconformist, desires to
establish in her own house a friendly family party of two or
three ladies. Young orphan ladies would find this a pleasant
home, and those who wish to study will have advantages in
joining the classes now so popular at the Crystal Palace
Schools of Art. Terms—130 guineas per annum, or propor
tionately less for a shorter term. Address—Alpha, 1, Bernard-
villas, Upper Norwood.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
The Second Volume of The Identity of Primitive
Christianity and Modern Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth,
completes the work.
CONTENTS.
I.—Spirit Writing.
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power.
III. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV, —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
V.—Clairaudience
VI.—Dreams and Visions.
VII.—Trance and Ecstacy.
VIII.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies andCon tent ions.
X.—Prayer.
XT.—The Ministry of Angels.
XII.—Death.
XIII. —The Spirit-World.
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI.—Conclusion.
The above work has just bet-n issued in America, and copies
may be had in a week or two, price 10s. 6d. each, at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.C.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—38, Great Russeil-street,
London, W.C.: and E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, Pater¬
noster-row, E.C.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London :—Simbkin, marshall & Co.
Will shortly be published,
DR. MONCK’S ALMANACK and TRUTH-
SEEKERS’ GUIDE TO THE INVESTIGATION OF
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.” Over forty closely printed pages.
Price 3d. Contains original articles on “Scientific Spiritual¬
ism,” “Cui Bono,” “The Healing Power,” “Rules for the
Spirit-circle,” &c., &c., by S. C. Hall, Dr. W. Hitchman,
“ Fritz,” T. P. Barkas, &c. Will be found very useful among
Sceptics and Investigators. Quantities supplied to societies or
for free distribution at a great reduction. Single copy, post
free, 3d. Address, Geo. Tommy, 7, Unity-street, Bristol.
Agents wanted.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
The spiritual magazine, edited by
GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D, etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row,
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, <fcc., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, pub¬
lished on the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue
de la Cath£drale, Liege, Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTI8MO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
X>EVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psyoho-
JLVf logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
PARTS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist
may obtain it of Mme.Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque,
246, Boulevard des Capucines, Paris.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The
Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of
Printing, Estimates forwarded on application.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM & LIBRARY
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open to members and inquirers. News¬
papers and periodicals connected with Spiritualism, from
all parts of the world, and various high-class journals, are regu¬
larly supplied. The librax’y contains, in addition to the best
writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, speculative, and
scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes
membership and the loan of two books from the library;
10s. 6d. a year, one book from the library. Non-members can
subscribe 5s, for one quarter for the free use of the Reading-
room, but without the advantage of the Lending Library.
A Seance-room can be engaged under special arrangements,
to be learned from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30a.m. to 9 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on Saturdays.
PSYCHIC STUDIES. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakop, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Motze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.O.
"DEFLECTIONS FROM THE SPIRIT-
_I_\l WORLD. A Monthly Record of Trance, Spoken, and
Written Communications given at the meetings of the Buda-
Pesth Society of Spiritual Inquirers. Price Is. monthly, Buda-
Pesth: Josefstadt, 23, Erzherzog Alexandergusse. London:
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
East London spiritual meetings.—
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
THE REV. F. R. YOUNG, of Swindon
(honorary member), will READ a PAPER on Our
Duties as Spiritualists to Opponents, Inquirers, and Ourselves,”
at the weekly meeting of the Dalston Association, on Thurs¬
day evening next, the 24th instant, at eight o’clock. Visitors
will be admitted on application to the hon. secretary, at the
Association’s rooms, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances, &c.: Sundays, Healing, at 11 a.m.;
Serviceat 7 p.m. Tuesday, Seance at 8 p.m.; Is. Friday, Seance at
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Cliss at
8 p.m.; subscribers only.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT-LAND.—Being
Life-Experiences, Scenes, Incidents, and Conditions
illustrative of Spirit-Life and the principles of the Spiritual
Philosophy. Of practical value to any who are anxious to
study the theories of Spiritualists and Mediums, for the purpose
of deducing a consistent system of faith concerning the
future, its rewards and punishments, &c., as it establishes a
basis in reason for its propositions, and asks no blind accep¬
tance of statements, but enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Given inspirationally through Mrs. Maria M. King. Cloth,
5s. 6d. Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-
street, London, W.C.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, the two
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule
F.R S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.8., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post free, 6jd. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Mesmerism, electro-biology,
FASCINATION.
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological
phenomena.
How to know Sensitive Subjects.
How to develop Clairvoyant Media.
How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DR. MOSES RIGG can teach any person efficiently by post.
Pamphlets and testimonials gratis, or by post, Id. stamp.
Address, 9, Granviile-square, London, W.O. At home daily
from 10 till 5.
STRANGE VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W,C,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
March 3, 1876,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex,
N.W.
Fltz-Gerald, Bfrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hiil, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.B.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.'
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Kamsay, Mrs., 40, Bryanston-squai-e, W.
Smith, Martin K., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alcxandra-
road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Helper.
Armfield, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., I, King Edward-st., Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Itichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Eeigate.
Binney, F. A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street. Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keuiugale, LL.D., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury.
Cooper, E., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.W.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G.,M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 0, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6, Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
James, Capt., 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Rlchmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C.T., M.R.C.S., 19, Nottingham-place, York-gate, Regent’s
Park., N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
road, S E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Snelling, G. F1., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper
Norwood.
Strawbridge,Mrs.G.N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton. A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
i’app & R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
FheO ja--., Morell, 80, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. II. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham J unction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. Jolm’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, IL, 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
G. L. Ditson, Esq.,M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Yernon-street, Philadelphia,
tr.s.A. !
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 18, Rue d’Acnieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis; Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels,
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. Hallock, 46, Heveford-road, Bayswater, W.
Mrs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Poutecorvo, 60, Naples.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. Lewis
Roberts, 68, Oxford-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-I’esth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka J osefstadt, Erzherzog, Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary,
B1UTISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
la at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenings (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance, healing,
AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing. Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship. Disorderly Influences
removed. French spoken. At home Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended. Ad¬
dress, 10, New Ormond-street, Bloomsbury.
PROFESSOR REGAN, PSYCHOPATHIC
HEALER, wishes to make known, by desire of his
Spirit Physicians, who cure through him, in his normal
state, that having been developed by them into a powerful
healing medium, and at the same time, by a course of deep
study, acquired a practical knowledge of the philosophy of
disease, and its rationale of cure, he is now prepared to ex¬
amine, treat, and cure patients, suffering from all kinds of
acute, chronic, nervous, and organic disease of long years’
standing. Consultations and invaluable treatment given at
his own house, or at patient’s residence, by appointment.
Visitors received at his Consulting-rooms from 12 to 4 daily.
Fee, One Guinea. Address, 59, Finhorough-road, Redcliffe-
gardens, South Kensington.
The British National Association op Spiritualists is formed
to uuite Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid
and benefit; to aid students and inquirers in their researches, by
placing at their disposal the means of systematic investigation into
the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic; to make
known the positive results arrived at by careful research; and to
direct attention to the beneficial influence which those results are
calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual con¬
duct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class, whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers
into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in
the year 1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held hi Liver¬
pool, at which all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the
Spiritualists of the chief towns in the Unitea Kingdom, were re¬
presented. The amount of the annual subscription to the National
Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year.
Each member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is
eligible for election to all offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wish¬
ing to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss
Kisliugbury, Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38,
Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C., of whom copies of the Con¬
stitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Woburn-street.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—IAt. Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. Lewis Roberts, 68, Oxford Street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Knox.
Committee of Management.—Mr. J. Smith, Mr. James Monk,
Mr. J. Chapman, Mr G. Brown, Mr. J. Haslam, Mr. Jones,
Mr. William Meredith, Mr. Ainsworth, Mrs. Ainsworth, Miss
Hilton, and Miss Dickson.
Trustees.—James Wason, Esq., Mr. John Lament, Mr. Joseph
Shepherd.
Auditon'S.—Mr. P. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
instruction, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
February, 1875.
In the Press.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST
AND RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT,
1, Robert street, Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen
by appointment only. Terms on application by letter.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
Notice.—monsieur adolphe didier,
Professor of Curative Mesmerism (80 Years Estab¬
lished), attends patients daily from 2 till 5, at his own resi¬
dence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden Hill, Kensington. Som¬
nambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases, indication of
their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can consult
by letter.
MR. WILLIAM EGLINGTON, the PHY-
SICAL MEDIUM, is at liberty to receive ENGAGE¬
MENTS for Seances at private houses. For terms, &o.,
address, Mr.W. Eglington, St. James’s House, Walthamstow.
Clairvoyance, and healing by spirit
MESMERISM.—Test Communications through Trance
and Writing. Seances by Mrs. Olive, the well-known Spirit-
Medium, on Thursday (other days by appointment only), from
two to four p.m. for Private Consulcation, and four to five for
Public Seance, at 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury. Mrs.
Olive also holds Public Seances at her residence, 49, Belmont-
street, Chalk-farm-road, N.W., on Tuesdays, seven p.m., and
Fridays, three p.m. Terms—Private Seances, one guinea;
Public ditto, admission 2s. 6d. Mrs. Olive’s Healing Powers
are now well established, and testified to by many who employ
no other medical aid. Special terms for courses of treatment
on application. Single visits for consultation, &c., within ten
miles, two guineas inclusive.
Mediumship , its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.j or six copies post free
for 6d.
Psychopathic institution for the
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6d.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTE
FOR the CURE OF NERVOUS AND MUS¬
CULAR DISEASES, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church,
74, Queen’s-road, Everton, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Ope¬
rators sent to all parts. Terms per arrangement.
 J. Coates, Principal.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, KhandeRassim Pacha aBahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
.The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gouobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2c, Leipsic, Germany.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co„New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Launston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 206, West 38th Street, New York,
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 13, Via Fate bene Fratelli, Milan.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse, 35, Gartenhaus,
Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq , M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
DR. MONCK’S ALMANACK AND TRUTH-
SEEKERS’ GUIDE TO THE INVESTIGATION OF
MODERN SPIRITUALISM. Over fifty closely-printed pages,
with illustrations of direct drawings through Dr. Duguid’s
mediumship. Contains original articles written expressly for
the almanack by S. O. Hall, F.8.A., Dr. W. Hitchman,
“Fritz," T. P. Barkas, F.G.S., W. Oxley, T. Shorter, Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory, A. Calder, J. N. Tredman Martheze, Mrs.
Tyndall, &c., &c. Subjects—“ Scientific Spiritualism," “ Cui
Bono," “The Healing Power,” “Spiritualism in Every-day
Life," ‘ The Beneficent Aspect of Spiritualism,” On Mediums,’
“ Rules for the Spirit Circle.” Will be found very useful
among sceptics and investigators. Orders should be sent in at
once to Geo. Tommy, 7, Unity-street, Bristol. Single copy, post
free, 3d. Quantities supplied to societies or for free distribution
at a liberal reduction. Agents wanted.
ART, MAGIC, MUNDANE, SUB-MUN-
DANE, AND SUPER-MUNDANE SPIRITISM.
The European subscribers to this fine work are respectfully
informed that it has just been sent to press, and will be ready
for delivery on or about the 1st of March. In America, where
the work is published, books can be sent by express, and p9y-
ments collected on delivery. As this plan cannot be pursued in
sending books to Europe without very heavy express charges,
and the secretary, on the author’s behalf, does not feel jusdfled
in sending out such a rare and valuable book unpaid, those
who have not already remitted their subscriptions, and desire
to obtain their copies with the least possible delay, can send
the amount by Post Office Order, cheque, registered letter, or
any other mode most convenient to themselves. The price
of each copy, as before stated, is five dollars, and the postage
(if prepaid) half-a-dollar. Remittances will be immediately
acknowledged, and the book sent by mail (unless otherwise
directed) as soon as ready. — Emma Hardinge Britten,
Secretary for the publication of Art Magic, &o., 206, West 38th-
Btreet, New York, America.
THE AMERICAN SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE.
Devoted to Spiritualism. Its history, phenomena, and
teachings from a Christian stand-point.—The Editor has been
an Itinerant Methodist Minister fur over 36 years, 33 of which
have been spent in Memphis, Tennessee, and vicinity where
the Magazine is published. It belongs to no sect or party, but
is free to discuss all subjects untrameled, adopting as its
motto—
“ To seize the truth wherever found,
On Christian or on heathen ground.’’
It contains thirty-two pages of leading matter besides the
cover. Published monthly, price 10s. per annum. Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street
London, W.C.   
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion is pourtrajed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S.: Colby and Rich. London Spirit¬
ualist Of&ce, 38, Great Russell-street.
jt tA ||| uf
Volume Eiqht.
LONDON, FRIDAY,
ORGANIC CHANGES IN THE SPIRITUAL MOVEMENT.
A general separation, of a more or less complete nature,
is going on everywhere in the provinces, as in London,
between educated and uneducated Spiritualists. Not only
do we see it in London, where the late St. John’s Association
and Marylebone societies would not enter into friendly
alliance with the other associations in the metropolis posses¬
sing more educated members ; but in Birmingham, for
instance, at the late bazaar, the of the local workers
were conspicuous by their absence, and these latter are far
more favourable to the National Association of Spiritualists
than their local brethren, as evidenced by letters sent to us
for publication, but not printed, as we have no desire to pro¬
mote divisions, however unavoidable they may be. Similar
signs of separation are visible in all large Spiritualistic
centres. The more and less educated members of the
Dalston Association separated a few j^ears ago, without any
quarrel, and the latter started a new society in the vicinity.
The practical bearing of these facts on the action of the
National Association, is that if it gives funds to promote the
work of inferior lecturers, who in some instances give
addresses not of that, quality which everybody would like to
endorse, although perhaps suited to some of the listeners, it
will be spending its means on an object in which its present
supporters in the provinces do not feel much interest, the
resulting lectures not being in every case adapted to their
order of mind. Perhaps the National Association of
Spiritualists could not do much better than to establish a
permanent travelling library, with boxes of books circulating
from town to town at regular intervals. Thus its provincial
supporters would get solid information, which they would
value, and those who are not members would have a special
inducement to join. Further, the funds expended in this
way would be represented by permanent property. Many of
the Spiritual Sunday meetings in small towns in the
country are of the same type as those of the late St. John’s
Association, in Clerkenwell, but on the average perhaps of
not so high a standard, but useful and interesting in their
way. Besides keeping its provincial members well supplied
with good books, the National Association of Spiritualists
might act wisely by consulting its local members before taking
any particular step in any provincial town, thus strengthening
the hands of its primary supporters as much as possible.
A VISION OF HEALING SPIRITS.
BY FANNY J. THEOBALD.
Whilst looking through the interesting collection of
photographs of spirit drawings at the rooms of the National
Association of Spiritualists, I found two, done by different
mediums, but almost identical in symbolism. In each
drawing is given a group of seven spirits, who are con¬
jointly giving forth mesmeric power, and under one of the
drawings is written, “ The nay in which the spirits mesmerise”
It recalled to my mind the “ Vision of the Healing Spirits,”
an account of which was published some years ago by the
Rev. Page Hopps, in Daybreak, and as it is not likely that
many, if any, of your readers have seen it, and as it is, I
think, specially interesting, taken in connection with the
spirit drawings above mentioned, I now forward you the
detailed account. It is only by observing the different
teachings as conveyed through various mediums and varieties
of mediumship, that we can hope to arrive at any definite
conclusion upon points of interest in spiritual matters.
In the autumn of 1868 I was visiting my friends at
Swindon. Mr. F. R. Young had recently received the “ gift
of healing,” and we were thus especially interested in that
phase of medial* power. Miss Wreford also appeared to be
Number Nine.
MARCH 3rd, 1876.
j ; developing power in the same way. One evening, when we
| I were to have a seance for the benefit of one who was very
| | ill, we asked a “ seeing medium” to be present, hoping by
| | this means to learn something of the way in which the
|| spirits gave forth the healing influence. With the exception
m of a subdued light from the fire, the room was entirely
|j I dark.
||| Miss Wreford (who on this occasion was the “healer”)
|| laid her hands upon the patient, and in a few minutes, as
was usual with her, felt a heavy, but not painful, pressure
upon the top of her head. She had not mentioned it, when
| the seer said, “ Do you not feel something on your head?”
“ Yes, indeed I do,” she replied. The vision then was thus
I described:—
Gradually from the midst of a bright cloud appeared the
I forms of seven beautiful spirits, who were leaning over
Miss Wreford. One, being of grander stature and appearance
j than the other six, was apparently their leader, and they
S seemed to look up to him for direction. Their heads were
| not distinctly developed, but as though from the region of
I the heart, there appeared bright rays of light, which, flowing
| to and through their hands and fingers, were poured in
| strong power to within three or four inches of the top of
I; | Miss Wreford’s head, from which point all the rays from the
ill seven spirits converged into one broad stream, and thus
11 entering into the crown of her head, poured as a large
| flood of light all down her arms into her fingers, thence direct
| . into the body of the patient.
This lasted fully ten minutes. I remarked, “ How I wish
Christ, as the Great Healer, would show Himself to us to-
| night.” Miss Wreford afterwards told me that as I ex¬
pressed this wish, she had been praying that it might be so.
As our desire was thus expressed, suddenly six of the
| spirits disappeared, and the central grand one alone re-
| mained distinct for a few seconds ; then giving forth a rapid
flash of most resplendent light, composed, as we under-
| stood, of a variety of the most beautiful colours, he too
| passed from sight, and the influence was over.
A few days afterwards Mr. Young and Miss Wreford con-
| jointly laid their hands upon another patient. The same
I medium was present, and again saw the same spirits. But
| now they were standing together on a bridge of light, which
I passed from Mr. Young’s head to Miss Wreford’s, thus join-
| ing the influence.
It seems to be a fact that our spirit guides have many
I different ways of ministering to our varied wants, for
| mediums seem to be acted upon in various ways; but with-
| out doubt the means of communication between all forms of
spirit life, whether in the body or out of it, is the mysterious
| power we call mesmerism. Is not this wonderful force the
life or spirit of the universe ? And does it not differ widely
i both in degree and power ?
I once asked M. Jacob, of Paris, whether he could describe
| how his medial power was exercised. He told me that over
| most patients who went to his seances he could see either
I spirits, or the spirit lights. The lights were of diverse
colours, according to the “sphere” of the patient. Over some
| would be only a dark cloud, and as this was to him a sign
that the rapport could not be established he could tell that
| in such cases no benefit would follow. This would be no
| proof that rapport might not be established between those
| sufferers and the spirits around them if they sought it
| through some other medium. Thus, as I understood M.
| Jacob, the spirits attending his seances were not necessarily
| always with himself, but his presence helped the sufferers
I who sought his aid, to be placed en rapport with their own
| sphere of ministering spirits.
Dr. Mack, during a few minutes’ pleasant talk I had with
i him at one of our genial soirees, told me that he saw the
98
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Maech 3, 1876,
different colours round his patients, denoting their varied
spheres.
Miss Godfrey, whose powers as a healer and medical clair¬
voyant are as wonderful as ever, says that as she is mes¬
merising her patients she feels as though numbers of spirit
hands were placed upon her, and pouring power into her.
Although at times I have received power to relieve cases
of neuralgia, the mediumship given to me is most especially
confined to the spirit writing. Once, however, this power
was singularly and most unexpectedly diverted in this way :
A dear friend was with me, sitting by my side, as I, pencil
in hand, was waiting and hoping to receive a few words for
her from her loved ones in the spirit home. She was just
then suffering from some painful affliction of the eyes ; they
were much inflamed, and “stiff and painful.” I was
suddenly and irresistibly compelled to put down the pencil,
take one of her hands into one of my own, and place my
other hand over her eyes. I felt a rapid tingling sensation
running through my hands for a short half minute, when the
tingling ceased, seeming to flow out and away as the hand
dropped. The eyes were perfectly well, and remained so;
all stiffness, inflammation, and pain were gone, but not one
word more could I receive of the spirit writing on that day.
These cases could be multiplied almost ad infinitum as
ordinary experiences among Spiritualists.
St. Leonarcls-on-Sea.
SEANCES WITH DR. SLADE.
An interesting new novel, Through the Ages, a Psycho¬
logical Romance, by the author of The Honeymoon, and just
published by Messrs. Chapman and Hall, contains an
account of two seances with Dr. Slade. The writer of the
book says that the apparition described “ is not imaginary,
but was really witnessed exactly in the manner related by
the author at the house of Dr. Slade, 143rd Street, New
York.” The following is the description of the first stance:—
We decided to go to Dr. Slade, whom we heard of as a
very celebrated medium, and a very pleasant gentlemanlike
man we found him to be.
We repaired together to his house, but when I had
announced the object of my visit to the doctor my friend left
me, and I entered the sacred room with him alone.
I was determined to detect the least sign of trickery on
the part of the poor medium, so I never for one moment
took my eyes from him during the whole time our seance
lasted.
He first made me examine minutely the whole room, a
small back drawing-room, lighted by the brilliant rays of the
mid-day sun. Then we sat down to a small table in the
centre of the room, when I was quite convinced that there
was no possibility of deception whatever. He sat at the side
and I at the top nearer the window, my feet resting on his
the whole time, so that if he had made the slightest move¬
ment I must have necessarily felt it.
Thus we sat in silence for at least ten minutes, during
which nothing happened, although he kept saying that he
heard raps, that the table was beginning to move, and that
the spirits had not yet enough power.
Presently I did really hear a few indistinct raps, which
sounded to my ear wonderfully like the twittering of birds.
The doctor said the spirits were gaining force, and then
asked the table, for there was no one present except myself,
“ Will the spirits present communicate ? ” Three loud taps
came then, just under my hand, which I was sure he could
not have produced. “Will the spirits write ? ” he asked, after
a time. Three taps more came immediately. “ That means
Yes,” he said; “ wre have established a code of signals between
us; one tap means no, two taps mean doubtful, and three
taps mean yes.” The table gave three taps more, and louder
than ever as if corroborating his statement.
“ Are you sure you are not doing all this ? ” I then said,
utterly bewildered. I do not remember what he answered,
but I could not help being reassured by his very kind and
natural manner, and, until the end of the sitting, I
never once more doubted the genuineness of the mani¬
festations.
4fter a few minutes more he took up a slate that was
11 lying on the table, he put it in my hand and made me wash
51 it well with a sponge on both sides; then he broke a little
! slate pencil with his teeth, and placed a very small bit
<j under the slate, so small indeed that it could easily move
>! between the table and the slate, which was just a little raised
11 by its wooden frame. He placed the slate upon the table,
(j and I put my hand upon it. I could plainly see both Dr.
11 Slade’s hands upon the table; presently I began to hear and
|| to feel the vibrations caused , by the little piece of pencil
11 moving under the slate as if it were writing upon it. I
jj lifted it up when the writing ceased, and to my great sur-
prise I saw distinctly written in white upon the black sur-
)| face of the slate the words “ Concepcion Vargas.”
ij I could not contain a cry of wonder; there, before my
(j very eyes, was the sweet name which my wife had borne !
)| Who had written it ? He (the medium) had not moved
ji either; besides, how could he have known her name ? He
[| did not know mine, for I had been very careful not to tell
)| him who I was, but even if he had heard it, how did he
I know my wife’s name?
(j I could not believe it, and yet there it was in black and
)] white, and I held it in my trembling hand, fearing every
[] moment, I confess, it would vanish as it had come.
II Dr. Slade took the slate from me, and made me clean it
j with the wet sponge, effacing all traces of those words;
| then he placed it again upon the table with the pencil under-
j neath as it had been before. “ Do you know the spirit?”
j he said to me.
11 I was determined not to give him any clue as to the re-
| lation between us, so I said carelessly, “ I think I do; it
I must be a Spanish lady I met once in Seville.”
! | No more words passed between us. He remained in his
[| seat, and I placed my hand again upon the slate, while the
| little pencil was writing underneath. I was quite anxious to
j| see what was being written, but I did not dare to lift up the
[f- slate; after ten minutes of suspense, the table gave three
j raps. “It is the signal,” said Dr. Slade, “the spirits
|l have finished.”
I again lifted up the slate, and found it covered all over
II with writing. Dr. Slade took it first, but said he could not
' | read it, as it was in a foreign language, which he did not
j know. Italian, he said.
I I took it, it was in Spanish, the beautiful language of my
| wife. My agitation and my intense surprise can better be
! imagined than described.
I will try to translate this communication as well as I
[ can, for it was the first I ever received from my angel
| wife; but I fear it will lose much by being rendered into
j English.
| “ My own husband, my beloved Walter. Canst thou
j thus weep because thy love has entered a brighter sphere ?
I Oh, Walter, how canst thou be so sad when I am happy,
| thou too, who didst first teach me not to fear death.
Death! what would life be without death ? a worm never
| to become a butterfly I a dream of happiness never to be
| realised!
I “ And yet thou seest nought but the sad part of it, thou
| only seest the flower fading away before its time, as it seems
| to thee . . . and dost not perceive that it has gone to bloom
j in a glorious sunshine. Oh! Walter, try to look beyond the
I tomb, you will learn there is no sorrow in death, there should
| be joy; but in spite of all thy philosophy thou still enter-
j tainest doubts as to the future existence which awaits thee
I on this side of the grave.
| “In thy tearful blindness thou hast thought that the mag-
| netic chain that bound us was severed, but it is not so, dear
| husband; that chain was fashioned by more , han human
I hands, and not a link has been broken, or cam ever break,
| that binds my soul to thine.
“Try, rather, to see that a new link has been added—a
j link between thy world and the next—a link to bind thee
! nearer to God, because it will raise thy heart often to brighter
spheres.
i| “ Wouldst thou change the purposes of God ? I left the
} world when my time had come; I left it to give birth to our
Jj child, the child whom thou hast neglected, the child whom
II thou hast deprived of a father ! And thou sayest still
|! that thou lovest me I 0, Walter! I could never
’ ! have believed this of thee. Ah! turn not thine eyes from
THE SPIRITUALIST.
§9
Ma&ch 3, 1876.
our babe ; see in him rather the sacred charge of thy wife, j
whom thou thinkest gone. Yes ; I am gone from thy sight, !
but not into another world. lam still by thy side, and j
shall constantly watch over thee until the day in which thou |
wilt join me here. I
“ Hast thou never felt a soft touch on the cheek, a gentle !
waving of the hair, a breath of tender sweetness on the brow ? !
It was mine, oh ! my husband ; it was I who touched thee, |
I who seldom stir from thy side. In the middle of the ocean, j
on the heights of the White Mountains, in the desert prairies, !
under the Falls of Niagara I have been with thee. Were I |
still upon thy earth I could not follow thee more than I now |
do. And yet thou still complainest! j |
“ Oh ! believe me, Walter, there is no sorrow in death— \)
there should be joy. j
“ Think of me often, but with pleasure, not with tears in j
thine eyes, and mourning in thy heart. Think of our earthly !
love, so soon now to become divine; think of our rambles j
in Scotland, when I was the disciple and thou the master— i
where thou didst first open my eyes to the light of truth |
that now floods my spirit. Think of all this, Walter. I
Thought unites our souls.” I
When I had finished the perusal of this communication, |
my eyes were full of tears. Could it have been my Con- i
chita, my wife, who had written this upon the slate ? Dr. |
Slade had not touched it since the moment it was put upon !
the table after having been thoroughly cleaned and washed |
by my own hands ; besides, he said he did not know Spanish, j
and at all events he could not have known my Christian |
name, or that of ray wife. Who then had written this com- ;
munication? H
I could not doubt my senses, and yet it seemed too won- j
derful to be true. I could scarcely bring myself to believe !
that it was my Conchita, my long mourned wife, who had |{
thus come to me through a stranger, by means of a paid ] J
medium, in a foreign land beyond the seas, to console me h
and dry my tears. After all, why should not Dr. Slade I]
know Spanish ? Conchita surely is not the only one who can j1
write in that language; this could then be no proof. Besides, h
the language in which the communication was expressed was jj
not in the least like the language she would have used to me H
when on earth ; but then I must take into consideration that j,
she is no longer a material being, as she was then. But jj
then, I thought, how could Dr. Slade have written on the jj
reverse side of the slate, when his hands were in sight on j!
the table? jj
One thing struck me in this long writing, and that was
the mention made of our little child. The writer was evi¬
dently displeased with my conduct towards him—who but
the mother could feel so deeply for a new-born babe ? I felt
all this as I sat there with my eyes fixed upon the slate, and j
the thought struck me for the first time, that I had perhaps
done wrong in abandoning my child, her child, to the care of |
servants.
The doctor saw how moved I was by the writing, “ direct |j
spirit writing,” as he called it, and told me that I was a
medium myself, and that in a few months I would not re- j|
quire his or any one else’s services, but that I should be able jj
to obtain communications from the spirit world unaided.
At the second seance the apparition already mentioned, jj
was seen. , jj
It was about eight o’clock in the evening when I again ji
entered Dr. Slade’s house. I was strongly moved as I jj
ascended the stairs, and could hardly conceal my excite- jj
ment. • h
We entered the seance room and sat at the table as we j
had done the day before, I at the top and he at the side j
on my left hand, my feet resting as then upon his, by i
his express desire. j
We sat in silence for nearly a quarter of an hour, at the i
end of which time, raps came on the table. The room was j j
well lighted, for a large three-light gasalier threw a good j
light all round the small apartment. ij
The doctor asked the spirits if they could manifest, jj
upon which the physical manifestations began. The table jj
heaved up and down, and was made heavy or light at my jj
desire. A chair moved from the wall, drawn by some j
unseen agency; an accordion was played in mid-air, j
apparently all by itself, and quite unsupported by any ■
visible hand; and several other wonderful things took
place, all in the bright light of the three jets of gas.
But I must confess all these produced very little effect
upon me, perhaps because I had gone prepared to doubt
everything, perhaps because they seemed to me so very
puerile and unmeaning; and, after all, I had seen much
more wonderful and impossible things done by legerdemain.
The doctor wondered very much that I was not convinced
by such extraordinary tours de farce, and assured me that
the spirits could do anything for me, for the conditions
were perfect.
“You promised me,” I said, “that you would try to
show me the spirit forms; do you think that you will be
able to do so ? ”
“ I do not know,” he answered. “ It does not depend
upon me, but I can try.” Thus saying, he put two of the
gaslights out, leaving only one, which, however, was quite
enough to light the room, although this one he also lowered.
But previous to doing so, he opened a small closet, situated
in the corner farthest away from the table, and got out of it
a small curtain of black calico, with a square hole in the
centre, of about a foot square; the curtain or calico was of
about three feet in diameter, measured each way. This he
hung by a small string across the room, just before one
end of the table, but a little above it, so that I could just
see the light all round it.
Having finished these preparations he sat down again by
my side to await the result.
“ How is it,” I asked him, “ that you need that black
veil ? Could the spirits not come without it ?”
“ Y es, they have done so, but it is always better to have
something with a hole through which they can show them¬
selves, as it saves them the trouble of materialising their
whole form. Most mediums have a regular cabinet made of
wood, inside which they are tied, but I find that this little
curtain answers the purpose equally well, and does not lead
to so much suspicion.”
“ I often wonder, doctor, why it is that spirits always tap
on tables and chairs. Why should they not also rap, and
knock, and move about other things ?”
“ What other things ?” he said. “ Of course they could
do it; but are not tables and chairs the objects mostly to be
found in drawing-rooms and dining-rooms ? They take what
they find nearest at hand; in the open air they will rap on
a gate or a tree.”
I said no more for fear of spoiling the seance, andcon-
tented myself by holding his hands tightly in mine, while
my feet rested upon his.
Another quarter of an hour passed, during which time
the piece of pencil wrote as it had done the day before, all
by itself (at least so it seemed to me), upon the slate.
“ I will try to show myself if I am able,” it first wrote.
Then after a time:
“ You are too excited, Walter. I find it very difficult to
communicate,and this was signed “ Conchita.”
At last: “/ will do my best to-night, my dear husband, but
you must not expect too much. I would advise you not to waste
your power by sitting just now. In a few months I will be
better able to appear to you, and perhaps without the aid of any
other medium ; at present 1 cannot. But do not think that I
will leave you in the meantime. Remember that I am always
by your side. When you want me I will come. This will be my
sign.” And then I felt the pressure of a cold kiss upon my
brow. I looked round and saw nothing near me; the doctor
had not moved, and was looking another way.
The curtain before us began now to move a little. I kept
my eyes fixed upon the opening in it. A misty haze began
slowly to form, as it were, on the inner side of it. It was
about the size of a person’s head, and became gradually whiter.
It grew more and more distinct, and it seemed to come
gradually nearer to the opening. After a few minutes I
could distinctly perceive a female face, but alas! it might
have been the face of any woman. I could discover nothing
in it which reminded me of the beloved countenance of my
lost Conchita.
Light seemed to proceed from this apparition; it seemed
so luminous that suddenly the thought struck me that if I
were to put out the gas I could see it more distinctly. I
made this suggestion to Dr. Slade ; he shuddered and warmly
100 THE SPIRITUALIST. March 3, 1876.
opposed it. It was easy to see that he disliked the idea of |
darkness. But my curiosity was so great that all of a ;
sudden I rose from my chair and deliberately extinguished |
the light. Ur. Slade gave a wild cry of alarm when he sud- !
denly found himself in total darkness. i
I kept my eyes steadily fixed upon the white figure before jj
me ; in that supreme moment of anxiety I felt no fear. Not !
so, however, the medium ; there was no longer any occasion i
for me to retain my hold upon his hand, for in his alarm he |
was grasping mine till he almost hurt me with his convul- |
sive clutch. . ! |
The apparition now became more and more distinct, but I
still I could not recognise the face. I could no longer distin- j
guish the black curtain in the darkness, and saw nothing
but the white misty form, which, however, certainly had ji
nothing to me alarming in its appearance.
Presently the whole figure came out of the mist and moved j<
towards me, to my very side. As I gazed at it with such an jj
intensity that all my senses seemed concentrated in that jj
gaze, it suddenly seemed to expand, if I may so describe it
—it intensified, and flashed out for one moment before |J
me—and then I recognised my lost wife! Yes, it was Con- jj
chita! my angel! my darling! I could doubt no longer, jj
She stood before me for one moment,-radiantly beautiful; j
her fair face illumined by no earthly light, but as if bright j
by her own purity, as we can imagine would be that of an j
angel of light! j
I could not describe her dress, so instantaneous was her j
appearance. I only’say that it was white and dazzling, and j
that her beautiful golden curls encircled her fair head as i
with a glory, while some of her bright curls hung over her j
bosom. 'I
The beautiful vision stretched out her arms towards me ; j
at that moment I felt—not a touch, but rather the sensation j
of an electric shock run through my frame, and I fell sense- j
less upon the floor. :
When I recovered my senses I found myself lying upon j
a sofa in the front room. Ur. Slade was by my side, look- j
ing pale and agitated, and was bathing my temples with jj
Eau-de-Cologne. j
I soon recovered myself, and was able to talk. I asked j
for an explanation, but he could give me none. As soon as j
I put out the gas he said that he closed his eyes, not daring j
to look upon a spirit in the dark ; that when I fell he rushed j
from the room and returned with a lighted candle. He then jj
found that I had fainted, and, he added, “ It was very rash jj
of you to put out the light; I never dare do it; it is too j
dangerous!” :j
I went back to the seance room, and what was my asto- j
nishment when I found there, lying on the ground in the j
same place where I had fainted, a small curl of golden j
hair! . jj
It was no dream, then; the fair vision that had appeared !
to me was no hallucination of my agitated brain. The j
piece of hair was in my hand; I could not now doubt the j
truth of what I had seen. . j
But was it really Conchita? I could not tell. I had j
thought so at the time, but now I again began to doubt, j
Everything in the room looked so commonplace, so matter- [
of-fact, that it seemed impossible that the spirit of an angel j
could ever have entered it.
The doctor could give me no explanation of the curl, so I j
put the golden ringlet into my pocket-book, and, thanking j
him warmly for this extraordinary seance, for which he i
would take no fee, as he said he had invited me to it, I left j
the house. I
The Birmingham Society of Spiritualists, which for two or three
years has been in debt, has now a balance in hand of «£18 10s.
The Loss of the “ Strathmore.”—The Scotsman of Feb. 26th says of
the loss of the Dundee emigrant ship Strathmore on her way to New
Zealand:—“ A curious circumstance in connection with this disaster is
mentioned. Some time ago Mr. Bruce, the managing owner of the
vessel in Dundee, received a letter from a person who had a friend on
board, stating that his wife was a believer in Spiritualism, and that she
had imparted to her the fact that the vessel was lost, that a large
number of the crew and passengers had reached an island, and had
subsequently been rescued and landed safely at a port. This has turned
out to be so far correct.” 1
^rubincta! ftetos.
SOUTH SHIELDS.
SPIRITUALISM AS A PACT.
On Tuesday evening, last week, at the Free Library Buildings, Ocean-
road, South Shields, Mr. J, J. Morse delivered the first of two orations
upon Spiritualism, Mr. T. P. Barkas, F.G.S., presiding. The following
gentlemen were also upon the platform :—Messrs. Robertson, Corner,
Lambell, W. H. Lambell, Smith and Roper.
The audience was a fair one.
The Chairman, in introducing the subject, said he had been requested
by the committee of a society formed in South Shields for the purpose
of investigating what were termed spiritual phenomena, to preside at
that meeting, the first, he believed, held on the subject in the building.
He desired first to caution them not to form too rapid an opinion on
the subject, because while he thought those who disbelieved in the
reality of spiritual phenomena arrived at that disbelief not so much
from examination as from preconception or prejudice, on the other
hand, those who examined spiritual phenomena were, in all probability,
too easily satisfied. All he asked was that they would give the subject fair
and candid consideration. He might tell them after an experience of
twenty-four years, that there were a great number of features that were
anomalous, and a great number that were offensive ; but notwithstand¬
ing the anomaly of the one and the offensiveness of the other, there was
a residuum—a large residuum—of fact that was well worthy the con¬
sideration of the most enlightened people of that or any other borough.
In introducing Mr. Morse, he said he professed, and those who be¬
lieved with him professed, that his address was guided by some un¬
known power, and was not delivered as his (the speaker’s) was, out
of his own consciousness.
Mr. Morse then proceeded to deliver his oration, which, whether inspired
or not, was eloquent, earnest and incisive; in its delivery he never
paused an instant even between its periods, and the oration sounded as a
well-written essay repeated from an admirable memory. He commenced
by refuting the first objection of adverse critics that Spiritualism was a
new delusion or a superstition, by the assertion that Spiritualism had
existed in all ages, in the legends of old times, the mysteries of nature,
the miracles of Scripture, and even in the experience of their own days.
Some latent laws of nature were answerable for these facts, or else
there was something supernatural at the bottom. But outside these
phenomena were the modern experiences of the modern Spiritualist, and
the question was, were those phenomena natural or supernatural ? As
miracles were violations of the laws of nature, they must involve a
constant disturbance of it, and therefore if the facts of Spiritualism were
true, they were either above or in harmony with nature. He took up
the position that they were the latter, and therefore true. Most persons
were spiritual enough to ask what comes after death : others were con¬
tent to believe in annihilation, though as the ultimate end of life the
innate spirituality of men protested against that faith. The initial note
of modern Spiritualism was struck at what was called the Rochester
knocking case, twenty-seven years ago, wherein a murder was dis¬
covered b^ two children. This was explained in various ways, by
trick, by knee and toe joints, and by the devil. Later on it was found
that the unseen agency could move the articles it previously knocked,
could play upon instruments, and speak with loud voices. Later still
it could control the minds and actions of people, and even the speech,
till, a sort of Pentecostal revival had come, and young children spoke as
sage men, This latter psychological phenomenon could not be explained
by the same method as the physical, therefore Spiritualism ran through
the civilised world, and took hold of the hearts of the people. New
theories were trotted out now to account for these peculiarities, such
as force, unconscious cerebration, and unconscious muscular action, but
as soon as one manifestation was explained a new one started up and
baffled the theorists. The manifestations of Spiritualism should rest
as all other phenomena rested, upon their own testimony. There were
men of eminence in science, literature, and art who testified to the
phenomenal facts of Spiritualism, whatever the cause might be. It Was
not necessary, however, to have that endorsement, for the position he
took was that the personal experience of investigators was more
valuable than those endorsed by Crookes or Wallace. How should
they see these facts ? Well, they must conform to the conditions and fulfil
the requirements exacted. It was said that these conditions circumscribed
the freedom of the investigator, and in that there might be some truth;
but conditions must attend even electrical experiments, or the result
would be a failure. But the conditions were few and simple ; the more
simple phenomena might be exhibited in the light and only the more
advanced under more complex conditions. They objected to no rea¬
sonable examination, but when suspicion was offensively announced,
it could not be expected that mediums should act like angels any more
than other people. The lecturer amusingly illustrated the results of these
suspicions at a seance, and the ridiculous hypotheses by which people
sought to explain the manifestations. The higher manifestations were
attributed, as by Serjeant Cox, to psychic force, prophecy to coincidence,
and so on, until the aggregate phenomena at last induced curiosity, and
finally conviction. Looking for the secret power, they found law and
intelligence in it, evidenced by definite sequence, and they could not
find intelligence without personality; therefore they could logically
argue that the secret power was wielded by persons who had once pos¬
sessed an individuality, who had once been in the world, and who now
returned to it from the world beyond. In a brilliant peroration, the
speaker argued that the truth of Spiritualism was the triumph of
religion, for -all religions, Christian or Pagan, were based upon the
simple fact of the spirituality of life, and of the spiritual communion
existing between this world and the world beyond, in all the world’s
history. There need be no regret whatever at the strange phases of
March 3, 1876.
101
the movement at the present day, and, however mean the facts might
be, however much they might be misused, however startling or insigni¬
ficant they were, however grand or puny the phenomena might be,
there was one thing—and one thing only—that the intelligent man of
the present day had to admit, and that was that Spiritualism in its
phenomenal aspects was a fact.
The lecturer sat down amid loud applause.—Shields Gazette. .
LIVERPOOL.
SPIRITUALISM AND MESMERIC PHENOMENA.
" On Friday night last Mr. Walter Isaac read a paper before the
Liverpool Psychological Society on the question, “ Is there any Relation¬
ship between Mesmerism and Spiritualism ? ”
Mr. Isaac, in the course of his remarks, asserted that a gentleman
residing in Spencer-street, Everton, Liverpool, sometimes made a clown,
about one foot long, of cardboard, with movable legs and arms, and
that, after mesmerising it for a minute, he could make it walk about
and play all kinds of antics; the operator, it was alleged, did it by will¬
power, and, at the end of the experiment, was always much exhausted.*
At a stance in Liverpool, while the medium was in a mesmeric sleep,
he (Mr. Isaac) and thirty other witnesses saw a drum rise from the
table and float about the room ; an epistle, signed D. Farmer, D.D., was
also written, and not by mortal hands ; these things were not done by
mesmerism, but by mesmeric forces controlled by spirits. In his
opinion the relationship between Spiritualism and mesmerism was the
same as that which existed between a joiner and his tools.
Mr. Ainsworth (the chairman) said that the paper contained several
original thoughts, as well as old ideas dressed up in fresh garb.
Mr. Coates observed that the prominent idea that had been advanced
by the lecturer, if he had listened attentively to him, was that a
mesmerist was an embodied spirit, who produced certain peculiar
phenomena, physical and psychical; that the instrument was an
unknown force or influence; that this force was found within the
operator and the subject, and could be called into play by the “ will¬
power ” of the mesmerist. That “ spiritualistic phenomena ” were pro¬
duced by operators disembodied, using the same force as found in the
organism of mediums. In a word, the operators were in different
spheres of action, and the results arose from separate causes, although
the instrument in both cases was the same. Therefore mesmeric trance
and spiritualistic trance were similar, but not the same. He was glad
the subject had been taken up by the society.
Mr. Shaw remarked that if it were possible for a man to cause a
paper doll to dance without coming into contact with it, why need they
call in the agency of spirits to account for a drum flying around a
room, or rising in the light from a table surrounded by eight or nine
sitters ?
Mr. Isaac replied that he did not see why it could not be done, but it
must not be forgotten that the mesmerist consciously exercised his
“ will-force,” and was exhausted after the operation, whilst the sitters
at seances did not do so, but simply awaited results. It was unwise to
multiply causes, and spirits claimed to be the producers of the latter
phenomena. If mediums could produce these things, why give the
spirits the credit ?
Mr. John Lament said that Spiritualism threw light on this question
of projecting thought from one person to another, and he related the
following incident :—“ Dr. Cullis, of Boston, the eminent man of faith,
immediately after the death of his first wife, began to receive letters in her
handwriting, style of thought and expression, and bearing her signature,
with characteristic peculiarities so minute that neither the doctor him¬
self nor the friends of his deceased wife could distinguish them from
her letters written when living. These missives, full of tenderness,
good counsel, and predictions of some great Christian w'ork, which he
was to do in the future (for this was before he began his so-called
faith-work), came quite often during several weeks. During this time,
regularly at two o’clock in the morning he would be awakened by
three distinct raps on the table. One morning, while awake, at about
four o’clock, he was suddenly startled by a bird singing in his room.
He arose, looked about the room, but found no bird. This bird-song now
became quite a regular phenomenon in his bed-chamber. Once, while
sitting in his office, in conversation with a gentleman, the bird-song
suddenly startled them, as if just above their heads. The gentleman,
turning his eyes upward towards the top of the window said, ‘You have
a canary here, have you ?” He was told that there was none in the
house. By this time Dr. Cullis says that the thing began to be annoy¬
ing. His friends, who were cognizant of the facts, advised him to call
in a medium, and establish communication with his departed wife.
But instead of this, he carried the whole matter to the Lord, on his
knees, in these words : ‘ 0 Lord Jesus, I am Thine. I desire to do Thy
will perfectly. If these strange things are from Thee, I am ready to
go into them and receive all the truth which Thou dost wish to com¬
municate. But, if they are of the devil, put an immediate stop to them.
Amen !’ People who have strong faith are remarkable for the brevity
of their prayers. After this short prayer, the letters, the table-rappings,
and the bird-songs suddenly ceased, and have never been repeated.”
How did this letter come? What was the condition of mind which put
a stop to the phenomena ? How far could mesmerism be called into
account as an agent ?
Mr. Chatham related that he knew a lady whose powers of perception
were so great that she could tell where her husband was working, when
*If this alleged power of moving a solid object, by the exercise of the will
of a man of normal or abnormal constitution, can be verified, it will be one
of the most valuable facts ever demonstrated. Will the gentleman show it in
public to the Liverpool Psychological Society? If so, bis presence will
afterwards be in great demand among investigators in London.—Ed.
he was away in the country ; she could also tell when he was coming
home, and by what train. The lady was a medium.
Mr. Isaac remarked that he was acquainted with the lady, and could
certify to the correctness of the previous statement.
A vote of thanks was returned to the author of the paper.
Mr. Coates was requested by the chairman, on behalf of the society,
to take up the subject, and to favour the society with some experiments
on the next night of meeting.
The meeting was then adjourned.
| A LECTURE BY MR. CROOKES.
The following report of a lecture delivered recently at the Royal
Institution is quoted from the Daily Telegraph, The last sentences in
j the report have a special meaning :—
Last night, at the Royal Institution, Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.,
delivered a lecture on “ The Mechanical Action of Light.” Mr. Justice
Grove presided, and among the listeners were Professor Tyndall, Dr. E.
I' Frankland, F.R.S., Mr. R. Hannah, F.S.A., Dr. and Miss Bird, Lord and
i Lady Penzance, Mrs. and Miss Crookes, Admiral Codrington, Mrs.
Humphreys, Captain Douglas Galton, F.R.S., Lord Eversley, Mr.
Edwin Arnold, Mr. Serjeant Cox, Lady Claud Hamilton, Professor W.
K. Clifford, Mr. William Spottiswoode, F.R.S., Mr. Warren de la Rue,
F.R.S., and Mr. W. H. Harrison. The experiments were of an un-
ij usually complicated and delicate description ; in their performance the
j lecturer was aided by Mr. C. Gillingham and by his son Mr. Henry
I Crookes.
Mr. Crookes said that all the physical forces render their action per¬
ceptible by the production of motion, but that light had never been
directly converted into mechanical motion until the experiments had
been devised which he had to bring before them that evening. Once
in attempting to weigh bodies in an approximately perfect vacuum, he
witnessed anomalies for which he could not account, but upon which
information had been thrown by his more recent discoveries. He found,
as published some time ago, that the light of a candle would attract an
arm of pith suspended in an imperfect vacuum, but repel a similar
arm suspended in the very perfect vacuum obtainable only by
the aid of the Sprengel pump. Of this pump he exhibited a most
perfect and improved specimen, so perfect that it would produce a
vacuum through which the electric spark would not pass. In all his
experiments he had been indebted, to a very great extent, to the
industry and marvellous powers of glass-blowing possessed by his
assistant, Mr. C. Gillingham. He then proceeded to describe the con¬
struction of his “ radiometer,” in which pith discs, at the ends of glass
arms balanced on a pivot, were made to spin round rapidly under the
influence of light. Next he explained that this propelling force of
light was not so weak as he had once supposed. Instead of radiometers,
in which all the moving parts weighed sometimes as little as a quarter
of a grain, he found that he could make the instruments to carry little
I iron magnets, and he exhibited one in which ten discs of pith were re¬
quired to carry round one magnet. Outside the bulb of this instrument
was a magnetic arm, which was attracted every time one pole of the
magnet inside the bulb came near it, and the consequent “ bowings ”
of the magnet outside were made to convey electrical impulses to a
Morse telegraphic instrument, whereby a series of dots was made upon
a slip of paper, and the more rapid the rotation inside the bulb, the
closer together were the dots. Thus his radiometers had been made
n self-registering and suitable for meteorological purposes. He also
j i pointed out that no good photometer had ever been made, and he ex-
|j hibited apparatus infinitely more exact for measuring the illuminating
(: power of gas, or any kind of light, than those founded upon the sup-
{ \ posed unvarying illuminating power of the very untrustworthy “ stan-
>j dard candle.” After many experiments, magnified and projected on
/; the screen by the aid of the electric lamp, he exhibited one of his
(; latest, in which he directly measured the mechanical force of the
impact of light, not its weight, for the experiments did not remove
h light from the class of imponderables. By means of the force of
| i torsion of a filament of glass, brought into play against an iron weight
(I of one-hundredth of a grain, all in vacuo, he could so adjust a mirror to
(j a zero point that it would move when parts of the apparatus were sub-
)| mitted to the action of light; thus, last night he proved that the push
of a candle six inches off amounted to *00162 grain. By calculation he
(j estimated that the pressure of sunlight on the earth was not less than
11 2 cwt. per acre, 57 tons to the square mile, and 3,000 millions of tons
fl upon the whole earth, all this power acting in opposition to the force
(j of gravitation. In conclusion, he said that all the results he had ex-
>| hibited had been obtained in consequence of his examination of an
(j anomaly contrary to all ordinary experience. Anomalies were of
il the utmost value to men of science; they were gateways leading to
(; new researches, and to the establishment of reputations.
It is probable that a second series of seances for inquirers will shortly
be arranged by the National Association of Spiritualists. The previous
series afforded facilities to some very intelligent investigators.
A correspondent writing from Whitby says—“ Spiritualism is very
dead here ; there are a few inquirers, but I do not know any one except
myself who accepts it as a truth.”
Spiritualism in Wolverhampton.—Mr. T. M. Simkiss is doing good
work for Spiritualism in Wolverhampton. Recently he engaged Mr.
Morse, and arranged for the delivery of trance addresses free, in the
Athenaeum Hall, Wolverhampton; the hall was full on the occasion.
He also keeps the chief local library well supplied with the best litera¬
ture of Spiritualism.
TfiE SPIElTtlALIST.
102
THE SElRlTtJALlST.
March 3, 1876.
SEANCES AT MRS. MAKDOUGALL GREGORY’S.
On Thursday evening, last week, an interesting seance
took place at the residence of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory,
21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, London, W. Among
the guests present were Sir Garnet Wolseley, Commander of
the Ashantee Expedition ; the Hon. Mrs. Cowper-Temple,
General Brewster, Mr. Algernon Joy, Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.,
Lady Avenmore, Miss Fitz-Gerald, Mr. Bennett, Mrs. Wilkes,
Captain James, and Mr. W. H. Harrison. The medium was
Mr. Eglington. Mr. Colman, the well-known medium, was
also present among the guests.
During the first part of the evening a dark seance was
held, at which all the sitters grasped each other’s hands or
wrists, including those of the medium. Under these con¬
ditions many of those present, more especially the greatest
disbelievers, were patted and fingered by living materialised
spirit hands which in total darkness touched the inquirers
on different parts of the face at request, to show that the
owners of the hands could see to perfection in the dark. At
times musical instruments flew about the room playing
times, an accordion for instance being played for a moment
or two on the top of the head of Sir Garnet Wolseley. At one
part of the seance Mr. Eglington was stated by those holding
him to be floating in the air.
Afterwards there was a materialisation seance, but the
power was nearly exhausted before it began. At Mrs.
Gregory’s, two rooms are separated from each other by
hanging curtains; one of these rooms is used as a cabinet,
whilst the members of the circle sat in the other. There is
no other access from without to the room used as a cabinet,
except through a door which is locked, and has a large piano
placed against it. The room being on the first floor, its soli¬
tary window is high above the street and above the railings
below. Mr. Eglington entered this cabinet, whilst Mr. Colman
sat outside with the other sitters, who were all placed in total
darkness, as the spirits said that they would bring their own
lights. . After a time a phosphorescent-looking light, which
gave off no smoke, appeared; it moved about, and the spec¬
tators who were sitting near to it, said that they saw a face
behind it. No particular evidence of there being anything
abnormal at this part of the sitting -was given, except that
at one moment while this light was moving at one part of
the room outside the cabinet, and Mr. Colman was talking
at another part of the room outside the curtains, the keys of
the piano at the farther end of the room used as a dark
cabinet were played upon. It is difficult to suppose that the
medium either in or out of the trance state could have done
this. The other members of the circle were grasping each
other’s hands.
Last Tuesday night there was another seance at Mrs.
Gregory’s, in the presence of Lady Avenmore, the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., Lady Paulett, Miss Yere, Mr.
Bennett, General Brewster, Captain James, Miss Mackenzie,
Miss Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. Wilkes, and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
Mr. Eglington, and Mr. Colman were present. Through
the mediumship of the former, the ordinary dark circle
manifestations were obtained. A chair was twice threaded
on to the arm of Mrs. Wilkes while she held Mr. Colman’s
hand, another example of the now common manifestation of
matter passing through matter. No information can be
obtained from the spirits as to the philosophy • or modus
operandi of these remarkable phenomena. At the close of
the evening a cabinet seance was held, and no results ob¬
tained.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
The first annual business meeting of this society was held on Thurs.
day, 23rd February, at 11, Chandos-street, Cavendish-square, London,
Mr. Serjeant Cox in the chair.
Mr. Francis K. Munton, the hon. sec., read his annual report of the
society’s proceedings. It comprised a summary of the receipts and
payments (showing a balance of more than £60 in hand), and the
following passages:—
“The society was established in February, 1875. Since that period
64 ordinary members have joined, 7 honorary memberships have been
conferred, and 2 lady subscribers (under the recently amended regula¬
tions) have been elected. With two exceptions all the foregoing are
now on the roll of the society. Meetings have been held twice a month
during the season, and several important and interesting papers have
11 been read and discussed. Some of these papers have been printed at
) j the expense of the authors, who have generously presented a copy to
ji each member. The attendance at the meetings has been satisfactory,
jj especially since the society has secured permanent rooms and offices.
11 It is estimated that the cash in hand, with the arrears of present sub-
{| scriptions, will be sufficient to meet the increased rent, assistant secre-
{| tary’s allowances, reports of the proceedings, and the incidental obliga-
) | tions for the current year. Some thousands of prospectuses have been
| i circulated among the members of scientific bodies and others ; but now
| j that the society has become known, the expenditure for printing and
)! postage will probably be diminished. In accordance with the original
| i notice, all the honorary officers retire. They offer themselves for re-
11 election. Several members of the society having urged the expediency
jj of appointing a special committee for the purpose of experimental in-
I! vestigation of psychological phenomena, the Council have resolved to
j j nominate such committee. Members desirous of serving (and who will
j contribute to the expense incidental to such investigation, limited to three
jj guineas each subscriber) will please send in their names. The president
ij and honorary secretary will attend tire meetings, that the results may
j j be officially reported, with the view of adoption by the society.”
ji The President, in moving the reception of the report, commented
jj upon its very satisfactory character, and congratulated the society upon
j j the flourishing condition of the finances.
j j The Rev. W. Stainton Moses said that he had a very pleasing duty to
jj perform in moving the re-election of Mr. Serjeant Cox as President of
jj the society. (Cheers.) His untiring energy in promoting the under-
ji taking, and his attention to its best interests were so patent to the
jj members, that a long speech was unnecessary. He was quite sure his
jj proposal would meet with the most hearty reception. (Hear, hear.) He
j knew that he only echoed the wishes of all when he said that he trusted
■j j Mr. Serjeant Cox might long preside over them,
jj Mr. Yolckman seconded the nomination, and the motion was carried
j j unanimously.
j The President thanked the meeting for its expression of confidence,
j and said that he trusted the society, so well begun, would continue to
j j prosper. He fully believed that in course of time the society would
jj attain a most important position.
j Mr. Munton moved that Sir John Heron Maxwell, Mr. William
jj Crookes, F.R.S., and Mr. George Harris, LL.D. (retiring members of
j the Council), be elected vice-presidents of the society. Their services
j and fitness for the position were too well known to need commenda-
j j tion.
j Mr. Stevens having seconded the motion, it was carried nem con.
jj Mr. W. H. Coffin moved, and Mr. Gordon seconded, the re-election
j of the following gentlemen as members of the Council:—Mr. P. W.
ji Clayden, Major Hartley, the Rev. Stainton Moses, Mr. F. Myers, Mr.
jj C. C. Massey, Mr. F. W. Percival, Professor Plumptre, Mr. J. E.
ji Saunders, Mr. J. M. Tagore, and Mr. C. S. Wake,
jj The motion was carried unanimously.
Mr. C. C. Massey said it was a most agreeable task to propose the
ji re-election of Mr. Munton as hon. sec. It was a great advantage to
j have the assistance of a thorough man of business in the performance
i of the duties devolving upon their secretary. In the early stage of a
j society the work was of a manifold character, and the members were
i all conversant with the order and regularity with which Mr. Munton
j had conducted the affairs. (Hear, hear.)
Mr. Gordon begged to be permitted to say a few words in seconding
j this motion. Although he had been a member of the society but a short
ji time, his acquaintance with Mr. Munton was one of many years’ stand-
j | ing. It was of the highest importance in a society like this that the
j! acting official should possess a calm and dispassionate mind, and not
i be likely to be led away by communications unsupported by evidence,
ji Mr. Munton, as a practical solicitor of known ability and experience,
| was just the right man for such a post, and it was only surprising that
i with the cares of his professional business, and frequent attendance at
j other scientific societies, he contrived to give the time and attention
I which it was obvious he had devoted to psychological pursuits,
jl The President, in putting the motion to the meeting, said he was
I glad of the public opportunity of thanking Mr. Munton on his own
j | behalf, and on the part of the society generally, for the services he had
jj rendered. A very great part of the success which had been achieved
i was due to these honorary services. He (the president) had belonged
i to many societies, and he could confidently say that in his experience
i the honorary secretary’s business-like management had been unequalled,
jj He could assure the society that the duties (combining as they did the
jj responsibilities of the treasurership) had been by no means light,
i The motion was carried by acclamation.
j Mr. Munton, in returning thanks, said he would confess that the
jj work had been considerable ; but in the pursuit of knowledge it was a
jj labour of love. He thought that the only true means of securing the
j j success of an undertaking like the present was to maintain the personal
jj tone and influence of the executive body, who had one and all united
j! in promoting the well-being of the society.
ji A long discussion ensued, in which Messrs. Gordon, Stainton Moses,
ji Massey, Stevens, Yolckman, and Wedgwood, took part as to the pro-
jj priety of consolidating, amending, and adding to the bye-laws, and
ij several useful suggestions were made.
ji The President promised that the Council would give their best atten-
ij tion to the points raised, saying that it was a source of gratification to
* him to see the active interest which so many members evinced, and he
J took occasion to observe that the experimental investigations referred
ij to in the annual report would be carefully noted in all their details, so
! as to give the members ample materials for forming a true and accurate
j opinion about the results.
j A vote of thanks having been accorded to the president and the other
officers of the society for past services, the meeting terminated.
Marcs 3, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST. 103
TRANSACTIONS OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
MESMEKISM AND ITS PHENOMENA.
At the last of the fortnightly meetings for the consideration of
psychological subjects, held by the members of the National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists, at 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London,
W.C., Mr. George King was voted into the chair.
Mr. J. Freeman read a brief paper narrating how Mesmer first
discovered the power to which his name has since been attached, and
proceeded to tell how he (Mr. Freeman), when a boy at school, went
one evening to a mesmeric lecture, and next morning said to a school¬
fellow of the name of Gadsden, “ Now, Jack, I’ll mesmerise you.” He
then made passes over the boy in fun, not expecting that anything
would come of it, but the lad passed into a mesmeric sleep in which he
did everything that he was ordered to do, and some of the phenomena
of phreno-mesmerism were evolved. “ Now, Jack,” he said, “ here’s
master coming! ” He tried to wake him, but he did not move. He
then pulled him out of his chair; further, the master came up and
shook him, and threatened to cane him, but it was all of no use. In
twenty minutes or half an hour’s time, Gadsden heaved a deep sigh and
came to himself, declaring, when asked, that he knew nothing of what
had occurred. Will-power had nothing to do with the mesmerising of
Gadsden, for the passes were made half in fun, without expecting any¬
thing would take place. He once knew a lady who was a good clair¬
voyant ; she could read a book through a tea-tray, but she did so slowly
and indistinctly, as if there were difficulties in her way; it was not
necessary he should know what was in the book, for she could read
what was not in his mind. A trance medium, like a mesmeric sensi¬
tive, placed himself in a state of expectant attention, and after a time
was able to deliver a discourse, or perhaps to speak in Greek, or some
other language he did not understand in his normal state. Spiritualists
said that this was due to an influence of the spirit world. Perhaps it
was, and perhaps it was not. A kind of double-consciousness seemed
to be at work in these matters.
MR. DUGUID’S PAINTING MEDIUMSHIP—AUTOMATIC WRITING.
The Chairman said that it would be interesting to know whether the
effects seen in mesmeric experiments proceeded entirely from the
patient, in consequence of his first placing himself in a state of ex¬
pectant attention, or were due to some force actually passing from the
mesmerist to the subject. Some pictures had been produced in Glasgow,
by spirit agency, through the mediumship of Mr. Duguid, some of which
had been found to be copies of drawings by living artists; but his
friends, who knew Mr. Duguid well, could not believe that there was
any trickery on his part in the matter. A friend of his own, a gentle¬
man well known in art circles in Glasgow, went one day to one of Mr.
Duguid’s seances, taking with him a marked piece of canvas, which he
could recognise under any conditions. At the seance the gas was turned
down so very low that it was difficult to discern whether any sitters
were in the room or not, and when it was turned up again a very fair
painting in oil was found upon the canvas; it had been done with
extraordinary rapidity, but the most curious part of the matter was
that the owner of the canvas remarked, “ I ought to know that picture,
though I cannot remember where I have seen it.” He made a search
at home, and found its facsimile among some pictures he had bought a
long time previously at a sale. Had he mesmerised the medium uncon¬
sciously to himself? And had his forgotten thoughts been reproduced
upon the canvas ? His (Mr. King’s) hand was frequently controlled to write.
Sentences were written without any volition of his own, but sometimes
he knew what was coming; that is to say, he was conscious of the par¬
ticular words which were to come two or three in front of the last word
he had written ; at the same time he did not know what the conclusion
of the whole sentence would be, or its meaning. He could will any
sentence in his own mind, and it would be given out through his hand
in an abnormal way. Word by word could he get it abnormally, by
willing what was to come, and this fact had given him great doubts
about mediumship. At the same time he had had plenty of evidence
on the other side of the question, in favour of the spiritual hypothesis.
Sentences were sometimes written out quite unexpectedly to him and
foreign to the tenor of his thoughts at the time they were written, but
most of the sentiments he found that he could have originated himself,
had his thoughts been running in that direction.
CLAIRVOYANT PHENOMENA.
Miss Chandos said that the purer the life and the higher the senti¬
ment and desire, the better would be the results obtained in the practice
of mesmerism. She practised mesmerism chiefly for healing purposes,
and her subjects usually displayed clairvoyant powers, but not in con¬
sequence of the exercise of her will. It seemed as if beneath her power
there was a tendency on the part of sensitives to become clairvoyant.
A clear line of demarcation should be drawn in the mind between
clairvoyance and thought-reading; the former seemed to her to be due
to the spirit of the individual leaving the body and going to another
place. Once she mesmerised a lady for neuralgia, and the patient said
at once “ I am at the back of myself and I can see all round the room.”
In another case a lady was able to see her own body, and to go to a
distant place when ordered. At other times the sensitive could see what
was in the mind of the operator, and that was what she meant by
thought-reading; for instance, some clairvoyants could not read sen¬
tences until they had first been read by the operator, and that she
thought was not clairvoyance at all, but mind sympathy. There were
all kinds of thought-reading, and one might be defined as clairvoyant
picture-seeing; some persons could so throw out mental pictures that
sensitives under their control would see them as if they were objective
realities. She knew a case of a gentleman in business who had sent
all his money to the bank, and a bill which he had forgotten came in
suddenly. A wealthy friend called, but he did not like to ask him for
(i the loan of the amount, although he wished to do so, but at last the
>i visitor quite unsolicitedly said—“ Do you want fifty pounds ?” “Yes,”
| was the reply, “but how did it occur to you ? ” The answer was that he
| did not know. She knew a lady in Switzerland who suffered from a
| fearful disease, and who when the pain became too great was in the
! habit of leaving her body and going away for a time. She was a lady
vr who knew literally nothing about Spiritualism, but had come to the
| conclusion that at death she would quit her body in the same way.
(I IS IT POSSIBLE TO FORGET ?
I Miss Chandos continued, that she thought that there was no such
j thing as forgetfulness. She knew the wife of a railway porter—a
II servant—who was present one day when her father made her repeat to
i him some Greek sentences, a language of which she was particularly
j ignorant; consequently, she made several mistakes in repeating the
| words. About a fortnight afterwards she put the servant, who had been
| in the room at the time, into a mesmeric sleep, when she repeated, not
11 only the Greek words, but all her (Miss Chandos’s) errors. Yet, when
j | the servant was present at the Greek lesson, she did not appear to be
| paying any attention to what was going on; indeed, she was adding up
j I a washing-bill at the time. It was an axiom in philosophy, that the
) i same causes produced the same effects, but, in mesmerism and Spirit-
(] ualism, did they ever get the same causes ? Were the sitters always
(! in the same’condition, and did not spirits sometimes interfere suddenly ?
/! When trance mediums sat for manifestations, they passed into a con-
| dition of mind in which they became subject to any will-power acting
j | upon them. Many persons went down on their knees to pray, and
11 thought that they could not pray without; there was no doubt that
| i their putting themselves in that position strengthened their will-power.
11 She could not explain many of the facts she had stated, for she was in
| a rather chaotic condition of mind about their solution herself. She
(j did not believe in mesmerism healing organic disease, but knew that it
! greatly relieved suffering, if the patient were at the same time placed
j under certain rules and laws. In most cases it was necessary to
(| discover what the patient was doing to aggravate the disease, and to
j | put a stop to the cause, in addition to employing mesmeric treatment,
t j Once she made some mesmeric passes over the back of a baby which
j | was covered with a fearful eruption, and on her way home she felt a
> i pricking sensation in her hands. On drawing off her gloves she found
j her hands covered with pimples, so there was proof that some actual
(I power was at work, for something had been drawn from the child and
> | had affected her hands.
THE TRAVELLING OF THE SPIRIT DURING THE SLEEP OF THE BODY.
| ] After a remark or two from Miss Godfrey,
j Mr. T. H. Noyes said that he knew a Mr. Seymour, who had been in
j | the habit of leaving his body at times, ever since his childhood, and he
(j stated that once after he left it he met at the door an angel built up of
| light, who warned him not to go upon that occasion. He did not wish
! to obey; the spirit contended with him, and he was actually forced
(| back into his body by a beneficent power. When this man was six or
11 seven years of age, he left his body in bed one night, and stood listening
(i to the conversation of his parents downstairs. His experiences were
| very curious, and he ought to be invited to attend one of the meetings
} j to state them. One day he saw the wraith of his wife’s uncle, which
(| appeared to him in England on the day of his death in Australia. In
11 reference to a discussion which had been going on in The Spiritualist,
) j he would rather call the soul the body of the spirit, than the spirit the
i body of the soul.
MESMERISM AND PHYSIOLOGY.
I | Dr. Carter Blake remarked that those physiologists who were present
i (i were grateful to Miss Chandos for showing two distinct sets of pheno-
|;| mena arising from two distinct causes, in respect to which there
j(| appeared previously to have been some confusion of ideas; she had
Ki made an accurate distinction between what might be called unconscious
i; | cerebration and those phenomena which result from the action of other
i (i nerves in other parts of the body. Passive writing might in some cases
||| be referred to reflex action apart from the intervention of the brain; and
|(| in using the term reflex action he was not denying that nerve centres
! might not be wider than the human body, and upon that point he was
at one with what was commonly called Spirituahsm. The eye some¬
times became glazed and fixed, so that the nerves did not convey
ordinary sensations, but he failed to see any connection between such
phenomena and those grouped under the title of passive writing.
Another point for consideration was the method by which mesmerism
might be said to cure disease. Disease originated in two ways—by the
entrance of an abnormal substance into the body, or by some substance
being present therein in an abnormal condition; cancer, typhoid fever,
and cholera, had each of them a physical origin, and physiological
diagrams about them could be drawn. He could not see how such
diseases could be cured by external agency; but as regarded cases of
hysteria, neuralgia, and all forms of disease in which there was a
certain abnormal condition of the nerve structure, such, he had little
or no doubt, were perfectly curable by the action of an external organism
combined with the faith of the individual.
WRITING MEDIUMSHIP.
Mr. G. R. Tapp thought that the condition of the sensitive influenced
writing mediumship. At one time his hand was used quite mechanically
to produce writing; he accordingly studied the phenomena very scep¬
tically, and did not take everything for granted. At times the writing
was so completely automatic that he could not control it at all, and
sometimes he found that if he willed a sentence strongly that sentence
was written out. Sometimes messages quite foreign to his thoughts
were written out with the utmost rapidity; indeed, the remarks occa¬
sionally were anything but flattering either to himself or to those in the
room with him. Once a remarkable test was given through his (Mr.
Tapp’s) hand, professing to come from one of Mr. Harrison’s departed
104
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 3, 1876.
relatives; the circumstances made known in this way were not known
to either of them at the time to be true, yet proved to be accurate when
Subsequent inquiry was made. As he practised writing mediumship the
power seemed to increase, and his hand to become its servant, and that
alarmed him; his fist was sometimes brought down instantaneously on
the table with considerable force, until he willed the action to stop, but
directly he forgot the matter the arm would unexpectedly be raised and
brought down with violence in the same way. Then the power began
to interfere with his daily work, and to try to make him write one thing
when he wanted to write another; so he thought to himself that that
state of things would not do at all. He therefore put an abrupt stop to
his automatic writing. If he sat to get it the power would come back
even at the present time, but all along he had found it to be neither a
useful nor a pleasant form of mediumship. It certainly was not uncon¬
scious cerebration. Dr. Carpenter’s theories would not explain his
experiences in the slightest degree.
THE [IXTEGBITY OF THE SPIRIT BODY—THE SENSATIONS OF PERSONS WITH
AMPUTATED LIMBS.
Mr. Loewenthal remarked that he believed in the theory that the
spiritual body vivified and moved the natural body. Persons who had
had their legs amputated often thought that they could feel sensations
in the toes of the foot of the separated limb. Many years ago he was
in San Francisco, when that town and the surrounding country was in
a disturbed state, and he took a poor man into his house one night to
give him a supper and a bed. That man had a wooden leg, and had had
some curious experiences. He never felt that he had .lost his leg, but
he had the sensation that he could not bring it quite to the ground. As
the man sat upon the bed he made passes over the leg and down to the
ground; after a dozen such passes had been thus made, the man said
that the sensation was that he was putting down his foot until it touched
the ground. That was evidence to him that a spirit leg was there, from
which the flesh had been separated. Clairvoyants who examined such
persons saw the spiritual portion of the missing leg in its entirety.
Mr. Harrison said that as lengths of the nerves which once ran from
the foot to the nerve centres were still in the leg, possibly changes of
temperature or the touching of the ends of the nerves by any solid
substance, would act as a stimulus, and send impressions to the brain,
and the man might fancy that it came from the missing foot, the fact
merely being that it came along the nerve which once ran down to the
missing foot, consequently conveyed the same impression to the brain as
if it had come from the foot.
Dr. Carter Blake said that that was the physiological explanation of
what Mr. Loewenthal had stated.
Mr. Lcewenthal replied that a gentleman who had lost his leg, had told
him that he sometimes woke up scratching his missing knee.
Mr. Joy remarked that he did not think that Mr. Harrison’s explana¬
tion was complete, for the nerve went down the leg, then branched off
into several smaller ones.
Mr. Harrison replied that what was commonly called a nerve con¬
sisted of a bundle of fine fibres, each one of which might run to a
different part of the body. If a telegraph wire were cut between
Coventry and Birmingham and the broken ends of the wire touched the
earth, and if the operator in Coventry chose to tell the clerk at the
receiving instrument in London that he was Birmingham, the man in
London would not know it to be false; indeed he would not suspect it,
as the information would come to him along the wire by which Birming¬
ham usually sent the messages.
Mr. Joy asked whether it could not be found out by instruments
that the telegraph wire ended just beyond Coventry.
Mr. Harrison replied that it could be so ascertained, but with a great
deal of trouble and difficulty; in short, just the difficulty they were in
then, to know whether the sensations reaching the brain came from the
stimulated ends of the nerves in the stump, or from the spirit leg.
CLAIRVOYANCE APART FROM MIND-READING.
Mr. Joy stated that some years ago, when his mother was living in
Paris, she gave a large party, and invited Alexis the sensitive to exhibit
his powers of clairvoyance to the company. Alexis read sentences and
saw things shut up in parcels with ease, but in every case but one the
person asking the question knew what was in the parcel. One man,
however, went into a room and made up a bundle of most incongruous
things. Alexis told him not only all that was in his bundle, but what
was inside a locket which the man had not opened, so that in that par¬
ticular case there was no mind-reading.
Miss Chandos remarked that she had a cousin abroad, who wrote to
her while she was living in Gloucestershire, and that she then had a
sensitive who in the spirit went to the post office, found the coming
letter, and read the contents to her; a great deal of it was read word
for word. There was another letter in her own handwriting in her
mother’s pocket, and the clairvoyant read that too.
The Chairman interposed that all this might have been done through
other minds, because there were living persons who knew the contents
of both those letters.
Miss Chandos continued, that sometimes the clairvoyant could not
see clearly at all, and was altogether wrong, so that her clairvoyance
was not trustworthy at all times.
Mr. E. Dawson Rogers said that one day he mesmerised a young
lady, who said that she saw a friend of hers in the City; and proceeded
to tell him’that Jane was asking her father for leave to come to see her
(the clairvoyant). She then traced her from street to street, and, at
last, she said: “ Now she is knocking at the door.” The knocks fol¬
lowed immediately, and in she came. Once she said to him: Do you
know So-and-so ?” “ Yes,” was his reply. “ Do you think that she is
writing a tale, for I see the words ‘ Silvester May ’ on the top of the last
lot of loose sheets ?” The lady of whom all this was spoken was then
twenty miles off. He afterwards discovered that she was writing the
name of ‘ Silvester May ’ at the time, on the top of some loose sheets of
paper; the name was not the title of a tale, but there was a tale lying
upon the table. The same sensitive had told him the contents of letters
written by his friends before they arrived, also what things they had
sometimes enclosed in the envelopes; and the letters often came next
morning, as she had stated. Once he had mesmerised another lady, and
on waking she said that she had an indistinct notion that she had seen
Mr. C. W. Pearce, of Brixton, who was well known to many of those
then present, and who was living at the time 120 miles from him and
his clairvoyant. Next morning he had a letter from Mr. Pearce,
saying that he had held a seance the same evening, and the name of the
clairvoyant had been spelt out; that she told him that she was not a
departed spirit, but was still linked to her physical body: she also told
him what was going on in the room where her body was. It was a case
of the travelling of the soul. He (Mr. Rogers) was sitting, not long ago,
with a medium in London, who told him that Miss was present, and
that she saw a line of light connecting her spirit with her body. Soon
the medium was controlled by the spirit of the person still living in the
body, who told him why she was there, and other little things. He
wrote at once to the person who professed thus to communicate; he
asked her if she remembered travelling in the spirit to that stance, and
saying such and such things to him on the preceding Sunday night.
She replied that she had been there in the spirit, and had no desire to
control the medium, but getting “ involved in her sphere,” found that
she was bound to take the control for a time. One phase of mesmerism
he had not heard dealt with that evening—he referred to phreno-mes¬
merism. He had mesmerised a patient for some few years, and found
her to respond perfectly to touches upon the phrenological organs, but
she never did or said anything at variance with her ordinary moral and
intellectual character; that is to say, she could not, for instance, be made
to express any aversion to those she loved. After some years of practice
upon these organs he found that they ceased to respond; he had not
heard whether such was the experience of mesmerists generally. After¬
wards he discovered that the responses had taken another direction ;
instead of seeing things on the physical plane, she saw corresponding
things on the spiritual plane. If he touched “ number,” instead of
beginning to calculate as she once did, she would see hundreds of beau¬
tiful faces. Once he saw her smile when he was touching her philo¬
progenitiveness, and she said that she saw in the spirit world a number
of beautiful children playing about. If he touched ” colour,” then
perhaps she saw a great number of flowers. Then he began to think it
was all supersensuous excitement and nothing more. Once, however,
when he touched philo-progenitiveness, she gave him the name of
a child she saw, and told him that the child said that he had
buried her body yesterday, while she stood by and saw it all. Now
the fact was perfectly true, although the patient knew nothing about
it in her normal state. About a year and a half ago this same patient
went into the trance and became clairvoyant; her niece entered the
room and began pouring water out of a ewer. The clairvoyant then
saw a large flood boiling and seething before her; there was a factory,
and some people letting down a rope from a window; a large black dog
was trying to save a man. Now, the next day the newspapers showed
that all this had really taken place during some floods in Wales. He
wished the committee would narrow down the subject to some one point.
They had had too much ground to run over that evening to produce a
very instructive discussion.
Mr. E. Parkinson Ashton suggested that Miss Chandos should be
invited to open the discussion at the next meeting, by reading a short
paper upon healing mesmerism and healing mediumship.
This was agreed to.
Mrs. Hallock said that Dr. Hallock had, a few weeks ago, left London
for America, and before he started they agreed to telegraph to each
other by psychological means; they also agreed as to the times they
would attempt to influence each other in spirit. She foresaw, by
spiritual impression, that Dr. Hallock and her daughter would have
a severe voyage, and before he started she told him that the ship would
almost stand up on end: that had since been verified. She saw the
two of them a week ago; it was upon a Sunday; they were landing,
and sniffing the pure American air. Her daughter’s letter showed that
they had arrived on that day, and spoke about sniffing the air as she
had said. Her daughter, in crossing, had a severe sore throat, and Dr.
Hallock failed to make his presence felt by her upon that day; to use a
spiritual expression, she “ could not feel his sphere.” He seemed to be
as much separated from her as if she had never known such a person.
The daughter wrote to her that he had purposely abstained from
attempting to influence her while she (her daughter) was ill, because he
knew that it would worry her.
The proceedings then closed.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
A special Council meeting of the National Association of Spiritualists
was held on the 23rd instant, Mr. A. Calder in the chair. Present Mr.
M. R. Smith, Mr. A. Joy, Mr. E. D. Rogers, Mr. E. T. Bennett, Mr.
J. Ivimey, Mr. E. P. Ashton, Mr. R. Pearce, Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, Mr.
H. Wedgwood, Mr. T. Everitt, Mr. H. T. Humphreys, Mr. G. R. Tapp,
Dr. G. Sexton, Dr. J. M. Gully, Dr. K. Cook, Capt. James, Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. Wood, Mrs. Everitt, Mrs.
Maltby, Mrs. D. Fitz-Gerald, and Miss H. Withall.
The Offices Committee recommended that the public reading room be
closed at nine p.m. on evenings when no meetings were being held on
the premises. This was unanimously agreed to.
It was also reported that the arrangements for the lending library
were completed, and that all members paying half a guinea per annum
would be entitled to the loan of one volume at a time.
The Council of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism
having sent in an application for alliance with the National Association,
the proposal was accepted with pleasure, and carried unanimously.
March 3, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
105
A letter from Mr. Harrison, dated Feb. 17th, offering to remove his
office from 38, Great Russell-street, having been read, it was resolved,
by a vote of nineteen to two: “That Mr. Harrison be requested to
withdraw his letter of Feb. 17th, containing the resignation of his office
here, and that the secretary be instructed, in combination with the
offices committee, to bring before the next Council a definite form of
agreement with Mr. Harrison for the use of his office here.”
At the ordinary Council meeting held Feb. 8th, eight persons were
elected ordinary members of the Association, among whom were Mr. G.
F. Green, writer of the second prize essay on Spiritualism; Mr. William
Theobald; Mr. A. G. Frances, hon. secretary of the Brixton Psycholo¬
gical Society ; and Mr. P. Hickling, of Bury St. Edmunds.
Mr. Morell Theobald read the report of the finance committee,
showing a balance in the hands of the honorary treasurer of £105 5s. 5d.
The accounts passed for payment amounted to <£32.
THE DUTIES OF SPIRITUALISTS. |
MEETING OP THE DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS. j)
On Thursday evening, last week, at a meeting of the Dalston Associa- i
tion of Inquirers into Spiritualism, held at 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, |
London, the Rev. F. R. Young, minister of the Free Christian Church, j\
Swindon, read a paper entitled, “ Our Duties as Spiritualists to Oppo- j>
nents, Inquirers, and Ourselves.” In the absence of the president, Dr. It
Sexton was appointed chairman, and introduced Mr. Young to the (
meeting, with a few appropriate remarks. j)
Mr. Young then read the following paper• j
I am, as you all know, a Spiritualist; that is to say, I am a believer j)
in the doctrine of immortality, demonstrated in the realm of the senses j(
by certain phenomena, generally described as modern Spiritualism ; and j j
that the disembodied or departed spirit can so avail himself of the i
material conditions of our existence as to communicate with us who |
remain behind, and so assure us that he still is, as really as he was ||
while with us in bodily form. As I understand it, any man who believes |
as much as this is a Spiritualist; his creedal opinions and ecclesiastical |(
relations neither make him a Spiritualist, nor unfit him for being one. j)
Personally speaking, I am a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, as the i
Son of God and the Saviour of the world, as man’s Divine Teacher and jv
Master, from whose authority there lies no right of appeal; but I am jj
quite aware that the majority of Spiritualists do not occupy that i
position, nor am I concerned at the present moment in dealing with any jj
differences between Spiritualists who are Christians and those who are j)
not. What I now wish to do is to fix your undivided attention upon jj
some remarks having reference to our duties, as Spiritualists, to oppo- jj
nents, to inquirers, and especially to ourselves. j
We live in a day when the clamour for what are called “rights” is jj
becoming louder and louder, and making itself heard over large spaces jj
in society; but I am one of those who believe that we are in no position |
to understand what our real rights are, and, above all, to obtain j
and enjoy them, except as we first of all try to know what jj
our “ duties ” are, and honestly to do them. You will see that my i j
subject is in no degree sensational, but entirely practical. I have a j)
growing horror of sensationalism, smart sayings, and mere empty j)
wordiness, while my conviction deepens every day that we as Spiritual- i \
ists need to be continually reminded of the claims of duty in reference In
to ourselves and others.
You do not need to have it proved to you that we have opponents to
fight and inquirers to instruct. Some of our opponents are rude, unjust, jj
and unscrupulous; while the violence they often manifest is inexact
proportion to their own utter ignorance of us, and the position we
occupy. I do not say that all such persons are hopeless, for there j
are to be found in our own numbers men and women who were
at one time as much opposed to us as they are now in sympathy with
us. Now I think we ought to take into consideration the fact that many
of our opponents are strictly honest, possessed of average intelligence, |
and are quite sincere in their opposition. They know that, as a rule,
science has pronounced against us; that the pulpits and the pews of
the Christian Church are very largely against us, and that we have not
yet won our place among the majority. Not only so—there are some jj
persons whose peculiar cast of mind, education, general surroundings, ji
and trained sympathies are of such a kind as to make it practically
impossible for them to believe what we say, or to accept as proof what
is proof to us. For human nature is not one-sided, but many-sided; ji
and if each human being is an individuality, separated off from all
other beings, I think it will follow that you cannot insist upon evidence
convincing one person which is ample to convince another; while there
are states and attitudes of mind which necessarily exclude all sight of
and all belief in the supernatural. Now it is our duty, in dealing with
our opponents, to take these facts into consideration, to allow them
their full weight, and not to expect from those who oppose us what
perhaps they cannot give us, or to condemn them for what perhaps after j
all they really cannot help.
There are also duties owing to inquirers and opponents alike, both
classes of persons needing the same treatment, and having the same
claims upon us. Whether men be definite opponents, or merely in- j
quirers into the truth of Spiritualism, it is our duty not to claim more
for our cause than our cause in its present stage can be made to justify, i
We should make every honest allowance for the ignorance and vague¬
ness associated with Spiritualism, in the minds of outsiders; we should
never conceal from them the fact that Spiritualists themselves differ
widely in opinion, even on Spiritualism itself; that the teachings of
spirits vary very much, are often altogether contradictory, and are not
necessarily authoritative; that there are such people as dishonest
mediums, who knowingly and wilfully deceive, by simulating pheno- j!
mena when these are not forthcoming, that their patrons may not be ii
disappointed; that genuine phenomena can never be supplied to order; !(
that it would be better for some persons not to touch Spiritualism,
because of the physical, mental, and moral injury it would be pretty
sure to do them; that all minds do not equally, and at all periods of
life, need the evidence which Spiritualism supplies of the reality of the
life beyond death; and that all that Spiritualism does strictly prove is
immortality, and communion with the departed. Opponents and in¬
quirers are also equally entitled to the knowledge that in dealing with
so difficult a subject as modem Spiritualism, care, patience, the exer¬
cise of common sense, a reverent and charitable spirit, and, above all, a
clean heart and a pure life are among the great conditions of success¬
fully pursuing the inquiry, and removing obstacles to belief. We are
often far too eager to disarm opposition and satisfy inquirers, partly, I
suppose, because of our own belief and felt interest in the matter, and,
partly, because we are all of us too apt to forget that all the opposition
in the world can never overturn a truth, and that if men inquire and
fail to believe, their failure does not in the least degree affect the sure
foundations of our faith. As to the conditions upon which the production
of phenomena are known to depend, I think we are often unduly
impatient with those who cannot realise their necessity, or feel the
force of them, as we do; while, of course, an impostor will always
present this difficulty of conditions when he wishes for a loophole by
which to escape. No doubt people often insist that phenomena shall
be produced when the necessary conditions are not present, but this is
done from ignorance, and we must try, in the spirit of meekness and
forbearance, to instruct such persons, and be willing to bear their
unjust suspicions, remembering there was a time when we ourselves
were not believers, but perhaps as doggedly opposed to the whole thing
as those with whom we now have to deal. We have only to think long
and carefully enough, not to be surprised at the opposition and the
difficulties continually presented to us. It is fashionable to believe that
inspiration is a thing wholly of the past, that miracles were once
wrought, but are not wrought now; that man needs nothing more than
Holy Scripture for his guidance; that modern Spiritualism is an unlaw¬
ful and irreverent meddling with the sacred things which belong to God;
that Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light, and is always
occupied in deceiving mortals; we have only, I say, to remember these
things, and such as these, not to be surprised at any remarks we hear;
while our knowledge of obstructions to knowledge and belief should
make us modest, and willing to be misunderstood and misrepresented.
All the most precious things of God are of slow growth, while the tares
get mixed with the wheat, the vile with the precious, error with truth,
wrong with right, imposition with reality, and the useless with the
useful. Let us learn and lay to heart the great truth we are all so slow
to believe, that opponents and inquirers must be dealt with from the
points of sight from which they themselves view us and our cause;
and then we shall be sure to treat them justly and charitably, and unite
integrity to personal conviction with the widest toleration of all parties
concerned.
But many and important as are our duties to those who oppose us,
and to those who inquire into our belief and its evidences, there are
duties which we equally owe to ourselves, and obedience to which will
benefit us, and help us the better to do our life-work as Spiritualists.
We owe it to ourselves, and to the cause with which we are iden¬
tified, to remember that there is no rounded theory of Spiritualism,
outside of which no man can be a Spiritualist; that our present
knowledge of the whole thing is extremely limited and imperfect;
and that we ourselves are constantly making all sorts of mistakes,
with the very best intentions. We should be careful not to make
claims for Spiritualism which Spiritualism itself does not justify;
and should avoid much of the “ tall talk ” which is too often heard
to proceed from the lips of mediums and general believers. We
should try to realise the awful and practical truth that “ gifts are not
graces;” that mediumship does not necessarily carry with it goodness
of character, or usefulness of life; that some of our mediums are
the very reverse of creditable and reliable individuals; and that this
glorious but dangerous gift of mediumship is oftentimes abused to
unworthy and evil ends. We should be far more strict than we have
been accustomed to be in our treatment of mediums who are known to
deceive, and we should spare no efforts to expose and punish them. Of
course, we should be scrupulously careful not to charge mediums
unjustly; but, once having satisfied ourselves that our charge is a true
one, no consideration for the effect which it may have upon our cause
should prevent us from dealing out the strictest measure of justice to
those who can be guilty of the infamous conduct of playing with the
supernatural, and deceiving those whom it is their first duty to enlighten.
No doubt many who simulate phenomena are themselves mediums, but
that is just one of the very reasons why we should not pass by their evil
conduct when they deceive us; while any man or woman proved to be
guilty should be exposed, and not received back into fellowship until a full
confession of the wrong has been made, and ample repentance has been
manifested. It is a common thing to hear mediums charge each other
with deception. Indeed, the envy which mediums manifest towards each
other, and their mutual charges of dishonesty, are among the very
saddest facts in connection with us. You will hear it sometimes said by
mediums themselves, “ All mediums deceive.” I do not believe it, but
the statement itself is "ominous enough, and ought not to be treated
lightly by us. Hypocrisy is always hateful enough, but doubly so when
it intrudes itself into the realm of the supernatural, and hoodwinks and
robs the trusting and open-minded. No, if there be any cause on tbe
earth which more than another claims at our hands unsullied honour,
scrupulous fidelity, and truthfulness in word and deed, it is the cause of
Spiritualism. I am afraid we do not feel this sufficiently strongly, and
there is little hope of our winning much honest success until we do feel as
we ought to feel and act in correspondence with our convictions. It maybe
that some cases of imposition are due to the action of “ evil spirits;” but to
allow this plea to be indiscriminately used, whenever an imposition is
discovered, is to open the door to utter uncertainty, and throw an impene-
106
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 3, 1876.
trable shield round the atrocities of scoundrels. In connection with our I j
duties to ourselves, it should, I think, be felt that the pursuit of j <
Spiritualism is unseemly and dangerous when followed as a j
mere amusement, or indulged in as a mere luxury. Amusement j
has its own proper place in any natural theory of human life, j\
and there is no necessary sin in being willing to be pleased, j)
But when we intrude upon the' border-land which separates the jjj
natural from the supernatural, when we deal with phenomena 1 j
which have reference to the immortal life and those who have entered j)
into it, we insult ourselves. and the sacred subject with which we are i (
dealing when we are satisfied with being merely amused, or with ] s
whiling away leisure hours, as we might in a theatre, a concert-room, | j
at a card table, or in a ball-room. As well turn a place of worship j (
into a place of amusement, or make the Holy Supper of the Lord a j s
festive meal, as be Spiritualists because we like to be amused, or can I j
find no other way of passing the time. I believe large numbers of 11
Spiritualists do not feel half seriously enough about the study of j s
Spiritualism, while the absence of this seriousness dissipates moral j)
energy, and lays us open to the intrusion of foolish or hurtful spirits, j (
who are always ready to rush in whenever the doors of the supernatural | j
are in the least degree open for their ingress. Undoubtedly the |)
phenomena of Spiritualism have, some of them, their grotesque and j (
laughable sides; but Spiritualism itself is not a laughable, but a very j (
serious matter; and to play with it is to play with fire, with edged tools, : j
or any other dangerous thing. Let me now say, as a last thing in this I <
connection, that the pursuit of Spiritualism is, in some circles, in i)
danger of becoming a monomania, and that we owe it as a duty to our- j);
selves to take care that it does not become so in reality. The hearing | j j
of the Gospel, attendance upon religious services of any kind, the |)|
reading of the Bible, the very offering of prayer may all be pursued to |))
such an extent, and so unguardedly and exclusively as to become an is!
injury rather than a benefit. Spiritualism is a great and blessed truth, j jj
and the cause of Spiritualism is one of the most sacred on the earth; j j |
but the moment it interferes with our performance of the set duties of j U
life, the moment we give to it an exclusive and dominant regard, the i )j
moment we are affected with “ Spiritualism on the brain,” and can think |) j
of and take interest in nothing else, that very moment we are in a is!
diseased and morbid condition, and are turning our blessing into a jjj
curse, our opportunities for good into occasions of evil. Human life has HI
to be supported by light, air, heat, food, and twenty other things, and if I j!
we try to support it upon any one of these to the exclusion of the rest, I j j
we soon find out our mistake; but this is what too many Spiritualists j | j
have done, and are still doing, until at last they become monomaniacs, j j j
and simple nuisances to every one who happens to come into contact jjj
with them, except those who are in a similar evil state.
I have long thought and felt very strongly that we owe it to our ijj
beautiful faith and the cause with which we have identified ourselves, to jjj
make an open, modest, and constant avowal of what we are and what I (j
we believe, never allowing coward fear to lead us to hide our light under i j j
a bushel. We need not be nuisances to be faithful; we may consult jji
times and places, and yet maintain our integrity; we may keep ourselves j \ j
and our faith in a position of harmony with the other facts of our lives, j j j
and yet be always ready to “ give a reason for the hope that is within j j j
us.” I think many Spiritualists hold back the avowal they ought to j sj
make, and it is time this fact should be clearly understood, and the duty j j j
it inculcates be laid to heart and discharged. I also think the sacrifices j jj
we make to spread our faith are not at all equal to its importance. If Hj
we do really and truly believe that the truth of immortality is aided by jjj
demonstrable evidence; that those who have passed away are still able, j j j
under given conditions, to commune with us who are on this side; if we jjj
believe that God, in these latter days, has given us a privilege which i j
many prophets and kings longed for, but died without a sight of it being j j i
vouchsafed to them; if we believe, in fact, that Spiritualism is what we j jj
profess it to be; if we know it to be true, and know equally how valu- j jj
able it may be in right hands, then I say it is our duty to sacrifice time j (j
and money and other valuables to spread abroad the light among those j j
who are in darkness, to strengthen the weak, to instruct the ignorant, j jj
to give confidence to the trembling, and to bring the world face to face j (j
with that which has helped us, and which we believe is capable of jjl
helping others. I have no confidence in the profession of any man who j jj
tells me he believes a great truth, but who does not make all possible j jj
sacrifices for its spread. Of course, what those sacrifices shall be, the j j j
forms they shall assume, must be left to each one’s conscience to deter- i jj
mine; but although we are absolved from responsibility to man, our jjj
responsibility to God remains intact, and is all the greater because man i j i
cannot decide for us. Our lecturers, our periodicals, our societies, and j jj
the various agencies we have at present at command should be far more j j j
largely supported than they now are, while their number and efficiency j j j
should be increased, and would be if we were willing to sacrifice some of j j j
our unnecessary luxuries, and live more simply, and more in conformity j j
with the dictates of those great facts and truths which Spiritualism j j
teaches us. j j j
Sacrifices for our faith are absolutely necessary if our faith itself is to jji
become strong, and be something more than a mere impression or jjj
feeling. Our knowledge of a truth is not of the slightest value or im- j j j
porfance, except as we turn that truth into life. We may see, perfectly j jj
clearly, that a certain statement is true ; we may be able to appreciate jjj
the nature of certain phenomena, presented to our senses; intellectually ijj
speaking, we may know the true, the actual, and the right; but it is jjj
among the solemn and awful facts of life, that the apprehension of these j j j
things may stop there. Only as we actually love the truth we know, j j
shall we will to do that truth, and only as we will it shall we do it, and jjj
only as we do the truth shall we be conformed to the truth. The jjj
question “ What is truth ?” is, of course, a very important one; but jjj
truth is a means to an end, not the end itself. When men say, ‘‘I want jjj
to know the truth, the fact, and will know at all hazards,” I am inclined to jjj
reply, “Beitso; useyourbesteffortstoknowthetruth,andthefact, butyour I' 1
possession of the new knowledge is only one more responsibility, adding
to the number already devolving upon you; you are neither better nor
worse for your knowledge, except as your knowledge makes you more
truthful, more honest, more real, and more conscientious, as it purifies
your heart, and ennobles your life. You may hold the truth, and yet
‘ hold it in unrighteousness;’ you may believe the truth, but ‘ the devils
believe and tremble,’ V They are not blessed who merely know, but they
are blessed, and they alone, who do what they know. Spiritualism may
be true ; you and I believe it to be true, and we may go further, and say
we know it to be true, as far as we can know any fact of consciousness.
But our possession of that knowledge, unless it make us better men and
better women, better husbands and better wives, better fathers and better
mothers, better children, better brothers and sisters, better masters and
servants, unless it make us better beings in all the varied relations of
life,—unless it bring us into nearer union with the true, the right, the
self-sacrificing, and the divine,—-is not only of no use to us, but is
simply an evil; for God gives nothing to us unless it be for use, and if
our talent of Spiritualism be folded in a napkin, and laid aside, the
Master will one day or other know how to deal with His slothful
servant. It is a great thing to be able to distinguish truth from error,
right from wrong, the real from the apparent; but it is a greater, because
it is a better, thing for us to be true, and right, and real, just as it is
more acceptable in the sight of God to live a poem rather than merely
write one, to be beautiful in heart and life rather than to talk and argue
about the beautiful. The best critics are those who the most carefully
criticise themselves; and the truest culture is the culture that purifies
our affections, and makes our lives wholesome and serviceable. If you
ask me why I lay such stress upon all this, my answer is a very simple
one. We are all of us in danger of looking at, and accepting Spirit¬
ualism from its merely intellectual sides, of being content with a belief
in its reality and truth, without that belief being practically operative. I
say to myself, quite as strongly as I can say to you, that the only
Spiritualism which is of the least value, in this or any other world, is
the Spiritualism which makes us better, which lifts us higher, which
generates patience, and self-control, and pureness, and all the divine
virtues. It is very important to know that there is a life beyond death,
that we can and do communicate with our friends ; but that knowledge,
so far from being an actual blessing to us, may be a curse to sink us
lower, unless, knowing these things, we ourselves are morally and
spiritually improved by the knowledge. Theoretically, and in the
abstract, Spiritualism is good, but a holy and useful life, as a result of a
theoretical Spiritualism, is better; and we are, every one of us, in
danger of being satisfied with the first, and of being indifferent to
the last.
In the composition of this paper (and with these words I will con¬
clude) I have carefully abstained from unnecessarily irritating and
offending those from whom I most fundamentally differ on theological
questions. We meet here on common ground to discuss common
duties, and I wish this common ground were better understood by many
Spiritualists than it really is. We do not always and sufficiently
respect each other’s differences of opinion, and it is high time it should
be clearly understood that, while we are all of us Spiritualists, some of
us are Christians and some are not, and that each party should be just
to the other, and not expect co-operation where co-operation is plainly
impossible without the sacrifice of personal fidelity. Let us as much as
possible lay aside the things in which we differ, and band together to
promote the interests in which we are agreed; let us give each other
credit for sincerity, and be tolerant of everything but falsehood, baseness,
and cowardice. Against these latter things let us fight, by day and
by night, with every honest weapon at our command, and let us never
cease our efforts until our movement is as pure and worthy of support
as it may be and ought to be. I know, of course, that this, like every
other “ treasure ” committed to human hands, is in “ earthen vessels;”
but we may, nevertheless, keep our vessels bright, and sweet, and clean,
and thus humbly invoke upon ourselves and our cause the blessing of
Almighty God, without whose favour, however learned, or rich, or
prosperous we may be, we are ignorant, and poor, and failing, and
miserable. (Applause.)
Mr. G. B. Tapp said that he completely agreed with the substance of
the interesting paper that had been read, and considered that the dis¬
sension unfortunately existing within the movement was much to be
regretted, as it gave increased facilities to opponents to retard its
progress. He also thought that the utmost charity should be exercised
in dealing with the subject of imposition amongst mediums.
Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen thought that the meeting should discuss the
question of what course should be taken against mediums found guilty
of trickery.
The Chairman urged the necessity of more stringent test conditions at
all stances, and expressed his opinion that unless some such measures
were adopted, the movement would simply be ruined. He spoke of the
frivolity and levity which he said characterised the conduct of many
who frequented seances, adding that such conduct was opposed to the
purpose to be served by Spiritualism.
Mr. John Rouse pointed out that the great question with him
was to establish the facts of Spiritualism. Whether they came from
devils or angels was immaterial, because in either case they proved the
reality of a spiritual world, which was all that he required to know as
a fact.
Mr. G. R. Tapp made reference to Swedenborg, to whom evil spirits
were a constant danger and source of much trouble; he also spoke of
the plagiarisms in the work Hafed, Prince of Persia, recently published
by Mr. Nisbet, of Glasgow; from which he inferred the possibility of
evil spirits manifesting, whether the medium were in sympathy with
them or not.
The proceedings were brought to a close by a unanimous vote of
thanks to Mr. F. R. Young for his paper, and to Dr, Sexton for pre¬
siding over the meeting.
Maech 3, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST. 107
THE INFLUENCE OF SPIRITUALISM ON THE MORAL
CHARACTER.
It has often been remarked that the practice of physical
mediumship has a tendency to loosen the sense of personal
responsibility, and to lower the moral tone of the medium.
The reason for this seems to be that physical manifestations
are chiefly produced, so far as our present observations
extend, by a low order of spirits, and their constant posses¬
sion of the physical organism of the medium seems to
weaken the medium’s own control of his mental and moral
faculties. In the same way a trance medium would probably
be found to lose in originality of thought, and if he were a
writer, to lose in force of style or expression, though he
might, while under the control of a spirit superior to him¬
self, give utterance to thoughts, and make use of a diction
far beyond his own unassisted capacity to reach.
In a greater or less degree Spiritualism itself, when not
pursued wholly as a science, will probably, on close observa¬
tion, be found to have a weakening effect on the general
character of those who are its too ardent votaries. The mere
fact that it comes to most as a great light in the darkness of
a gross materialism; as the ((pearl of great price ” to those
who have sought long and diligently till they have found it;
as the much-desired key that unlocks all the mysteries of
the ages, is sufficient reason for its temporary unbalancing
effect on all but the most perfectly-poised intellects.
Then the frequent consequent separation from former
friends and associates, engenders a gushing feeling of
brotherhood towards those who are our fellow-out¬
casts, and will henceforward be our fellow-labourers.
But there comes a time when this subsides, and we regain
our balance. We take up our thread of thought or of occu¬
pation where we left it off, and a new chapter in the de¬
velopment of life and character begins. And this is the
point to show whether the new truth, for which so much has
been sacrificed, is a real gain, or the contrary. The real in¬
fluence of Spiritualism for good or for evil, upon the moral
character, must depend on the power of each individual to
infuse his added knowledge into his whole being; to be
perhaps less of a Spiritualist, and more of a man.
When this comes to pass, the influence of Spiritualism for
good on social institutions, or religion, education, or art, and
on legislation will become apparent. It is now working
from without, as an outward manifestation ; when it has
penetrated to the heart and become the essence of our life,
working from within towards the outward, it is probable that
we shall see a greater revival in religion, a more glorious
renaissance in art, than even the boasted mediseval times can
show. The reception of this new truth by the outward
faculties, seems to be the immediate work before us; the
cultivation of a purer and loftier morality, of stronger
because truer spiritual natures may result in a better race
than have yet dwelt upon the earth.
There axe now three Spiritual Societies in active operation in
Chicago.
A Dream Story.—Just before Major Andre’s embarkation for
America he made a journey into Derbyshire, to pay a Miss Seward a
visit, and it was arranged that they should take a pleasure ride to the
Park. Miss Seward told Andre that, besides enjoying the beauties of
the natural scenery, he would there meet some of her most valued
friends, among them Mr. Newton, whom she playfully called her
“minstrel,” and Mr. Cunningham, the curate, whom she regarded as a
very elegant poet. “ I had a very strange dream last night,” said Mr.
Cunningham to Mr. Newton, while they were awaiting together the
arrival of the party, “ and it has haunted me all the day, seeming un¬
like ordinary dreams, to be impressed very vividly upon my mind. I
fancied myself to be in a great forest. The place was strange to me,
and while looking about with some surprise, I saw a horseman approach¬
ing at a great speed. Just as he reached the spot where I stood, three
men rushed out of a thicket, seized the bridle, and hurried him away,
after closely searching his person. The countenance of the stranger
was a very interesting and impressive one. I seem to see it now. My
sympathy for him was so great for him that I awoke. But I presently
fell asleep again, and dreamed that I was standing near a strange city,
among thousands of people, and I saw the same person I had seen in
the wood brought out and suspended to the gallows. The victim was
young and had a courtly bearing. The influence and the effect of this
dream are somewhat different from any that I ever had.” Presently
Miss Seward arrived with the handsome stranger. Mr. Cunningham
turned pale with a nameless horror as he was presented to Andre, and
at his first opportunity said to Mr. Newton, “ That, sir, was the face I
saw in my dream.”—Galaxy.
SPIRITUALISM AT CAMDEN TOWN.
A few days ago, at a soiree given at the Athenaeum by th£ members
of the Camden-road Debating Club, a paper was read by Mr. James
Judd on V Spiritualism.” The various aspects of the subject were
lucidly and impartially described, and the claims of Spiritualism on
public attention fairly admitted. It was also shown that many men of
culture and science have, after due investigation, openly testified to its
truth, and further, that the immortality of man is certainly proved by
means of some of its phenomena. Then, after alluding to the opposite
side of the question, Mr. Judd concluded by stating that no good results
could be shown at all in proportion to the power expended, or to the
time (twenty-seven years) which has been devoted to its spread and its
investigation. “ Science has her triumphs, and the family of men reap
the results in the solid and the substantial. Nature has students of her
mysteries, and yields to the persevering a rich reward. The arts give
their hidden glories to the persistent disciple, and the world is the
gainer—but what of modern Spiritualism ? Has it repaid its votaries ?
Has it enriched the world ? Has it demonstrated beyond cavil any new
fact for the enlightenment or comfort of man ? ”
Miss Kislingbury replied that Spiritualism had supplied the only de¬
monstration of a future life for man, a service which she believed all
thoughtful persons must recognise as of the highest importance. With
regard to the time modern Spiritualism had been in the world, twenty-
seven years counted for very little in the life of a science; how long
was it before astrology became astronomy, or before alchemy developed
into chemistry ? All the more thoughtful Spiritualists at the present
time were working to free Spiritualism from superstition and imposture,
and to place it on a scientific footing. The Spiritualist newspaper also
worked for this end. Spiritualism was an experimental science, and
was not, in the opinion of the speaker, a very good subject for discus¬
sion in a mixed assembly, where only a few persons understood any¬
thing about it.
Mr. Tyler then gave some examples of supposed fraud in mediums.
Mr. Hamer produced the book “ Hafed,” written through a Glasgow
medium, showing that many of the illustrations were reproductions of
engravings by living artists in Cassell’s Bible, proofs of which were
passed round the audience.
Mr. Shorter gave some examples of tests of identity, as proved by
spirit-photography, where spirits appearing on the plate with the sitters
had been recognised as their departed relatives. He also defended the
mediums whose honesty had been called in question by a previous
speaker.
The chairman, Dr. Henty, summed up by saying that after all he had
heard on the subject of Spiritualism, common sense forced him to the
conclusion that there was “ nothing in it.’’
The Banner of Light has received a roll fifty feet long of signatures
to the Marshal MacMahon petition.
Mr. J. J. Morse, the trance lecturer will deliver two addresses in the
Old Freemasons’ Hall, Weir’s-court, Newgate-street, Newcastle-on-
Tyne, on Sunday next.
Mr. Morse Permanently Engaged.—The Newcastle-on-Tyne Spirit¬
ual Association has concluded a year’s engagement with Mr. J. J. Morse,
trance speaker, for a series of monthly visits from that gentleman,
embracing three lectures per month, two on a Sunday and one on a
Monday evening. The meetings will be held in the Freemasons’ Old
Hall, Weirs-court, Newgate-street, and the admission will be free.
There will be a collection at the close of each meeting. Prospectuses
giving dates can be obtained of the secretary, Mr. F. Pickup, 38,
Newgate-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Spiritualism in Glasgow.—Mr. J. J. Morse delivered a trance
address in the Spiritualists’ Hall, 104, Trongate, Glasgow, on Sunday
evening last. The hall was completely filled, and numbers were unable
to be admitted. The trance address was listened to with close atten¬
tion throughout. The Glasgow Spiritualists held a soiree in honour of
Mr. Morse, on Thursday evening the 2nd inst., at which Mr. Morse
narrated his experiences in America. The meeting was well attended.
On Wednesday Mr. Morse addressed a meeting at Barrhead. On
Sunday next Mr. Morse will address two meetings in Newcastle-on-
Tyne ; and on Monday and Tuesday, the 6th and 7th March, will speak
at Choppington. Metropolitan societies desiring to secure his services
can do so from March 23rd to April 7th, except Sunday, March 26th.
Letters to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
Spiritualism in Blackfriars.—The South London Association of
Spiritualists meets at 71, Stamford-street. On Sunday evening last
Mrs. Howard (Miss Baker) delivered a trance address. The subject
chosen was “ Mediums and Mediumship,” and the speaker gave useful
information on the different forms of mediumship, and the best methods
of developing the same. At the close of the address questions were put
by the audience and answered by the speaker, after which a seance was
held, at which several tests of a convincing nature were given and spirit-
flowers brought, filling the room with their fragrance. On Sunday
evening next Mr. C. P. B. Alsop will deliver an address in the normal
state. Doors open at half-past six, proceedings to commence at seven.
The quarterly meeting of the Association will be held on Monday,
March 6th, at 8 o’clock. J. Burton, Hon. Sec.
March 3, 1876.
108
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Voettj).
•
TO MY CHILD IN CHURCH.
[Sermon upon the Return of the Jews, the Scai'let Woman, the Devil, ^c.]
Sweet little girl, wise, with pretty blue eyes,
And the halo of glossy gold hair,
Looking up at the preacher, the dismal dark teacher,
Who scowls from the pulpit up there.
Do you start at the news that the tribes of the Jews
Are tramping it hack to the East?
That the woman in red, with a crown on her head,
Is perched on the hack of the Beast ?
Do you shudder to think how you stand on the brink
Of a fearful and fiery lake ?
Yes, my poor little pet, though your sins you forget
You must roast with the rest when you wake!
We are all of us cursed, from the best to the worst;
Yes, you with your innocent ways,
Doing nothing hut good as a young maiden should,
You are damned:—so the gentleman says!
From The Truthseeker.
(Eomspnlience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to time of this journal and its readers^
THE LATE ARCHBISHOP WHATELY’S IDEAS ABOUT SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—Allow me to make some short remarks with regard to the late
Archbishop Whately’s fear of “ encroaching on the claims of the jealous
God,” by communion with the dead, as recorded in the last entries of
the late Archbishop’s Commonplace Boole, and detailed in The Spiritualist
of January 7th.
Who was “ \h.Q jealous God ? ” Who is He as shown by the Jewish
Scriptures, and also by the articles and liturgy of the Church to which
the Archbishop belonged ? One thing is quite certain, that the God of
the Old Testament, of whom it is emphatically said, “ The Lord our
God is one Lord,” is represented as a jealous God, a God depicted as
subject to this and other passions from one end of the Old Testament to
the other. But this is not the one God of the articles of the Church of
England and Ireland, held by the Archbishop. The very first article
declares: “ There is but one living and true God, everlasting, without
body, parts, or passions; ” consequently, being without passions, He is
not an angry, not a jealous God. This one God of the articles of the
Church of England cannot, then, be the one God of the Old Testament,
being of such especial difference as respects passions. If we turn to
the litany of this Church, we shall find who it is to whom this Church
imputes the passions. The apostrophe in behalf of progress and in
depreciation of eternal punishment, “ Be not angry with us—the world
—for ever,” is solely addressed to Jesus, in the terms “ God the Son,”
that is to Him who, in His own Person, sets His followers the
example of conversing with spirits good and bad; and who, far from
being jealous on this point, led up three of His disciples to a private
place, evidently in order to invoke there the spirits of Moses and
Elias in the presence of these disciples. And if this were not so, where
lies the blame when persons are spontaneously addressed by spirits in
language as plain or plainer than if spoken by men ? and there are
many such nowadays, who share with Christ when on earth the medial
faculty of clairaudience. Surely, if there be blame, it is not the
medium, in this case of spontaneous clairaudience, who is to be blamed.
And if mediums with this faculty cannot be blamed, it would seem hard
to fix blame on other media because, being media like the others, they
only differ from the others by the difference of their medial faculty.
Scrutator.
SPIRITUALISTIC NOMENCLATURE.
Sib,—In the very interesting discussion now being carried on in your
journal, under the title “ Soul and Spirit,’’ I observe that “ Immortality,”
as an inherent property of the soul or spirit of man (i.e„ the “ Ego ”),
appears to be admitted by your correspondents as an established fact.
Now without entering upon any premises where this conclusion has
been drawn, I should be glad if any of them would favour me by any
data upon which the natural immortality of man as an attribute can be
based. H. Venman.
20, Pimlico-road, S.W.
SPIRITUALISM IN SOUTH LONDON.
Sir,—I wrote to you last week to request your insertion of a para¬
graph in The Spiritualist, concerning the meetings of the South London
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism. I write now to give you the
history of the association, in the hope that you will assist us in our
work of propagating the knowledge of Spiritualism over as wide an area
as possible. The association was formed by the action of a few working
men, in calling a public meeting in September last, when nearly thirty
persons desirous of inquiry, or already Spiritualists, gave in their names
as members, including Miss Baker, Mr. Bullock, and Mr. Wallis. A
committee, secretary, and treasurer were appointed, and in a short time
seances were held at a private house in the Walworth-road. After a
time the interest flagged, and it was deemed advisable to extend the
basis of operations by taking larger rooms and holding Sunday evening
meetings, besides seances on every night of the week. We commenced
these meetings in January, and they have been continued regularly.
| |
Uj
!
i>i
1)1
Our association numbers now nearly forty members, at a subscription of
Is. per quarter, and a small sum on attending the seances, which, with
a collection on Sunday evenings, about pays our expenses. A subscrip¬
tion was made to buy the materials for forms, table, desk, and platform,
which were made by some of the members free of charge.
J. Burton, lion. Secretary,
71, Stamford-street, Blackfriars.
SPIRIT HAND MOULDS IN MANCHESTER.
Sir,—On Saturday evening last, by invitation of Mr. Reimers, I sat
with him and the same medium as before, when we were favoured with
two moulds, one of the spirit Bertie’s right hand, and also of her foot.
The hand mould was presented to me along with a note written by
Bertie, and which certainly bore no marks of rupture either inside or
outside. I took the mould to a respectable modeller in Manchester,
who made a cast from it, and pronounced it an “ unmistakable natural
hand.” The cast hand measures eight inches in circumference round
the wide part, and seven inches round the narrow part of the wrist.
The only theory I can give is that the hand must have been dematerial-
ised, otherwise the mould must have been ruptured, and the spirit herself
said this was actually the case. But, apart from this, the real question
is—Whose hand was the original ? That it was not the medium’s is
quite certain, for she is a very stout lady with a much larger hand than
the cast; that it was not Mr. Reimers’ or mine is equally certain, for
ours are also much larger. That no other mortal beings were in the
room at the time is again certain, as the door was locked and the key
left in the door, a fair light being on the centre table during the whole
operation, so that we saw everything in the room outside the temporary
cabinet. The spirit Bertie showed herself twice just outside the curtain,
as also the spirit Mike, who had a truly noble and majestic appearance.
What makes the thing more strange is, that every available space
id side the curtain was taken up by the medium, and a chair on which
the hot liquid paraffin was placed; and yet it is a scientific axiom that
no two bodies can occupy the same space. Again, as to the note, which
was written in a very neat small hand on two pages of note paper, the
medium had her hands duly fastened in a net bag through winch she
could not pass her hands, and if she could have done so, would it be
possible for her to write such a letter in darkness ? Many other inci¬
dents occurred, but enough is recorded to awaken interest and inquiry
concerning these wonderful manifestations of what I must persist in
calling the action of spiritual beings, until it is proved to the contrary;
the onus of proof lies on the objector. William Oxley.
Higher Broughton, Manchester, Feb. 28, 1876.
SEANCES WITH MR. W. EGLINGTON.
Sir,—Two seances, held lately at the rooms of the National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists, with Mr. W. Eglington, under test conditions, have
been attended with satisfactory results.
On each occasion the medium was securely tied with tape, and the
knots sealed, and after hands had been presented at the cabinet windows,
and articles thrown out, the medium was found asleep, with the knots
and seals intact. At last Saturday’s seance, a remarkable test was
given in addition. The tapes, which were fastened round the hands,
were passed through the button-hole of the medium’s coat, and then
through two holes in the side of the cabinet, where they were again
knotted and sealed, the ends with the knot and seal being outside, in
sight of those who sat near that end of the cabinet. During the even¬
ing, Joey, the presiding intelligence, asked for a finger-ring. One was
handed him by a lady through the cabinet window; we were presently
told to open the doors and look for it; after some little search the
ring was found threaded on to the double tapes which passed, as before
described, from Mr. Eglington’s wrists through his button-hole to the
seals outside the cabinet.
All present were satisfied with this test. The tapes and seals can be
seen at 88, Great Russell-street. Mr, Eglington has been engaged by
the Stance Committee of the Association for the next series of circles
for inquirers. E. Kislingbury.
Next Monday evening there will be a discussion at 38, Great-
Russell-street on “ Mesmerism as a Curative Agent.” Dr. Gully will be
in the chair, and Miss Chandos will open the discussion.
Hibernation is a remarkable phenomenon; it is that peculiar
lethargy into which certain animals fall, principally during 'winter.
During this period no nutriment is required; the blood-making pro¬
cesses cease; respiration is very nearly or entirely suspended ; the
heart beats regularly, but the circulation is very slow ; the blood, from
the absence of respiration, is entirely venous. The muscular irritability
of the left ventricle, highly increased, however, permits it to contract
under the weak stimulus of the non-oxygenated blood ; and it is this
exaltation of a single vital property which preserves the animal life.
Sensation and volition are quiescent. Respiration is, however, quickly
excited by irritating the animal, and the call of hunger and the warmth
of returning warm weather will cause a cessation of the lethargy.
Hibernation is, however, not due to cold, since the tenrec, a nocturnal
insectivorous mammal, passes three of the hottest months in the year in
that condition ; and the hedgehog, the dormouse, and the bat hibernate
regularly every twenty-four hours.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
H. G. A.—Your letters are so illegible that they take half an hour to decipher,
and tomake ready for printers. As the busy season is coming on, this time
can no longer he given.
J. G.—Your letter is illegible.
March 3, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
111
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY. AND
BIOLOGY,
ON SAM AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “THE SPIRITUALIST"
NEWSPAPER,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
LONDON, W.O.
(Entrance in Woburn-street).
ALL LETTEBS TO BE ADDEESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by tbe Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining tlie author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. fid.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. fid.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the sendees of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, s by William Crookes, P.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
aud contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s. •
PLANOHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. fid.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums ,'also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, aud an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic! Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man m the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. fid.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rale, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium fight. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mounlford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Superaaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernaturai; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumaiology; Miracles
and nScience: the Spirits and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles aud Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament ana the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. I2mo„
500 pp. Cloth 10s. fid.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell>
7s fid.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens • these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ’’ was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made.by disbelievers that spirit messages are of ajtrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote ‘during the whole
of his life on earth, Best edition, gilt, 10s, fid.; cheap edition,
7s. fid. •.
POEMS OF PROGRESS.. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM. MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. fid. ?
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration¬
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s fid.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. fid.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND . GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. fid.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), fid.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. fid..
ARCANA OF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vols.,
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. fis.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s: fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation;) 7s. fid.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen, 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. fid.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 16s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 9s.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Take. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Orosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU;
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle, fis. per VoL
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists, is. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT) by Sir Walter
Scott, fis.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record of Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. fis.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism, fis.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BV ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 5s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. fid.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub, at 7s. fid.) 4s..
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. ,,111, „ .
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . ,
The Thinker. „ V.
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis-; or, Trath v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health .....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in file Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings *
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures
d.
15 0
7 0
7 6
7 0
7 6
7 6
7 6
3 6
.7 6
5 0
7 6
2 6
3 0
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
x. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recom¬
mended by The Spikituahst Newspaper . ..26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .60
History of American Socialismsl(Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China-to India (400 a.d. and 518 A.D.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.AV Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
tar the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind!; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by;James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 .
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . . .20
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . ' . . ‘ 12 8
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B.A. . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . . 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . .10
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S.
Special edition for Schools . • , , . .10
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Doten: 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers. ..Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard, fid.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard,
fid.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation ofl Spiritualism, by
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “ There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.”, fid.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
THEODORE PARKER IN SPIRIT LIFE. Given
inspirationally through the mediumship of Dr. F. L. H. Willis.
Is.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young, fid.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H, FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychomotrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. R. T.
Hallock. 2s.
V
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 3, 1876,
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. W. H. HARRISON.
Committee.
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgen-
stein.
Alexander Oalder, Esq.
Alexander Tod, Esq.
Mrs. Kate Fox-Jencken.
Cromwell F. Yarley, Esq.j
F.R.S.
James Wason, Esq.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
James Mylne, Esq,
Martin It. Smith, Esq.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Sir Chas. Isham, Bart.
Baroness Adelma von Vay.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
H. D. Jencken, Esq. M.R.I.
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq, M.S.
Tel.E.
N. F. Dawe, Esq.
Miss Douglas.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.
Mrs. Honywood.
Secretary and Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Since the year 18G9 Spiritualists have been indebted to Mr.
Wm. H. Harrison for the excellent journal of which he is the
editor. This journal has been a credit and strength to the
movement in every respect. It has been printed in clear type
and on good paper, and has been conducted with ability,
caution, courage, and public spirit. It is hardly necessary to
say that up to the. present time the paper has been by no
means self-supporting; indeed, during the first three years of
its existence it entailed upon Mr. Harrison a very heavy loss,
which he bore single-handed. This loss was aggravated by
the fact that, in order the more completely to devote his
attention to the Spiritualist newspaper, Mr. Harrison volun¬
tarily relinquished a considerable portion (estimated, upon
reliable information, at an average of not less than £200 per
annum) of the income which he was deriving from literary
work on the Engineer newspaper and other journals. Mr.
Harrison has indeed done more than this, for during the past
eight years he has given up one or two evenings every week
to a practical observation of spiritual phenomena at seances.
By his unwearied and intelligent observation he has been
enabled to collect a mass of reliable information as to the facts
and principles of Spiritualism, which fits him in the highest
degree to be the editor of a newspaper devoted to the religious
and scientific aspects of the subject.
It is a matter of notoriety that the Medium newspaper,
which was inaugurated the year after the appearance of the
Spiritualist, has been annually subsidized by large subscrip¬
tions, which its editor, Mr. Burns, has always called for as
justly due to his exertions. Whilst we fully acknowledge the
services which have been thus rendered to Spiritualism, we
would call attention to the fact that no appeal to the public for
help has ever, except upon one occasion, and that fora special
purpose, appeared in the pages of the Spiritualist for six years.
The work was done, and the whole expense borne for three of
those years by Mr. Harrison alone; during the last three years
an annual sum of about two hundred pounds has been privately
subscribed by a few friends, which has, doubtless, greatly
relieved the burden upon the shoulders of Mr. Harrison, but
this in no way touches the fact that Mr. Harrison has for years
cheerfully submitted to a heavy pecuniary loss in order to
supply to the movement a paper in many, if not in all, respects
worthy of it.
The undersigned ladies and gentlemen are of opinion that
it is not to the credit of the movement that this pecuniary
loss should be borne alone by Mr. Harrison.
Had he appealed to the public for subscriptions, they would
doubtless have been forthcoming, as they have been for some
years past in answer to the appeals of the Medium ever since
its establishment—but he has not done so.
It is proposed, therefore, that a subscription, in addition to
the existing Guarantee Fund, shall be opened, which shall take
the form of a testimonial to Mr. Harrison, and which, it is
hoped, may to some extent, relieve him from the heavy
sacrifices which he has made in money, time, and work in the
interests of Spiritualism.
Friends desiring to contribute to this fund are requested
to send in their names to Martin B. Smith Esq., care of Miss
Kislingbury 38, Great Bussell-street, London, W.C.
List op Subscriptions to February 18th, 1876.
Mr. Martin B. Smith £50 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn....  50 0 0
Mr. J. N. T. Martheze    50 0 0
Mr. James Mylne        40 0 0
Mr. Alexander Calder  20 0 0
A Friend        20 0 0
Mr. Alexander Tod   20 0 0
Comte de Bullet   20 0 0
Mr. N. F. Dawe      15 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart  10 0 0
Mr J. M. Gully, M.D  10 0 0
Prince Paskievitsch    6 7 7
Prince Gagarin      6 7 7
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgenstein  6 0 0
F. S. A.       5 5 0
Mr. C. F. Varley, F.B.S i  5 0 0
Mr. Eugene Crowell, M.D  5 0 0
Mrs. Louisa Lowe  5 0 0
Mr. Charles Massey       5 0 0
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald   5 0 0
A Friend   wll      5 0 0
Mr. A. Tod (Second Subscription) 5 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn   „ „ 5 0 0
Mr. C. C. Massey  „ 5 0 0
Mr. A. Calder   „ „ 5 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart  „ „ 5 0 0
F. S. A.   „ „ 5 0 0
Signor Damiani      3 3 0
Mrs.Honywood 1  1  2 2 0
Mr. Morell Theobald il  2 2 0
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S     2 2 0
Mr. S. Chinnery    2 2 0
Mr. S. Templeman Speer, M.D.   2 2 0
“ Ennesfallen ”    2 2 0
Three Friends      2 2 0
Mr. A. L. Henderson     2 2 0
Col. Olcott    2 0 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory   2 0 0
Mr. Epes Sargent    2 0 0
Dr. Baikie           2 0 0
Miss Douglas     2 0 0
M. H. C      2 0 0
M. Gustave de Veh   2 0 0
Mr. Geo. Sutherland  2 0 0
Miss Anna Blackwell  ;  2 0 0
Mr. Keningale Cook  1 11 6
Mr. Geo. King     110
Mr. F. A. Binney    110
Mr. J. Coates    110
Mrs. Maltby     ’..... 110
Mrs. Kislingbury     110
Mr. B. W. Pycock       110
Mr. B. Coleman     1 1 0
Mr. B.Fitton   110
Major Menars     110
Mr. John Lamoht       110
Mr. Archibald Lament    110
Mr. T. B. Griffin       110
Mr. J. B. Stones     I 110
Mr. G. W. F. Wiese  110
Bev. W. Whitear   110
Miss Whitear     110
Mr. C. E. Williams    110
Mr. A. Glendinning   110
Mr. H. Withall     110
Captain James  110
Mr. F. W. Percival....      110
Mr. Christian Beimers    110
Mr. Thos. Hinde. ...;.A.'  110
Mr. Thos. Grant   110
Mrs. Geo. Neville          110
Mr. G. B. Tapp        110
Mr. J. Clark Ferguson    110
Mrs. Woodforde       110
Mr. T. M. Simkiss   |  1 1 0
A Friend      110
A Friend, per Miss Williamson  110
Mr. W. P. Adshead       110
Mr. D. H. Wilson       110
Mrs. M.T. Wood t  1 10
Mr. John Scott   1 1 0
Mr. C .T. Hook    1 1 0
Mr. W. White....        1 1 0
Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy       1 1 0
Dr. W. Hitchman  110
Mr. E. D. Rogers   10 0
Mr. B. Corbet   10 0
M. B        10 0
Baroness von Yay  10 0
Dr. W. M. Buchanan  ;..  10 0
Miss E. D. Ponder    10 0
A Subscriber         10 0
Amicus    10 0
Mr. A. C. Swinton         100
M.A. (Oxon.)  10 0
Mr. J. H. Gledstanes  10 0
Mr. William Oxley  10 0
Mr. Geo. .Lee     0 10 6
Mr. W. E. Bassett       0 10 6
Mr. T. H. Edmands   0 10 6
Mr. Aaron Franklin :..  0 10 6
Mrs. Aaron Franklin    0 10 6
Mr. J. S. Crisp      0 10 0
Miss F. J. Theobald      0 10 6
Mr. St. George Stock  ;   0 10 0
Mr. Geo. Blvton   1   0 10 0
Mr. G. H. Potts  0 10 0
J. F. C  0 10 0
Mr. E. Storey  1  0 10 6
Mr. J. Deane     0 10 6
C. S. S      0 10 0
A. C  0 10 0
A. B. O.....       ;   1  0 8 6
Mr. Algernon Joy    0 5 0
Miss Kislingbury ....'.    0 5 0
"Peterboro’'     0 5 0
A. O. W.          0 5 0
Miss Emily FitzGerald   0 5 0
A Clergyman    0 5 0
A Reader of The Spiritualist  0 5 0
Mr. Wm. Robinson     0 5 0
Mr. E, Pearce  S     0 5 0
“Mercy”   0. 0
An Old Friend ;    0 5 0
Miss Mackay    0 5 0
The Misses Young    0 5 0
V.        0 5 0
A Well-wisher '    0 5 0
Mr. Young        0 5 0
Mr. James Kilbraith  0 5 0
Small sums    0 5 3
Guarantee Fund./.    200 0 0
Just published in one volume, handsomely got up, and printed
on toned paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY
OP THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an
Angel in the tenth state.
Contents.
Chap. 1.—TheUnity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
„ 3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences
in the Spiritual world,
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God.
„ 5.—The purpose of God in creation.
, 6.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
, 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
, 8.—The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
, 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
„ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
, 11.—The Lost Orb. Part 1.
„ 12.—The Angelic Society of Aaron’s Bod.
„ 13.—The Lost Orb. Part II.
„ 14.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ 15.—The Lost Orb. Part III.
„ 16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an ac¬
count of the Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby,
with her experiences in the other life, up through the states
to the tenth in which she is now in, and communicates as the
Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a
full account concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo-
printed, of the Angel, the original of which was produced by
the direct operation of Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjects treated of are
of such thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense
to make it a handsome volume, and not being published with
any regard to profit, it is hoped that a large circulation may
be obtained.
Price of the volume 6s.
On sale at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38,
Great Bussell-street, London, W.C.  
SPIRITUAL SCIENTIST, of Boston, Mass.,
Kj U.S.A. The most faithful and impartial exponent of
Spiritualism in America. The title, Spiritual Scientist, clearly
indicates the character of the paper. Unlike all other
Spiritual journals, it gathers from the great authors of ancient
time the fruits of their researches into the secrets of nature
and the laws of the Spiritual Universe. On the Occult
Sciences it has many able contributors, and solicits correspon¬
dence.
Published weekly. Scientist Pub. Co., publishers. E. Gerry
Brown, Editor. Offices, 18, Exchange-street, and 24, Devon-
shire-street. The Scientist is now in its fourth volume. Terms
of subscription, in advance, 13s. per annum, including postage.
Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 38, Great Bussell-street,
London, W.C.
The alpha • or, the first principle
OF THIS HUMAN MIND; A Revelation, but no Mystery,
with Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait of the Author
E. N. Dennys. “ We can call to mind few books fit to be its
fellows.’’—Athenseum. “It contains more truth, poetry,
philosophy, and logic, than any work we have ever read;
it is a new revelation, and one of the most remarkable produc¬
tions ever given to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
Also just published, with a beautiful Engraving of the Author
470 pages, on toned paper, handsomely bound, price 3s. 6d.
rnHE RELIGION of life, as exem-
J- PLIFIED BY THE MAN JESUS CHRIST, a Series of
Lectures, by the author of “ Alpha.” A synopsis of the topics
may be obtained free on application.
CONTENTS:—What is Evil? Charity; Poverty—its Evils
and its Mission; The Divinity that Dwells in Man; The Church
of the Future; “Stand up! I myself also am a Man;” The
Path of Bighteousness; Trust in God; Self-Trust; What is
Christianity ? Thy Kingdom Come! What is Man ? The “ one
thing" desired by the Psalmist; Pure Religion; Philosophy;
The Childhood of Jesus; Religious Liberty; Election and
Grace; Time; Sin; Law the Regenerator; The Last Judg¬
ment; God is not Mocked; The Unchristian Character of
Riches; Peace; Religion Consists in Action; The Millennium,
and how to obtain it.
The work is also published in nine parts, eight at 4d. each
and one at 6d., done up in neat wrappers.
“THE UNCHRISTIAN CHARACTER OF RICHES” and
“RELIGION CONSISTS IN ACTION” are also published
separately at Id. each.
*** The cordial aid of the friends of education, intellectual
progress, and religious liberty is earnestly solicited to make
these works as widely known as possible. They contain the
most important of all knowledge, by a deep and original
thinker, and will be supplied at cost price for extensive circu¬
lation. They have been brought out in a variety of forms to
suit the means of all classes of readers.
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
IMPORTANT NEW PUBLICATION.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS INTO SPIRIT¬
UALISM.
A PAMPHLET, the full size of The Spiritualist, containing a
large amount of information, compiled especially for inquirers,
will be shortly issued from PTie Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office at 38, Great Bussell-street, London, for sale at public
meetings,
PRICE ONE PENNY.
There has long been a demand for some such publication
as this, the current spiritual newspapers not always containing
the most suitable or most condensed information for persons
to whom the subject of Spiritualism is a strange one.
Many thousands of copies of the publication will be printed,
and kept on sale by vendors of spiritual literature, and at
spiritual meetings throughout the country.
From the large circulation thus secured, it will be a
VALUABLE CHANNEL FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
To Mediums, Mesmerists, Authors of Spiritual Books, and
others. The charge for advertisements will be One Shilling
for the first twenty-five words, and Sixpence for every addi¬
tional twenty-five words, or portion thereof. Displayed adver¬
tisements Five Shillings per inch.
All advertisements should be sent in as soon as possible, as
the publication will cofne out in a few weeks’ time.
Special arrangements will be made to supply local societies
with copies at a cheap rate, if ordered in large quantities; the
said societies may thus considerably increase their income by
the profits on sales.
All communications on this subject should be addressed to
the Editor of The Spiritualist, 38, Great Russell-street, Blooms¬
bury, London, ‘W.C.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics oi
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rnHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
J- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E, F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes. F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wies¬
baden); The Countess of Caithness; the Duke of Leuchtenberg;
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent; (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg); the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (EdmJ;
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr.
St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.8.A; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. ill. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles !(tJnited States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United;Kingdom, 10s. lod
To residents in the United States, '4 dols. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to “ The Manager
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London
W.C.”
[December, 1875.]
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holbora Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Ayo
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
