AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
SCIENCE.
No. 175.—(VoL. VII.—No. 27.) LONDON: DECEMBER 31, 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
(SToutents*
The Inductive Method applied to the Doctrines of Allan Kardec ... 313
Healing Medlumship:—Valentine Greatracks—Opposition of the
Clergy to the Healing of the Sick and the Laying on of Hands—
Recognition of the Fact of Mesmeric Healing by the Royal
Society ...     315
The Persecution of Spiritualists in Paris ...   317
Enlargement of The Spiritualist      318
The Religious and Scientific Aspects of Spiritualism. By J. M.
Gully, M.D. ... ...      ... 318
Manifestations with the Fakirs in India. No. V. By Dr. Maximilian
Perty  ... '  319
The St. Petersburg "Investigation of Spiritualism:—Return of the
Petty Brothers to Newcastle ...    321
Spiritualism in Italy  .321
Correspondence:—Private Senaces in Manchester—A Good Test—Dr.
Child, of Philadelphia—The Eddy Brothers—What Constitutes
Materialism ?—The Psychological Society and Materialism—Are
Manifestations produced by other than Human Spirits?—Ma¬
terialism         321
Provincial News -.—Liverpool^ Another Fiasco in Liverpool—South
Shields, A Spiritual Conference— Neivcastle-on Tyne, Newcastle
Spiritual Society—Birmingham, Birmingham Spiritual Society;
the Bazaar        ...    323
New Publications    324
Professor Tyndall on Scientific Revelations ...•     324
Paragraphs :—The Bamford Brothers, 321; Dr. Sexton at the Caven¬
dish Rooms, 324; Conversazione and Ball   324
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter's-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
"I)ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
(Established 1870.)
nnilE COUNCIL have much pleasure in announcing to
.L the MEMBERS and METROPOLITAN SPIRITUALISTS generally
that, in response to the desire of numerous friends, they have made
arrangements for a
NEW YEAR’S GATHERING,
In the form of a
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
RE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected with Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
in addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms’to members: One guineaa year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
A Seance room can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on Saturdays.
DR. MONCK’S ALMANACK and TRUTHSEEKERS’
GUIDE TO THE INVESTIGATION OF MODERN SPIRIT¬
UALISM.” Over forty closely printed pages. Price 3d. Contains original
articles on “Scientific Spiritualism. “Cui Bono,” “The Healing Power,"
“Rules for the Spirit-ciiele." &c., &c., by S. C. Hall, Dr. W. Hitchu.an,
“ Fritz," T. P. Barkas, &c. Will be found very useful among Sceptics and
Investigators. Quantities supplied to societies or for free distribution at a
great reduction. Single copy, post free, 8d, Address, Geo. Tommy, 7,
Unity-street, Bristol. Agents wanted.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
WILL HOLD
THEIR NEXT CONVERSAZIONE I
On Wednesday, Jan, 12th, 1876, at their Rooms, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.C. Entrance in Wolmrn-street.
These meetings have been organised at the request, and for the benefit of
Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting friends and members,
and of discussing matters of interest connected with the Spiritualistic
movement.
Music and other entertainments will be provided at each meeting.
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings; and other objects of interest is
requested for exhibition.
Hours, from 7 to 10.30 p.m.
Admission by Tickets only, to be obtained in advance of the resident
seeretary, Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
CONVERSAZIONE AND BALL,
To be held at the
CAVENDISH ROOMS (71, Mortimer-street, Regent-street, W.),
ON
WEDNESDAY EVENING, THE 5th JANUARY, 1876.
The proceedings of the Conversazione will be presided over by the
President of the Association,
HENRY D. JENOKEN, ESQ., M.R.I. (Barrister-at-law),
Who will take the chair at 7 o’clock.
The following friends have kindly volunteered their services in connection
with the CONVERSAZIONEMadame Ourry, Miss Sexton, and Messrs.
J. A’Bear, G. Sexton, jun., Herbert J. Derham, S. Derham, E. Parkinson
Ashton, F. M. Sexton, and A. G. Ogan.
THE BALL
Will be opened at 9.30 o’clock. The following gentlemen will act as M.O’s.;—
E. PARKINSON ASHTON, AND ARTHUR MALTBY, ESQS.
An efficient BAND will be in attendance.
The Doors will be opened at half-past six o’clock.
Admission by tickets: Single ticket, 2s. 6d.; Double ditto, 3s. 6d.;
to be obtained, prior to the 5th January, 1876, on application at the rooms
of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.; Miss Kislingbury;
resident secretary to the British National Association of Spiritualists, 38,
Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.; Mrs. Everitt, Lilian villa, Holders-
htli, Hendon, N.W.; Mrs. Maltby, 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.W.,
Hr. F. Bear, 12, High-street, Bow, E.; and Mr. J. Sparey, 13, Middleton-
road, Kingsiand, E.; Miss EmUy Fitz-Gerald, hon. assist, secretary, Brix-
ton Psychological Society, 6, Loughboro’-road North, Brixton, S.W.;
Thos. Wilks, Stationery Depot, 14, Lome terrace, Green-lanes, Stoke
Newington, N.
N.B.—Early application for tickets is particularly requested, as tickets
will not be sold at the doors.
 Oarbia&es to be ordered for 3 A.M.
OPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate description
KJ of manifestations recently produced by spirits, and simultaneously
witnessed by the Author and other observers in London. By William H.
Harrison. Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is,; post iree Is. Id.—38, ureat
Russell-street, London, W.C.; and E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, Pater¬
noster-row, E.O.
British national association of spirit¬
ualists. TRANCE PAINTINGS—Several small oil-paintings,
in gilt frames, executed In the trance by the celebrated medium, David
Duguid, of Glasgow, and representing Scotch scenery, are now ON SALE
at 38, Great Russell-street, at greatly reduced prices, varying from 20s. to
35s. Application to be made to the secretary, 38, Great Russell-street
Bloomsbury, W.C.
British national association of spirit-
UALISTS. FOR SALE.—A variety of Musical Boxes of superior,
quality, and in good order, each containing eight airs. Makers, Nicole,
Geneva. Price, £6 6s. The style'of box and selection of music at the
choice of the purchaser. Apply to the secretary, 38, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.C.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British. Foreign, ana Colonial Bonds Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o'clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager,
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, and
umbrellas.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney. Third Edition. Price 3s,
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
u
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Dec. 31, 1875
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Favkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, I, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lillan-yilla, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fltz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Ca'mbridge-street, Hyde-park, ’VV.
Gregory, Mrs Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-sqnare, IV.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman. William, M.R.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington.gq., Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Wavwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, E.C.
Eamsay, Mrs., 48, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-road, Einch-
ley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildlngs, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, Hew Wandsworth, S.W..
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., I, King Edward-street, Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Itichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Beigate.
Binney, F. A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester. •
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinner.v, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Bev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury.
Cooper, R., vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 30, Campden-hill-gardens, Kensington, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlliam-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., 28, Portland-place, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, Hew Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder's-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fltz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, C, Lough borough-rd, North Brixton,S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D.. G., 0. Loughborough-road, North Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 8,Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochd.ale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 8, West-end. Doddington-gfove, Kennlngton-park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
I sham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 04, Seymour-street, W.
James, Capt.,1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bays water, W.
Lamont.fiohn, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Level I, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Malt by, Mrs., 8, Granville-terrace, Sliafterfiniry-road, Hammersmith, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk.
Morse, J. J. Warwiek-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C.T., MUt.C.S., 19, Nottingham-place, York-gate, Regent’s-pk., N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, 'Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, 2, Ilendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A.,LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road ,01d Kent-road, S E,
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-plaee, Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F„ Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Fernside, Hendon, N.W. i
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Aune-street, Cavendish-square, W.
White, J. Shadwell, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall, S.W., and
8, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater. W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, BrixtOn, S.W.
Wlthall, IL, 1, The Elms, St. John’s road,.Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs. Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq,, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.M.1.1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine, near
Wiesbaden.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdje Capoussou, Constanti¬
nople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
General Don Joaqulm Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, Nevsky Prospect
6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Ohamps-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York i U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co , New Jersey, U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheeh, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 206, West 38th Street, New York, U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 4, Via Morone, Milan, Italy.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne, Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg University, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse, 35, Gartenhaus, Leipsic.
W. H Terry, EscL 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia..
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris,
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq ,M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., Md., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons,Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2216, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 18, Rue d’Acnieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause'St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi, Brussels.
Lieut.-Ool. Pi Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq , 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris. .
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Allied, Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. Lewis Roberts,
68, Oxford-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121, Rue de
Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—II. E. Frances, Esq., 22,
Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton Prochaszka
Josefstadt, Erzherzog, Alexander-gasse, 23, Buda-Pesth. Hungary,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite Spirit¬
ualists of eveiy variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to aid students
and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal the means of syste¬
matic investigation into the facts ana phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic: to
make known the positive results arrived at by careful research: and to direct
attention to the beneficial influence which those results are calculated to, exercise
upon social relationships and individual conduct. It is intended to include Spi
ritualists of every class, whether members of Local and Provincial Societies or not,
and all inquirers into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year 1873,
at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, at which all the great
Societies of Spiritualists, and the Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United
Kingdom, were represented. The amount of the annual subscription to the
National Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year. Each
member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is eligible for election to all
offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wishing to become
allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at
the offices of the Association, 38, Groat Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C., of whom
coiiies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Wobum-street.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday and Thursday evenings ; and Saturday evenings,
for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening. Address as above.
IV/S'RS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
-Lv-iL MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Conti ol in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 10, New Ormond-street, Bloomsbury.
PROFESSOR REGAN, PSYCHOPATHIC
HEALER, wishes, to make known, by desire of his Spirit Phy¬
sicians, who cure_through him, in his normal state, that having been de¬
veloped by them into a powerful healing medium, and at the same time, by
a course of deep study, acquiring a practical knowledge of the philosophy
of disease, and its rationale of cure, he is now prepared to examine, treat,
and cure patients, suffering from all kinds of acute, chronic, nervous, and
organic disease of long years’ standing. Consultations and invaluable
treatment given at his own house, or at patient’s residence, by appoint¬
ment. Visitors received at his Consulting-rooms from 12 to 4 daily. Fee,
One Guinea. Address, 69, Finborough-road, Redcliffe-gardens, South
Kensington.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, l, Robert street,
Hampstead-road, London, N.W, To be seen by appointment only. Terms
on application by letter.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL TRANCE
SPEAKER, has returned to England, and is now prepared to re¬
ceive calls as usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow,
London, E.
XTOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER, Professor
JLi of Curative Mesmerism (80 Years Established), attends patients
daily, from 2 till 6, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of ^diseases,
indication of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
THE BOY MEDIUMS.—Bamford Brothers, Physical
Mediums, will give Seances as follows :--On Monday and Wednesday
evenings, at 7 o’clock p.m., admission 2s. 6d.; on Saturday evenings, at
7, Is. 26, Pool-street, Sutton, Macclesfield.
YOjLUjVlE ^EVEjM. J^UjVlBER TWEJMTY-^EVEJH.
LONDON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 31st, 1873.
THE INDUCTIVE METHOD APPLIED TO THE
DOCTRINES OP ALLAN KARDEC.
We have received the following letter from Miss
Anna Blackwell, the able translator of Allan Kardec’s
Spirits1 Boole:—
To the Editor;' of1,1 The Spiritualist."
Sie,—I trust that you ■will kindly allow me to ask your own
attention and that of your readers to a few considerations which I
beg to offer in reference to the following points raised in the lead¬
ing article of your paper of Oct. 8 :—.
1. It is an open question “ whether Allan Kardec ever had any¬
thing to do with the Jesuits or not.”
2. The Spirits' Booh is not a product of the inductive method, but
deals in “ assertions; ” it adduces only questionable “ facts,” is .
theblogical in character, and “must bo accepted (if at all) on
authority.”
3. It “ displays inexperience of mediums, manifestations, and
spirit-messages.” .
4. The qualification of SSpiritual Philosophy ” on its title page “ is
unjust to English Spiritualists, because they have not accepted it as
such.”
5. “ The doctrine (reincarnation) has not, up to the present time,
been taught through any medium of any kind in England.”
Point 1. No slander, more utterly baseless as well as base, was
ever invented against any human being than the malicious false¬
hood which has vainly tried to couple the name of Allan Kardec
with those of his bitterest enemies. He made no open war on
Catholicism, both because to have done so would have brought him
i nto collision with the priests, the police, and the Government, and also
because he regarded it as a duty not to attempt to unsettle any one’s
religious convictions, but to leave each mind to its own spontaneous
action in regard to creeds. But his education under Pestalozzi, and
in a Protestant country, led him, while a mere lad, .to reject the
entire Catholic dogma, and to study the Bible for himself, a study
which caused him, through the whole of his subsequent life, to hold
entirely aloof from all churches, creeds; and dogmas. Though a
sincerely religious man, and holding much the same views as the
English Unitarians, he never entered any place of worship, and, in
accordance with his wishes, frequently expressed, his funeral was
what is called in France a “ civil ” one, that is to say, his remains
were interred by his friends without the intervention or presence of
any priest, clergyman, or minister whatsoever.
Point 2. The inductive method is undoubtedly the only safe one
for those who are trying to find out something they do not yet know; but
it is never employed by those who have to state something already
known to them. For instance,—astronomers, having ascertained
certain facts in regard to a given planet, and wishing to find out
something about the conditions of existence in that planet, deduce
from those facts, by induction, the conclusions, in regard to those
conditions, which are implied in the facts from which they reason.
The inductive method is clearly the only one that could be safely
employed in such an inquiry. But if some means of direct communi¬
cation were established between us and the people of that other planet,
neither we nor they would dream.of using the inductive method for
getting at the details we should both be so eager to learn; and all the
statements we should make to each other, concerning our respective
worHs and ways, would be made, not as inductions, but as “ asser¬
tions." It is in this latter way that The Spirits' Book was produced,
and that, consequently, it should be judged. Allan Kardec was in
no sense the author or producer, of that work, which is simply a
record of, and comment on, a series of conversations between him¬
self and certain spirit-interlocutors; and as the latter claimed to
be at a higher standpoint than ours, and to speak of things seen
and known by them, their statements (intended to assist us in our
search after knowledge which, it would be easy to show, cannot, in
the nature of things, be arrived at through any effoi'ts of inductive
reasoning on our pari) were necessarily made under the form of
“assertions.”
To the charge of non-reliability made against the facts adduced,
in The Spirits' Book I can make no specific reply; no instance of
such non-reliability having been brought forward in proof of that
charge. On tlte other hand, is it not an interesting and significant
“ fact ” that the existence, nature, and functions of the peri spirit, i
and the part played by it in the production of spirit-phenomena— j
the unity of matter and the nature of the impressions made by it on
consciousness—the kinship between the lower races and man—and |
other'subjects of an equally lecondite character, and that had not
even come up for discussion at that time, are lucidly treated of in
this initiatory work of over twenty.years ago, and that the explana¬
tions therein given have been confirmed by the subsequent develop¬
ment of the great movement of which it was one of the earliest
pioneers ? ' •
The Spirits' Book does not profess to deal with the phenomena of
spirit-manifestation; it professes to deal simply with the principles
to which those phenomena, and all the phenomena of life, are due.
It deals with principles, and reasons upon them; and it is, conse¬
quently, not “ theological,” but philosophical. And so far is it from
claiming to be accepted “on authority,” that the most exhaustive
examination of its contents would fail to supply, a single quotation
implying any demand, on the part of its spirit-authors or of their
human coadjutor, for the acceptance of its statements on any other
ground than that of their intrinsic reasonableness.
Point 3. As just remarked, The Spirits' Book only professes to
deal with principles; to have discussed in it “ mediums, manifesta¬
tions, and spirit-messages ” would have beeu a departure from the
plan of that work, as determined by its spirit-authors. But those
subjects are fully treated of in The Mediums' Book, the second of
the Kardec series; and with such profound insight that- this work
—published in 1861, when spirit-manifestations were still, com¬
paratively, in their infancy—will be found to throw a vast amount of
light on the most advanced phenomena of the present day.
Point 4. ,To this objection I beg to oppose the following passage
from The Spirits' Book (Introduction, p. 1)—“ Spiritualism is the
opposite of Materialism; everyone is a Spiritualist who believes
that there is in him something more than matter, but it does not
follow that he believes in the existence of spirits, or in their com¬
munication with the visible world. Instead, therefore, of the words
‘Spiritualist,’ ‘Spiritualism,’ we'employ, to designate the latter
belief, the words ‘ Spiritist,’ ‘ Spiritism,’ which, by their form, indicate
their origin and radical meaning; and we reserve the words
‘ Spiritualism,’ ‘ Spiritualist,’ for the expression of the meaning
attached to them by common acceptation.-. . . In a special sense,
The Spirits' Book contains the doctrine or theory of Spiritism; in a
general sense, it appertains to the Spiritualist school, of which it
presents one of the phases. It is for this reason that we have in¬
scribed the words ‘ Spiritual Philosophy ’ on its title-page.”
By appropriating to themselves a generic term as old as the
world of letters, and one that is the common property of all
thinkers, Anglo-Saxon believers in spirits and mediums have done,
in the domain of literature, just what is done, in daily life, by those
who enclose a common, or cut off an old foot-path; and, in so
doingj they have sinned against public right, as established by
dictionaries, and by immemorial usage, to the detriment of the
general convenience. Now that they have wrongfully taken pos¬
session of the term “ Spiritualist,” how are future writers, in treat¬
ing of the two great schools of philosophy—viz., the materialistic
and its opposite—to designate the latter ? and, in writing of Fichte,
Berkeley, Cousin, and the other great advocates of what has always
been understood, in all languages, as “ Spiritualism ” (but which
has nothing to do with spirits and mediums), by what awkward cir¬
cumlocution, or by what new term, shall they replace the old
generic terms of “ Spiritualism,” “ Spiritualist,” of which common
parlance has thus been defrauded? In placing the designation
“ Spiritual Philosophy,” according to the true and legitimate mean¬
ing of those words, on the title-page of The Spirits' Book, Allan
Kardec exercised an evident and indefeasible right; and for me, his
translator, it was at once a matter of right, and a duty, to maintain
those words where, in 1854, he placed them. '
Point 5. That reincarnation, though frequently insinuated
through mediums in England, has not hitherto been openly
“ taught ” by them, only proves the prudence of the overrulers
who, directing the movement, have postponed a statement which
would have thrown an additional difficulty in its way. When the
broad fact of spirit intercourse is sufficiently established, and when
the contradictoriness of the multitude of mediums shall have cleared
the ground for teachings from a higher plane, the systematic state¬
ment of the law of reincarnation (supposing it, for argument’s sake, to
exist) ‘will evidently be made through mediums in England and
America. Meantime, lot me point out that, underlying the merely
secondary question of reincarnation, is the great primary question of
the pre-existence of the soul; that it is on this substratum of the matter
i that the question of the unity or plurality of our existences must
i eventually be decided; and that, while abstaining from a premature
raising of the question of reincarnation in centres tha v were not
I prepared for its consideration, the overrulers have, nevertheless,
314
THU SPIKITUALIST.
caused the pre-existence of the soul to he explicitly admitted by our three
most eminent Anglo-Saxon mediums.
The spirit of Mr. Livermore’s wife, “ Estelle,” when materialised
through the mediumship of Miss Kate Eox, said to her husband
(Vide Spiritual Magazine, N'ov. 1861, p. 488), “ I have learned,
Charley, that we commence to live here before we are born into the
icorId."
Mr. A. J. Davis, in describing a very beautiful vision in which
the substance of the earth became transparent to him, so that he
saw its interior, says that he beheld soul in everything—in the gases,
the rocks, the plants, the animals, all of which were perceived by
him as successive departments of the great laboratory of soul de¬
velopment, from its dim beginnings up to' man. Lord Adare (now
the Earl of Dunraven), in his book recounting his experiences with
Mr. Home, states (p. 67) that a spirit, questioned as to what had
become of the soul of a lapdog, replied, through Mr. Home, in a
state of trance, that its soul was “ a sort of electric spark, that
might retain a likeness to the deg form for a short time, so that a
spirit seeing it might like to catch it; but it could not be kept, as it
must necessarily be soon absoi'bed in a lugher animal." At p. 91 of
the same work, Mr. Home, entranced, being questioned as to the
destiny of animals, replies, u No creature that crawls, i.e., that can
do nothing to preserve its life, has immortality.” “ Do you mean
that they have no. future?” “Oh, yes, they have indeed a very
important future before them; I mean that they differ from you as
regards their individuality." “Can you tell me where the line is’
drawn ? ” “ There is no exact line."
All of these statements, it is almost superfluous to point out,
concede the whole question of the pre-existence of the soul ;* the
statements made through Mr. Home being specially important in
regard to the progressiveness of soul-development. For, if the
“ soul ” of the animal has before it “ a very important future," and
yet is not divided from the human soul by any “ exact line," it is evi¬
dent that the soul of the animal is on the same path with the human soul;
while, if the soul of the animal “differs” from ours only “as re¬
gards the individuality” to which we have attained, but to which
the animals have not yet attained, it is evident that we have
travelled up to the human degree through innumerable anterior
embodiments, that our present fleshy envelope is certainly not our
first one, and that analogy would, therefore, lead us to infer that it
will not be our last one.
Let me add that when The Spirits' Book first appeared, there
were, in the whole world, just three “Spiritists,” viz., Allan Kar-
dec, his wife, and his intimate friend and convert, the late eminent
Paris publisher, M. Didier, who brought out the first edition of
that work, and had the satisfaction of witnessing its unparalleled
acceptance. Wherever this book has been introduced, it lias made
its own way; and, with the firm conviction that it will flo the same
in England, I now leave it in the hands of the general English public.
I thank you, sir, for the hospitality you have accorded to mo in your
columns, but feel the necessity of avoiding controversy for the
present, my time and attention being fully absorbed by the labour
of bringing out my translations of the other books of the Kardec
series. Anna Blackwell.
Wimille, Pas-de-Calais.
Some of those who have not read our article thus
criticised might erroneously infer, from the comments
upon Point 1 in the above letter, that we perpetrated a
slander upon Allan Kardec by intimating that he might
be a tool of the Jesuits, whereas the article said that
the book was conscientiously written, and with good
intentions; the allusion to the Jesuits was founded
upon the statement of Baron Holmfeld, the accuracy
of which is now admitted, that Allan Kardec was an
employe in the office of the Jesuitical newspaper
L' Univers, but it has since been shown that this was
merely a matter of business, that he had nothing to do
with its editing, nor any sympathy with its teachings.
The second item in Miss Blackwell’s list is the all-
important one; it is the vital point by which the
Spirits’ Booh will stand or fall, so far as the modern
scientific world is concerned, and because of its weak¬
ness at that point we consider it to be beyond doubt
that the Spirits' Booh will fail to make a solitary
scientific convert of high standing in this country.
Trustworthy information given by spirits in the way
stated by Miss Blackwell can be proved to be such only
by inductive methods, in the same way that the Royal
Geographical Society tests the information it receives
about newly-discovered countries. The members of
* Not one of them asserts the pre-exlstenee of the human soul as a con-
ecious individuality, though Mrs, Livermore's statement implies it—Ed.
Dec. 31, 1875.
the society and the world at large cannot see those
countries for themselves, but they can examine wit¬
nesses separately, can gain general knowledge of their
veracity and accuracy, and if communications are given
by telegraph can eliminate errors due to imperfections
in the means of transmitting messages. Now in the
first instance, spirits in . speaking through English
mediums have not yet taught reincarnation. If they
had don’e so, we have the evidence of Mr. H. D.
Jencken, the husband of the earliest medium in con¬
nection with modern Spiritualism, that the vast majority
of the messages given through strong physical medium-
ship are ** objectless lies,” and we are sorry to say that
other persons intimately acquainted with the facts of
strong physical mediumship have, as a general rule, had
similar experience. Knowledge on this head is merely
a question of long and intimate experience. Turning
to the higher messages given through trance, clairvoy¬
ance, and writing, there is abundant evidence that, as
a general rule, they are greatly coloured by the mind of
the medium, and the identity of the communicating spirit
is rarely proved. In the majority of cases, if the messages
given by different spirits through the same medium are
examined, they will be seen to contain the same phrases,
and to include sentences of the same grammatical con¬
struction ; the difficulties in communicating are pro¬
bably much the same as several mortals would* experience,
did they in turn try to signal messages to a congrega¬
tion by sounds from the church organ. The listeners
would soon discover that the separate individuality of
the players could not do away with the tone of the
organ, and they would have a difficulty in learning
“ Who’s who?” But the"organhas no ideas’of its own,
whilst the human mind has plenty, so there is a greater
disadvantage in sending messages through the latter.
Seeing, then, that Allan Kardec withholds even the
names of his mediums, that he does not state that he
tried experiments and finally did away with the sources
of error just stated, and that he thus cuts off from
readers all power of verifying the accuracy of the
messages upon which all his book depends, he presents
the doctrine of reincarnation in such a way that it
must be accepted upon his authority and not upon
evidence. The ideas of sitters in circles have often a
strong influence on the utterances of sensitives. How
much of the revelations in Allan Kardec’s book were due
to his presence at the circles ? He was so inexperienced
as scarcely to be aware of the existence of this palpable
source of error.
In all that has been stated in this and the previous
article on the subject, it should be noticed that nothing
has been said as to the truth or error of the doctrine of
reincarnation itself; the argument has been that no good
evidence has been adduced that it is entitled to be with¬
drawn from the region of speculation into that of philo¬
sophy, if “ philosophy ” is understood to be synonymous
with “ science.” Experience proves that for every true
speculation there are scores of false ones, but the true
one, after being proved to fit in with experience and
facts, takes rank at last as a philosophy. It is good
and necessary that the human mind should leave hard
facts for a time, and enter the cloud-land region of pure
speculation in the search after truth, but the well-
balanced mind will not continually indulge in the easy
and happy work of dreaming; it must, after its season
of spiritual relaxation, test the ideas thus gained with
that which is actual, and thus, by a healthy union of
thought and work, establish that which will be recog-
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 31, 1875.
meed as true throughout all ages. Por high tone and
for pure thought the Spirits' Book is one of the best
over introduced into Spiritualism, but it presents little
proof of the truth of the doctrine of reincarnation. If a
philosophy is to be prematurely welded to the facts of
Spiritualism, we think that that of Berkeley would be
more likely to prove in the end to be true than that of
Pythagoras and Allan Kardec.
A true Briton loves nothing so much as a grievance;
he would not be happy without it, and it gives him an
interest in the eyes of the public. Although several
reincarnationists have written to us saying that their
ideas are not fairly treated by the Spiritual press, it is
a fact that we have printed in full every letter in favour
of reincarnation which has been sent to this journal,
and that such letters have taken up much more than
twice as much space as those on the other side of
the question; indeed, the length of the letter of M.
Leymarie put us to serious inconvenience, in addition
to somewhat defeating his own end, for long letters are
seldom read. However, as he was the editor of The
Revue Spirits, in it went, and as Miss Blackwell is the
translator of The Spirits* Book, and a recognised
authority in relation to the doctrine, she has now had
her say. Further, we have not thrown mud at Allan
Kardec, but acknowledge him to be an honourable
man ; we have considered his speculations on their own
merits, without bringing in side issues, and have given
a full and fair hearing to the whole question. Does
any grievance remain? If so, it should be carefully
guarded, as a valuable piece of property.
HEALING MEDIUM SHIP.
To the Editor of “ The Spintualist.,,
We have received the following letter:—
Snt,—A lady friend in London frequently sends me your paper,
but having seen no spiritual manifestations, I am not able to give
credence to all the extraordinary'statements I see in your columns.
1 am, however, a mesmerist, and take interest in facts bearing on
that subject sometimes published by you. It has occurred to me
that you may be glad to give to your readers the enclosed account
of Mr. Valentine Greatracks. Frederick Anthony Mesmer was a
native of Switzerland, born 1735, and it was not until November,
1773, that he commenced his experiments in what we now call after
him “ mesmerism.” Thus Greatrack in 1666 had discovered what
Mesmer rediscovered in 1773. It seems strange that no one should
have tried to copy Greatrack’s modus operandi. Greatrack’s Brief
Account is a very scarce book; I have, however, seen a copy,
possessed by a gentleman now in London, who is a Spiritualist. If
you felt disposed to reprint it in your columns in weekly portions,
I dare say he would lend it for the purpose. E. B. I.
Dublin.
VALENTINE GBEATKAOKS.
From the 11 Dublin Penny Journal]' June 15, 1833.
Mr. Valentine Greatracks, who is represented in the
above woodcut as engaged in the act of curing a poor
blind boy by the simple process of stroking the part
afflicted, is, in my opinion, worthy of being placed in
one of the niches of your gallery of Irish characters.
The extraordinary cures he performed, the irreproach¬
able character which he bore, the number of distin¬
guished individuals who gave testimony to his heeding
powers, and the apparently inadequate means which he
employed to effect his purposes, all induce me to con¬
sider him as an uncommon person; and without at all de¬
siring to ascribe miraculous gifts to the individual, we
must be brought to the conclusion that changes can be
produced in the human frame through causes which are
not dreamt of in our philosophy. There lies before me
a tract published in the year 1666, entitled, “ A Brief
Account of Mr. Yalentine Greatracks, and divers of the
strange cures by him performed, written by himself, in
a letter addressed to the Hon. Robert Boyle, whereunto
are annexed the testimonials of several eminent and
worthy persons of the chief matters of fact therein
related.”
This autobiography, which occupies forty-two small
quarto pages, I shall attempt to contract, so as to give
the readers of The Penny Journal a short account of
the man and his performances :—
“ I was born the 14th February, 1628, and was son
of William Greatracks, of Affane, in the county of
Waterford, who died while I was an infant. My
mother was daughter of Sir Edward Harris, Knight,
one of his Majesty’s justices of the King’s Bench. She
was a virtuous and discreet woman, an excellent neigh¬
bour, and a most indulgent, and at the same time pro¬
vident parent, who took care of my education, and sent
me to the free school of Lismore, erected by the charity
of the late Earl of Cork. There I made some profi¬
ciency in learning, and was designed for the College,
but was prevented by the breaking out of the rebellion
in Ireland, from whence I was forced to fly and take
refuge with my uncle, Mr. E. Harris, who looked after
my studies, and perfected me in humanity and divinity.
On arriving at man’s estate, finding that my mother’s
means were too small to maintain me along with her
other children, I determined to return to Ireland, and
there either regain my estate, or lose my life. My poor
country was at that time in a deplorable state, for I
saw differences that to me seemed unnatural, and I
resolved not to intermeddle therein till the mist of con¬
fusion was over. I retired to the castle of Cappoquin,
where I spent a year’s time in contemplation, and saw
so much of the madness of the world, that my life
became a burden to me; my soul was as weary of this
habitation of clay as ever a galley slave was weary of
the oar.”
Mr. Greatracks goes on to describe in a very feeling
way (in which he exhibits the sentiments of a true
patriot and a Christian) the state of Ireland until the
restoration of Charles the Second, on which occasion
he was made Clerk of the Peace for the county of Cork,
and a magistrate, which functions he discharged with
integrity and a good name. He thus describes his first
feeling of being possessed of healing powers:—
“ About four years since I had an impulse which
frequently suggested to me that there was bestowed on
me the gift of curing the king’s evil, which for the
extraordinarjness thereof I thought fit to conceal for some
time, but at length I told my wife, for whether sleep¬
ing or waking I had this impulse, but her reply was
that it was an idle imagination. But to prove the
contrary, one William Maher, of the parish of Lis¬
more, brought his son to my wife, who used to distri¬
bute medicines in charity to the neighbours. My wife
came and told me that I had noio an opportunity of
trying my impulse, for there was one at hand that had
the evil grievously in the eyes, throat, and cheeks,
whereupon I laid my hands on the places afflicted, and
prayed to God, for Jesus’ sake, to heal him. In a few
days afterwards the father brought his son so changed
that the eye was almost quite whole, and to be brief
(to God’s glory I speak it), within a month he was per¬
fectly healed, and so continues.”
He subsequently cured another patient, to the utter
astonishment of the physician of the neighbourhood,
who said if he cured that person he would not question
but he might heal all manner of diseases. Accordingly
316
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 31, 1875.
ho received an impulse which discovered to him that he
had the gift of healing in a more extended way, and
shortly afterwards “there came unto me a poor man
with a violent pain in his loins, so that he went almost
double, and having also a grievous ulcer in his leg,
very black. He desired me, for God’s sake, to lay my
hands on him; whereupon I put my hands on his loins
and flank, and immediately went the pains out of him,
so {hat he was relieved, and could stand upright with¬
out trouble; the ulcer also in his leg was healed, so
that in a few days he returned to his labour as a
mason.”
It appears that Mr. Greatracks, though in general
successful, was not so in all instances, and he attempts
to explain the circumstance as follows :—“ Many de¬
mand of me why some are cured, and not all; to
which question I answer that God may please to
make use of such means by me as shall operate ac¬
cording to the dispositions of the patient, and there¬
fore cannot be expected to be' alike effectual in
all. They also demand further of me why some
are cured at once and not all, and why the pains should
fly immediately out of some and take such ambages in
others, and why it should go out of some at their eyes,
some at their fingers, some at their ears or mouths.
To which I say, if all those things could have a plain
account given of them, there would be no cause to
count them strange. Let them tell mo what substance
that is which removes and goes out with so great
expedition, and it will be more easy to resolve their
questions. Some will know of me why or how I do
pursue some pains from place to place till I have
chased them out of the body by layiug my hands on the
outside of the clothes only (as is usual), and not all
pains. To which I answer, that many have been
abundantly satisfied that it is so, though I am not able
to give a reason yet; I am apt to believe there are
some pains which afflict men after the manner of evil
spirits, which kind of pains cannot endure my hand,
nay, not my gloves, but fly immediately, though six
or eight coats or cloaks be put between the persons
and my hand, as at the Lady Itanelagh’s, at York House,
in London, as well as in Ireland, has been manifested.
Now another question will arise, whether the operation
of the hand proceeds from the temperature of my body,
or from a Divine gift, or from both. To which I say,
that I have reason to believe there is some extraordi¬
nary gift of God.”
OPPOSITION OF THE CLEUGY TO THE HEALING OF THE SICK
AND THE LAYING ON OF HANDS.
Such being his power and pretensions, an immense
number of people, not only from the adjoining parts of
Ireland, but from England, resorted to him, so much
so that he could neither follow his own business nor
enjoy the company of his family andfriends. His stables,
barns and other outhouses were filled with the sick of
ail sorts of diseases, and he remarks, that it was no small
instance of an interposing Providence that none of his
own family were infected by them, nor did they affect
each other. In the meantime the clergy of the diocese
of Waterford took up the matter seriously, we cannot
say wisely, and the Dean of Lismore cited him to the
Bishop’s Court, where, upon being asked where was his
license for curing, as all physicians ought to have from
the Ordinary of the Diocese, he replied—“ That though
he had no such license he knew no law which pro¬
hibited any person from doing what he could to his
neighbour.” He was nevertheless prohibited from
laying hands' on any for the future, which wise order
puts us in mind of the similar enactment of the French
king against the working of the Jansenist miracles at
the tomb of the Abbe Paris, which caused the following
epigram to be written:—
. Our king commands his God to ceaso
Prom ■working wonders in this place.
The Ordinary of Lismore had worse success than the
King of France, and Greatracks proceeded in his healing
until his fame reached the higher order in England, and
ho was entreated to come over to cure the Viscountess
Conway of an obstinate headache. This Greatracks
consented to do, merely stipulating that a sum suffi¬
cient to bear his expenses should be provided him. On
landing in England it was surprising what crowds fol¬
lowed his footsteps, who in great numbers were healed.
Greatracks fairly acknowledges that he did not succeed
in relieving the noble patient for whose sake he
came, but, honoured and munificently treated by Lord
Conway, he cured many, in the neighbourhood of
Ragley, of divers diseases, and from thence was sum¬
moned up to London by his Majesty King Charles II.,
who was pleased to recommend him to the notice not
only of his courtiers, but his physicians. “ In
London,” says Mr. Greatracks, “ I was persuaded to
stay, doing daily what the good Lord enabled mo, until
I met with your lordship (the Hon. Robert Boyle), who
was pleased to be an eye-witness of what I did, and to
bring several other learned and worthy persons with
you to bear testimony to tho truth of what appeared,
and to encourage me to give the account to the world.”
Mr. Greatracks concludes his narrative as follows :—
“ Now, whether I have done my duty as a Christian in
employing that talent which God had entrusted me
withal to the good of people distressed and afflicted, or
no, judge you and every good man. Thus far I appeal
to the world, whether I have taken rewards, deluded or
deceived any man. All further I will say is, that I
pray I may never be weary of doing well, and that I
may be found a faithful servant when I come to give
up my last account.”
RECOGNITION OF THE FACT OF MESMERIC HEALING BY THE
ROYAL SOCIETY.
Mr. Greatracks remained in London some time, and
resided in Lincoln’s-inn-fields, where he became the
wonder of many, and the subject of ridicule to others.
Dr. Lloyd, the Chaplain of the Charterhouse, wrote a
book against him, entitled, Wonders No Miracles, and
it was in answer to this treatise, which was certainly
uncharitably severe, that. Greatracks wrote his Brief
Account. The wits of Charles’s court made themselves
also very merry at his expense. The lively and accom¬
plished Frenchman, St. Evremond, who at that time
resided in England, wrote a novel called The Irish
Prophet, in which he made the people’s credibility with
respect to Groatracks, the subject of his sarcasm. But
fortified by the testimonials of both physicians and
divines, he rose superior to his detractors, and a Mr.
Love, who had on a former occasion unjustly ridiculed
him, stepped forth to assure the world that he was
witness to his curing the falling sickness in a way
beyond ordinary credibility, and he says, in a letter
to Lord Orrery, that the Royal Society and other
modern philosophers, unable to dispute the fact, found
words to define it, and called the strange effects “ A
Sanative Contagion in the Body which had an Anti¬
pathy to some particular Diseases, and not to others.”
Dec. 31, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
317
Indeed, this most learned society has not disdained
to hand down to posterity the memorials of this
man, for a Mr. Thoresby has in their Transactions
given some remarkable instances of cures performed by
him, and in particular on his own brother, “ who was
seized with a violent pain in the head and back. Mr.
Greatracks (coming by accident to the house) gave
present ease to his head by only stroking it with his
hands. He' then fell to rubbing his back, which he
most complained of, but the pain immediately fled from
his hand to his right thigh, then ho pursued it with his
hand to his knee, from thence to his leg, ankle, foot,
and, at last, to his great toe. As it fell lower, it grew
more violent, and when in his toe it made him roar out,
but upon rubbing it there it vanished.” He also gives
another instance of his uncle’s daughter, “ who was
seized, when a girl, with a great pain and weakness
in her knees, which occasioned a white swelling ; this
followed her for several years, and having used divers
means to no effect, after six or seven years’ time, Mr.
Greatracks coming to Dublin, she was brought to him.
Ho stroked both her knees, and gave her present ease,
the pain flying downwards from his hand till he drove
it out of her toes, and the swelling in a short time
wore away, and never troubled her after.” I do not
find any record of how long Mr. Greatracks remained
in England; he was in Dublin in the year 1681, but
how long he lived afterwards is uncertain. His
family, I believe, is not now resident in the county of
Waterford. A writer in BlacJcwood’s Magazine, if I
recollect aright, says, “that to a Mr.-Greatracks, a
descendant of his, some have attributed the honour of
being the author of Junius’s letters.” R. Y.
A number of certificates of cures follow the treatise
of Mr. Greatracks, sighed by the most respectable,
pious, and learned men in England, amongst whom,
besides the above-named Robert Boyle, are Bishop Rust,
Cudworth, author of the Intellectual System, Dr. Which-
worth, Dr. Wilkins, Dr. Simon Patrick, the Countess of
Devonshire, &c. As one of the best testimonials of the
probity and powers of .this extraordinary man, it may
be well to give from the Rawdon Payers the following
extract of a letter from Lord Conway to Sir George
Rawdon;—
Dear Brother,—I have received yours of the 29th January,
but the former letter, therein mentioned to have been written to me
on your coming to Dublin, is not yet come to my hands. Mr.
Greatracks hath been here a fortnight to-morrow. My wife is not
the better for him; very few others have failed under his hands of-
many hundreds that he hath touched in these parts. I must confess
that before his arrival I did not believe the tenth part of those
things that I have been an eye-witness of; and several others of as
accurate judgment as any in this kingdom, who are come hither out
of curiosity, do acknowledge the truth of his operations. This
morning the Bishop of Gloucester recommended to me a prebend’s
son in his diocese to be brought to him for a leprosy from head to
foot, which hath been judged incurable above ten years, and in my
chamber he cured him perfectly, that is, from a moist humour—’twas
immediately dried up and began to fall off; the itching was quite
gone, and the heat of it taken away. The youth was transported
to admiration. The dean saw this as well as myself, but it is not
the hundredth part, and I am confident at the leas(, of forty that we
have seen, among which are many pleasant passages done pur¬
posely to satisfy our curiosity and experience, so that I wonder he
had not a greater esteem in Ireland. But after all this, I am far
from thinking them miracles, or that his cures are at all miracu¬
lous, but I believe it is by a sanative virtue and a natural efficiency,
which extends not to all diseases, but is much more proper and
effectual to some than to others, as he doth also despatch some with
a great deal of ease and others not without a great deal of pains.
This enclosed is a letter of his to his wife, which I desire may be
sent carefully to her; and as to his concernments in Ireland, I
fear he doth not mind them so well as he ought to do. Probably
Sir Thomas Stanley may inform you how they stand, and if you
can do him any service I shall take it. extremely kindly, for he takes
a great deal of pains about my wife, and is very affectionate to do
all that lies in his power. I had a letter also from my brother
Francis. I am confident Mr. Greatracks would recover him or the
Bishop of Down, for I do pretty well know what distempers he can
cure and cannot.—So I rest yours, &c. Conway.
Baglay, Oth February, 1665.
THE PERSECUTION OF SPIRITUALISTS IN PARIS.
A fortnight ago we published the substance of the following
document, but now quote the full text for the purpose of placing it
on permanent record :—
To His Excellency Marshal MacMahon, President oj the French
• Republic.
We, the undersigned, Spiritualists, and representatives of Spiritual
Societies, of Great Britain, consider that, in' venturing to approach
your Excellency with the present respectful and humble memorial,
we may in truth claim to do so on behalf of many thousands of our
fellow-Spiritualists of the United Kingdom. With equal truth may
we also say not only that the Spiritualists of Great Britain include
in their body a long array of persons eminent in science, in litera¬
ture, in social rank, and in all the learned professions, including the
press, but also that the bulk of them consists of persons much above
the average in point of intelligence, education, and powers of ob¬
servation and reasoning, who have been led to adopt this grand
faith and philosophy from no weak credulity, but against the resist¬
ance of their own prejudices, through the overwhelming evidence
of facts, according to the strictest principles of inductive science.
The same description may fairly be said to apply to the Spirit¬
ualists of the world, who are conceded to number millions, every one
of whom may be said to have been converted by proof in spite of
anterior disbelief and prejudice, from sovereigns on'great thrones
to the lower ranks of educated and thoughtful men. We are very
sure that the. object of this memorial will command the sympathy
and concurrence of the whole of these in mass.
That object is to solicit your Excellency’s clemency on behalf of
M. Loymarie, the Editor of the Revue Spirits, now under sentence
to a year’s imprisonment on the false charge (as we are convinced)
of complicity with the photographer Buguot, the author of fraudu¬
lent spirit-photographs.
We do not mean to imply the slightest disrespect to the magis¬
tracy and judiciary of France, when wo declare our conviction that
M. Leymarie is not only an innocent enthusiast for a great truth,
but a highly honourable and conscientious man; and that, through
a combination of unfortunate circumstances and deceptive appear¬
ances, justice has been misled; a lamentable accident which occa¬
sionally happens to the most enlightened and most honour aide
tribunals of any country. We all associate ourselves with that
noble colonel of artillery of the French army, who, in open court,
after the rendering of the sentence of M. Leymarie, in the presence
of the judges, and aloud, went forward and embraced him publicly,
declaring that “ he was proud to give him that testimony of his esteem
and respect. ’ .
All persons ignorant of the wonderful facts of Spiritualism, and
of the multitude, variety and conclusiveness of the proofs by which
.they are established to the satisfaction of the most searching inves¬
tigation, are necessarily incredulous of them, and strongly preju¬
diced against the doctrine as imposture, and its adepts as dupes.
To such persons these facts are not only incredible until they have
witnessed for themselves, but inconceivable. Such was, unfor¬
tunately, the case not alone with M. Leymarie’s judges, but even
with his advocate, who was thus unable, notwithstanding his great
eloquence, to do more than very imperfect justice to his defence.
Unfortunately, too, these phenomena are often partially imitated by
charlatans, and even some of the mediums by whom they are really
produced are occasionally found to superadd fraud, for the sake of
money-making, when their genuine power fails them—a power
which is always variable, and never wholly certain. We cannot
blame those who have never witnessed and never investigated
thoroughly for themselves, for setting the whole down as a “ colossal
imposture,” as, in their ignorance of the facts, the magistrates and
the judges naturally did in this case.
Among the mysterious phenomena of Spiritualism that which is
called spirit-photography, or the production of photographic por¬
traits of deceased persons, still really existent though invisible to
our sight, is one of the most incredible and inconceivable to those
who have never witnessed it for themselves. We—or at least a
largo number of us—know it to be a reality and a truth. Wo know
it to have been judicially established in America after a long and
searching trial. We know it to have been produced by various
photographers, not professional mediums, but disinterested persons
of high respectability, in England and on the Continent, as well as
in America. We know that there are many hundreds of attesta¬
tions of the genuineness of these marvellous likenesses by surviv¬
ing relatives and friends. All this, utterly unknown to the magis¬
trates and judges, was known to the Editor of the Revue Spirits ;
and when he found a Paris photographer (Buguet) claiming to bo
a medium and producing these spirit-photographs .similar to those
which had been amply proved in England and America to be
genuine realities—when he had subjected Buguot’s manipulation to
the repeated inspection of successive scientific friends without the
318
THE SPIRITUALIST.
detection.of anv trickery—and when ho saw a couple of hundred
letters .from relatives certifying the accuracy of the portraits
thus produced by Bugiiet—Leymarie could .not but believe in
Buguet as a genuine medium and spirit-photographer. As Editor
of the Revue Smrite he could not omit to publish some of these cer¬
tificates with the accompanying photographs, as proofs and argu¬
ments in favour of the doctrine of which he was a devoted advocate,
especially when lie was urged by his Spiritualist friends to do so.
And the whole of the offence charged against him was that of hav¬
ing published about a dozen of these, that is to say, one in each
number of his monthly review for about a year! And if a small
commission was charged for the sale of these portrait cards, as
specimens of this strange phenomenon, at the Libraire Spirite, of
which he was the manager, as a central point of reunion of the
French Spiritualists, nothing, we respectfully submit, was more
natural or more legitimate.. And yet this was the slender founda¬
tion for the arrest of M. Leymarie by the police on the charge of com¬
plicity with Buguet in the frauds which the latter was detected in
practising in the fabrication of a portion at least of his portraits!
Buguet took too many incontestably genuine spirit-photographs
in London to leave. it possible for us to doubt the reality of his
mediumship. Unfortunately he could not take many genuine ones
in a day, and often the force or faculty so far failed him that he
could not take any. The need and thirst of money then tempted
him into a system by which he could supplement with fraud his
insufficient and variable power as a medium, and save his failing
health in the exercise of it. In this system of fraud he was detected
and arrested by the police. Of a feeble nature and weak moral
sense, the torture of solitary imprisonment, and suggestions and
persuasions from quarters which are unknown 1 o us, and which we
abstain from dwelling upon, led him to believe that he Would find
indulgence and safety in co-operating with the strong prejudices
against Spiritualism which existed in the police and the magistracy.
Ho thus adopted the system of repudiating Spiritualism, and even
of becoming a false witness against M. Leymarie, the Editor of the
Revue flpirite, and the present recognised leading person in French
Spiritualism. He thus deceived and misled the magistrates and
the judges, persisting in that system even before the Court of
Appeal, still believing that by his system he was to escape that
imprisonment which he dreaded like death. Sixteen days after his
definitive condemnation he proceeded to Brussels. Once in safety
there remorse prompted -his letter of full retractation, dated 27th
September, 1875, addressed to the Minister of Justice of France, in
which ho explains how he had been tempted and terrorised into the
falsehoods he now abjures, and in which he bears full testimony
to M. L eymarie’s innocence of any knowledge of his trickery. Nor
can it be pretended that this retractation was not sincere and true,
for it is in full accordance with his own long antecedent letters to M.
Lcymarie, which were produced on the trial, though unfortunately
(and erroneously, as we think) they were “excluded” from the case,
notwithstanding the conclusive evidence which they presented of
M. Leymarie’s innocence.
It is not to be wondered at that magistrates and judges, unac¬
quainted with Spiritualism, should have been misled by Buguet’s
falsehoods, even though he did not after all go further, when pressed
a little closely, than to say that ho had always “believed” Leymarie
to have known that he practised deception. But it is manifest that
if they had had this retractation before them before they rendered
their sentence, it would have been impossible for them to have done
otherwise than give M. Leymarie an honourable acquittal.
Unfortunately the Court of Cassation takes coguisance only of
defects 'of formality, or of points of law in the anterior proceedings,
not of the merits of the case, nor of the justice of the sentence, nor
of testimony subsequently coming to light, such as is contained in
Buguet’o retractation, confirmed as it is by his anterior letters. No
remedy seems to exist in such a case, to prevent the consummation
of a cruel injustice, except in that high prerogative of grace which
the law places in the worthy hands of your Excellency, and the
exercise of which we venture thus humbly to invoke.
We do not ask your Excellency to accept our doctrine, with
which it is little probable that your Excellency can have had the ■
opportunity of becoming acquainted, though the sovereigns of
certain other great nations well know it to be true, as did also; the
late Emperor of the French. We only solicit the remedy of an act
of unfortunate injustice into wlxich the honourable magistracy of
France has been misled by perjury, subsequently retracted by its
author. And we venture to submit to your gracious consideration
that if it is allowed to be carried into execution there are many
millions of honest and intelligent persons in all the countries of the
civilised world, each one of whom will feel wounded in the person
of a victim and martyr, guilty only of the crime of enthusiasm for a
great truth, and for a religion in which all religions can meet and
harmonise; while on the other hand, from all their hearts, if the
prayer of this Petition is granted, will rise an incense of grateful
admiration, and of prayer to the supreme Stirit of Spirits for the
prosperity and greatness of Franco, and for the still brightening
lustre of that ancestral British name which in her service your
Excellency has made so glorious.
* Tub Glasgow fivemng News has reprinted most of the article
from the Liverpool Courrier about the fracas at Mr. Herne’s seanoe.
Dec. 31, 1875.
ENLARGEMENT OF THE SPIRITUALIST.
Next week, with the commencement of the new
volume. The Spiritualist will he enlarged, as already
announced. For a long time past we have had such
an influx of interesting news and valuable articles, that
the contents of this journal have been set in smaller
type than has been satisfactory to its readers; further,
the rapid increase in its circulation during the past
year, and the international character which it has
gained as the recognised organ of intelligent and
educated Spiritualists at home and abroad, warrant the
important step about to be taken. The preparations
for the change have been going on for some time, and
there is every reason to suppose that the improvements ‘
next w»ek will give rise to a considerable amount of
satisfaction among all friends of Spiritualism. Those
who wish to specially encourage the step, are requested
to take two copies weekly—one for home reading and to
give away afterwards, the other to keep clean for
binding.
THE RELIGIOUS AND SCIENTIFIC ASPECTS OF
SPIRITUALISM.
BT J. M. GULLY, M.D.
The two first articles in your number of the 24th
December, appear to me so important in their bearing
on the subject to which your journal is dedicated, that I
desire space to supplement your remarks.
You will bear witness to the fact that in all the past
hostile observations on the part which men of science
do, or ought to take in the investigation of Spiritualism,
I have never attacked them by throwing at them the too
easily received opprobrium of being “ materialists.” As
you put it, there is nothing in the position taken by
Mr. Tyndall, in his exposition of the result of scientific
inquiries so far conducted, which at all militates against
the possibility of him and his followers being men of
the loftiest moral sense and practice, and therefore of
their being men of the highest religious instincts. My
personal knowledge of Mr. Charles Darwin dates from
more than twenty years back, and I aver that it would
be hard to find in society a person more reverent to every
moral obligation, and more active in his sense of this
than that gentleman. The day is gone by when religion
was deemed impossible Without a certain, or very fluc¬
tuating, creed of orthodoxy. Cultivated minds have
gone beyond that sort of stuff, and daily social experience
shows the wisdom of abolishing such a test. Men of science
are quite right to treat with indifference the accusation
of materialism, and, therefore, o£ irreligion; there is no
necessary connection between the assertion of the
molecular moving condition of matter, and the assertion
that it is no sin to steal your neighbour’s goods, character,
wife, or anything else that is his. On that ground,
therefore, I do trust that Spiritualists will not waste their
powers of adverse criticism, or become sectarian,—as
scientific men are.
There, in that exclusive and contemptuous sectarian
spirit, lies one casus belli with Mr. Tyndall and his fol¬
lowers. They acknowledge that having ascertained to
their own satisfaction the ultimate action of matter in its
ultimate organisation, they are still utterly in the dark as
to the cause both of the organisation and the function;
that all beyond this is mystery,—the mystery of matter,
they call it. Now, every advanced step that was ever
taken in scientific research since the search began, has
been mystery until it was inquired into. Not only so,
in the course of that search new forces have been
THE SPIRITUALIST.
319
Dec. 31, 1875.
discovered, their modus operandi exhibited, and their
correlation established. Meantime, a new series of
phenomena crop up which apparently (remark, I say,
so far, apparently) contradict the action of forces
already known to scientific men, and by which they
give a reason for the phenomena which they have
hitherto considered as satisfactorily proved and ex¬
plained. But is any reasonable man—any man not
blinded by sectarian sufficiency—prepared to say that
because he knows so much to be fact he is warranted
in stopping there and saying, “ I will seek no further
because your phenomena contradict our previous
knowledge, and point to the existence of powers which
are not those I already am acquainted with ?” This
sort of sectarianism is more intolerant and intolerable
than any merely religious bigotry that I know of, in¬
asmuch *as in the latter no pretence of inquiry is put
forward, or is, indeed, possible, and all must be taken
on faith, whereas in the case of the scientists loud pro¬
clamation is made that nothing is taken on trust, and
all must be subjected to searching experimental inquiry.
True, it is said that Mr. Tyndall once attended a seance ;
it is also said that at that seance he accounted for a
certain noise in the room by the friction of his whiskers
against a wineglass. It may have been a daring thing
of him to be at a spiritualistic seance at all, but it seems
to me a much more daring thing to tell other men who
wore whiskers that his own caused all that noise in the
room! The true spirit of inquiry was assuredly not
there ; and it is that which we demand from him, and
not any proof that he is not a materialist.
As to the development or absence of the religious
thought among Spiritualists, I observe that your article
terminates with a mild rebuke to that section of men
for their want of practical benevolence, which may or
may not exist with religious thought; heathens and
pagans have been, and may be again as practically
benevolent as the most fervid Christian professor. And
I should question whether, numbers of people being
taken into account, the Spiritualists would show so
badly in the comparison as the writer, of your article
insinuates. You quote one charitable association, but
it seems to represent millions; whilst Spiritualists are
counted by only hundreds of thousands, and those not
composed of many blessed with superfluity of means,
as is the case with the rank and file of orthodox re¬
ligionists. But be this as it may, I cannot help think¬
ing that the mission to be fulfilled by Spiritualism
(apart from the scientific curiosity which it provokes,
and, I trust, will ever provoke) is to induce the mind
to measure all mundane things by a standard of
being and truth, much higher than that which
ordinarily prevails, even among those who are sincere
about their religious beliefs. Convinced by experi¬
ment, not by mere dogma, that this life is only an
incubation of another more progressive, more lofty in
aim, more intelligent, and more bright in. opportunities,
the Spiritualist’s religion Should consist, in my view,
in the constant prospect of this other life, in the con¬
stant aspect of all around him, as dependent on a cause
which is eternal in action and transcendental in essence;
on a cause which minimises all earthly strivings and
maximises all strivings beyond earthly life; on a cause
which, in our poverty of language, we call spirit, but
which thought can compass in all its power and its
beauty, and can reverence sometimes as Good, sometimes
as God. I remember that Andrew Jackson Davis places
matter in the following sequence : solids, fluids, vapours,
ethers, essences, law, principles, ideas, God. Now, the
Spiritualist ought to occupy himself with the four last,
fixing his present joy and future hopes on them aloae’
xlkenside told us, 14:0 years ago, that , mind alone con¬
tains the germs of the beautiful and sublime. If spirit
be, as we believe, the synonym of mind, if spirit alone
survives of the human being, if every act of creation, of
continuance, of dissolution and reconstruction through¬
out nature, is effected by the power which we call spirit;
if the highest exhibition of that power with which we
are acquainted is the mind of man, we, or Spiritualists,
cannot fail to see that everything of the world around
us shrinks into insignificance in comparison with the
cultivation of that Power within us which is capable
of embracing in its intelligent grasp not only this
passing stage of existence, but the immortality towards
which we are all hastening. Once saturated with
this conviction, the solids, the fluids, all the solid
puddings and all the frothy syllabubs of mundane
life do but nauseate the moral stomach and destroy the
moral health, bodily life meantime dragging wearily
along, craving and. always dissatisfied when fruition
arrives, aspect, retrospect and prospect alike all lower¬
ing. In the cultivation of. his spirit alone lies the
Spiritualist’s religion, not according to this or that creed
or system, for such only cramp or mislead it, but in
accordance with what he ascertains to be his faculty
and mission after strict inspection of himself, which
itself ever calls other spirits to aid him to a result.
All this, it may be said, has been uttered by the
churches before, and if the churches had said and done
nothing more, it would have been well for humanity.
The Spiritualist belongs to no church save that which
is represented by the spirit within him, and its sym¬
pathetic communion with other spirits in more intelli¬
gent spheres of existence; and this alone must prevent
the formation of any- religious body to he called
Spiritualists; the instant such body shall be formed
that moment will the responsibility of the individual
spirit be merged in that body, and spiritual effort be
stupefied in sectarian indolence or strangled by sectarian
bitterness. I strongly hope that Spiritualism may
never be a religion in the corporate sense, and that the
ever present thought that he is an immortal spirit, with
immortal hopes of progress, may be the sole article of
his creed. All the rest will follow; charity of thought,
benevolence of deed, effort to help others, abnegation
of self, horror of falsehood and meanness.
MANIFESTATIONS WITH THE FAKIRS IN INDIA.
No. Y.—(Conclusion.)
BY DR. MAXIMILIAN BBRTY,
Professor of Physical Science at Bertie. Translated from "Psychic Studies."
Jacolliot had often seen the fakirs exercise, their peculifb£ influ¬
ence on the growth of plants, so ■ that, according to theilf aoepunt,
results could be attained in a few hours which naturally require
months, and even years, to arrive at; the missionary Hue had also11
reported similar accounts from Thibet. Jacolliot had always re¬
garded this as a very clever juggling trick, and had given 'it no
further consideration ; but now he desired to see Oovindasamy.per-.
form it, as he considered his power really wonderful, and worthy
of his best attention. When the fakir appeared at three o’clock in
the afternoon he thought the suggestion would be a surprise to him,
but Covindasamy said, with hiS usual calmness, “ I am at your
orders.” “ Wilt thou let me choose the seed, the earth, and the
flower-pot, with which thou art to perform ? ” “ The seed and the
flower-pot, certainly, but the earth must be brought from the
carias' (termites) nest.” The attendant was ordered to bring a pot¬
ful of the earth and various seeds, and to bruise the earth well
between two stones, for the insect-slime renders it as hard as the
mortar in a wall. In less than a quarter of an hour the"
materials were ready, and Jacolliot dismissed the attendant, for he
320
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 31, 1875.
■would not allow him the chance of any complicity with the fakir.
He then gave the earth to the fakir, who stirred some water into
it, at the same time murmuring his mentrams. Then he asked for
the seed, and a few yards of some kind of white cotton material.
Jacolliot took up at haphazard a melon-seed, and asked whether he
might mark it. Being permitted to do so, he cut a small slit in the
outer rind, and handed it to the fakir with several yards of mosquito
netting. “ I shall presently sleep the sleep of the spirits,” said he;
“ swear that thou wilt touch neither myself nor the flower-pot.”
Jacolliot having promised, the fakir planted the seed in the earth,
which was no w of the consistency of fluid mud, placed his seven-
jointed stick, the attribute of the initiated, from which he never
parted, in a corner of the pot, and spread the muslin over all. He
then crouched down, stretched out both hand? horizontally, over the
apparatus, and fell into complete catalepsy. When he had
remained half an hour with his arms extended, which no waking
person could do, and when a whole hour elapsed and not the
slightest twitching of the muscles was apparent, and the almost
naked body, bronzed and shining with the heat, looked liko a
polished statue, with the eyes fixed and staringJacolliot, who
was seated opposite to him, could bear the sight no longer; the
whole scene swam around him, doubtless in consequence of his
long-strained attitude of attention, and he was obliged to remove
to the end of the terrace, where he could look alternately at Covin-
dasamy and at the river. At the end of two hours a gentle sigh
caused him to start; the fakir had become conscious again; he
made a sign to him to approach, raised the muslin cover, and showed
him a fresh young shoot of the melon-tree about twenty centimetres
high. Guessing Jacolliot’s thought, he dug into the earth, drew
out the young plant carefully, and showed him the slit he had made
two hours before in the outer skin, which was stil 1 hanging to the root.
Jacolliot remarks that the fakir did not know before he came what
was expected of him; he could conceal nothing beneath his clothes,
since he wore scarcely any; neither could he know that Jacolliot,
out of whose sight he had no,t been during the whole time, would
choose from among the rest amelon-seed. Itwas justone of those cases
where the senses fail to discover deception, and yet reason will not
be led captive. After the fakir had enjoyed his astonishment for a
few minutes, he said, not without a touch of pride, “ If I had con¬
tinued the invocations, the melon-tree would have blossomed in
eight days, and borne fruit in fourteen.” Remembering the stories
of Hue, and certain phenomena which he had himself wit¬
nessed in- the Carnatic, Jacolliot said there were magicians who
could perform as much in two hours. “ Thou errest,” replied
Covindasamy, “ that of which thou art thinldng was the transport¬
ing of fruit-bearing trees by spirits; what I showed thee is groioth;
never has the pure fluid which is under the guidance of the Pitris
germinated, blossomed, and ripened into fruit in a single day.”
Jacolliot further informs us that if, under an Indian sky, the seed
of certain vegetables is sown in damp earth, and well exposed to
the sun in the early morning, the young plant will shoot above the
earth at noon, and at six in the evening will be nearly one centi¬
metre high, but that a melon-seed requires at least fourteen days to
germinate.
At ten o’clock 'on the evening of this day, Oovindasamy came
silently as usual* into Jacolliot’s room, having left behind him on
the flight of steps his languty or small garment which was his only
.clothing, and having fastened his seven-jointed bamboo-stick to one
of his long plaits bf hair, “Nothingimpure,” said he, “must touch
the body of the invoker, when he wishes to come effectually and
powerfully into communion with the spirits.” The thought struck
Jacolliot at this moment whether the Gymnosophists formed by the
Greeks on the Indus, were not similar to Covindasamy.
The experiments were conducted that evening on the terrace, and
in Jacolliot’s bedroom, both of which, communicating together,
were effectually closed from without; in each was a hanging lamp
of cocoa-nut oil, enclosed in a glass globe. All Indian houses are
provided with little copper vessels, always filled with glowing coal,
in which at intervals it is customary to throw a fragrant powder of
sandal-wood, orris-root, myrrh, and incense. The fakir placed a
similar vessel in the centre . of the terrace, and beside it a copper
plate covered with the powder; he then cowered down in his usual
manner with crossed arms, and began a long incantation in an un¬
known language, repeated his mentrams, and remained immovable,
with his left hand upon his heart, and the right leaning on his staff;
from time to time he raised his hand to his forehead, as if to
clear his brain by passes. Suddenly Jacolliot trembled, for a
faintly luminous cloud began to form in his chamber, from which
hands rapidly came out in all directions, and returned to it again;
presently some of the hands lost their shadowy look, and appeared
more human and material; others became more luminous;
the first were opaque, and cast shadows, the others so
transparent, that objects could be seen through them; altogether
Jacolliot counted sixteen. Jacolliot asked whether it would be
possible to touch one of the hands; scarcely had he done so, when
one left the group, floated towards him, and pressed his offered
hand; it was small, moist and supple, and like the hand of a young
woman. “ The spirit is there, although only one of its hands is,
visible,” said Oovindasamy; ” thou canst converse with it, if thou
wilt.” Jacolliot asked playfully,* if the spirit, to whom this
charming hand belonged, would leave him a souvenir; thereupon
he felt the hand melt away from his, saw- it float to a bouquet of
flowers and break off a rose bud, which it threw at his feet; it then
vanished. For two whole hours things occurred enough to
bewilder the ■ strongest mind; hands stroked Jacolliot’s face, or
fanned him with a fan, showered flowers all over the room, dr
wrote fiery letters in the air, which disappeared as soon as the last
was made ; and flashes as of lightning passed along the terrace and
through the chamber. Two of the Sanscrit phrases, which Jacolliot
had written first with a pencil, had this meaning—I have taken on
a fluidic tody; and thereupon the hand wrote—thou wilt attain
happiness, token thou art freed from this perishable tody. By degrees
the hands vanished, the mass of cloud in which they seemed to have
been materialised was partially dispersed ; and in the place where
the last hand had faded away, they found a wreath of those strongly-
scented yellow immortelles, which the Hindoos use in all their
ceremonies.
A moment afterwards, while the fakir was still earnestly en¬
gaged in invocation, a darker and thicker cloud formed near the
pan of coals, which Jacolliot, at the fakir’s wish, had kept re¬
plenished with coal; gradually this cloud took a human form, and
appeared as the phantom of an old Brahmin, kneeling and offering
sacrifice. He had the sacred sign of Vishnu on his forehead and
the threefold cord of the priestly caste round his body; his hands
were joined above his head, and his lips moved as if in prayer. At
a particular moment he took a pinch of the sweet-smelling powder
and threw it into the glowing coal, at which a thick smoke filled the
air; when it had dispersed, J acolliot saw the phantom at two steps
from him, holding out .its withered hand; Jacolliot took it in
his own, and found it warm and living, though hard and bony.
“Art thou also,” he said aloud, “a former inhabitant of this
earth ? ” The question was scarcely put when he saw in
phosphoric light ■ on the phantom’s breast the word Am (Yes)
come and go. And when J acolliot asked him, “ Wilt thou give mo
a token of thy passing visit? ” the spirit tore off his girdle, made
of a triple woollen twist, and vanished where he stood. Jacolliot
thought the sitting was ended, but the fakir appeared to have no
thought of leaving his place. Suddenly a strange melody was
heard, which seemed to proceed from the harmonica previously
used, but which the Peishwa had had taken away the evening
before, and which was no longer in JacoUiot’s apartments. The
tones at first sounded as if at a distance, afterwards nearer, and
lastly, as if in the bedroom; but .presently Jacolliot perceived
the shadow of a pagoda player glide along the wall, holding an har¬
monica, from which were proceeding the monotonous plaintive tones
peculiar to the religious music of the Hindoos.
The phantom glided through the room and along the terrace, and
vanished, leaving behind him the instrument, which was in fact the
harmonica belonging to the rajah, and yet the doors were effectually
closed. Covindasamy now stood up, bathed in perspiration, ex¬
hausted to tho last degree. In a few hours he was to begin his
journey. “I thank thee, Malabarer,” said Jacolliot, addressing
him by the name of his beloved country, “ and may He who unites
the three mysterious powers in his own person (the Brahminical
Trinity) protect thee in thy journey to the lovely southern land,
and mayest thou find that peace and happiness have dwelt in thy
home during thine absence I” The fakir replied with still more
emphatic words, took the offered present without looking at it, or
returning thanks, paid his last melancholy greeting, and disap¬
peared as silently as was his wont. When J acolliot looked out on
the river in the early morning he saw a black spot, and by means
of the telescope discovered it to be the fakir who was crossing the
Ganges on his way to Trivanderam, to the blue sea, the. cocoa
palms and his own hut, of which he had so often spoken. After a
few hours’ sleep in his hammock, the past night appeared to him
as a dream and an hallucination, but the harmonica was still there,
the flowers still strewed the terrace, the wreath of immortelles lay
upon the divan, and the words he had seen in the writing of flame
were written, as at first, upon the slate. J acolliot could discover
as little deception as the Abbd Hue had been able to do in Thibet.
About four years afterwards Jacolliot was travelling through
Madras, B'ellary, and Bedjapoor to the province of Aurungabad, to
visit the underground temple of Karh, whose celebrated crypts,
like those of Ellora, Elephanta, and Rosach lie in the mountain
ranges of the Mahratta country, which, being well provided with
forts, for centuries resisted the invasion of the Moslems. The
entrance to the rock-hewn crypts of Karli is about three hundred
feet above the foot of the mountain; the road to it is very like the
bed of a torrent, and leads to a terrace, which is a worthy fore¬
court of th6 magnificent interioV. To the left of the portico stands
a massive pillar; covered with unintelligible characters, and bearing
on its capital three scarcely distinguishable lions; passing the
threshold, one enters an enormous chamber, ornamented throughout
its whole length of six hundred feet with arabesques and
sculptured figures of men and animals ; and on each side of the
entrance are three huge elephants covered with trappings;
the vaulted roof is supported by two rows of pillars,
with an elephant above each, bearing on his back a male and
female form. This dark and imposing interior is a celebrated
pilgrimage for fakirs from all parts of India ; many of them put up
a dwelling near the temple, castigate their bodies, and live in
solitary contemplation. Cowering day and night over perpetual
flames, which are fed by the faithful, with a bandage over their
mouths so that they may breathe nothing impure, eating nothing
but a few grains of rice moistened with water and strained through
a cloth, they waste away by degrees to skeletons; their spirit-power
Dec. 31, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
321
declines rapidly, and before their last hour comes they have passed
through a long stage of physical and intellectual weakness which
can no longer be called life. Every fakir who would reach the
highest transformation in the upper world must subject his .body to
these terrible castigations. Jacolliot saw one fakir who had come a
few months before from Cape Comorin. He was lying between
two pans of glowing coal, in order to induce a more rapid decay of
the physical organs, and was then nearly unconscious. How
astonished was Jacolliot to recognise, by a broad scar on the side of
the head, the fakir of Trivanderam! He asked him, in his beloved
southern language, whether he remembered the Franguy of Benares.
A light shot for a moment into his fast-sinking eye, and he mur¬
mured the two Sanscrit words which came in fiery letters at their
last sitting: 11 Dioyavapur gatwa” (I have taken on the fluidic,
body). This was the last sign of intelligence given by him who
was called the Karli Sava, or the corpse, the phantom of Karli.
So end, says Jacolliot, in languishing infirmity and imbecility, the
mediums of India.
THE ST. PETERSBURG INVESTIGATION OP
SPIRITUALISM.
HETURN OF THE PETTY BROTHERS TO NEWCASTLE.
The following account is copied from the current number of
Psychic Studies (Leipsic), which is edited by M. Alexandre
Aksakof:—
“ The boys Joseph and William Petty, aged thirteen and seven¬
teen years, were chosen by the editor, during his recent visit to
England on behalf of the St. Petersburg committee, because the
manifestations which he had the opportunity of witnessing in
their home at Newcastle, were produced when they sat outside the
curtain, with a moderate amount of light; so that their every move¬
ment could be seen. Under the same conditions the movement of
objects which had been placed behind the curtain, was also regu¬
larly obtained, without human contact. The mother of the boys
had always been present at the seances, being the principal medium
in the family. Her state of health, however, did not admit of her
accompanying the boys to Russia. It was a matter of some im¬
portance and difficulty as to whether the medial power of the boys
could be eli&ited without the mother’s presence. M. Aksakof had two
sittings with the boys alone in their own house, and the manifestations
were very good, but the mother af terwardsinformed him that although
she had been in another room, she felt great exhaustion while the
seance was going on. M. Aksakof then had a sitting with the boys
away from their home. The manifestations occurred, but were
much weaker. As, however, no other mediums had at that time
placed themselves at his disposal, M. Aksakof resolved to give the
boys a trial. Two seances, held at Berlin, had moderately good
results, and gave promise of something better to come. The first
sittings at M. Atesakof’s house in St. Petersburg were pretty good;
but from that time the power of the mediums declined, and even
weak manifestations could only be obtained in the same house in
complete darkness; six seances with the committee were entirely
without result. In order to fix a limit to the investigation, the
committee had already Resolved that if, after forty seances, nothing
worthy of its present attention nor of subsequent study should
transpire, it should feel justified in closing the inquiry. In the face
of this it was clearly evident that to continue the seances with' the
Pettys would only be to compromise the whole matter. M. Aksakof
therefore considered it his duty to break them off, and to recommend
the committee to await the advent of a medium of more decided
power. He hopes that his efforts in this direction may be finally
crowned with success, and that in January, 1876, he may have the
pleasure of announcing the arrival of such a medium in St.
Petersburg.”
' SPIRITUALISM IN ITALY.
The Baroness Guldenstiibbe has written to Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory, stating that she intends to pass the present winter in
Italy, and will search out most of the little societies connected with
Spiritualism in that country, in order to learn what hold the move¬
ment possesses in Italy; she says that several Spiritualistic schools
for very young children have been established. In Venice there is
a small society, under the presidency of M. Eugene Bolmida, who,
after following commercial pursuits for many years at Trieste, has
retired at the age of fifty-two to Venice, where he is working to
extend a knowledge of Spiritualism. The Baroness Guldenstubbe
also informs Mrs. Gregory that should her health permit, she hopes
before long to visit London, and to become personally acquainted
with the members of the National Association of Spiritualists.
The last number of The Spiritual Scientist gives a long extract from
Mr. J. T. Rhodes’s paper on Spiritualism among the Working Classes,
which was read at the National Conference in November last.
The JJamford Brothers.—Mr. Bamford, of Macclesfield, writes
—“ As my two boys are at Brighton with Mr. J. N. T. Marthoze,
giving seances, will you please announce in The Spiritualist that they
will not be at home to give seances for a week Or two.”
(Eomspounence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
PRIVATE SEANCES IN MANCHESTER.—A GOOD TEST.
Sir,—Last Wednesday, the 22nd inst., I had a seance under
remarkable test conditions. With two yards of common net-lace,
or what is called “ stiff net,” a kind of bag was made, which I
pulled over the medium, and I fastened the tape (which ran through
the seam) tightly round the waist, binding it behind in several knots.
Thus the arms with hands crossed over the chest, were quite
secured, and no chance of any great movement without tearing the
net-work. I placed the medium behind the curtain and took my
seat before the aperture of the cabinet, the light dimly burning.
After a short time I saw the top of the bag (the aperture being
rather low) gently moving to the right, and the spirit-form came
beautifully distinct. A fresh life-like face, with golden band or
crown appeared, like a visitor from fairyland, and remained for a
considerable time conversing with me in such a manner that I
forgot entirely the perplexing conditions, and enjoyed my tete-a-tete
like greeting an old friend. After it vanished I found everything
as before; the peculiar knots behind the medium were perfectly
intact. A short time after the sitting, I placed my small hand¬
bell between us on- the table, put a paper-box over it, and finally
the table-cloth. I turned down the gas, but the firelight revealed
plainly enough the motionless medium. Our song was -nicely
accompanied by the bell in that exceedingly small concert-room.
The medium told me of some remarkable results that Count 
obtained by her power, and I begin to share his indignation at new
test inventions after such convincing experiments. I think tests
ought to be applied more to investigators to ascertain whether they
are qualified to be proper judges, and are honest enough to lay
their individual conviction before the scoffing majority. I know
of people who in the morning speak like free thinking men, and in
the evening, when the wife is knitting blue stockings, as good
husbands, obligingly hold the yarn to it. C. Reimers. .
Manchester, Dec. 24th, 1875.
DR. CHILD, OP PHILADELPHIA.
Sir,—Your hypothesis is not quite in accordance with the facts.
When the imposture of the Holmeses was discovered, the sale of
Dr. Child’s book was stopped, and for some months not a copy was
to be got. But, shortly before my visit to Philadelphia, it was
again offered for sale. This fact requires some explanation. The
copy which I bought was exposed on an open bookstall, in Phila-
delphia, where Dr. Child resides.
The fact that, when others had detected the imposture, Dr. Child
turned against the Holmeses, and they, in return, “ threw plenty of
mud at him,” does not disprove the charges made against Dr. Child
by persons who had evidence 'quite independent of any statements
made by the Holmeses to go upon.
Dr. Child’s “ slender business connection ” with the Holmeses is
said to have been a partnership, Dr. Child receiving a portion of
the profits. This statement has been made publicly, and has,
I am told, never been answered by Dr. Child.
Algernon Joy.
Junior United Service Club, London, S.W., 26th Dec., 1875:
THE EDDY BROTHERS.
• Sir,—Mr, Massey asked the other day whether I had
seen Mrs. Cleveland. I had a long conversation with her,
and feel convinced of her integrity. She herself told me
of her money difference 'with the Eddys, and her account agreed
exactly with what I heard in other quarters. Mr. Massey argues
that she must have discovered the imposture long before she dis¬
closed it. She assured me that she did not, but that her suspicions
having been aroused by an accident, she gradually became con¬
vinced that they were well founded; and I see no reason to doubt
her statement. I hope to send you a full account of my experiences
shortly. Algernon Joy.
26th Dec., 1875.
WHAT CONSTITUTES MATERIALISM?
Sir,—I had not the advantage of being present at the first debate
of. the Psychological Society, when Professor Tyndall’s Belfast
address was under discussion, and I may therefore be in error as
to the exact nature of the question proposed, but surely it was not
“ The Fundamental Nature of Matter ” at any rate. Had I thought
so, I should have ventured to protest more strongly than I did in
the few remarks that I made. It seemed to me that we were
beating the air iri discussing whether or not Professor Tyndall is
a materialist, whereas I conceived the point at issue to be, as the
president put it, Has man a soul, and can we give any evidence
that he. has, against that standpoint rightly or wrongly called
materialistic, which maintains that he has not ? To discuss this
seems fairly within the province of a psychological society; to split
hairs about materialism does not. It was in this connection strictly
that I referred to the statement that in “ matter is the promise and
potency of every form of life,” and said that if that were not
322
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Dec. 31, 1875.
materialism, words had no meaning. The latest and best dic¬
tionary to which I have access defines a materialist as “ one who
denies the existence of spiritual substances, and maintains that the
soul of man is the result of a particular organisation of matter in
the body; ” i.e., as one who sees in matter the promise and potency
■ of all, and does not need to go outside of it for any explanation of
what he observes. Rightly or wrongly (it does not here matter
which) this is called materialism, and the opposite view, that spirit
energises through matter, is that which the school of Professor
Tyndall (“who denies the existence of spiritual substances ”) will
not admit. The question before the society was, Can we give any
evidence in favour of this latter position ?
The question of atheism is beside the point; nor, speaking for
myself, can I see why it should be deemed a (erm of reproach to
call a man a materialist. If, in company with the eminent man
whose words are being criticised, he can account for everything on
purely material grounds, I do not see why he should be blamed for
doing so, though I can understand that the Spiritualist, who finds
an indeterminate and unprovable cause for every obscure phe¬
nomenon in the intervention of spirit, may lay himself open to the
charge of credulous and unscientific dealing. Certainly there is
“ no more atheism or materialism in the statement ” of Professor
Tyndall than in the “ analogous statement that in the egg is the
promise and potency of the form of the living bird.” Each state¬
ment is equally materialistic in the strict etymological sense of the
word, as well as in that conventional application which is in use
amongst us.. The question is not, is the statement materialistic,
but is it true ? W. Stainton Moses, M.A.,
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY AND MATERIALISM.
Sir,-!—I have been misunderstood by yourself and your corre¬
spondent. It is impossible in discussion to define every term as it
is used. When I wrote of “ matter ” and “ materialism,” I desired
to use both terms in the sense in which they are commonly under¬
stood. By “ matter ” I intend molecular structure, which alone
our senses are constructed to perceive. By “ materialism” I intend
the theory that man is composed of molecular matter only; and
when I alluded to Professor Tyndall as “ a materialist,” I designed
to assert only that he does not accept the existence of soul or spirit,
or any other being in man than his mortal body. Our discussion
was not intended to be, as it was for the most part treated, whether
Professor Tyndall was or was not a materialist, but whether ma¬
terialism is true or false. Certainly, when the Professor writes a
long article avowedly to defend materialism against its opponents,
it is a reasonable conclusion that he personally accepts the doctrine
he defends. If not so, he should so have stated. But, in truth, he
might have determined for ever the question by five simple words,
if such is really his creed: “I believe man has a soul,” would have
saved the labour of writing twenty pages, and proved from his
own pen his qualification to become, as one of the speakers thought
he might be, a valuable member of the Psychological Society.
It was objected to us that we assume the existence of soul, which
is yet to be proved scientifically. Not so. We assert only that the
being of soul is possible, is probable, and that it is capable of being
proved by psychological facts and phenomena. The primary object
of the society is to collect these facts from all sources as material
from which scientific deductions may be made. The members are
for the most part confident that such facts and phenomena are to
be found, and that they will prove man to be constituted as a non-
molecular being, enveloped in m'olecular substance for the purposes
of an existence in a molecular world. This is as yet a speculation
only; it remains to be proved by sufficient evidence, which it is
part of the work of the Psychological Society to seek after.
The complaint I prefer against Professor Tyndall is not that he
declines to investigate psychological phenomena, but that he pro¬
nounces judgment upon them without investigation. It is quite
permissible in him to say, “ I am devoted to physical science. It
suffices to occupy all my time and thoughts. I have not leisure to
look into physiological or psychological science.' I must leave that
to those who make it their pursuit, as physical science is mine.”
This would be rational and fair; but he does more than this. . He
not only pronounces a dogmatic opinion upon that which he admits that
he has not studied, but asserts its facts to be delusions or impostures,
and its investigators to be fools or rogues. If a psychologist were to
publish of Professor Tyndall’s experiments with flames—which he
had never seen—that they were the “ intellectual whoredom of
acoustics,” would not the Professor indignantly denounce the
injustice of one scientist passing out of his own science to
condemn another science of which he knows nothing ? Eminently
applicable to him is the proverb, “ Ws &utor, tfc.”
Edward W. Cox,
President of the Psychological Society of Great Britain.
ARE MANIFESTATIONS PRODUCED BY OTHER THAN HUMAN
SPIRITS ?
Sir,—Allow me to offer a few observations on a discourse on
Spiritualism delivered by Dr. Hallock last evening at the Cavendish
Rooms. He took for granted the truth of certain manifestations
(and which I do not deny), and assumed that they were produced by
the spirits of our deceased friends. It appear^ to me t-hat it is very
far from proved that the spirits of our decorpor’ated friends are the
agents in these manifestations. It is very difficult to believe that
the ordinary phenomena at physical seances are due to this source.
The utter frivolity of some of them—not frivolous in the sense of
being simple movements of furniture and rappings, for the spirits
must use the means at hand; but the grotesque, childish, elf-like
tricks invariably seen. The trick-like antics with musical boxes,
and a variety of similar phenomena seem to point tft another kind
of agency. In other wprds, these phenomena seem totally “ invrai-
semblable ” to the human spirit of the lowest nature. Supposing a
mixture of spirits, human and other, as some Spiritualists imagine,
it would be simply a conspiracy between them to deceive. If not a
“ suggestio falsi,” at least a “ suppressio veri,” for other than human
spirits are never taught by them as being active in manifesting.
Then the lies and deceit of all kinds practised with no particular
object in view by the spirits. Does this look like the acts of the
deceased human being, who does not lie without reasons ? In other
words, it is not the badness or goodness of the spirits that makes
us think them not to be human, but their unhuman character. They
look more like the tricks of fairies, elves, and gnomes.
Dr. Hallock claimed that the spiritual philosophy satisfied the
human aspiration; meaning that as we made ourselves here so were
we in the other state. But if we are, as science declares us to be,
to a great extent at least, automatons, does this satisfy ? I finish
my note by a quotation from Professor Haeckel’s History of
Creation:—
“ The will of the animal, as well as that of man, is never free.
The widely spread doctrine of the freedom of the will is, from the
scientific point of view, altogether untenable. Every physiologist
who scientifically investigates the activity of the will in animals
and man, must of necessity arrive at the conviction that in reality
the will is never free, but is always determined by external or internal
influences. These influences are for the most part ideas which
have been either formed by adaptation or by inheritance, and are
traceable to one or other physiological function. As soon as we
strictly examine- the action of our own will we perceive that every
apparently free action of the will is the result of previous ideas
which are based on notions inherited or otherwise acquired, and are
therefore dependent on the laws of adaptation or inheritance.”
If this be true, how does the “ what we have made ourselves ”
doctrine satisfy our ideal conception of a future ?
Reform Club, December 20th, 1875. Barrister-AT-Law.
MATERIALISM.
Sir,—As I have figured somewhat prominently as a materialist—
as, for instance, in my Letters to Miss Martineau—and many years
before Professor Tyndall, you will allow me to make a few obser¬
vations. The more profound thinkers, from Democritus to Bacon,
Goethe, Humboldt, and Sir William Lawrence, have all referred to
matter as the( source of all effects, and argued that spirit can only
be a rarer condition of matter .or it is nothing at all. The grander
poets have for the most part been of the same opinion, from Lu¬
cretius to Shakespeare and Milton; those who talk of gross matter
are the incompetent and superstitious, who fancy they explain the
great mystery by the change of a word. Bacon says that the
fundamental nature and subtlety of matter are far beyond the sense
and understanding, yet all must be referred to that source, or phi¬
losophy must be abandoned, since we have no knowledge of any¬
thing else.
The words of Tyndall are: “If these statements startle, it is
because matter has been defined and maligned by philosophers and
theologians, who were equally unaware that it is, at bottom,
essentially mystical and transcendental.” In Shakespeare’s philo¬
sophical play, Timm of Athens, we have a grand utterance, begin¬
ning thus:—
“ Common mother thou,
Whose womb unmeasurable and infinite breast
Teems and feeds all; whose selfsame mettle,
Whereof thy proud child, arrogant man, is puff’d,
Engenders the black toad and adder blue,
The gilded newt and eyeless venomed worm,
With all the abhorred births below crisp heaven.”
Then in Milton’s Paradise Lost, book v., it is finely expressed
how all things are gradually evolved from matter, beginning:— •
“ One first matter all,
Endu’d with various forms, various degrees
,Of substance, and in things that live, of life:
But more refined, more spirituous, and pure,
Each in their several active spheres assign’d,
Till body up to spirit work, in bounds
Proportion’d to each kind. So from the root
Springs lighter the green stalk, from thence the leaves
More airy; last the bright consummate flower
Spirits odorous breathes: flow’rs and their fruits,
Man’s nourishment, by gradual scale sublim'd,
To vital spirits aspire; to animal;
To intellectual give both life and sense,
Fancy, and understanding.”
Here we have the observed and natural sequence which many Spirit¬
ualists and others would reverse, and the “ one first matter all ” as
the “ common mother ” and source of all effects without exception;
and materialism rests triumphant as. the only possible and true
philosophy. Henceforth it will only be the incompetent and
the ignorant that will talk nonsense about gross matter and dead
matter, since it is the basis and source of all life and action.
Henry G. Atkinson, E.G S.
Dec. 31, 1875
THE SPIRITUALIST.
323
ilrcbinctai flctoa.
LIVERPOOL.
ANOTHER FIASCO IN LIVERPOOL.
It is our painful duty to record another miserable fiasco in
connection with public seances in Liverpool. It was considered
advisable, after the recent contretemps with Mr. Egerton, to engage
Mr. Herne to give a series of those seances which are said to have
met with such unbounded success at 15, Southampton-row, London.
The proprietor of the Spiritual Centre, 38,Eussell-stree1t, Liverpool,
accordingly engaged Mr. Herne for a series of six sittings.
Mr. Herne was in great request, and eagerly sought after by intel¬
ligent Spiritualists, who wished to retain him for private sittings;
but such was the nature of his engagements that he could not
coinply, being bound, per arrangement, to devote his time and able
gifts to the well-being of the Spiritual Centre, and the cause in
general, which was said by some weak-kneed Spiritualists to have
suffered severely through the expose of Mr. Egerton.
A number of prominent Spiritualists, as well as sceptics, attended
the series, which was not remarkable for anything great in elemen¬
tary physical manifestations, such as raps, or table-movements, &c.
In the matter of tests Mr. Herne promptly and willingly submitted
to those suggested by the sitters, but on no occasion was he secured
in the cabinet, which consisted of a simple curtain arrangement in
one corner of the room. Mr. Herne was searched by sceptics prior
to sitting for materialisations, u as he was,” says Mr. Coates, our
informant, “ during the last and most unfortunate sitting of all.”
Mr. John Priest, Mr. Casson, Mr. Shaw, and Mr. John Eraser, and
other well-known sceptics and members of the Liverpool Psycho¬
logical Society were present. After the preliminary sitting arrange¬
ments were made for the cabinet seance, it was hoped that John
King would be able to overcome the pernicious influences
that were about, and give them (the sitters) some greater demon¬
stration of the reality of spirit presence and power than hitherto.
The circle being arranged, with Mr. Eraser at one pole and a
mysterious individual at the other pole, and Mr. Shaw to super¬
intend the gas, supplying the place of Mr. Wilson, who formerly
managed this important business, after some singing, and th&
appearance of something not.clearly seen by everybody present,
Peter put in an appearance, and entertained the audience by ban¬
tering Mr. Shaw for not bringing wax to take a cast of his toes
according to promise. Peter then retired, the curtains parted, and
the redoubtable form of John King was seen in close proximity to
the stranger, who, without any more to do, seized in his grasp—not
the spirit, but the medium. A cry and struggle were heard, the
light was turned on, and Mr. Herne found secured on either side
by Mr. Shaw and the stranger who first seized him. Around his
legs were found two newspapers, which had originally been pinned
inside the curtains to exclude any light that might penetrate them;
there was also found a scarf wrapped up in such a manner as to
form a turban, “ the medium himself having a sort of dazed, stupid
appearance.” The-whole thing looked like imposture of the grossest
kind: at least such was the opinion expressed in no mild terms by
the sitters, who, at the conclusion, resolved themselves into a com¬
mittee of investigation, Mr. John Priest taking the chair. The
witnesses each gave their version of the affair. The chairman was
deputed to wait upon Mr. Herne, and ask what light he was able to
throw upon the matter. He “ stated that he positively knew
nothing about it; he was perfectly unconscious during the time he
was in the cabinet; the scarf was his, but was up stairs in his
room during the time he was searched, and how the papers came
upon his legs he could not tell.”
Mr. Coates says:—“ Before Mr. Herne, in the confusion and anger
of the moment, is hastily, and perhaps unjustly, condemned, I
would call attention to one or two things. 1st. There is no evi¬
dence that he was not unconscious; that he was not the hapless
instrument of a power outside himself. 2nd. There is no evidence
that he had the scarf upon him when he was rigidly searched prior
to entering the cabinet. 3rd. What has become of the spectacled,
unknown stranger who seized Mr. Herne, and who was allowed to
enter, give his evidence, and depart without even giving his name
and address?” Mr. Coates then goes on to question the trust¬
worthiness of two of the strangers and their testimony.
In a subsequent communication Mr. Coates says that Mr. Wilson,
in whose house the seance was held, altogether exonerates Mr.
Herne, and repudiates the testimony of the strangers, upon whose
assertions, it seems, the more vital points of the accusation are
founded. Mr. Herne suffered so much that he was spitting blood
at the close of the seance, could not eat or sleep, and he returned
next day to London.
Information has been sent us from another source that searching
investigation into the antecedents of sdme, at least, of the strangers
and others present will be made, before their assertions are accepted
without question.
We have published nothing about Mr. Herne for many years,
although he undoubtedly possesses strong medial powers. In the
present instance it is quite possible that if there was, imposture it
was the work of bad spirits, brought about him perchance by un¬
spiritual influences in the circle. By quiet, honest, yet crucial in¬
vestigation, it has been proved that the unseen beings about
physical mediums can bring commonplace drapery into cabinets,
and take it away again before the seance is over. It is a fact,
though the outside world may not believe it, that if a medium is
happy, surrounded by friendly and spiritual people, he can often give
the severest tests, indeed evidence of the most convincing charac¬
ter ; yet surround the same medium with an inharmonious anta¬
gonistic circle such bad results as those obtained at Liverpool may
be presented, the work of lying spirits, and not necessarily of their
unfortunate instfument. Spiritualists in Liverpool, and some of
those who were present at the seance, are divided in opinion as to
whether the witnesses, the spirits, or the medium are responsible
in this matter.
SOUTH SHIELDS.
A Spiritual' Conference.—A conference of Spiritualists took
place in the Central Hall Auction-rooms on Monday afternoon,a t
half-past two o’clock. The meeting was presided over by Mr.
Robertson. Spiritualists from Newcastle, Sunderland, and North
Shields were present, and numbered altogether about eighty per¬
sons. The meeting was organised by the South Shields circle, held
at the house of Mr. Lambelle.—Mr. Robertson, in the course of a
few remarks from the chair, said that Spiritualism begat many
enemies, but as an investigator, and from experience, he found that
the principles and facts of Spiritualism were true, and that there
was a gteat connection between Bible Spiritualism and its inspira¬
tion, and the modern phenomena. For the benefit of those present
who were unacquainted with the phenomena, he explained why
mediums were necessary, and what were some of the conditions of
mediumship; he said that he had unbounded confidence in the
spirits who were present, and who would explain what were the
benefits derived from Spiritualism.—Mr. Lambelle was then con¬
trolled, and in the trance state said that Spiritualism was the
greatest problem ever offered to the human mind. While the
Church taught that man had a soul and lived after death, Spirit¬
ualism went further and showed what was the condition and state
hereafter; it also brought that evidence which is now wanting.
Spiritualists did not wish to fight against the churches of the pre¬
sent day, but wished to support them by giving them that evidence
in which they are lacking.—Mr. M. Robertson said that the object of
the meeting was to call together the friends in South Shields, so as
to promote the cause in the neighbourhood; but as there were so many
friends from a distance, and notably Mr. Armstrong, the President
of the Newcastle Society, he would call upon him to give a little of
his experience.—Mr. Armstrong rose and explained the supposed
nature of trance mediumship ; he argued that the medium was the
mesmerised subject of a spirit.—A gentleman present rose and
stated that from the announcement in the Shields Daily News, the
object of the meeting was to form a society in that town.—An ani¬
mated discussion followed.—Another meeting took place in the
evening at the same place, and was well attended.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TTNE.
NEWCASTLE SPIRITUAL SOCIETY.
On Wednesday evening, Dec. 22nd, about twenty of the members
of the Newcastle Spiritual Society met at their rooms in Weirs-
court, when Miss Wood entered the cabinet and was placed in an
arm-chair, with her wrists strapped to the arms of the chair by one
of the members. On the curtains being, drawn together, Miss
Wood was entranced by a spirit who carried on a conversation
with the members for some time, but said she would not be able
to materialise, as there were some troublesome spirits present, and
according to her direction the medium was carried out of the
cabinet, chair and all, and placed in the room outside. No physical
phenomena occurred; two of the circle who had medial powers
were entranced, and it was with considerable difficulty the controls
were induced to give up possession of the mediums. At about
half-past nine it was decided to end the seance. About half of the
company left, but Miss Wood was motionless, not a word having
been spoken by her for half an hour or more. One of the members
present was then influenced to make a few passes over her head,
the result being that a few gentle shocks passed through her frame.
The spirit again spoke through her, and informed those present
that if they liked to stay a little longer she would try and do some¬
thing, as she was anxious to satisfy one or two new members who
were present. As the conditions were then better, she directed
that the medium be again carried into the cabinet as before ; this
done, those present, about ten in number, rearranged themselves
in a circle, and a lively conversation was carried on for some time.
The spirit calling herself Pockky made her appearance at the
entrance of the cabinet, and after playing and chatting for some
time, she retired. Almost immediately afterwards one of the cur¬
tains was drawn on one side, showing a tall figure about 5ft. 8in.
high—as much taller as that of Pockky was shorter than the
medium. The seance ended by the singing of the Doxology, shortly
after which Miss Wood was heard speaking in her normal con¬
dition, having been in the trance for three hours and a half. The
seance closed at 11.30 p.m., and the medium was released from the
chair by the same gentleman who secured her. A tea; meeting of
the members and fiends will be held on New Year’s Day at the
above hall.
324
Dec. 31, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
BIRMINGHAM.
Birmingham Spiritual Society.—The committee of the society
operating at the Athenaeum, Temple-street, Birmingham, states
that after a four months’ campaign, holding two meetings per
Sunday, the society is not only out of debt, but has a small,balance
in hand. The committee wishes it to be known, however, that for
this result, as well as for the payment of the balance of debt left
by Mr. John Collier, the society is largely indebted to Mrs. Groom,
who has freely given aid, by means of seances, to the above objects.
The New Year will open under more favourable auspices than
heretofore. On Sunday, January 2nd, at 11 a.m., a series of
friendly discussions will be commenced upon “ Spiritualism versus
Positivism.” Mr. Starling will lead on the side of the latter, and Mr.
Harper on that of the former. The public are invited to take part
also. Admission free, and no collection. On the same day, at
0.30 p.m., Mrs. Groom will share the platform with Mr. Harper,
and deliver an address in the trance state. This lady has already
spoken two or three times off the platform in the Athenaeum, under
the control of a spirit wh o gave the name of the late Rev. John
Angel James. The committee invites the attendance of any who
feel disposed to join the society and they are requested to bring
their friends.-
The Bazaar.—The responses on behalf of the bazaar have been
so much more numerous and cordial than was at first anticipated,
that, in view of securing a better result, it has been decided to
postpone the bazaar and entertainment till January 24th, when
they will take place at the Atkenmum, Temple-street. The bazaar
will open at 3 p.m., and the entertainment begin at 8 p.m. This
entertainment is expected to be of a superior description, two or
three professional singers having kindly promised their services.
.This bazaar and entertainment will be the first of a series of
efforts, purposed to be extended over two years, for the forma¬
tion of a fund towards the building of a hall and Spiritual
Lyceum.
NEW PUBLICATIONS.
The large penny pamphlet advertised on another page, and full
of evidence that Spiritualism is true, will be of the full size of The
Spiritualist newspaper, and contain the same number of pages. It
will be the most useful and cheapest thing ever printed in favour
of Spiritualism for distribution among the general public, and for
sale at Spiritual meetings. As it will very 'shortly go to press it is
necessary that authors* mediums, and others who desire extended
and cheap publicity should send in their advertisements at once
to “ The Manager, Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.C.”
• A sixpenny pamphlet, by Mr. Christian Reimers, will shortly be
issued from the same office, bringing the power of caricature into
the spiritual movement. The pictures, which are of a clever and
amusing character, show how two men of science try by testing
a medium to do away with spirits,, but after a series of truly
remarkable adventures the spirits come off with flying colours.
Mr. Duguid’s book, Haftd, may be obtained at the same office.
A penny pamphlet is now in the press, giving information to the
public and to inexperienced Spiritualists how to conduct spirit
circles at home.
The National Association of Spiritualists has printed leaflets
—which may be had of the Secretary—for free distribution, to
counteract misrepresentations as to its aims and objects, which have
been circulated among badly-informed Spiritualists in outlying
districts in the provinces.
Other books, pamphlets, and leaflets are in preparation.
PROEESSOR TYNDALL ON SCIENTIFIC REVELATIONS.
Last Tuesday afternoon the 1875-76 session of the Royal
Institution began with the delivery of the first of the usual
Christmas series of six lectures adapted to a'juvenile auditory. The
lecturer was Professor Tyndall, who had chosen Electricity for his
subject. The theatre of the institution was full from floor to
ceiling, and the proportion of young people present was larger than
for many years past. They probably outnumbered those of elder
growth in the ratio of about ten to one; but there was a fair
sprinkling of well-known-men of science to whom even the most
elementary, experiments tending to unveil the great secrets of
nature seem never to lose their freshness. Among the ladies and
gentlemen present were Lady Stanley of Alderley, Lord W. Hay,
Dr. Warren de la Rue, F.R.S., Admiral Codrington, Sir H.
Paulett, Dr. E. Frankland, F.R.S., Madame Novikoff, Lord J.
Percy, Mr. R. Hannah, F.S.A., Lady Belcher, the Rev. J. Newbould,
Dr. J. H. Gladstone, F.R.S., the Hon. H. Law, and Sir T. F.
Buxton.
Professor Tyndall said that it was fifty-one years ago since the
managers of the Royal Institution proposed to give a course of
Christmas lectures on astronomy, “ adapted ”—to use their own
stately phrase—“ to a juvenile auditory.” So far as could be ascer¬
tained, these lectures were not givenbut the first Christmas
course of the kind was delivered in 1827 by the late Mr. Faraday—
the most beautiful of lecturers, or, at all events, the most beautiful
of characters—(Applause)—and Christmas lectures for young people
had been continued at the Royal Institution ever since, until it fell
to his (Professor Tyndall’s) lot to give the discourses upon the
present occasion. It had been said that it was difficult to teach
science to boys and girls, that they did not care about it, and that
the apparatus was expensive, for which reasons the introduction of
science into schools was impeded. He would therefore try to show
by what simple means a large knowledge of science might be
obtained, for he would illustrate the truths of electricity by means
of most homely, most inexpensive apparatus, such as could be made
by boys who had a very small allowance of pocket money; indeed,
most of the*materials with which he would make his opening experi¬
ments might be purchased for about four shillings altogether. Ex¬
periments, he said, were questions put to nature; men of science
did not gain fresh knowledge from books, but by their experiments
they obtained replies direct from nature, after which they reasoned
upon the facts, and obtained a knowledge of the truths of the
universe which book-learning could never give.; He then proceeded
with his lecture, which he illustrated with most interesting experi¬
ments.
Dr. Sexton at the Cavendish Rooms.—On Sunday next Dr.
Sexton will deliver two discourses at the Cavendish Rooms on the
following subjects:—Morning, at eleven, “ The Great Enigma of
the Universeevening, at seven, <l Twenty Years’ Personal
Experience of Scepticism, Sceptical Teaching, and Sceptical
Teachers.”
Conversazione and Ball.—The Dalston Association of Spirit¬
ualists has taken the Cavendish Rooms, 71, Mortimer-street,
Oxford-street, for a New Year’s gathering, next Wednesday, of
its members and metropolitan Spiritualists generally, and the
proceedings are announced to commence with a conversazione at
seven o’clock. The following, amongst other items, will be included
in the programme, viz.: Introductory observations by the president
of the Association; song, “ The Children’s Victory,” by Miss
Sexton; a violin solo, by Mr. J. A. Bear.; sketch, r Old Foozle in
Paris,” with song, “ It serves you right” (by permission of Mr. F.
Maccabe), by Mr. Albert G. Ogan ; a recitation, “ Damon and
Pythias,” by Mr. F. M. Sexton; introductions and valuations on
the favourite Russian “ Krakoviak,” arranged as a flute solo ;
u Ripple,” by Mr. Herbert J. Derham; reading, by Mr. E. Parkin¬
son Ashton, “ The Old Coaching Days;” pianoforte solo, by
Madame Ourry, “ Scotch Airs ” arranged by that lady; recitation,
“ The Three Preachers,” by Miss Sexton; flute duet, with piano¬
forte accompaniment, by Messrs. Herbert J. and S. Derham and
Madame Ourry; song, “The School (Bored) Teacher,” by Mr.
Albert G.- Ogan; violin solo, by Mr. J. A. Bear; song, “Stage
Struck,” by Mr. G. Sexton, jun. Mr. J. J. Morse writes to the
hon. secretary: “ I may be at home on January 5th, and if so will
certainly be present, and do anything I can to assist.” A copy of
the memorial to Marshal Macmahon on behalf of M. Leymarie will
be upon a table for signature during the evening. The ball will
afterwards be opened between nine and ten, under the control of
Messrs. E. Parkinson Ashton and Arthur Maltby, who have kindly
consented to act as M.C.’s. Tickets are to be obtained prior to
Wednesday next, 5th January, as they cannot be sold at the Caven¬
dish Rooms. For further particulars see advertisement. The
usual National Association soiree will be postponed for a week, that
it may not interfere with the ball of the Dalston Association.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED in 1869.
rriHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
A Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom, and is
the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-speaking countries
throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of readers on the Continent
of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more experienced
Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Literature, Art, Science, and
the Peerage. Among those wbo have published their names'in connection with
their communications in its columns are Mr. C. F- Yarley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. Wil¬
liam Crookes, F.R.S.,Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who admits the
reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time expressed no decided
opinion’ as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, the N aturalist: Prince Emile
de Sayn-Wittgenstein'* (Wiesbaden): The Countess of Caithness; the Duke of
Leuchtenberg; Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York): Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isham, Bart.;
Mrs. Ross-Ohurch (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alex¬
andre Aksakof. Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburg); the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dun-
phy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. 0.
Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin
Coleman; Mr. Charies BlackburnMr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr.
Janies Wasou; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe:; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White
(autho.r of the “ Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. 0. Maurice
Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London”; Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D.
Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A.,
LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy'; Mr. William Oxley;
Miss Kislingbury,; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D.
(Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd. To residents
in the United States, i dols. 17 cents per annum, which may be paid in to Messrs.
Colby and Ricli, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded
to ‘‘The Manager, Spiritcalist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street
London, W.O.”
[December, 1876.] - „
Dec. 31, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
in
A CHRISTMAS GATHERING- FOR BIRMINGHAM
SPIRITUALISTS.
MR. J. W. MAHONYbegs to announce to the friends
in Birmingham and district that he is making arrangements for a
Christmafe gathering, to take place on Monday, December 27th, 1875, at the
Athenesum. Temple-street. Tea on the table at half past five o’clock. After
tea Mr. Mahony will recite the following popular pieces:—“ Charge of the
Light Brigade” (Tennyson), “The Heart's Charity” (Eliza Cook), “The
Field of Waterloo ” (Byron), “Better than Gold,” Dimes and Dollars,”'and
the celebrated piece on the Irish Bebellion of 1798, entitled “ Shamus
O’Brien.” Mr. Pyvies will exhibit his beautiful dissolving views and spirit-
photographs by lime-light. Several friends with ability have promised
their services to enhance the enjoyment of the evening. Music, singing,
dancing, and Christmas games will be included in the programme.
Tickets Is. each, which may be obtained from Messrs. Gowe, Perks,
Gifford, Turner, Smith, Booke, J. W. Bussell, and Mr. Mahony, 1,
Cambrian-place, Anglesey-street, Lozells.
Admission after tea 6d. each, Entertainment to commence at seven.
CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR’S PRESENTS.
fTpHE “STURMBERG” PLANCHETTE writesanswers
JL to your thoughts, whether by Spirit Agency or not, all should judge
for themselves. Of most fancy dealers, or from J. Stormont, 59a, Consti¬
tution-hill, Birmingham, 8s., 5s. Gd., 4s. 4d., 2s. 9d., and Is. 9d. post free.
MAGNETIC HEALING.
A LADY MAGNETISER attends patients at their own
homes for Headache, Neuralgia, Sore-throat, Gout, Bbeumatism,
Sprains, &c. To Public Singers and Speakers the benefit is invaluable.
Letters to Mrs. Newton, 58, Hollywood-road, West Brompton, S.W.
Psychopathic institution for the cure
OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Islington. A good “ Magnetic ”
healer in attendance daily,,from 11 a.m.until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. Gd.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals. 
THE SPIRITUAL SCIENTIST, of Boston, U.S., will,
early in January, commence the publication of a translation of the
works of H. Cornelius Agrippa, and it is devoting considerable space to
Occult Philosophy. Subscriptions, 13s. per annum, including postage, from
America. Money orders to be made payable to J. Selwood, 88, Great
Bussell-street. Bloomsbury, W.O,  ;  
IMPORTANT NEW PUBLICATION.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
A PAMPHLET, the full size of The Spiritualist, containing a large
amount of information, compiled especially for inquirers, will be shortly
issued from The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office at 38, Great Bussell-
street, London, for sale at public meetings,
PRICE ONE PENNY.
There has long been a demand for some such publication as this, the
current spiritual newspapers not always containing the most suitable or
most condensed information for persons to whom the subject of Spirit¬
ualism is a strange one.'
Many thousands of copies of the publication will be printed, and kept on
sale by vendors of spiritual literature, and at spiritual meetings throughout
the country.
From the large circulation thus secured, it will be a
valuable channel for advertisements
To Mediums, Mesmerists, Authors of Spiritual Books, an4 others. The
charge for advertisements will be One Shilling, for the first twenty-five
words, and Sixpence for every additional twenty-five words, or portion
thereof. Displayed advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
All advertisements should be sent in as soon as .possible, as the publica¬
tion will dome out in a few weeks’ time.
Special arrangements will be made to supply local societies with copies
at a cheap rate, if ordered-in large quantities; the said societies may thus
considerably increase their income by the profits on sales.
All communications on this subject should be addressed to the Editor of
The Spiritualist, 38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
ANNALI HELLO SPIRTTI8MO IN ITALIA.—Rivista
Psicologica di Niceford Filalete.' Published on the 15th of every
, month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, viallogino, No. 23.
PROSPECTUS OF THE MANCHESTER FREE PLATFORM
•AND SPIRITUAL INSTITUTE.
TT has been often a source of. remark and surprise that in
this populous, industrial and intellectual centre, abounding as it does
with freethinking Spiritualists, there should be no institution in existence
at which Spiritualism may find a centralised home. And this we say with¬
out the slightest disparagement of any present existing institution, since it
will be seen that the present scheme will work upon such a widely different
basis as not in any degree deleteriously to interfere, but will rather,
strengthen the hands of all reformatory workers, in whatever sphere
of action.
THE PROPOSAL
then, briefly, is as followsTo start upon a very small scale, so as to allow
full scope for development, an institute under the above title. The objects
in view are, to form a
CENTRAL HOME FOR SPIRIT DALIS M,
at which Spiritualists of all grades of opinion may freely mingle, and
facilities be given for social conference, and the reception of public and
private travelling Spiritualists, together with their introduction to the Man-
. Chester public and Spiritualists.
In short, to offer, as far as possible, upon the small basis upon which it
will originate all the facilities of a
SPIRITUALISTIC CLUB
At which progressive workers generally may also feel at home.
Also to establish courses of readings, lectures, seances, &c., as may be
afterwards determined, together with a public shop and free reading-room,
at which the English spiritual journals, and, as far as possible, foreign
papers will be exposed for sale and perusal.
It is also proposed in time to establish a progressive library,
METHOD OF FLOATING THE CONCERN.:
That not less than fifty persons donate £1 each, to be considered as a
gratuity, which fund in the-aggregate will be devoted solely and entirely
to the establishment of the affair.
TO WORK THE INSTITUTE
It will be necessary to establish a permanent income—to ensure which it
will also be necessary to have at least eighty members, at a subscription of
2s. Gd. per month, or 7s. Gd. per quarter, payable in advance, which,
together with the profit upon literature, seances, &c., is considered adequate
to commence upon.
THE COMMITTEE ’
Is to consist of fifteen, elected from and by the members, and will remain
in office six months. All officers to be honorary, save the manager, Who
will also act as secretary.
Voting by ballot.
It is requested that all promises of membership and of subscriptions to
the £50 fund, and all inquiries may.be forwarded to R. Buxton, 44, Princes-
street, Sussex-street, Lower Broughton, Manchester, before the 15th ult.
It is also announced that a public meeting will be held to discuss the
project and hear suggestions thereon on Friday December 3rd, at the
Temperance Hall, Ordsall -lane, Regent-road, Salford, at eight p.m.
COMMITTEE, PHO TEM.
Mb. Chiswell,
„ George Dawson,
„ Edwin Hall,
„ Archibald Proctor,
„ Thomas Perris, •
„ Rowland Buxton, Secretary, pro tem.'
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED ENGLISH¬
MEN. A practical suggestion for a model colony—Congenial English
society, lovely scenery, a delightful climate, and the most fertile of soils.
By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
mo MR. RICHMOND.-
Geo. Smith would be glad of
JL an opportunity to correspond with the gentleman named Richmond,
who was staying at Richmond Hotel, Bowling Green, Kentucky, U.S., in
December, 1872, if he will kindly send his address to G. J. Smith,
Spiritualist office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, till called for.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTE
FOR the CURE OF jNERYOUS AND MUSCULAR
DISEASES, opposite St.-Chrysostom’s Church, 74, Queen’s-road,
Everton, Liverpool.. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Operators sent to all parts. Terms
per arrangement. J. Coates, Principal.
Now Ready, pp. 592, demy 8vo, handsomely bound, extra cloth, 10s.;
by post, 11s.
AFED, PRINCE OF PERSIA. His experiences in
Earth-Life and Spirit-Life, being Spirit Communications received
through Mr. David Duguid, the Glasgow TranceJPainting Medium, with an
appendix, containing communications from the Spirit Artists, Ruisdal and
Steen.
Illustrated by Fac-similes tof Forty-five Drawings and Writings, the
direct work of the Spirits.
London: James Burns, 15, Southampton-row, W.C. Glasgow: H.'
Nisbet, 219, George-street.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY GEORGE
SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the oldest of the periodicals
devoted to the cause of Spiritualism, having now been in existence for
upwards of fifteen years. It has from the first taken a very high stand in
the literature of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as were likely to
have a permanent interest.
A new series of the Magazine commenced in January, 1875, and this
presents therefore a favourable opportunity for new subscribers to com¬
mence taking it regularly.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-row, E.O.
PARIS,—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist may obtain
it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque, 246, Boulevard ,des
Oapueines, Paris.
jA/TR. S. R. REDMAN, Professor of Animal Magnetism,
JJvJL begs to inform inquirers and others that he is prepared to attend
Public or Private Seances at the houses of investigators or otherwise, and
give his unique illustration's of Mesmeric and Psychological Phenomena, as
recently given by him before the members of “ The Brixton Psychological
Society.” For terms, etc., apply by letter to Mr. S. R. Redman, Brixton-
hill, S.W.  ■ . , ■ . ' . ,-F
jyj'ESMERISM, ELECTRO - BIOLOGY, FASCINA-
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological phenomena.
• How to know Sensitive Subjects.
How to develop Clairvoyant Media.
How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DR, MOSES RIGG can teach any person efficiently by post. Pamphlet
and testimonials gratis, or by post, Id. stamp. Address, 9, Granville-
square, London, W.O. At home daily from 10 till 5.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 86, Rue de la' Oathddrale, Lifege
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
EYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
T M^ S ^ LI S T.
* TSE ^fekpOOL - PSIgC^^AlCAL SOCIETY.
■• Oitice -B EiEliRa, Foil 1875..
■ .' President.•£■3tiines Wasoii, 'fisq. •Hc«-fVasi(}'erfi —Mr. Jb’hn Lament.
. Lewis Bobert?, 48, Oxford Stfeet, Liverpool.
• |HBjR > !.r'C,;. JVeasMfer.—Mr .■’William Davies; ?,
Committee of -Mamgtmmt.—Dr* ‘William Hitchman;) Messrs. Jobu Priest
B..,Oassoa, 'Jftn3es> (voates!' John Wiiriam8, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, B. £1.
' Irving, MTs':'&iy, a'nd Miss Hiiton. f
Mr. John'Lainont, Mr.*J. Chapman. ■
'i- J Mr. Bretherton,,Mr.€L-jr‘:Gbarlton. ■
THE object .qf %1a Ass0Mat10n. is the discovery of truth
in tonheetipii witifetBSychblogy.
The Society geeks'to ittalU its object by the following’measures, or Such
of them Agrfrbm time to time are found to be practicable;
.Jv^By frequent meetings of . its members for conference, inquiry, JnstruA
tion)mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and heMthful
recreation, . • •
' 2.—By engaging In the education of children an'd others, for the>ptlrpose
of developing meirphysica'^’mental, and spmtttal'powers
.#3.^.By tile ;dis8eni|hation of knowledge by'ineans of public instruction,
lectures, readlug-^ooms, the press, and spirit communion.
.February,-(1875.
Spmtiralist apfr.
' Established in 1869.’ • ’ ,
. pHARGE ,EOR ADVERTISEMENTS Half^-orown
V/. Mle first fifty Words or portion, of fifty. wbrds.-and'sixpence for every
words'inadditi<m,‘'’;5|teii initjal'lg.ttcarS'Ofjfigure9 count as oiie word. Displayed
AdV  I
dates largely aiffchig Jihose wliom advgrtljsers desire to reach, and. an advertiseineut
is hot lost to.vjewainKi amassofi6,thbr$. ^Moreover, the paper,is not usually torn
■ up when read, but irfeterved for pBidiitkf,
addressed
fOV'the'F4^JP^P^-r--»-JPPii .,7--, H-
previous We'dneSdtly nlovning. All cOmmUmcatioils for the Literary Department
should be addressed to the Editor* ■ . .
NO notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by a remittance.,
“ The Spiritualist ” wiil be posted for one year, post free, to any. address within the
United Kingdom on receipt of the annual subscription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O. City Pub¬
lishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London; E.C.
• TESTIMONIAL T0 Mft.- W. H-. HARRISON; -
Committee.
•• Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgenstein.
■ Mrs. Honywoqd.
y Alexander Qalder, Esq.
ivAlexandof Tod, Esq.
• Mr&. KaTh Fox-Jencken.
Cmmiyblk'P. Varie/, Esg., F.B.S.
* James Wison, Esq. «
Epes Sargent, Esq.
■, Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
/James JUylne, Esq.
Martin B. Smith, Esq.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Sir Chas. Ishapa, Bart.^j : ad
Baroness Adelina vOnyay. - I
Mrs. Makdougall GOtegdry.r’'
H. D. ..Tencken,, Esq.’ M;B.L’ ,
J). Fitz-Geraltl, Esq, M.S.Tel.E
N. F. Da we, Esq;
.’ Miss Douglas.
i'Eugcne Cfowell, Esa,, M-D- J
. ^ v iSealiimr aljMfo'tosvrtir. . )
%;• Martin B. Smith^Esq', d^'fereq.'tSRussen-street, London, W.O.
Since the year 1869> ^plrjtnalists'have been indebted to Mr, Wm. H.-.
Harrison for the exeellent journal of which he is the editor. - This -jotirnal
has been a "credit and strength to the;movement in cvery^respeqt: It has
been printed inUclear1 typo and, on good'paper, anij has-been .oofiductq^L
With ability, cnution; courage, and public spirit; ' It is hardly necessary'to
say' that up’to |he present time the paper lias heeh’hy ho'tneans sej f-
supporting p, indeed, during the first three years of its existence it'entaifed
upon Mr/ ifarrisbn- a very Vjeavy loss, ■which-he'bore single-handed. -.This
loss .was aggrftvdtfd-by the fact that,' in order the more completely to
V devote his attention to tiie Spitity#Kd newspaper, Mr. Harrison..voluiith.rily
' relinqpisbec], aconsiderable poi.tiou (estimated;; upomreliabie informatioijj"
at anfov'erage of hottesathan £200 per'.aniUimj of the. income..which he
wasjte.riyivg from ntter/tey work on the Engineer neWspapm* and oiher
•''joTir®g'.j';u)dr.,IIartisW has indeed ddrioVinor§ythan" tliis, for during the
past et^htiyears he.'.lias-given up one ’of two 5^vehitl^s;.evcry;.;week to' a
^ mmlwl -,obseryatidnA of spiritual phenomena-at- seances; By . his
t^vW(rie<i;;.anll‘ intClligqnt .qb^ei'Tation he has been enabled .to: collect
a'mass of reliable ihfdrmati.oii as. to; the facts im^Pt'iheipiesjof. Spiritualism,
wmchi-flts. hini' jn the highest degi'ec to1be the editor of‘a'Newspaper
devoted'to the feligious hmt sejeniMc aspects of’ tlie sifliiect,- ■... •
'■'ItVi&tt' matter of nojpriety that the 'MedtMih newspaper/ Which was in-
augui^od, tbcoyear'after the’'appehraneo;of tiie- ,8;nVit«a7isi, has been
amiMvlly/snbsidited -by large -Atbseriptions, .which its editor,- Mr. Burns,
htfsijilwmB called for* as justly- due to his exertions. Whilst- we-fully ac-
kl|<syleqgq,; the, seiwfces which liaye beeii ■ thus rendeiioq tu,&pmtiialism,
we WpuM eall attention to the fact-that no appeal to.the pitbiic tot help has
, e y e\*£ eSqefetJup’qn, op Acicea sioh, and that fora spe'cialpufpds®, 'fippeareo in
themag^s th^Spiritualist foi'tsts years. ' ■The work was done, and the
wnMfiAexpjensa iborao' for three ,.pf ihosm/ySars by Mr. Harrison alone;
: durin^i|]hdISet ; thrfee yMrs an- aumiaDsjiirttVf abbot twohundred-pounds
has^bemn^pwhtelw2snhtcribqd.'byt as; few '■ friends, which has, doubtless,
gre^tly relMved theburden tipon thc shoulders of Mr. Ban'isonj.bm this in
im wt^jua^e'^-^eripct that MrhLTarrison ^aritich^rfutly sub-
miMefl t6 in ordbr &T^tiimly ta^the^Jvement a
paper Inmftny.’ttmoramal^'WspolSts WotthyfoTB/
The unflej&gSSilt laates" and.gentleme'n *ar® ,:of- opmiOTi •titat it is not
to the credit ofiltho movemeutlthafthis- pecifniSiW?ios’s;sUbil id be borne
;al(ttiA'bS3SIrtTJarri8oq.' ji"- •*.,-* i..y.- .^.vyi,
; hd?app<ftled' tq'thejpubiic for subscriptions,' they AvOuid'.doubtless
hh'vbvbeeii forthcoming, as: they;.have beom for Sbin'ejfyearw ‘ paSt^ ift.
itmsWpr' to:therePpqs^S of the Medium ever'sidee; its estatRKMTehte-hut he
ha^hbt done sol - V. > •- *
_ It is proposedj therefore, that a subscription, in addition to;the existing
i GhaiW.nted.Fhfi^l,^hS>Ufie ppefiediwhieh'sh^B'take.lheform of a testimonial
tp Mr^iiarrisqn, and whiin;>Jt-.is hoped,•majf^tip spiiic extent, relieve him
\ froimthAbday.y;s^V;i'iQges^Wlii'oh''ii‘e'.:lifts';nih(db^iii" money, time, and work in
tlid ihtertistSiif^pifitudlfsfii.
• " All rsitbscription's to this -ifithdlW'ilkbe payable on the 1st January, 1870.
Friends desiring to^oontrlbute'-areirequested to send in their names to
Martin.R>8mithi Esq;, bfttefofj Mis^HitKngbury, 88, .Great Bussell-stroot,
IklfidoniAV.C;, Vvn?-;,*;: ;-,!
.-,)iLl!>T.'p'^iSOBSb»iE.XrpNS,;X6-Np.VEMBETiil5riI,
Mr.’ Mai'titi K. sihiyi ‘A.*.Wi,;'t^;.'!/.i.'..f..;/.'...n.r. iftf.;..*... £50 0
Mr. GKicrles;Biackburn:i    50 0
Mr. J« NvT. MartheWA .'n'ASVt?j.;y.    • 50 0
Mr.JamesMyine /iVrii/.jfMwvii.v...*..v.-..\.i 40 0
Mr. Alexander Caidenv.W;/?.'. >.r.i.. ; .. so 0
A Friends.vv!'..;-'.';.,A;>it/KS;i'.:’.;;V.LVti.'.l..''..r;..-  ’ 20 -0
,Mr. AJbxainjor Tod Sa?:; ....;.. ;.V..  20 ’ 0
Comte de Bullet;.,va.20 0
• Mr. N.   ....../i.'.jivi..15 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart      10 0
Dr. J. 10 e
Prince Emile 8avn-Wittgenstein.-.     -.. 6 0
F. S, A.5 *6
Mr. 0. ;F.-Varley, F.B.h; '.'Mi- 5 0
Mr.'Eugene Crowell; M.D;  • 5 0
Mrs. Louisa Lowe   6 • 0
Mk Charles Massey .............V.iTrfMjJw.........6 0
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Geraid     5 0
A. Friend     .... l,5 0
Signor Damiani ...x....,.--,”"-.,..................3 3
Mrs.Honywood     2 2
Mr. Moreu Theobald     v... , 2
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S...a;TU..,;....i.x,,  2
Mr. S. Ohinnevy.. 2
Mr. S. Templeman Speer, M.D,.  2
Enueafall'en’1M,;,’.,>.i*,i.....- 2
Three Friends'.w.i.i».........m»,.a..iii,4y..'.'.Uvix..V;
(.CM. 01cott,.’..4;i.»....^.v,.,........V”.vMv44"'--*"
; Mrs. Makdoutf&lt Gregory .;    
f fir. EpeS;Sargent ,SJ'..■......^.‘4
Dp. Baikio. ■I.;/*.;......,>4.
Miss Doijglas      
vw.wME**,  
M. Gustave de Veh  7;.....xiV.,^S4^a(..,;xx.i1 2
Mr- Koniugaie Cool*......;; I
Mr. Geo.jFing,*        1
Mr. F. A- Binney    .V.'.T.i...........   f,. 1
Mr. J. Coates   ;      u........M,rM,.l
Tffiwi 1 iinji|iiy 1 y, I.;   i>i’M>' ujyiilw iii ^in ’’iin», 'niwil'
Mr. B. W. Pycock f
Mr. B. Coleman  i!.....  1
Mr. B. Fitton     1
Major Menars  »  *  1
Mr. John lamont       1
Mr. Archibald Lament   1
Mr. T. fe. Griffin ;.   1
Mr. ,T. B.'Stones..;....   1
Mr. J. Began    ...;...4'..,.44>... .1
Mrs.!Jafegan      • 1
Mr..;G. W.’F. Wieee       ^ 1
ReV. W., Whitear       1
Miss Whitear     1
Mr. C. El Williams ...;   ...' 1
• Mr. A. Glen dinning I..-.;!.'.,   1
Mr. H. Witball  1
CaptainJames’    „    . 1
Mr. F; W, Ferciyal -    ■ 1
Mr.'Christian.Boi'mers    1
Mr. Thos. Hinde..:.,.-;'../..'.'.......!./; ;.......h.1
Mr. Thos. Grant  .;...^...x...7....1
• Mrs. Geo. Neville  1
Mr. G. R. Tapp  / 1
Mr. J. Clark,Foi'g’usoh   '- 1
Mrs. -Woodford*    .*.4.»......m......;...V 1
Mr. T. M. SimkibB'   l'. ' 1
A Friend   1
A Friend, per Miss Williamson;....;..,..........'.;.;.;,...;.,.;.,.' i
Mr. W.P. Adshead     1
Mr. D. H. Wilson  .*      1
Mrs. M. T. Woqd.,.j4wWfc..,,xi. 1
Mr. John Scott.   1
Baroness von-Vny .r...w.; 1
•Dr. W.iM.-Buchaimp'’;,‘.5,ii,.x.x';,'iT„;.‘i;4ji),'i',''*‘V*W'>*t»M...... 1 ■
Miss Ei’D. P6nder..';t;.;;;.’-.x.*'h..4;j.....iAw«^Mt'i<imv;';x,v;;;.-i 1
A Siibscribor A f
Amicusn,4............. 1.
Mr. A. O. ^wmtjU ^ ’ . 4 ■*, ' . , T
M.4. (Oxon.),  1
Mr. Geo. Lee .i......,.,,.../...A....;,...w.4T<. . ..’ft-W.
Mr. W. E. Bassett  ;..x......'...,^..4.4x4 6 10
Ml\ T. H. Edmftnds      1 ' QUO
Mr. Aaron 4.4  ■ • • -a- *; • . .4.' OdD
Mn, iaton - (Tw.
Mr, j4s. Crisp: w?...;.',  uio
Miss F/J. Them?ld/.'fi:V.‘;.,;.,.:iL:A.4V,.,.,.'.....,V<.47i:(;4..1.
2
2
2
2
2
0
0
0
0
p'
0
0
11
1
Hu
i- i
4.4
iSiv
\t:
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1.
l
1
1
1
1
i
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1 ■
1
1
1
L
.0.
0
0'
A
0
0’
ffl
opo;
,05101
HiGeorge-i, -
MA GeOjpiy ton;JJf
J. F. O-’-n.A.... x,..........,r... y .tv CS
Mr/ALge^qn ^Q^y..^-,^,v4<444»...44.d'4m2';4w3*l^ f-u b o
HJiss K^Ungbtqjyjp^,*ffiiTCK;,.;4J44frC;|/.f'..,<mLi4!^,,fS* -0 *
A,O' 0
m
ll^inted fu^litei'Bropht3ini;4by,BEViS{tH)0E d^/PM’p,f the Solbom Printing
j ,8t. Andrew
, abbve-Bar, and*SCGeOT^tm Martyr,■'•Lohfiop. and puoUshed by E, W-
ApusK, Aye Maria-lane/f^hdon E.Gl ^ 4 ^
