A RECORD OF THE PROQF(E£3 OF THE JSCIEJMCE AND ETHICg Of SPIRITUALISM.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
NO. 47. (Vol. III.—No. 8.).
LONDON: MAECH 1, 1873.
Published on the 1st and 15th of every
Month; Price Fourpence.
(ttonteitts.
B
RITISH IMPERIAL INSURANCE CORPORATION
LIMITED.
The Protection of Media   i  114
The Royal Institution.—Dr. Rutherford on the Forces and Motions of
the Body; Corpuscular and Ciliary Motion; Muscular Motion;
Electrical Motions in Animal Bodies... ... ... ...    115
Spirit Forms     '  ... 118
PoetryThe Song of a Sceptic; The Hindoo-Sceptic. ...   120
The Anthropological Institute.—The Macas Indians;'Physical Features
and Parish Boundaries; The Mammoth, the Elephant, and Man ... 121
The Human Spirit   ... "  ... ... '... ... 122
Some Experiences and Conclusions regarding Spiritualism. No. III. 124
Manifestations after Death   ... 125
Correspondence.—Marks on Spirit Hands; Spirit Faces   126
Verification of a Dream        126
D ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM, 74, Navarino road, Dalston; E. Seances are held
every Thursday evening at 8 o’clock; and a Library is in course of forma¬
tion for use of members. Prospectuses and Rules on application to the
Secretary. Subscription 3s. per quarter in advance. Thos. Blyton,
Secretary, &c.
MISS .GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER. Clairvoyant Examination and complete Diagnosis,
One Guinea. Mesmerising or Rubbing, One Guinea per week, and travelling
expenses.
Miss Godfrey may be seen, by appointment, at 161, Hampstead-road, N.W.
MISS HUDSON, Normal Clairvoyant and Prophetic
Medium, RECEIVES VISITORS daily (Sundays excepted), from
Twelve till Six o’Clock, at her Residence, 17, Castle-street, Wells-street,
Oxford-street. Terms, Five Shillings each Visitor. Private Parties also
attended in the Evening; terms, One Guinea and travelling expenses.
MR. and MRS. HOLMES, from New Orleans, La,
U.S.A., will hold a PUBLIC LIGfiT AND DARK SEANCE on
Monday, Wednesday, and Thursday evenings at 8 o’clock. Fee 5s.
Private seances on Tuesday and Friday at 8 o’clock ; also any day at 4
o’clock by special agreement. On Saturday evenings a special seance for
Spiritualists only. 16, Old Quebec-street, Oxford-street, Marble Arch, W.
• Incorporated pursuant to Act of Parliament.
Capital—£200,000 in 200,000 Sharks of £1 Each.
Head Offices: BROWN STREET AND MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
Chief London Offices: 20, KING WILLIAM STREET, E.C.
Central Trustees:
Augustus Frederick Bayford, LL.D., Senior Registrar, Court of Probate,
Doctors’ Commons, London; and Chancellor of the Diocese of Man¬
chester.
William Gimber Goodliffe, Accountant General, India Office, Westminster
London.
Charles Oppenheim (S. Oppenheim & Sons), Director of the Union Bank
of London, Austin Friars, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Christopher Weguelin (Thomson, Bonar & Co.), Director of the Bank of
England, 57], Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Auditor: Dr. William Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., London, and Southlands,
Bromley, Kent.
The. system of Insurance carried out by the “ British Imperial ”
(originally devised by Dr. Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., of Somerset House, and
adopted with some modifications by her Majesty’s Government), is perfect
in Security, Equity, and Convenience.
IN Security, because every With Profit, and Self-Insurance Policy, is
issued upon English Government Securities, held in Trust, away from the
control of the Directors, for the sole purpose of meeting policy claims, the
amount invested (80 per cent, of the whole premium) being shown by the
National English Life Table, compiled by the Registrar-General for the
Government to be more than sufficient to provide the sum insured under
the policy.
In Equity, because in the event of an Insurant fafling to continue the
payment of his premiums, only sufficient thereof is retained by the Corpora¬
tion to profitably cover the risk incurred upon the life during the time it
was covered by the insurance; the remainder being returned to the Insurant.
The amount returned varies according to the Table under which the
Insurance is effected, between nearly one-half and three-quafiers of all the
premiums.
In Convenience, because the “ Surrender Value ” is endorsed on every
Policy, and is made payable at three days’ sight, It can also be used to its
full amount, by payment of 5 per cent.'per annum interest on the sum with¬
drawn, without invalidating the Policy.
EBIRD, Builder, House-decorator, Plumber, and
• Gasfltter, desires to inform his Friends and Employers that he
has taken NEW PREMISES, at 11, Park-grove, Shepherd’s-lane, Brixton,
opposite the Railway Station. Estimates given for every description of
work in the above branches.
JOHN A. FEIGAN, General Manager.
WILLIAM DAVIES, Secretary.
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STERLING.
Head C^ces.-BROWN STREET and MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, cir¬
culating LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
ARON FRANKLIN, PRESERVER OF BIRDS
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE, Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’ heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. Aaron Franklin, 58, Suffolk-
street, Birmingham.
FIRE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates.
Bonus Returns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Renewed Premiums.
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
SELECTED BY HER MAJESTY’S COMMISSIONER FOR THE
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITIONS.
PHOT O G R A P H S.
Prices from 6s, per Dozen.
MR. A. L. H E N D E R S O N,
OF 49, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON BRIDGE,
AND OF 2, AMERSHAM ROAD, NEW CROSS, S.E.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.C.
*#* Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities.
British imperial life, and British
NATIONAL (FIRE AND GUARANTEE) INSURANCE COR¬
PORATIONS.
Photographer on Enamel to the Queen.
EPPS’S C 0 C O A. — The Civil Service Gazette
remarks—“By a thorough knowledge of the natural laws which
govern the operations of digestion and nutrition, and by a careful application
of the fine properties of well-selected cocoa, Mr. Epps has provided our
breakfast-tables with a delicately-flavoured beverage which may save us
many heavy doctors’ bills.”
Made simply with Boiling Water or Milk.
Each packet is labelled—
JAMES EPPS & Co., Homceopathic Chemists, London.
Also makers of CAOAOINE, a thin Evening Beverage.
Applications for Agencies to either of the above Corporations can be
made to C. W. Pearce, at the Chief London Offices, 20, King William-street,
E.C., from whom Prospectuses, Proposal Forms, and all other information,
can be obtained.
Price 6d. Cloth, 9d. Post free.
HEAVEN OPENED.—Part II. being further descrip¬
tions of, and advanced teachings from, the Spirit Land. Given
through the mediumship of F. J. T. With an Appendix containing the
Scripture proofs of Spiritualism.
J. Burns, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.; E. W. Allen, 11, Ave-Maj'ia lane, E.C.
Also Part I., price 6d. Cloth, 9d,
114
THE SPIKITUALIST.
March 1, 1873.
Cjre Spintxialisi:
MARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom oh receipt of 4s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of “ The Spiritualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher^ Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
Or The Spiritualist maybe had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny;
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 12s. 6d., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
THE PROTECTION OF MEDIA.
Within the last eighteen months a vast proportion of
the popular prejudice against Spiritualism has been
removed, more especially in consequence of the publica¬
tion of the report of the Dialectical Committee, and be¬
cause of the recent discussions of the subject in the
Times and other newspapers. Undoubtedly, also, a
very considerable amount of prejudice still remains.
Perhaps advantage should be taken of the improved
state of feeling to make the lives of mediums more
pleasant than has hitherto been the case, for there is
not a medium of any importance whose life has not
been chequered with public abuse. Who, for instance,
has been more continuously abused, in the newspapers
and out of them, than Mr. Home, simply because,
through no fault of his own, some of the powers pos¬
sessed by the prophets of old have fallen upon his
shoulders. The younger Mrs. Mary Marshall for years
was subjected, from time to time, to similar abuse. In
fact, all. celebrated mediums at times feel their lives
to be burdensome to them, because of the general bad
treatment. Public and private mediums suffer alike,
for in the latter ease, although they may unwillingly
admit visitors, after much pressure, as guests, caring
nothing whatever for the belief or disbelief of the said
visitors, the latter often make no scruple of considering
themselves to be judges upon the bench, and their host
or hostess a criminal upon trial; they also modestly
consider that their own limited experience settles the
whole question, not only as to the integrity of the un¬
fortunate medium, but as to the genuine nature of
Spiritualism itself, notwithstanding the experience of
the millions of its adherents, and its enormous litera¬
ture. Who does not remember how a-person was ad¬
mitted twice to Mr. Serjeant Cox’s house, and then made
no Scruple of denouncing Mr. Home as an impostor?
The Times correspondent was recently permitted as a
very great favour to have a seance with Mrs. Mary
Marshall, who refuses sittings to nearly everybody; she
received the said correspondent as a guest, treated him
handsomely in every possible way, allowed him-to see
certain startling phenomena which he admitted he
could not explain, then he very coolly intimated in
print that he believed Mrs. Marshall to have been too
sharp for him. This is the one objectionable spot in
the Times article, which otherwise did so much good
for Spiritualism. Who, then, can blame the Various
non-professional mediums for the increasing stringency
with which they close their doors to all but personal
friends ?
An improvement upon this state of things would be
effected, if it were a generally accepted principle among
Spiritualists, that none but Spiritualists shall have
access to the seances of any private medium. This will
be a boon rather than a hardship to the outside public,
because professional mediums usually have great power,
and great certainty in obtaining manifestations under
adverse conditions, so that less time is lost by going to
them first. “ But I should not believe anything I saw
in the presence of a professional medium,” is a common
remark with inquirers. They should be answered that
if their interest in where they are going to after death
is so slight, they had better not inquire into the subject
at all, and it cannot be expected that private mediums
who care nothing for them or their opinions, should
allow them to see manifestations for the purpose of
sitting in judgment thereon. Moreover, inquirers have
the power of forming family circles in their own
homes, and that is the very best way of beginning to
investigate.
The proposed plan will be a great boon to Spi¬
ritualists. How many seances with Mr. Home have
been spoilt because of the presence of one sceptic ?
Time is spent in “ convincing” the unbeliever by allow¬
ing him to examine common table motions and raps, in
which phenomena the experienced Spiritualists present
feel comparatively little interest. After an hour has
been consumed in this way, perhaps some of the more
remarkable phenomena may be seen, weakened, how¬
ever, by the want of knowledge of the inquirer, of the
conditions which sitters should observe to get the best
manifestations. It would have been better for the
inquirer, and better for the Spiritualists, had the former
been compelled to begin his experiences in his own
home, or with a professional medium. Just as some of
the best telegraphic instruments require to be under
the care of a skilled electrician, and not an ordinary
clerk, even so should a very sensitive medium be sur¬
rounded by experienced Spiritualists only, that the best
results may be obtained. Then a person wishing to
enter the ranks of Spiritualism will have to begin his
inquiries at home, or with a professional medium.
After passing through his first difficulties, and learning
the impossibility of reducing Spiritualism to mechanics,
a course of moral improvement will go on within him¬
self. He will gradually be permitted access to higher
circles, and at last, perhaps, enter the highest of all,
composed of people who do not cheat each other, who,
therefore, require not ropes or chains to compensate for
the absence of integrity within themselves, and who,
consequently, have reached the mental and spiritual
March 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
115
altitude necessary to permit the higher denizens of the
next world to get near the circle, to manifest with
great power. Sooner or later, such circles must be
formed, whether Spiritualists or disbelievers like it or
not, for the very simple reason that the best manifesta¬
tions cannot be obtained in the absence of these con¬
ditions. In Spiritualism matter is subordinate to spirit.
A hard materialist who attempts to put physics before
spiritual truth, does not see the finest manifestations,
or the full extent of the power of spirits over matter.
The phenomena, therefore, so operate upon him, as to
put him through an educational process, resulting in
his own mental and moral improvement. There is not
a materialist who has passed many years in the honest
attempt tc reduce Spiritualism to mechanics, but has
found himself to have been made a better and a kinder
man, through circumstances which appeared to him to
be failures. Is not this result a better one for him,
than if he had succeeded in applying a new force to
the moving of carts ? Such work which might better
be done by a donkey, than by the spirits of the
departed.
There is not a shadow of a doubt that manifestations
are greatly strengthened when there is a thoroughly
harmonious, happy circle, all bound together by the
afifections, and not by the hollow conventionalities of
the hag, “ Society.” Systematic endeavours should,
therefore, be made to furnish the best conditions for
pure spiritual influx, to the greater happiness of the
mediums, and the greater benefit to the Spiritual move¬
ment. The remedy for present troubles rests somewhat
in the hands of mediums, who should limit the admis¬
sion of non-Spiritualists more than at present, and not
give seances away from home without first sanctioning
what guests shall be present. Also, if the master or
mistress of the house permit any rudeness to them,
they should leave the house and not enter it again.
The result of this will be that guests will not be
admitted so freely as at present, and will have
very stringent conditions imposed upon them before¬
hand as to their behaviour. Any great man who
thinks it to be a favour on his part that he con¬
sents to attend a spirit circle, should never be asked
at all; Spiritualists are not street preachers, and we
need not cheaply press an inestimable blessing upon
anybody and everybody, nor is much real progress made
by such injudicious forcing. All persons naturally
Spiritualists will find their way into Spiritualism very
easily, but attempts to force Spiritualism upon uncon¬
genial minds result in weariness and vexation of spirit
to all concerned. Indeed, it is doubtful whether taking
no notice of the outside public whatever, and devoting
energy to the work of raising the character of the
Spiritual movement, and elucidating the principles
which govern the phenomena, would not result in quite
as many converts being made as at present, without
trouble or anxiety to anybody. "What objection is there
to the issuing of a manifesto to the effect that “ because
Spiritualism is true, and men may prove it for them¬
selves in their own homes, Spiritualists have determined
to attempt to make no more converts beyond bearing pub¬
lic testimony to the truth of the facts, and have resolved
to expend energy instead in establishing institutions to
aid in the work of self-improvement?” No theological
sect dares to take such an independent position; but
we, having so much truth with us, may just as well
take advantage of the power. There is another point.
Spiritualists have been battling with public want of
knowledge for years, to raise the movement to its pre¬
sent strength, and outsiders, who have done none of
the work, have no right to claim to be admitted to our
best spirit circles till they have fitted themselves for
entrance by passing through the necessary preliminary
practical education. Professional mediums might save
themselves from considerable, annoyance by ceasing to
advertise, and by admitting visitors to their seances only
by previous appointment and introduction, so that the
general public shall not have the right to attend at
pleasure. "Whatever steps may be taken, it is high
time that something should be done to relieve mediums
from much of the abuse hitherto showered upon their
devoted heads, and the remedy rests very much in their
own hands, but partly in the hands of the great body of
Spiritualists.
THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.
DE. EUTHEEPOED ON THE EOECES AND MOTIONS OE THE BODY.
On Tuesday, Jan. 14th, Professor Rutherford, M.D.,
gave the first of a course of lectures at the Royal Insti¬
tution, on “ The Forces and Motions of the Body.” He
began by defining the various modes of motion produced
in the body, explaining the differences between atomic,
molecular, mechanical, electrical, and other kinds of
movement. He also described the phenomena of various
kinds of force. He said that force might be defined to
be that which can change the direction of motion, but
that the nature of force is utterly unlcnown. All force
is either attractive or repulsive. The force of gravity
acts between the material particles of all bodies, how¬
ever distant they may be from each other. Another
kind of force, known as chemical attraction, acts only
at insensible distances between the atoms of bodies.
Cohesive force is that which holds the particles of matter
together, and adhesive force acts only at small distances
between unlike substances, as in the example where
two pieces of paper are held together by gum or glue.
Then there is repulsive force, which is best seen in the
repulsive action between the particles of gases. Elec¬
trical or magnetic force is both attractive and repulsive,
therefore is considered to be a dual or polar force. The
word “ energy” implies the existence of force and its
power to produce motion.
COEPUSCUIAE AND CILIAEY MOTION.
Dr. Rutherford then spoke of the simplest forms of
animal life, beginning with the protamoeba, which is so
small that it can be examined only under a microscope,
and resembles a little atom of jelly containing granules;
it .can elongate or contract itself in various directions,
and in that way is able to move through liquids. There
is quite a thick layer of these animals at the bottom of
the Atlantic, and the jelly-like substance of which they
are composed is “ protoplasm.” The amoeba is much
the same kind of animal, but rather mote complicated
in structure, as it contains a nucleus. There is scarcely
any difference between the amoeba and the white cor¬
puscles in the blood of men and animals; the corpuscles
consist of protoplasm. They have a power of motion,
and the cause of that motion is not known. The mucus
corpuscles, which are so plentiful in the mouth and
other parts of the human body, are of the same nature.
They have the power of motion; they are protoplasmic;
they can,throw out processes and draw them in again.
When an electrical shock is given to these corpuscles
they draw in their processes. The nerves do not cause
their motion, neither does electricity; in fact, the cause
116
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March jpL 1873.
of their motion is not known, and may, possibly, be
due to chemical changes. Carbonic acid is poison to
protoplasm, and stops its motions; heat accelerates the
motions, and cold retards them. The motions are called
“ spontaneous,^ because the cause is not known. The
cilia are filaments of protoplasm, which have the power
of “ lashing,” so as to drive a fluid in a particular direc¬
tion ; many vegetables as well as animals are furnished
with ciliary processes: these processes are. found in
many parts of the human body, including the brain.
There are, moreover, ciliary processes on the gills of
the oyster and mussel. Dr. Luther ford cut a piece out
of the gills of one of the latter shellfish, put the frag¬
ment in a glass cell, and dropped upon it some water
containing particles of blue colouring matter; then he
placed the whole in the electric microscope, so that a
magnified image was thrown upon the screen. This
enabled everybody in the theatre to see the motions of
the floating particles of matter as they were driven
along by the cilia, and, on closer inspection, the ciliary
processes could themselves be seen, waving like the
stalks in a field of corn on a windy day.
On Tuesday, Jan. 21st, Professor Rutherford deli¬
vered his second lecture at the Royal Institution, on
the same subject. He once more called attention to
the fact that the white corpuscles in the blood have the
power of motion, and very strongly resemble the little
animals called the protamceba and the amoeba. The
amoeba resembles a particle of jelly with a few granules
inside. It has the power of wrapping itself round
little particles of solid matter, and of deriving nourish¬
ment from them. The white corpuscles in the blood
of animals do not, however, seem to possess this power.
They appear to derive their nourishment from the
liquid in which they float. The cause of the motion
of white corpuscles is not known; it is not the result
of nervous action. The lecturer also spoke of the pig¬
ment cells in the skin of the frog. The pigment con¬
sists of small dark particles floating in a protoplasmic
or watery liquid. When the particles are close round
the nucleus of the cell they form a small dark spot, and
when they float away from it they form a large one.
This explains why the same frog is sometimes light
and sometimes dark; and the change is due to the
action of light upon the optic nerves of the animal.
When a frog is placed in darkness it will turn nearly
black, but gradually grow lighter in colour when it is
once more brought into the light. He said a little
about the motion of the cilia, or fine hair-like processes
which cover the lungs and most of the air-tubes of the
body, stating that the cause of the motion is not known,
but it is possibly due to chemical changes in the band
of protoplasm in which they are rooted. Heat accele-
lerates their motion; oxygen is necessary for the
motion. They have within themselves a little store
of oxygen, but cease to move when they have used it
up. Chloroform will send the cilia to sleep, or stop
their motion; but when the chloroform evaporates, the
lashing motion of the cilia begins again. Dr. Ruther¬
ford said much about muscles. A muscle, he said,
probably never stirs of its own accord; it only con¬
tracts when some outside stimulus is applied. Nerves
enter most of the muscles, and when nervous energy is
made to act upon the muscle, the latter contracts ;
electricity, chemical irritants, and other things will
also make a muscle contract. The motion of a con¬
tracting muscle is wave-like in its nature, and some¬
times causes musical sounds.
MUSCULAR MOTION-.
On Tuesday, January 28th, Dr. Rutherford delivered
the third lecture of the series. He said that muscles
probably never contract of their own accord, but only
when some stimulus is applied from without, and in
the living body that stimulus is generally nervous
energy. He showed that by stimulating the nerve of a
frog with electricity, the nerve caused the muscles in
the frog’s thigh to contract, but when he paralysed the
ends of the nerve by means of Indian arrow poison,
the muscles did not contract when the nerve was stimu¬
lated by electricity, since the nervous energy could
not then reach the muscle. On electrifying the muscles
themselves they contracted, so it is possible for a muscle
to contract without nervous stimulus. The excitement
of a nerve fibre seems always to begin in a nerve cell,
and it is upon some of the nerve cells that the will or
thought of man seems to act. Nerve fibrils end in the
cell, which contains protoplasm, and a nucleus. Mus¬
cular motion may be either voluntary or involuntary ;
for instance, the beating of the heart goes on without
any exercise of will-power on the part of the individual.
The nerve cells in the brain are connected with the
evolution of thought; these cells are connected with
other cells in the spinal cord, and when the cells in the
brain are thrown into activity by the will, impulses
travel down through the nerves to the muscles, and
move such of them as are under the control of the
individual.
The brain cells may be separated from the cells in
the spinal cord, and the involuntary muscular motions
of the body will go on as before. The lecturer cut the
nerves in the upper part of the spinal cord of a frog,
then put a drop of vinegar on the frog’s back; instantly
one of the hind legs of the frog contracted and began
to rub th8 liquid off the back, although the frog could
have exercised no volition in the matter. Dr. Rutherford
said that the acid irritated the ends of the nerves in
the skin, these conveyed the stimulus to nerve cells in
the lower part of the spinal cord, which cells sent a
nerve current down again through other nerves, so that
by this automatic reflex action the muscles of the leg
contracted. He said that sometimes when the human
spinal cord has been accidentally broken, the feet will
move on being tickled, yet the sufferer does not know
of the motion of the feet or feel the tickling, it being
simply a case of reflex nervous action, as in the case of
the frog. A person will sometimes read aloud while
he is thinking of something else, and that is an example
of muscular motion without consciousness. There are
striped and non-striped muscles in the human body, and
the former are placed where rapid contractions are
necessary. The force of muscular action depends upon
the strength of the excitant; a muscle can lift 15,000
or 16,000 times its own weight, and no machine made
by human skill, can turn chemical into mechanical
energy so economically and completely.
On Tuesday, Feb. 4th, Dr. Rutherford delivered his
fourth lecture. He said that muscles stiffen in rigor
mortis, directly after death, because of the coagulation
of a fluid called myosin, which they contain ; some time
afterwards they become supple again, and that is owing
to the decomposition of the myosin. Living muscle in
a state of rest has an alkaline reaction; a dead muscle
is acid, so also is a living muscle after it has been continu¬
ously working for a long time. Living muscles “ breathe”
continually; they take oxygen from the blood, and give
off carbonic acid to the blood. In all parts of the body
Makch 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
117
a continual chemical change is taking place—even in
the bones. The amount of carbonic acid given off
through the lungs is enormously increased when mus¬
cular work is being done; but muscular work makes
scarcely any difference in the secretions of the kidneys.
In short, muscular energy is chiefly derived from the
slow oxidation of hydrocarbons in the muscles, on the
same principle that mechanical energy is obtained from
the quick burning of coals in connection with a steam-
engine. Some nitrogenous substances assist a little in
producing muscle. Nerve energy appears to be kept up by
the consumption of albumenoid matters, but food rich in
starch and sugar is good for muscular development.
How chemical energy is transformed into mechanical
energy in muscles is not in the least degree known.
There is a motion of vibration when muscles contract,
so that in some cases they give off a musical sound. If
the jaws be clenched when the head is lying upon a
pillow, a rumbling sound, due to muscular friction, will
be heard ; and Helmholtz has proved that this musical
note is the same as that of a tuning-fork vibrating
nineteen times per second; the more rapidly the mus¬
cles contract, the greater is the pitch of the sound.
ELECTB,ICA.L MOTIONS IN ANIMAT BODIES.
Electricity is produced in a living muscle both when
the muscle is in a state of rest and in a state of motion.
There are some animals—all of them fishes—which
have special organs for the production of electricity;
eight species of fishes are known to have such organs.
The torpedo, a fish which belongs to the skate family,
has some organs for the purpose resembling a honey¬
comb in appearance, consisting of a number of cells;
the walls of the cells are ordinary fibrous tissue. The
walls contain a fluid, and in the fluid are a number of
plates. In the accompanying cut, A B re¬
presents one of the cells, divided throughout
its length by the plates, and between the
plates is a gelatinous fluid; the nerves
shown at K are connected with the cell A B,
and wherever they pierce its walls they are
connected with the under surfaces of the
plates inside. Blood-vessels also enter the
cell, and are connected with the upper sur¬
faces of the plates. Negative electricity is
produced at the under surfaces of the plates,
3 and positive electricity at the upper. The
nerve fibres pass from the electrical organs of the fish to
what were called its “ electric lobes,” near the medulla
oblongata. It was once thought that the electrical
energy was developed in the electric lobes, that the
current then passed down through the nerves, and was
stored up in the cells with their plates, just as electri¬
city may be stored up in a condenser or Leyden jar.
But as mechanical energy does not pass down through
nerves to vmuscles, the question was raised whether the
electricity was not generated in the cells, the nerves
merely giving the stimulus. Evidence was soon ob¬
tained that electricity was generated in the plates. On
cutting off the action of the nerve cell E, by severing
the nerve at E, and on applying a stimulus to the cut
end of the nerve H, it was found that the organ A B
evolved electricity, although separated from the “ elec¬
tric lobe ” and brain of the animal. It was also found
that the scratching of the electric organ would cause it
to generate electricity. In short, the chemical energy
in the plates separates the two kinds of electricity.
There are pseudo-electric organs, of complicated struc¬
ture, in the common skate, but they have not been
known to generate electricity. The torpedo, the gym-
notus (or electric eel), the malapterurus, and the mor-
myrus, are the chief electrical fishes.
On Tuesday, Eeb. 11th, Dr. Rutherford delivered his
fifth lecture on the Forces and Motions of the Human
Body. He said that when nerves stimulate a muscle
they produce mechanical motion, but when they stimu¬
late the electrical organs of the torpedo they produce
electrical motion, but no mechanical motion. The cells
N R are placed vertically in the torpedo, and the skin
of the fish is a bad conductor of electricity, so that the
electrical discharge has to pass outside the fish, through
the water, in the direction denoted by the arrows in
the cut. There is only a discharge when the animal
wills it, and not a continual discharge; the organs are
always developing a small amount of electricity, but not
enough to pierce the skin. Walsh, in 1772, discovered
the electrical discharge of the torpedo.
Electricity is continuously generated in the muscles,
nerves, and glands of animals; probably it is also pro¬
duced in all tissues wherein chemical changes are
taking place. Galvani, in 1786, discovered that frogs’
legs would show the" presence of small quantities of
electricity. Some years later he suspended some frogs’
legs by the nerves to the iron trellis-work of a balcony,
to see if they would indicate electrical changes in the
atmosphere, and sometimes when the end of the leg
was blown against the trellis the muscle contracted ;
the experiment attracted so much notice that it resulted
in the extermination of most of the frogs in the dis¬
trict, since everybody was trying it. Yolta discovered,
in 1799, that the contact of two dissimilar metals would
produce electricity, and he argued that the electricity
generated in Galvani’s experiment appeared in conse¬
quence of a copper hook having been used to suspend
the leg of the frog to the iron trellis. Galvani found
that one piece of metal in contact with the nerve of the
leg and the outside of the muscle would sometimes
cause a contraction, but then it could not be proved
that the two ends of the piece of metal were in the same
chemical, thermal, or mechanical state, so that elements
of dissimilarity might still be present. He afterwards
found he could produce the contraction without the
intervention of any metal at all, by lifting the end of
the nerve with a glass rod, and allowing the nerve to
touch the outside of the muscle. Yolta argued, that
even in this case Galvani had not got rid of hetero¬
geneous tissues', and had not proved the reality of elec¬
trical tissues. Unfortunately, Galvani was silenced by
this argument, and his researches were stopped soon
afterwards by his death. There is a real generation of
electricity in a muscle, and an accumulation at the two
ends of a muscle. Nobili, in 1827, showed the pre¬
sence of this electricity, by the aid of a galvanometer.
Matteucci, in 1838, discovered the generation of elec¬
tricity in tissues, and the subsequent researches of Du
Bois Raymond brought the knowledge of animal elec¬
tricity very nearly up to its present level.
In living muscles and nerves, negative electricity
accumulates at the ends of the fibres, and positive
electricity at the sides of the fibres. Plates of metal
cannot be used as electrodes when measuring these
currents, as the metal might cause the generation of
electricity, therefore plates of moist pipeclay are used,
so that both chemical action and polarisation are
avoided. Dr. Rutherford connected two electrodes of
wet clay with a reflecting galvanometer, and on connect-
118
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 1, 1873.
ing the two electrodes with a piece of wet blotting
paper, he showed that there was scarcely any motion
of the mirror, consequently no electricity was generated
in his apparatus. Then he took away the blotting
paper, and substituted a frog’s muscle, which at once
gave off a continuous current of electricity, deflecting
the mirror of the galvanometer, and the reflected spot
of light upon the screen made the motion visible to
everybody present. He then, by stimulating the
muscle, made it contract and do work. During the
contraction, the spot of light upon the screen was less
deflected, proving that a muscle at work generates less
electricity than a muscle at rest. The deflection was
diminished by about one-third, when the muscle was
made to do work. With the same apparatus he next
proved that electricity is generated in nerves, and that
a nerve at work gives off less' electricity than a nerve
at rest. The currents of electricity from nerves are
much weaker than those from muscles.
On Tuesday, Feb. 18th, Professor Rutherford deli¬
vered his sixth lecture on the same subject, and said
that medical men particularly want to know, but do
not know, why a muscle contracts when it is stimu¬
lated. A muscle at rest generates electricity, and one
speculation is, that, perhaps, the muscle contracts
when the electricity is discharged, and that at other
times the one electricity attracting the other causes the
muscle to elongate. When the opposite sides of a large
long thick sheet of india-rubber are coated with gold-
leaf, and electrified with opposite kinds of electricity,
the india-rubber elongates, and when the electricity is
discharged, the india-rubber contracts. But, in the
first case, it not only elongates, but becomes broader,
whereas, when a muscle elongates, it becomes thinner,
so the two cases are, not parallel, and the explanation
is not satisfactory. Is nerve-energy electricity ? Nerve-
force will not pass through a frozen nerve, but elec¬
tricity passes through it more freely than befdre, there¬
fore -nervous energy is not electricity. A nerve is a
bad conductor of electricity,—in fact, one authority
has stated that the electrical resistance of a nerve is
greater than the resistance of the whole length of the
Atlantic cable. Nerve-energy is produced in nerve-
cells from chemical energy, bnt how nerve-energy
travels along a nerve is not known. It may be by a
vibratory motion, or by a series of chemical changes.
Electricity is produced in the glands and other tissues,
but the use of the electricity produced in the human
body is not known.
SPIRIT FORMS.
A coekespondent has sent us the following extract
from the Banner of Light.- The spirit circle which
obtained the manifestations must have consisted of pure
people, linked together by harmony and good-feeling,
and experienced in all the conditions which favour
spiritual influx :—
As much has been and is being said of an uncharitable
character relative to the reliability of the materialisations
presented through Dr. H. 0. Gordon’s mediumship, I desire
to be one to raise my voice in declaring the manifestations
which I have witnessed at his residence, 406, Fourth Avenue,
New York, to be unquestionably spiritual. On the 13th of
last month I first visited his room ; I arrived early at his
abode, and had every facility afforded me for searching not
only the apartments but the closets attached thereto, his
trunk, sofa bedstead, and rear of the altar, which is erected
in the inner parlour, and neither masks nor habiliments for
clothing automatons nor automatic figures were there dis¬
covered. The circle, consisting of six persons, arranged them¬
selves around a table at about eight o’clock p.m., and shortly
after the manifestations commenced. Eight spirits succes¬
sively presented themselves, of whom six were recognised.
Of two only (for fear of occupying too much space) will I
especially speak : one of these was my own brother ; only his
head and face were visible ; the resemblance was perfect.
That it was neither a mask nor India rubber form, I am
ready to affirm in any court and under any prescribed oath.
The other to which I would draw attention, was the entire
figure of a lady, the only entire one I have as yet seen,
although I have attended several seances since. This lady
had beautiful dark curly hair ; over her head was thrown a
white veil, that enveloped her form to the waist j over the
veil and around her head was a wreath of white rosebuds,
which extended partially down her neck. She wore a thin
white dress, and as she entered the room where the circle was
assembled, in placing her foot on the carpet, she displayed a
white silk shoe; her shoulders and neck were very symmetrical
and perfect, as was also her left arm, which was extended to¬
wards her head. With her left hand she grasped the medium’s
wrist. This lady seemed very desirous of being known, and
was extremely persevering in her efforts. She advanced three
times from the inner room ere she succeeded in entering the
apartment where the guests were, and where there was a
gas chandelier in full play. She took her position in
proximity with a lady next to me, surveyed the circle gene¬
rally, remained about three minutes, but awakened no recol¬
lection in the one to whom she came. She then returned to
the inner room, in the centre of which she vanished, the-
medium, at the same time, dropping on the carpet apparently
quite exhausted. The cause of departure was subsequently
announced, when the lady to whom she evidently came
claimed that she was her niece.
On the 18th of this month I was again at Dr. Gordon’s, and
then saw his controlling intelligence, Bishop White, a vener¬
able figure with attenuated countenance, straight, sharp-
pointed nose—(I dwell on this because some of the savans
assert that all the forms have hooked, or as they term it
Jewish noses)—grey hair and beard. He was clad in the
robes worn by the Episcopalian ministers. In the medium’s
parlour there is a photograph of Dr. Gordon, with the rev.
gentleman as a disembodied intelligence standing behind him.
This was taken by Mr. Mumler. As the different figures
disappeared, the medium would face the audience, throw
open a surplice which he wears and shake it, thus showing
any mind disposed to be convinced that there was no decep-
.tion. Mary R. Tucker.
19, West 22nd Street, New York, Dec. 23, 1872.
All the more remarkable spiritual manifestations
began first in America, but in England spirit forms
have begun to make their appearance; the power, how¬
ever, is as yet undeveloped here.
On Wednesday, February 19 th, a public seance was
held at 16, Old Quebec-street, Oxford-street, London,
W., Mr. and Mrs. Holmes being the mediums. Twenty
or more ladies and gentlemen were present, and as the
circle was a very harmonious and friendly one, the
manifestations were strong. In the dark seance, while
all hands were held, and Mrs. Holmes tied, the musical
instruments flew about the large room like bats ; they
tapped nearly everybody gently on the head frequently
in their flight, and occasionally flew up and beat against
the very lofty ceiling the instant they were requested to
do so. Three of the visitors had the ring test.
Afterwards there was a sitting for spirit-faces, Mr.
and Mrs. Holmes, with all the observers, being, as
usual, outside the dark room used as a cabinet. The
light was stronger than usual, as the power of pro¬
ducing the faces is gradually increasing, and the
circle was a harmonious one, consequently, on Wed¬
nesday, all the faces were very clearly seen. The first
one was a noble-looking man, with fine intellectual
features of the highest order. He had grey curly hair.
The face evidently had life in it, and was less mask¬
like than some of those which appear. Several other
faces came, an3 at last a slightly dark one. It was
March 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
119
living' had its head bound up in white drapery. Some
of the features, we thought, bore a little similarity to
Mr. Holmes’s, but it had no beard or moustache. Mr.
Holmes was outside the cabinet looking at it. It went
away, and then raps asked Mr. Holmes and Mr. Black¬
burn to go inside the dark room. They did, so; and
after they had been there" some time, the face just
described came again to the opening. What was seen
inside is stated in the following letter from Mr. Black¬
burn :—
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
Sir,—Respecting the excellent seance held last Wednesday
at the Holmes’s, Old Quebec-street, Oxford-street, I wish to
draw your attention to several ideas, arising after reflection.
When spirit hands appear, I have always thought they were
manufactured; or formed, close to the cabinet window, and then
presented to our outside view; and, in like manner, also the
faces ; but when I went inside the cabinet with Mr. Holmes
alone, I found my mistake. We placed ourselves close together
in the dark cabinet room, on two chairs, with our backs to the
fire-place, say about seven feet from the square hole. As soon
as we were seated, Mr. Holmes quickly took hold of both my
hands, and shortly he began squeezing them with great in¬
tensity, writhing about as thougbr he had spasms ; then came
over him several shocks, just such as trance mediums make
just before recovering their normal condition. He then said,
“Are yon afraid ?” I replied, “ Not a bit of it.” Hesaid, “Don’t
you see something ?” I said, “ No, I’ve been looking at that
square hole all the time, but have seen nothing.” Then came
another shock, and his hands became cold and of a nasty
clammy nature. He again said, “ Don’t you now see some¬
thing ?” I then withdrew my eyes from the square hole, and
looked all round, but the darkness was so black, I felt as if
blind ; then my eyes began to see a “misty white form,” in
the furthest part of the room or cabinet, and I said, “ I see
something white over there.” He replied, “ Yes, they always
come in white.” It moved about a little, and then came right
past us, and went to the square hole, though it hesitated to
go close up ; it then went close up, and the people out¬
side can say what face they saw; it was not transparent;
it retreated and came and stood in front of me. Mr.
Holmes asked it to say something, and it answered in a low
voice, “My son, we cannot give more demonstrations for
our power is expended—good-bye.” Now during my first
sight of the form, I never could see any formation,
nor any face, but I saw the white misty light in the shape of
a female form with nice waist, with dress, and with a frill
round its neck. The dress appeared when nearest me to
shine as if of Persian silk, and as it glided along I distinctly
heard it rustle while it passed and repassed. When it stood
in front of me I asked it to touch me, and it then stroked my
beard twice, for which I said “ Thank you.” It then went
towards a chest of drawers, and vanished through the wall at
that point. Now I should like you to privately see these
mediums, and get to know their experiences, and let the
public have the benefit thereof. Chas. Blackburn.
Parkfield, Didsbury, near Manchester.
February 20th, 1873.
At the time of writing the above letter, it is evident
Mr. Blackburn had not been informed that the face
was the same one which he saw before he entered the
cabinet, so the spirit had been more or less materialised
some time before he entered the dark room.
We have been informed that on the following even¬
ing (Thursday, Feb. 20th) some rough people attended,
and misbehaved themselves all the evening, purposely
annoying the mediums in every possible way. Although
conditions were so much broken, Mrs. Holmes’s medium-
ship was, as usual, so strong, that three of the visitors
had the ring-test, and other manifestations were ob¬
tained. With a thoroughly friendly circle of respect¬
able people, her power is very great, when she is not
unwell, and has not had a previous sitting the same day.
We have been present at five or six s&mces with Mr.
and Mrs. Holmes, who arrived a few months since from
America, and a fair proportion of the manifestations
took place under test conditions.
The following letter has been sent us by Mr. Gr. R.
Tapp :—
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
Sir,—I think it right to send to you a detailed account of a
seance at which I was present, which took place yesterday
evening at the residence of Mr. Henry Cook, Hackney ; it
being, I believe, one of the most successful that has ever
occurred through the mediumship of Miss Florence Cook.
Several friends were expected, but did not come. I was, in
consequence, the only visitor. The other sitters were Mr. and
Mrs. Cook and family, Miss Till, and the servant Mary. The
medium was disappointed at the absence of her friends, and
was disinclined to comply with my suggestion that a sitting
for the materialised spirit faces should be held, but proposed
an ordinary dark sitting at the table instead. I persuaded
her, however, to refer the decision to her spirit guides, who
wrote, through her hand, that we were to throw the door of
the cabinet (fully described in No. 46 of the Spiritualist) wide
open, hang a shawl across the opening, and sit in the dark
first for “ spirits full length” at once. I accordingly opened
the two doors of the cabinet to their full extent, propping them
open with a couple of weights from the kitchen. I then nailed
a string from the outer top end of one door to the outer top
end of the other, and suspended from the string a large shawl,
completely covering the opening. The aperture above the
doors I closed from the light by throwing across it a travelling
wrapper, and by these means extemporised an additional space
to the cabinet. I then went inside the cabinet, and carefully
examined it, placing in the right hand corner the little low
seat which is now used by the medium. The spirits had pre¬
viously written that it would be better not to tie or fasten the
medium ; and to this condition I willingly consented, having,
in company with many others, on previous occasions, wit¬
nessed the most striking manifestations when Miss Cook had
been tied, sealed, and secured in every possible way. The
other sitters then arranged themselves in the usual way round
the room, and I closed the room door, led the medium to her
seat in the cabinet, came out, dropped the shawl down after
me, and turning out the gas, took my seat the other side of
the room, directly opposite the cabinet. The firelight rendered
objects in the room dimly visible.
Almost as soon as I sat down, brilliant phosphorescent
lights were seen moving up and down before the shawl, and
Katie’s voice was heard apparently outside the cabinet, and
from the floor, assuring us of a capital seance, if we implicitly
followed her directions, and did not try to grasp at anything.
We all promised compliance, and after we had sung a little,
Katie was seen to slowly raise the shawl and step outside in
front, letting the shawl fall down after her. The light being
so very faint, we could simply see the white outline of her
figure. We were then severally called up by her to shake
hands. When it came to my turn, she took my right hand in
hers, and passed it over the upper part of her white dress.
The texture was like that of fine canvas or bunting, and it
rustled with every movement of the spirit. My impression
(which I did not mention at the time) was, that she had on
only one garment. This was confirmed by the servant Mary,
who on going up to shake hands, was told to pass her hands
down the materialised body of the spirit from head to foot.
This she did, and said at once that Katie had nothing under
her white robe, as she could feel her joints through it. Mrs.
Cook was then called up to shake hands, but as she approached,
Katie caught hold of her by the shoulders and kissed her-
heartily. Katie then went back into the cabinet, and said
that when she came out again she could bear more light. I
accordingly lit the telescope burner attached to the ceiling,
and pulled it down to its full extent, so that the light was
exactly in the centre of the room. Katie allowed the
gas to be turned up sufficiently high to allow all to
see what followed quite distinctly. I then resumed my
seat, and “ Katie ” stepped out into the room again and again,
nine or ten times, and laughingly chattered to each of us,
asking us to admire her pretty white dress, and saying it was
not like the medium’s (Miss Cook was dressed in deep mourn¬
ing). She held up her arms, which were long, but shapely,
and asked our opinion of her sleeves, which were tight fitting,
and plaited in folds at the wrists. She then turned about
from side to side, putting out her naked feet alternately from
under her dress, observing that she could not afford to waste
her power in materialising shoes , and stockings. She then
stood perfectly still, smiling at us, beating time with her
hands, while two verses of the hymn “ Shall we gather at the
river ? ” were sung. She then retired into the cabinet, drop-
120
March 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
ping the shawl after her, and re-appeared almost instantane¬
ously, and held up her hands, when the right one was observed
to be black. She then lowered her hands, and raising them
again directly, both hands were the usual flesh colour. Then,
after a short pause, she came out once more, and told me to
go up and look at her. I advanced, and when about three feet
away, was told to stop. I did so, and for about two minutes
we looked at each other. The dress she wore was pure white
in colour, reaching just below her ancles, but scarcely covering
her feet. It was gathered in a fold at the waist, and bound
with a broad white girdle. From the waist upward it was
fastened in front like a dressing-gown, and it was plaited in
several folds close round her neck. The sleeves were long, and
fitted closely. She wore the usual white nun’s head-dtess,
which, however, was so arranged, as to admit of her features
and part of her neck and hair been seen. Her eyes were
bright and sparkling, and she appeared full of delight at her
success. The resemblance of her features to those of Miss Cook
(which has so often formed the subject of dismission and com¬
ment) was not now perceptible. Her chin was round, and large,
and dimpled, and her face (which was most animated and
beautiful) was apparently that of a woman of five or six and
twenty. Her shoulders and waist were broad and solid look¬
ing, in fact, “ Katie ” was rather stout. She seemed to be about
five feet six inches in height, or rather more, for as she stood
firm on her feet, with her hands folded in front of her, her
head, mas above the top of the shawl (which hung on the tight
string, level with the top of the cabinet doors). Her voice,
though not loud, was clear and distinct, without any of the
occasionally imperfect articulation which usually accompanies
the manifestation of her face alone. It most certainly was
not like the voice of Miss Cook. She told me to go back to
my seat, and asked me what I thought of her “ full length.”
I said I could scarcely find words to express my gratification,
and she kissed her hand to me, and walked backwards to her
cabinet, holding up the shawl to peep out roguishly, and nod
farewell to the other sitters. While she manifested at first
she stood rather timidly just outside the shawl, but as the
power got stronger, her confidence increased, and she came
forward in front of it fully a foot, or a foot and a half.
Miss Cook was entranced at the commencement of the
seance, and did not speak throughout. Before Katie finally
retired into the cabinet as above stated, she said, “ Oh, Georgie,
I am so glad. I can do no more now, but if my medium has
her gift properly developed under good influences, there is
nothing we won’t be able to do. Tell Willie that.” Then,
“ Wake the medium up gently when I rap.” In about two
minutes, three raps were given inside the cabinet. I at
once pulled back the shawl, and found Miss Cook entranced,
and seated just as at the commencement, with her head resting
against the wall. I roused her with upward passes, and led
her out of the cabinet, and thus ended this most remarkable
seance, which lasted about three quarters of an hour.
G. R. Tapp.
18, Queen Margaret’s Grove, Mildmay Park,
London, N, Feb. 24:th, 1873.
Last Tuesday evening Mr. ,T. C. Luxmoore, of 16,
Gloucester-square, Hyde-park, W., came with a friend of
his to Miss Cook’s seance ; the latter gentleman (a county
magistrate and deputy-lieutenant) had never entered
the house before ; he clearly recognised the spirit-face
which appeared as that of his father. The face bore a
strong light; at first it was very much muffled up in
whitu drapery, but by dint of singing, and giving it
good conditions, it at last uncovered itself all but the chin
and ears, and repeatedly showed itself in a strong light.
Miss Cook’s hands had been tied together and to her
waist by Mr. Luxmoore with tape; he also fastened
her by her waist with tape, so that no upward move¬
ment exceeding one inch was possible. The knots and
screws were carefully sealed by him. This was done
merely for the sake of publication, not because any of
the friends present desired it, or thought it necessary.
No other face came that evening. Katie says now that
she is going away and strange spirits coming, Miss
Cook is passing through a critical period in her medium-
ship, and it will probably be three weeks before this
stage of development is passed over. Remarkable
knocking noises and disturbances now frequently take
place in the house, showing that strange influences are
about.
Poms.
THE SONG OF A SCEPTIC.
The sky is dark behind, Jack,
The sky is dark before,
And we drift along in a current strong,
Without helm, sail, or oar.
We know not whither we wend, Jack,
And we know not whence we came,
We are sure that the voyage must end, Jack,
But where is the haven home ?
No star in the sky to guide, Jack,
But all is dark, dark, dark,
And still colder runs the tide, Jack,
The longer floats our bark.
We hear not the noise of the stream, Jack,
But we feel that we hurry on—
And where we shall go—shall we never know
Till the weary voyage is done.
And when our bark has arrived, Jack,
Oh what will the welcome be ?
Why, no one can tell, whether ill or well,
It will Tfare for thee and me.
So hand me the bottle aft, Jack,
And I’ll hand it you fore again,
And cheered by the thoughtless draught, Jack,
We’ll float down the darksome main.
Fraser's Magazine, Yol. III.
THE HINDOO SCEPTIC.
I think till I weary with thinking,
Said the sad-eyed Hindoo King,
And I see but shadows around me—
Illusion in everything.
How knowest thou aught of God,
Of His favour or His wrath ?
Can the little flsh tell what the lion thinks,
Or map out the eagle’s path ?
Can the finite the Infinite search,
Did the blind discover the stars ?
Is the thought that I think a thought,
Or a throb of the brain in its bars ?
For aught that my eye can discern,
Your God is what you think good,
Yourself flashed back from the glass.
When the light pours on it in flood.
You preach to me to be just;
And this is His realm you say,
Yet the good are dying of hunger,
And the bad gorge every day!
You say that he loveth mercy,
And the famine is not yet gone;
That He hateth the shedder of blood,
Yet He slayeth us every one.
You say that my soul shall live,
That the spirit can never die—
If He were content when I was not,
Why not when I have passed by?
You say I must have a meaning;
So has dung, and its meaning is flowers.
What if our souls are but nurture
For lives that are greater than ours ?
When the flsh swims out of the waters,
When the birds soar out of the blue,
Man’s thoughts may transcend man’s knowledge,
And your God be no reflex of you.
 The Spectator.
Mbs. Bassett, the well known non-professional medium,
is in Portsmouth.
Mr. Bassett recently opened a public discussion on
Spiritualism, at the Workman’s Hall, Stratford, E. Mr.
Somerston presided ; Messrs. Jeffries, High, Dooley, Lemon,
Dixon, and others, took part in the-debates.
With reference to the public subscription to diminish the
losses over the fortnightly publication of the Spiritualist, we
wish the sum total to be raised to a minimum of £20 more
than at present, and if £30 more were subscribed, the ex¬
ternal support given would only adequately and fairly balance
the extra responsibilities of changing from a monthly to a
fortnightly issue. As the spiritual periodicals have been sys¬
tematically aided by subscriptions, but the Spiritualist never
opened a subscription list before, perhaps the moderate
amount of aid suggested may be forthcoming before the list is
closed.
March 1, 1873,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
121
THE ANTHROPOLOGICAL INSTITUTE.
On Tuesday evening, February 18th, at the ordinary fort¬
nightly meeting of the Anthropological Institute, 4, St.
Martin’s-place, Trafalgar-square, Professor George Busk,
F.R.S., President of the Institute, occupied the chair. There
was a good attendance of members.
THE MACAS INDIANS.
Two human heads were exhibited by Sir John Lubbock.
They were the heads of Macas Indians, who bad been mur¬
dered, and the heads afterwards reduced to the size of a
cricket ball, by the process described in the paper. The
features were perfect, and the little beads were almost bidden
by tbeir long glossy locks of raven black hair.
Mr. E. W. Brabrook read the paper by Sir John Lubbock,
Bart., F.R.S., Vice-Chancellor of the University of London,
which set forth that the Macas Indians of Equador are scat¬
tered tribes, occupying the country immediately on the eastern
side of the Andes, a few degrees south of the Equator. They
have recently been visited by Mr. C. Buckley, who spent
eighteen months in the district. He brought back with him
four prepared heads, two of which I have now the honour of
exhibiting to the Society. They belong to a chief named
Hilinchima and his wife Wahaii. This chief had also another
wife, and the three lived with the man’s father and mother,
forming a family party of five. The Macas Indians are divided
into small tribes, which are constantly at war with one
another. This unfortunate family belonged to the Atchweli
tribe, and were attacked and murdered one night in their
sleep by a party of Xebros Indians, making, however, a de¬
sperate resistance, in the course of which they received
numerous wounds, some of which are still visible. The heads
are very remarkable on account of the small size to which
they have been reduced. The process of preparation, accord¬
ing to Mr. Buckley, is very simple. The head is removed,
and after being boiled for some time with an infusion of herbs,
the bones, &c., are removed through the neck. Heated stones
are then put into the hollow, and as they cool are continually
replaced by others ; the heat thus applied dries and contracts
the skin, reducing the head to the size shown in the figures.
It will be seen that Mr. Buckley’s account confirms that
given by M. Barriero. * A string is then run through the
head; it is suspended in the hut, and solemnly abused by
the owner, who is answered by the priest speaking for the
head, after which the mouth is sewn up to prevent any
chance of reply. The abuse is repeated on feasts and any
special occasions. According to M. Barriero the heads thus
prepared are treated as idols, and the first which came to
Europe was obtained by a ruse, the owner being assured that
the head wished to travel. The same custom and mode
of preparing the heads is common to other neighbouring
tribes. The Macas Indians live by hunting, though the
women grow some maize and a little grain, as well as a few
plants of tobacco. The men use spears, but their principal
weapons are blowpipes and poisoned arrows. Their huts are
oblong in form, built of palms, and thatched with palm-
leaves. The men are polygamous, but never have many
wives; they acquire wives by purchase or by capture; by
purchase if the woman belongs to the same tribe, but other¬
wise by force. The captured women are generally murdered
after awhile for the sake of their heads. The women do all
the household work. They have no temples or priests, but
are firm believers in witchcraft; Mr. Buckley, however, found
it difficult to obtain any clear insight into their religious
views, and is reluctant to place on record statements which
might not be strictly correct. It would have been well if all
travellers had been equally cautious. They have doctors,
whose remedies however are mainly, if not entirely, magical.
If they fail to effect a cure they are sometimes put to death
themselves. The Macas Indians are generally named after
animals. When the head of a family dies, he is placed on a
bed of split bamboo, the door is fastened up, and the hut de¬
serted. Children are buried in the ground without any cere¬
mony. Some food and water are generally placed with the
dead, but not as a general rule at any rate, either arms or
implements. Property descends in the male line. The Macas
Indians are not cannibals. They keep dogs and fowls, and
are very fond of pets, especially monkeys and parrots. They
count up to ten. The dress consists of a waistcloth, and there
is little difference between the sexes. Their feet are bare.
They are very fond of ornaments, and some women pierce the
under lip. Earrings are also worn. The son succeeds to the
father’s property. They make rude pottery, which they burn
in open fires.
The President—Several similar heads were shown in the Ex¬
hibition of 1862, so that they are not altogether new. It is
a-curious method of preserving the heads of relatives.
Mr. Franks—Of relatives ?
The President—Of their enemies I mean. But as they some¬
times kill their wives, and preserve their heads, it is hard to
say whether some of the heads are those of enemies or not.
Mr. Hyde Clark said that there were some examples of nearly
the same kind of practice among some of the savages in the Old
World. The more men investigated, the more resemblance
did they discover between the Old and New Worlds, especially
in the languages.
The President said that the New Zealanders burn the heads
of their friends and enemies in the earth, but do not take the
bones out; then they hang the heads up as ornaments in their
huts. America seemed to be the only place where the heads
were reduced in size. -
Mr. Franks said that on the Amazon the Indians preserve
the heads of their enemies, and carry them on a staff, but
they do not diminish the size of the heads, or take out the
bones.
PHYSICAL EEATTTKES AND PARISH BOUNDARIES.
Mr. William Topley, F.G.S., then read a paper “ On the
Relation of the Parish Boundaries in the South-east of Eng¬
land to Great Physical Features, particularly to the Chalk
Escarpment.” The author first described the line of the chalk
escarpment, which is known in different parts of its course as
the, Wolds of Yorkshire and Lincolnshire, the Chiltern Hills, the
North and South Downs. All along the base of this escarp¬
ment there is a fine arable soil; the situation is sheltered, and
springs of good water abound. A continuous line of villages
occurs along here, often lying quite close together. The
parishes belonging to these villages have a remarkably con¬
stant relation to the face of the chalk escarpment; nearly the
whole of them go up the steep slope ; sometimes they end at
the summit of the hill, but more generally they take in a good
deal of the chalk table-land beyond. The face of the chalk
escarpment (the steep slope of the downs, &c.) is thus almost
entirely divided amongst parishes whose villages are below
the hills : exceedingly few villages upon the chalk table-land
send their parishes down the hill. This is a very remarkable
circumstance ; for water and a productive soil are always
found in that direction. The fact can only be accounted for
by assuming that the settlements along the base of the hill
were the earliest formed, all the land along the face of the hill
being appropriated by them. These points were illustrated
by a series of maps ; some coloured geologically to show the
line of the chalk hills and the outcropping of other strata ;
some coloured in parishes. Maps of the entire Wealden dis¬
trict were shown, and on them the parishes around the border
were coloured according to their relation to the escarpment.
Along the whole range of the North Downs, stretching through
the counties of Surrey and Kent, there are only four exceptions
to the rule laid down. The chalk escarpment forms a well-
marked rim or border to the Weald. Within that outer rim
there is another line of escarpment, formed by the lower
greensand : the quarry hills of Kent and the Leith hill range
of Surrey are examples of this. The inner escarpment acts—
as regards parish boundaries, in a manner precisely the reverse
of the chalk escarpment; for the villages upon the high
ground generally send their parishes down the escarpment;
comparatively few of the villages on the plain below sending
their parishes up the hill. This, again, can only be because
the edge of the central Wealden country was appropriated by
parishes just outside its border ; these parishes being obliged
to extend themselves into the Weald because the land behind
them, nearer the chalk, was already appropriated by the settle¬
ments earlier formed. The order of settlement in the Weald
was, therefore, as follows :—1st, a well-defined line of vil¬
lages along the foot of the chalk escarpment; 2nd, villages
upon the lower greensand ; 3rd, villages within the Weald.
We know that the boundaries of the parishes within the Weald
were not finally settled till the century after the Norman Con¬
quest, when the See of Selsia was removed to Chichester.
Domesday mentions but few manors within the Weald, but
describes a large number around the border which are partly
within it. The third stage is, therefore, nearly coincident in
time with the Norman Conquest, but how much earlier the
second and first stages were than this there is no evidence to
Ethnological Journal, Vol. II-, p. 112.
122
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 1, 1873.
show. The author briefly noticed the great importance of
this subject as bearing upon recent discussions concerning the
primitive land systems of England. The paper concluded
with some observations upon old lines of road, those of Roman
construction being frequently parish boundaries.
The President said that in early times it was almost self-
evident that physical lines formed natural boundaries. The
old division of France into provinces was at first an entirely
natural one ; the Champagne country is, for instance, almost
entirely upon the chalk.
Mr. Charlesworth and Dr. Clement Le Neve Forster made
a few remarks, after which
Mr. Hyde Clarke said that ecclesiastical divisions in Eng¬
land were made later in history than the civil divisions into
townships. The former were more arbitrary.
Mr. Franks said that a paper had recently been read before
the Anthropological Society of Berlin, bearing upon the
origin and boundaries of villages.
Mr. Topley made a few remarks in reply, and the meeting
returned thanks to him for his paper.
THE MAMMOTH, THE ELEPHANT, AND MAN.
Mr. Charlesworth exhibited two tusks, said to be African
tusks, so curved as to resemble the tusks of a mammoth, more
than those of an elephant. He raised the question whether
the mammoth might not be still living in Africa ; if so, the
proved fact that man lived upon the earth at the same time
as the mammoth, might be no proof of the great antiquity of
man.
The President said that if the tusks on the table came from
Asia there was nothing wonderful about them, the Indian
elephant being of the same type as the mammoth of old. He
questioned whether the tusks came from Africa in the first
instance. Any continuously growing teeth of animals had a
tendency to curve in a spiral form. The spiral tusks were
interesting ; he had never seen such large ones before.
The proceedings then closed.
THE HUMAN SPIRIT.*
BY EDWAED W. COX, SEKJEANT-AT-LAW.
Few words are more frequent in conversation and in books
than “ soul.” But ask the most intelligent and reflecting of
those who use it to describe in plain words what it is they
call a “ soul”—what definite idea of “ a soul ” they have
---what form, material, qualities, they intend by that name,
and they will be compelled to confess that, in very truth, the
word P soul ” is to them little more than an unmeaning
phrase, and that they have a very vague notion indeed—if any
at all—of the thing they are talking about.
If it be so with the most intelligent and thoughtful, what
must -be the blankness of conception in the minds of the
ignorant and unreflecting ?
Not so, however. As always, the thoughtless and the un¬
informed find no difficulty in attaching an idea to the word.
“ Of course/’ they say, “ 1 know what the soul is ; everybody
knows that who knows anything. The soul is—is—is some¬
thing in us that lives after we die.”
Ask their notions of the nature of this something, of its
structure, its dwelling-place in the body, its functions there,
its material, its shape, by what process it is severed from the
flesh, where it goes, what they imagine to be the manner of
its existence in its new life, what are the new conditions and
new natural laws to which it must then be subjected, what are
its capacities and its occupations, where is its abode and what
its ultimate destiny 1 Not the unreflecting only, but the vast
majority of those who are accustomed to think, will then
admit that these questions of overwhelming interest to them
had never or very rarely occurred to their minds, although
not doubting in the least the fact that they have a Soul.
It is a startling truth that few of these momentous ques¬
tions have ever been seriously considered even by the most
educated. Why 1 Because their attention has not been
directed to them as questions to be practically and scientifically
examined. Stranger still it is that such an inquiry has not
been eagerly courted. Who is there, knowing that next year
he may go to dwell in a distant land, who would not make
anxious inquiry for information concerning the country, the
climate, the conditions of existence and the nature of his
abode there, and if there be any and what means of communica¬
tion with the friend he will leave behind him? Nevertheless,
* Prom “ What Am I ?” an interesting book by Mr. Serjeant Oox, just
published by Messrs Longman’s.
there is scarcely one among us who, although knowing that
his soul must depart from its present dwelling in a few years,
and may be summoned to its new abode to-morrow, has ever
given thought to the question what, viewed by the light of
science, must and will be the probable conditions of its
existence without the body.
Is it that -weleax to thinh, or that we do not believe'i Is
it that with us it is assent only, not conviction 1 Do we believe
confidently and clearly, as we believe in the rising of the sun
to-morrow; or is it only a dreamy hazy notion of something
very far off, very doubtful, and very uncertain?
In times past, where the existence of the soul was re¬
cognised, Imagination invented a futurity for it, every people
painting that future according to its own notions of pleasure
and pain. The differences in these pictures proved them to
be productions of fancy not founded on any fact. They were
drawn in utter disregard alike of the known laws of nature and
of the teachings of reason and of science.
But this is not an age of faith. We are not content to
dream. We demand facts. We have learned many of Nature’s
laws, and we require that all knowledge shall be pursued in
accordance with those laws. The structure, qualities, and
functions of soul and the conditions of its existence—that is
to say—its physiology—must be investigated with the same
reference to reason and science as those of body.
But has the question been so treated ?
On the contrary, the diversities of individual conception of
the conditions of a future state are as conflicting now as ever
they have been. If any twenty educated persons who believe
in the existence of soul were required to write each his own
ideas of its present and future dwelling place, of its structure,
its qualities, its powers, pleasures, and pains, it might be
safely predicted that there would be as great a diversity of
description as of persons. It would be found that each had
depicted for it a future which was nothing more than the
present amplified and beautified, its bliss and its woe being
precisely that which the speaker regards as pleasure or dreads
as pain.
The conclusion from this is that the subject has not been
examined with reference to scientific law.
Why this neglect of a matter of such surpassing interest ?
Years are expended in experiment and discussion upon the
chemical composition of a stone ; but the composition of our¬
selves is treated with contemptuous neglect, as if a matter of
no moment. The lips acknowledge the being of a soul as
well as of a body, but while the mortal body is laboriously
studied, the immortal is never examined. This treatment
of it seems to betray a want of confidence in its reality.
SciencQ says that, from its nature, soul is out of her province,
for she cannot subject it to the knife, the crucible, and the
microscope. True; but is no other proof admissible in
science than that which instruments supply 1 Is our capacity
for knowledge limited to things palpable to our senses ? Nay
more, is it certain that the senses themselves supply no
evidence of the existence of something in us other than that
material structure which the physiologist manipulates? May
there not be found in man something positive and substantial,
from which we may fairly and reasonably arrive at the con¬
clusion, or at the least form a probable anticipation, that we
are not wholly material; that we are more than protoplasm;
that theology teaches a substantial truth, to be demonstrated
by science, and not merely a dogma that science looks upon
as a dream ; that even in science itself we may hope to find,
scientifically shown, a reasonable probability that we possess
a soul, or, I should rather say that we are souls.
I admit that nothing short of such reasonable and scientific
proof should completely satisfy the inquiring mind. But
what truth should be so eagerly desired and sought; what
other has so profound a personal interest for us as the question
of questions:
Have we a Soul ?
It is necessary to remind the reader that this inquiry is
designed to be purely scientific. It purposely avoids all re¬
ference to the question in its theological aspect. It is addressed
mainly to those who reject the authority of the theologian ;
to those who accept the existence of Soul as a dogma, but have
not that firm and clear faith in it which never feels a qualm
of doubt creeping over it, as well as to those who accept the
theological assertion fully and sincerely, but who desire some
probable knowledge of the nature of the soul they firmly
believe themselves to possess, some definite conception of its
mode of existence here and the conditions of its existence
hereafter so far as science can trace them by applying
to the investigation the known laws of nature. Theology,
March 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
123
which affirms the existence of the soul and proclaims its
immortality, does not attempt to teach us anything whatever
about its structure and qualities, save that it exists in the
present and will live in the future ; but of what it is, how it
is, and what and how it is to be, it reveals almost nothing.
Is there any reader who would not express himself after
this fashion ? “I have a passionate longing to know more of
this immortal spirit of mine. I am not content with the
vague conception I have of it. I desire something more
definite and distinct. I cannot accept a mere phrase. A name
does not satisfy me. I am not the wiser for authoritative
assurance that I have a soul, unless a-definite idea is conveyed
to me by that term. I turn that word over and over in my
mind and try to comprehend its meaning. I ask myself what
definite image that name summons before my mind’s eye. I
can discover none—neither shape, nor substance, nor qualities
—no distinct idea which, when invoked by the word or
coming involuntarily into the thought, I can contemplate as
clearly as I can think of my body. More eagerly still do I
desire to be assured that I have a soul, not as a matter of
faith alone, but as positive hnoroledge, as certain and definite
as my knowledge that I have a body. I am impatient to
ascertain what evidence founded on fact, and what argument
based upon the laws of Nature and Science, reason can
produce to me of the probable future of that soul—if it has
an existence in that future, if it retains there a consciousness
of its past existence here and what under the new conditions
of its being are its probable powers and capacities.”
Doubtless thousands of thinking men and women are at this
moment experiencing this desire and thirsting for this know¬
ledge ; not questioning the theological Authority that affirms
it, but anxious, in a matter of such supreme importance to
themselves, to confirm assertion by proof, to convert a name
into a thing, and to change a shapeless shadow into a cogniz¬
able substance. The number of such eager inquirers cannot
be measured by outward expressions. Like children in a
churchyard at night shouting, “ Who’s afraid,” many try to
assume a confidence they do not feel. The doubting and fail¬
ing in faith, anxious to have doubt removed and faith con¬
firmed, turn to science and say, “ Tell me, you whose lives
have been devoted to the investigation of Nature’s facts and
the laws of Divinity as exhibited in His works, tell me, have
I a soul?”
And what says modern science in answer to this earnest
questioning ?
“ I have looked for the Soul, but I cannot find it. All that
I can discover with the most powerful microscope is, that
your body is built of particles of matter, combined in various
groupings and forming varipus organic structures requisite to
the completeness of the human being. Life appears to be the
product of organism, the result of a certain combination of
matter ; for when that combination is severed life ceases
and the structure is dissolved into its elements. Viewed
scientifically, death is not the departure of something from
the body, but simply the cessation of vitality by the cessation
of the conditions under which vitality exists. I discover no
difference between the act of death in a man, a sheep, a fish,
a flea, or a mollusc ; and after death the same process restores
the bodies of all alike to the same elements out of which they
were all constructed. You ask me if mind is not the soul?
I answer that there is no evidence of it, but on the contrary,
all the evidence points to the opposite conclusion. Mind is
dependent upon the structure of the brain. A diseased brain
makes a diseased mind. A well formed brain is attended with
intellectual capacity in proportion to its size and quality. If
you paralyse the brain with a blow, you for a time extinguish
the mind. Destroy a part of the brain, and you destroy an
equivalent portion of the mind. Arrest the motion of the
fibres of the brain by congestion of the blood vessels, as in
drowning ; there is temporary death, and life may be restored
by making the heart pump again, thus relieving the congested
blood vessels and removing the obtruction to brain action;
upon which the mind revives too. Mind, we scientists say, is
a secretion from matter, and every act of mind uses up a por¬
tion of matter. When the mind is paralysed by concussion
or congestion, there is absolute insensibility, and there is no
appearance in the senseless body of the presence of any other
power. Only the ceasing of the heart’s action marks the
passage from life to death. There is no visible intimation of
the severance of the soul from the body at the moment of
death, and the act of death in a man differs in no discoverable
particular from the act of death in the lower animals. Our
foremost physiologist, Huxley, finds only “protoplasm” as
the ultimate base of the human structure, and Dr. Carpenter
explains some of the most mysterious actions of the mind by
a theory of “ unconscious cerebration.’’ Tyndall alone faintly
acknowledges the possibility of the existence of other laws
than those which govern the material world ; but even he can
find no better basis for his conjecture than an operation of the
imagination, a faculty which he contends might be fairly
enlisted in the service of science. So far as his investigations
into nature have advanced, he can discover nothing but
matter made perceptible to our senses by certain “ modes of
motion ” which those senses are constructed to perceive. Even
he does not acknowledge that there may be other modes of
motion which the senses cannot perceive in their normal con¬
dition, but which may be perceptible in abnormal conditions.
Science can find no soul, no place in the structure where a
soul could dwell, nothing in mind,, in life, or in death,
upon which to base even a probability that there is anything
in us other than organic structure, performing organic func¬
tions and governed by organic laws.”
Distracted between the divergent teachings of science and
of authority, the one pointing to fact, and the other appealing
to faith ; the latter proclaiming the existence of a soul, the
former as dogmatically asserting ” I can find no trace of it,’’
and even authority itself adventuring no definition of a soul,
either as to form, substance, dwelling-place, in the body, re¬
lationship to the material structure, or the conditions of its
existence in the future, it is not surprising that painful doubts
should prevail, nor .that thousands of thinking minds find their
faith failing them. They try not to think; they strive to
thrust out the intruding thought; not a few take refuge in
authority from the agony of uncertainty, and surrender their
liberty of judgment, because its exercise is a toil and a pain.
Multitudes who endeavour to persuade themselves that they are
believers still, because they close their eyes and their ears,
nevertheless are conscious that their faith in the soul and its
immortality is not so fixed as it was before the materialists of
science had whispered doubts. Their confidence is not the
same firm and perfect belief as that with which they accept
the existence of the sun, their own bodily being, or the cer¬
tainty of death. Hence in cultivated society, everywhere
throughout Europe and America, there is a vast stratum of
unbelief. If not. openly confessed, it crops out continually,
betrayed by insinuation and often by more expressive silence.
It pervades the press, not, indeed, in the form of plain
avowal of scepticism, but in a shape far more insidious, there¬
fore the more dangerous. Every opportunity is eagerly seized
to give publicity and prominence to facts and arguments that
appear to sustain the doctrines of materialism, and to laud its
preachers and teachers. Whatever tends to their refutation is
repressed or ridiculed; books are misinterpreted, writers are
abused, letters are refused a place even in answer to false¬
hood or misrepresentation, if the writer's argument goes to
establish the existence of the soul. Of this a striking
instance was exhibited on the occasion of the recent
experiments by Mr. Crookes, F.R. S., establishing the existence
of a psychic force, and the report of the Dialectical Society
completely confirming the results of his more scientific in¬
vestigation. The Press, with rare exceptions, misstated the
conclusions drawn by the experimentalist, suppressed his ex¬
periments and all that portion of the report of the society which
set forth the trials and tests by which they were convinced of
the existence of a psychic or soul force after forty meetings,
although almost every member had commenced the inquiry
with a firm belief that he should detect a delusion or an im¬
posture. The cause of this systematic misrepresentation was
but too manifest. The existence of a psychic force, as ex¬
hibited by those experiments, went far to shake to its founda¬
tion the doctrme of materialism, and to support by scientific
proof the probability of a soul in man. Therefore the disciples
of the Materialistic creed used their great power in the press
to extinguish, so far as the mppressio veri and the suggestio
falsi could do it, the scientific discoveries that threatened the
stability of their dogma. It is now, as it ever was; pride
will not permit men to confess an error of opinion. They
form hasty judgments on insufficient facts, or on no facts at
all, and having asserted them positively, it is a point of honour
not to admit that they could have erred. They will not be
convinced ; they close their eyes and ears resolutely against
proofs ; they look to the evidence on one side alone ; they are
blind to the evidence on the other side. They shut their eyes
and say they cannot see, and they endeavour to discredit the
evidence of all who differ from them by declaring them to be
deluded fools or impudent impostors.
It is to these and such as these that I address myself. They
who, happily for themselves, have accepted with unswerving
124
THE SPIRITUALIST.
faith the teachings of authority, who are satisfied to believe,
and have no desire to know, need no other assurance of the
soul, its present and its future, and will doubtless hold the
looking for scientific proofs of its existence as a superfluous
labour. To them it is so, and they are happy in that confi¬
dence. “ They that are well need not the physician, but they
that are sick.” It is for the sick at heart, for the minds that
cannot accept as sufficient the mere assertion of any authority,
but who crave for proofs before they can embrace a creed—
for the multitudes whose faith has been shaken by the teach¬
ings of Modern Science, and the prevalent opinions of our
Scientists—openly proclaimed by many, privately acknow-'
ledged by most of them—that this investigation is invited.
The province of Psychology is not to supersede authority, but
to inquire if the teachings of authority may not be supported
by the facts of science, and if proofs of the soul’s existence
may not be found in nature, the denial of science notwith¬
standing. I repeat that in this inquiry I purposely avoid all
theological references, not because I doubt their authority, but
because the very design of this treatise is to inquire if there
be any and what evidence of the existence and immortality
of the soul, other than theological, that will give to those who
dispute authority, or do not entirely accept it, that for which
they are yearning—knowledge—not merely belief founded on
faith—but knowledge—such as they have of the realities of
the world about them. Let all who can do so be content to
accept the assertions of authority, and in that blessed confi¬
dence seek to know no further. But to all who do not or can¬
not be content with this, to all who doubt, to all whose faith
is not firm, to all who desire to strengthen their confidence in
the teachings of religion by seeing if it may not be confirmed
by science, I say, with respectful earnestness, “ Come and join
with me in a humble, but honest and patient inquiry, whether
the modern Materialists are right in their conclusions, or does
not Science itself give us proofs of the existence of a soul in
man, and afford us some glimpses of its dwelling here and of
the conditions of its existence hereafter ? ”
I am not blind to the difficulty of the task. I know that it
will be deemed presumptuous, and I am prepared for much
misrepresentation, and perhaps abuse, for having ventured
upon ground which two opposing parties will claim for their
own, and not improbably may unite for the expulsion of one
whom both will look upon as a trespasser. I am conscious
that at the best the performance must fall immensely into the
rear of the design ; that I am exploring a region as yet almost
unexamined, and that I have little assistance to look for from
previous labourers. Nevertheless I proceed with all humility,
but without fear, sustained by the assurance that if anything
like success should attend the investigation, invaluable benefits
will flow from it to tens of thousands, to whom it will bring
hope and happiness. If any scientific proof can be adduced
to establish the probable existence of a soul in man, a
mighty impulse will be given to the hopes and aspirations of
humanity.
SOME EXPERIENCES AND CONCLUSIONS
REGARDING SPIRITUALISM.
No. III.
BY J. M. GULLY, M.D.
Here is another marvellous musical performance.
My younger brother, educated by myself for our pro¬
fession, lived with me in London more than thirty years
ago. A kind, loving fellow, he had not the strength
to say “ No” to sundry tempters and temptations of
London, and so it came to pass that he fell into wild
ways, and gave us much trouble. At length I suggested
that he had better go to our native place, Jamaica, and
practice his profession there. He did so, and for many
years he led a solitary life in the uplands of the island,
yearning to be back with us. In 1848 I sent for him
to join me at Malvern, and he was joyfully preparing to
do so, when he was stricken with fever, in the delirium
of which he, one night, opened his carotid artery, and
died at once. Such was the “ Life” which the spirits,
one day, proposed, without the smallest hint from any¬
one, to describe for us in music, and which they did
describe with a most pathetic accuracy. First came a
March 1, 1873.
beautiful cradle-song, for his childhood; then a cheer¬
ful melody for his happy boyhood, becoming fuller and
louder, as if to show the passage into manhood; then
wild strains, mournful, discordant, most unpleasing to
hear, to mark the time of his disordered living in
London, and enough to sadden any heart. Suddenly
the discord ceased. A few low soft bars then followed,
swelling out into a diapason unmistakably descriptive
of the rise and fall of the ocean, and the movement of
a ship on it, all indicating the passage over the
Atlantic. This was followed by a low plaintive wail,
with, every now and then, a harsh note of discord and
distress, exhibiting the solitude and heartaches of the
poor fellow; and this rapidly passed into a fearful
burst of tumultuous, screaming (as it were) notes, tell¬
ing of dreadful mental and physical suffering, beyond
expression sad, and such as might moisten eyes less
interested than ours were. Then came a complete
pause of the music; then, in sweetest softness, the
instrument played, “ Home, sweet Home,”—his longing
and his prospect of it, alas ! Then another pause; and
then, suddenly, one fierce crash of all the notes, to
indicate the last tragical scene in the drama of the
“ Life,” and, by mournful degrees, the instrument was
silent. The whole performance occupied from eighteen
to twenty minutes. Never before nor since have I
heard any musical composition which equalled this in
descriptive truth and pathos, not even Beethoven’s
Paihetique, nor his “ Moonlight” sonata, nor his
“Summer Storm;” and I think no compositions of
the embodied spirit can equal these in descriptive
accuracy. Immediately after the cessation of the
music, the subject of it came and fondly patted and
stroked our hands and knees, and told us how happy
he was to be able to be with us again. I tried in
vain, on other occasions, to induce the spirits to repeat
their wondrous performances, but they would never
give more of it than the exquisite cradle-tune which
commences it, as if they would spare us the sounds of
suffering, and treat us to those of innocence and peace.
The musical spirits were very fond of this descriptive
music. Some one of ‘the circle asked the spirit-child
if she was often with her papa at night, and she replied
by playing, “ Oft in the stilly night.” Once we asked
the spirits present if they would distribute some flowers
to us, and they immediately struck in with “ The last
rose of summer,” and then gave us what we asked for.
On the same evening the child said, “ Here is joyous
love,” and gave some thrilling bars to describe it;
then, “ Here is prayer,” and the long-drawn, soft, and
softly-swelling notes, told it clearly: then, “ Here is
the reply to prayer,” which we pronounced to be gentle
and exquisite. “Yes,” said the spirit, “Gentle, but
love is gentle, but strong is truth,” followed by full,
strong chords. Then she said, “ Earthly love is apt to
be”—discordant music played; and when asked what
heavenly love was like, she replied with the gentlest
and most solemn-sounding music. All the above per¬
formances took place on the same night. She volun¬
teered to describe my mother’s character on the accor¬
dion, with a fidelity for which I, who so well knew the
tenderness and lovingkindness of her nature, could
unhesitatingly vouch. Then she said, “ And here is
your character,” and gave us an air overflowing with
mirth and cheery delight. After the first time, she
frequently at the commencement of the seances indicated
her presence by repeating this air, and of another’s
presence by that which characterised her. I once
THE SPIRITUALIST.
125
March 1, 1873.
asked her to play “ Adeste Fideles,” but she replied,
“ We prefer one of our own hymns of praise,” and then
came, for an entire ten minutes, an exalting and ex¬
ulting music, which I hold it would puzzle a musician
in the flesh to repeat or imitate : it was loud-swelling,
to show the enthusiasm of devotion; joyous, to show
the glad and willing devotion; soft and slow, to show
the humble, prostrate devotion of the soul. Frequently
the accordion was played whilst lying on the floor or
on the sofa, not near to any of us; and once I recall
how it was played whilst in the air over our heads, hut
very soon it fell, in consequence of our movements to
observe, and the consequent disturbance of the condi¬
tions. I have myself held the instrument close to a
bright lamp, Home only standing by the side, but not
touching it, and marked the bellows’ movements and
those of the keys while the spirits were executing the
chords. Only once had I the good fortune to listen to a
spiritual performance on the piano. An American lady
and her husband, Home and I, were the sitters at a
table about three yards from the instrument, which was
open. A strong full moon-light shone upon us and the
instrument, and we distinctly saw the notes moving as
the spirit performed. The spirit methodically drew the
music-stool from the side to the centre of the key¬
board, and then began to play—of all pieces in the
world—the funeral march in “ Saul!” For some time
the power and the performance were complete, but the
latter became halting towards the end, probably from
failure of the former; for the spirit was unquestionably
a musical one. Not so another who followed, and who
was only able to attempt one air after another, with
one finger, like a child.
If I mistake not, Mr. Jencken has already published
the account of a seance in my house at Malvern, when
the spirits present gave us a wonderful musical descrip¬
tion of “ Dan’s life,” as they called it. And an
astounding history it was, to be given with unmistak¬
able indications by an instrument which was four yards
from any human hand all the time ! I only allude to
it here as another instance of some condition in the
house which rendered such manifestations more than
usually frequent and speaking. Home used to say that
h.e “ got no music elsewhere such as he got at the Pri¬
ory.” On several occasions at night I have heard music
in Home’s bedroom there, which was separated from mine
only by a lath and plaster wall. I heard no particular airs,
but the swelling and falling of sounds which resembled
those from a wind instrument like the accordion, and
of others which were those of a reed instrument like
the flute. But the capo d’opera of all the spiritual
music performances was afforded to us one evening
when Home suddenly left the drawing-room where we
were en seance, and ran up, two steps at a time, to the
bedroom on the first-floor. Thence we heard the
sweetest sounds in the world proceeding—organ, harp,
trumpet—but all as if mellowed by a long distance.
Home called out to ask whether we heard them singing:
we only heard the instrumental music at the door of
the drawing-room where we were. In a brief time he
came down and told us the room was in a blaze of
light, and the music and voices distinct. After a time
I asked the spirits if they would manifest here with us
as they had done up stairs ; and very shortly we were
delighted with the most delicious distant music, solemn
and soft beyond expression; and we heard, too,their'
voices as they sang these words,Holy, holy, holy,
Lord God Almighty ! we praise Thee.” Ear never lis-
-tened to anything more sweet and solemn than these
voices and instruments. In the midst of it I inquired
if my little Fanny was among the performers, and three
notes from some wind instrument told me she was. It
is needless to add that no wind or other instrument (save
a piano) was present in either of the rooms where these
phenomena were experienced.
I have given a written account of these manifesta¬
tions ; but if it be true, as almost all investigators find,
that it is impossible to impart the whole integrity and
intensity of the sensations presented, and the convictions
that flow from, the most usual manifestations at a seance
with a good medium, much more impossible does it seem
to convey to another, by relation, the impression which
such descriptive musical manifestations as I have here
mentioned make upon the listener.. I honestly and
earnestly tried to bring myself to the earth-level, and
hear with the ears I should listen to a flesh musician
withal; but it will not do; that poor instrument, the
accordion, does not make the same impression on the ear
and brain when played by spiritual agents; the very
individual sounds are different, and when combined to
describe the events of a life, with all its joys and sor¬
rows, you find that the performers in it have gone to
the very spiritual depths of those joys and sorrows, and
engraved them, as it were, on your brain, with a truth
and accuracy which renders all other attempts at the
same history appear slight and superficial. And when
one hears voices of unseen singers and sounds of instru¬
ments which to human eye do not exist, one feels how
rude are our contrivances to form and convey the poetry
of sound; what glorious concerts speaking of love,
wisdom, charity, mirth, and joy await us when, as
spirits, we shall have a thousandfold more power over
the physical agents of the universe, and be able to pro¬
duce results which the miserable, earth-formed mate¬
rialist little dreams of, and refuses to aspire to or
hope for.
Manifestations soon aftee, Death.—“ Passed away,”
on November 30th, 1872, in his sleep, and of pulmonary
phthisis, aged 28, at 5, Maldon Villas, Chaucer-road, Dulwich-
road, London, Mr. Frederick Harben, son-in-law of the editor
of the Christian Spiritualist, the Rev. F. R. Young, of
Swindon. Before his transition Mr. Harben became a believer
in Spiritualism, and his widow now shares that belief.
During the process of disposing of the household effects and
(Rearing up, preparatory to the removal of the widow and
surviving child to Swindon, a singular phenomenon occurred,
which ought to find brief record here. The mantlepiece of
the front sitting-room had been for days covered with various
articles, in entire confusion, the mantlepiece itself being used
as a kind of temporary table for the writing of letters, post¬
cards, and luggage labels, while the dust lay thickly upon it.
One evening, December 12th, while three persons and three
only were on the premises, Mr. Young, Mrs. Young, and Annie
Baines the servant, and while they were unitedly partaking
of a hurried tea in the adjoining room, all the articles on the
said mantlepiece were carefully sorted into the most perfect
order, and the thick dust totally removed. Mr. Young is
prepared to affirm, deliberately, and with a full knowledge of
what he is saying, that all this was done by hands other than
human, for at the very moment of his being called to tea the
disorder and the dust were there, while on the return of the
three parties herein mentioned back to the room, the change
we now report was found to have taken place. It cannot be
said with absolute certainty who effected the alteration, and
when we do not know it is simple fairness to admit our
ignorance. But Mr. Harben’s well known and almost mor¬
bidly delicate love of order and cleanliness obliges us to sup¬
pose that he was the person who did the deed. At all events
it was done, and nothing can be more certain than that it was
not done by either of the three persons who alone were in the
house at the time.—Christian Spiritualist,
126
THE SPIKITUALIST.
March 1, 1873.
(Emesspontience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers."]
MARKS OK SPIRIT HANDS.
Sir,—A striking example apparently bearing on the
phenomena of marks being transferred from spirit hands on
to their medium is given by the late Hugh Miller, the geolo¬
gist. Several remarkable cases of apparitions in Scotland are
to be found amongst his writings. This one is descriptive of
a woman who died. A few days after the event she was seen
passing behind some cows which were tied up in a shed ; one
of them kicked at her, striking her on the side; a shriek was
heard, and she vanished ; the body was at no great distance
and still remained unburied ; a mark was visible on the side
of the corpse, such as would be caused by the hoof of a cow.
Chas. E. Isham.
Lamport Hall, Northampton, Feb. 12th, 1873.
[A lady informs us that last week she was at a private seance, and one of
the spirit-hands which came out of the cabinet, had marks upon it re¬
sembling some surface smears which chanced accidentally to be upon one
of the hands of a mediumistic lady who was then sitting outside the cabinet,
but who was not the medium through whom the manifestations were
supposed to come.—Ed.]
SPIRIT PACES.
Sir,—You have often remarked that home seances, where
the medium is happy, are more successful and convincing than
any other ; this has been verified many times by my own
experience, but never more completely than last Saturday
evening. I went with my mother in the afternoon to pay a
friendly call on Mrs. Cook, who had no previous knowledge of
our visit, and was out when we arrived. We spent a very
pleasant evening in friendly chat, and were preparing to leave
early, when Mr. Cook requested his daughter to try a short
sitting in the cabinet. Miss Cook required no urging and no
preparation, but entered the cabinet at once, and took her
seat on a low chair, from which the back had been cut away
(and with it the possibility of standing on a rail), first showing
us that when she stood upon the seat her forehead was on a
level with the lower ledge of the opening. This was our only
test, and even this was not required. I am sorry for those who
are obliged to be continually applying tests, because, as the
finest manifestations are generally spontaneous, unlooked for,
and rarely repeated, and take place when mediums are free
and happy, surrounded by those whom they love and trust,
and who love and trust them, persons in the above predicament
can never witness anything exceptional. Let sceptics make
what they like of this. I suppose it is a law that “ to him that
hath shall be given.”
On Saturday the first face presented was that of an old man,
whom Mrs. Cook and her sister, Miss Till, soon recognised as
their father. The face had black, shaggy eyebrows, dark eyes,
along nose, and sunken mouth. It retreated, and re-presented
itself five successive times, so that there was plenty of time
for recognition, and it once spoke a few words at the opening ;
the spirit then showed his hands, of which the fingers were
contracted, as had been the case with Mr. Till in his old age.
All this time Miss Cook was not entranced, but was making
her remarks on the doings and appearance of the spirit, talk¬
ing in a distinctly audible voice from the bottom of the
cabinet, while the old man’s head was at the opening. Mrs.
Cook told us this was the first time also that any spirit, except
Katie, had spoken at the window ; another consequence,
doubtless, of good conditions.
It seemed almost a pity that there were no carping critics
present; and yet, if they had come, there would have been
constraint instead of freedom, effort instead of ease, and a
great expenditure of power with very poor results. As it
was, when Miss Cook, after sitting rather less than an hour,
came out of the cabinet, she said she was not in. the least
tired, and did not feel as if she had given a seance at all.
When Katie herself came and showed a fair complexioned,
large, massive face, and mouth set with brilliantly white
teeth, I failed to see in it any resemblance to her medium,
and my mother, who saw Katie now for the first time, ex¬
pressed her surprise that a comparison should ever have been
made between them. I have, however, under more strict test
conditions, seen in the spirit-face a very striking resemblance
to Miss Cook, and I can fully sympathise with those who ex¬
perience a shock or a feeling of suspicion when viewing for
the first time these astounding phenomena, and without
having any previous knowledge of kindred facts with which
to associate them.
By-and-bye Katie put out a large hand and arm, bare to
the elbow, and asked for the guitar, which she drew from me
with a vigorous pull through the opening. How could Miss
Cook have done this, seeing that her low chair, even when she
stood upon it, did not raise her to the level of the opening,
and that there was not even so much as a peg on the wall on
which to balance herself while thrusting a bare arm down¬
wards through the hole ? Katie could make nothing of the
guitar ; it was “ flat,” she said, and she would have the con¬
certina. On this a slow tune was played with great expres¬
sion inside the cabinet, while a voice sang to it in the thril¬
ling tones of a high soprano. Those who have heard Miss
Cook sing, know that her voice inclines to a contralto. Katie
next asked me, to my astonishment, to sing the song beginning
“ Du Mst die Ruk', der Friede mild”
and she would follow me. “ But,” I said, “ Katie, you can¬
not sing the German words.” “ Oh, can’t I,” she said. “ My
medium can’t, but I am not so stupid ; you try me.” I sang
the song through, and the same clear, bell-like voice again
followed mine, pronouncing the German perfectly. “ Now,
repeat the lines ending Schmerz and Herz,” she said ; “ I like
the rhyme so much.” An Italian song was gone through in
like manner. “ Next time I’ll do it alone ; good-bye, now; let
the medium out.”
I opened the doors, and found Miss Cook fallen forward in
her usual trance-state, in which she had apparently been
during the whole of the musical manifestation. I should have
mentioned that, while the concertina was playing, two hands
were exhibited at the opening.
If I have written rather a long letter about what has been
so often described, it is because the variations on this par¬
ticular occasion, though apparently trivial, have, to my mind,
an important bearing, which I think will be appreciated by the
more thoughtful and experienced of your readers. I therefore
beg you to insert it in justice to Miss Cook, and all honest
mediums, for an attack upon one hiust be considered as an
imputation upon all. Emily Kislingbury.
93,' Clarendon-road, N.W. Feb. 24th.
MEN AND WOMEN.
Sir,—Mr. White’s remarks on Mrs. Somerville recall a
slight particular bearing upon this subject, which I heard
related some years ago. Mrs. Somerville, it was said, did not
commence her scientific researches, nor discover her talent
for mathematics, until after her marriage, which took place
comparatively late in life. Her interest in these studies was
awakened, and the stimulus given to her researches by her
husband. I cannot vouch for the truth of this statement, but
it might be partially tested by any person interested com¬
paring the date of Mrs. Somerville’s marriage and of the pub¬
lication of her scientific works.
This cannot, however, be considered as giving support to
the argument that women do hot love science for its own
sake. Mrs. Somerville’s studies must have tended more or
less in this direction from an early age, or her mind would
have been unfit to grasp the subjects she is said to have
handled so successfully. Elizabeth Barrett, also, was a pro¬
ficient in Greek and Latin before she became acquainted with
Robert Browning. Adamanta.
Yerieication oe a Dream.—Some years ago when all
the world was mad upon lotteries, the cook of a middle-aged
gentleman drew from his hands the savings of some years.
Her master, curious to know the cause, learned that she had
repeatedly dreamed that a-certain number was a great prize,
so she had bought it. He called her a fool for her pains, and
never omitted an occasion to tease her upon the subject. One
day, however, the master saw in the newspaper, or at his
bookseller’s in the country town, that the number was actually
the £20,000 prize. Cook is called up, a palaver ensues—had
known each other many years, loth to part, &c.—in short he
proposes and is accepted, but insists upon the marriage being
celebrated next morning. Married they were, and as the
carriage took them from the church, they enjoy the following
dialogue. “ Well, Molly, two happy events in one day. You
have married, I trust, a good husband. You have something
else—but first let me ask you where you have locked up your
lottery ticket ? ” Molly, who thought that her master was
only bantering her again on the old point, cried,Don’t ye
say no more about it. I thought how it would be, and that I
never should hear the end on’t, so I sold it to our baker for a
guinea profit. So you need never be angry with me again
about that. ”—Blackwood's Magazine.
March 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
127
Me. Daewin was one of the subscribers to the fund for the
benefit of the widow of the late Mr. J. W. Jackson.
Colonel A. Lane Fox, Y.P.S.A., of 10, Upper Philli-
more-gardens, Kensington, W., has been appointed a member
of the Psychological Committee of the Anthropological
Institute.
Peofessoe Peppee in Canada.—On "Wednesday, Jan.
22nd, Professor Pepper, of the Royal Polytechnic Institute,
London, delivered in the Music-hall, Quebec, the first of his
series of three lectures, under the auspices of the Young
Men’s Christian Association, the subject being “ The Apparent
Contradiction of Science.” There was a large audience.
ANSWEES 10 COEEESPONDENXS.
A Correspondent writes:—“In page 103 of The Spiritualist Mr.
Theobald asks where the song, ‘ I live for those who love me,’
can be bought ? It is by Pelzer, and is sold by Blockley, 3,
Argy 11-street, Regent-street, W.”
W. S.—-"The words “first picture” in our last note to you, should
have been “ first spurious picture.”
L.—The joint in the string at Miss Cook’s seance, described in our
last, was in the part behind her back. The two ends of the string
did not overlap each other at the joint, and touched so evenly
that the question was raised whether there was any severance of
the string at all. A lady then pulled out some ends of fibres.
The string was of the coarsest and commonest kind, ragged and
uneven, quite unfit for use for a serious purpose. Dr. John
Purdon, of Sandown, who once had a much worse seance with
Miss Cook than Lord Arthur Russell had, wrote her two cheer¬
ing kindly letters directly after he saw the last number of the
Spiritualist, expressing also his full confidence in her integrity,
and in the genuineness of her mediumship.
Just published,
WHAT AM I ? A Popular Introduction to Psychology.
By EDWARD W. COX, Serjeant-at-Law. Vol. I. The ME¬
CHANISM of MAN. Price 8s. 6d.
Contents.
CHAP.
1. Introduction.
2. What am I?
3. The Man.
4. How we Grow.
5. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the Will.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling -and its
Destiny.
31. Soul—Spirit—Anima.
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. The Natural and the Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery.
45. Conclusions.
London: Longman and Co., Paternoster-];ow.
Foolscap 8vo., cloth. Published at 3s., now offered at 2s.; post free, 2s. 3d.
THE MENTAL CURE: illustrating tbe Influence of
the Mind on the Body both in Health and Disease, and the Psycho¬
logical Method .of Treatment, by Rev. W. F. Evans, author of “The
Celestial Dawn,” “ The Happy Islands,” “ The New Age and its Messen¬
ger,” &c., &c., &c.
Glasgow: James M'Geachy, 89, Union-street.
G. H. ANDREWS,
TAILOR, &c.,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, FOUNDLING, W.O.J
BEGS to inform Gentlemen, wbo may honour him with
their patronage, they can be supplied with clothes cut in the most
fashionable manner, good materials, and sound workmanship, at very
moderate charges. Fit and style perfect, having been many years in the
well-known firm of Messrs. Pulford and Co., 65, St. James’s Street.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
Trousers, from   0 13 6 1 Black Suit, from  3 0 0
YeSts. ... ...   0 7 0 | Unrivalled Black Doe. 110
Tweed Suit ... ... ... ...   £2 10s. Od.
And all other Garments at the same moderate charges.
TJIEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
Vice-Patrons.
His Grace the Duke of Argyll, EL.T.
Her Grace the Duchess of Argyll.
The Baroness de Rothschild.
The Countess de NoaiUes.
President—The Right Honourable the Earl of Shaftesbury, K.G.
Treasurer—Henry Charles Stephens, Esq., 171, Aldersgate-street, E.C.
Honorary Secretary—James Edinunds, Esq., M.D.
Lady Secreta/ry—Mrs. Blangy.
Bankers—The London and County Bank, 441, Oxford-street.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects :—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume Demy 8vo.,
pp.780, price 7s. 6d.
EMANGEL SWEDENBORG: HIS LIFE AND
WRITINGS. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the
Doctrines, and the other-world Experiences of the great Swede are concisely
and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin and Condition of the
S wedenborgian Sect. The Volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engravings,
by Mr. C. H. Jeens—I. Jesper Svedberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80.
“ It is by the profusion of his extracts, the honesty of his comments, and
the picturesque detail with which he crowds his pages, that Mr. White at
once captivates attention. The work may be described as a long exhaustive
gossip about Swedenborg, his writings, and his disciples; pleasant thought¬
ful gossip from a mind which impresses you as being kindly and truthful
above the common. We can with confidence assure thoughtful readers
that there is more to interest them in Mr. White’s biography than in any
work of the year whose professed object is to entertain.”—Puff Mall Gazette.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
LIST of SUBSCRIPTIONS to partially meet the
EXPENSES of the FORTNIGHTLY PUBLICATION of “The
Spieitualist ”:—
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
“ A Friend at a Distance!
A. L. Elder, Esq., per Benjamin Coleman,
W. Tebb, Esq  
Enmore Jones, Esq 
C. F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S.
Mrs. E. M. Cox  
“ Truthseeker ” (Liverpool)
Sir Charles Isham, Bart....
Thomas Grant, Esq 
J. C. Luxmoore, Esq.
Friends atBrixton:—
Miss Ponder ... ... ...
Miss E. Ponder ... ...
Mrs. Rudd  
“Longfellow”  
Mr. Withall  
Mr. E. Bird 
Mr. George Dawson ...
Mr. Dawson Rogers ...
Mr.Rogers   ...
Mr. Despiond Fitzgerald
Mrs. Gunyon 
isq
“Bitterness’ ...      
“A Friend,” Temple ... ... ... ...
N. F. Daw, Esq.   ... ...
Richard Beamish, Esq., F.R.S;
James Wason, Esq 
The Countess of Caithness ... ...
Mr. and Mrs. Edmiston  
Algernon Joy, Esq 
John Beattie, Esq   
G. Thomson, Esq., M.D 
Mrs. Robert Campbell ..v  
“ A Friend,” Manchester  
Benjamin Coleman, Esq   ...
E. Musgrave, Esq 
£ s. d.
10 0
10 0
10 0
10 0
10 0
10 0
10 0
10 0
10 0
10 0
10 0
“V.”  ....      
Oscar von Hoffmann (Leipzig)   ...
“A Friend,” F.R.S     ...
Miss Kislingbury       
G. Nelson Strawbridge, Esq   
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory 
Miss J. H. Douglas
“AFriend”   ...  
John' E. Purdon, Esq,, M.B.  
Mrs. Hennings      ...
J. Craig, Esq     ...  
G. D. (Hackney), Balance in excess of publishing account
£ s. d.
15 0 0
10 0 0
5 5 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
8 0 0
4 4 0
3 3 0
3 3 0
3 3 0
3 3 0
2 2 '0
2 2 0
2 0 0
2 0 0
10 0
10 0
110
110
110
110
1 0 0
1 0 0
10 0
10 0
10 0
10 0
10 0
10 0
10 0
0 10 0
0 8 6
Subscriptions in aid of this object may be remitted to N. Fabyan Dav,
Esq., treasurer, Portman.chambers, Portman-square, W.; Benjamin
Coleman, Esq., Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood; or to Enmore Jones, Esq.,
Enmore-park, South Norwood, S.E.
128
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 1, 1873.
HOW TO FORM' SPIRIT CIRCLES; ■
An experimentartrial at home, among family friends and relatives,
often gives the most satisfactory evidence of the reality, of spiritual
phenomena, and this is; thie. best way for enquirers tobegin. At
the same time, as no'fully developed medium is'1 present among
those who havenever obtained manifestations’before, possibly there
may be no, results. Nevertheless,.it ds^afvery,common thing for
striking manifestations to be ^obtained in this way at the .first sit¬
ting of a family circle; perhaps'for every successful new, circle
thus started without a medium, there are three'or four failures,1 but
no accurate statistics on this .’point have yet been collected.
Consequently, to save time, investigators should do as the'Dia¬
lectical Society did, form several new circles, with no Spiritualist
or professional medium present, and at one-or other of them-re¬
sults will probably be obtained. When once manifestations'have
been obtained they will gradually increase in power and reliability
at successive sittings.' The following is'a good plan of action;—'
-1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.'
2. Let the circle consist of four, five,-or-six. individuals, about the same
number , of . each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table,.with all .the.
palms of the hands in contact with its . top surface. . "Whether the hands
touch'eaCh other or not is usually of no, importance. Any table will do,'
just large enough to conveniently'accommodate the sitters. The removal
of; a hand from the table for a few seconds; does no harm,’ but when one of
the sitters "breaks the circle by leaving, "the .table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some , pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table,' to'write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent'manifestations,' except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is. well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be' of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members pf the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible'power at work is often a feeling like
a Cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. "When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that'three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is, understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” " Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask,“‘"Who is the'medium?”; When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to'test* the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.- • '
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very'sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained -when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy;-the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, 'Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart, M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows; —
“ H. G. Atkinson, Esq.. F.Gf.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim,
Esq., O.E.; H. R. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.;. G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq, M.D.; Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.R.; D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D;; Mrs. Edmunds; James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.Q.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.: Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; 0. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph D.; William Yolckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans, Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq. ; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq;, Solicitor; Alfred R;Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring iiito the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con-
.trivauce— - r - ' . . .< -• j
i ■“ 2.>-.That movements of heavy bodies stake place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate .exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
• “ 3. -That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
o f signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
. One"of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported
{ ,“Your"committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid'mediums.All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, 'of unimpeachable integrity, with no . pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.”
| In another part of the report the same committee stated:—
! “After a committee of eleven persons had been sitting round a dining
table for forty minutes, and various motions and sounds had occurred,, the
chairs were turned with their backs to the table, at about nine inches from
it. All present then knelt upon their chairs,, placing their aims upon the
backs-of the chairs: In this position, the feet were of course turned away
from the table, and by no possibility could-be placed under it or , touch the
floor. The hands were extended over the table at about four inches from '
the surface:
; “ In .this position, contact with any parti, of the table was physically im¬
possible.
,“Tn Jess than a minute the table, untouched, moved four times ; at first
about inches to one sidej then about twelve inches to the opposite side,
then about four inches, and then about six inches.
“ The hands were next placed on the backs of the chairs and about a foot
from the table. In this position, the table again moved four times,-over
spaces varying from four to six inches.; Then all the chairs were removed
twelve inches from the table. All knelt as before. Each person folded his
hands behind his back, his body being about eighteen inches from the
table, and having the back of the chair between himself and the table." In
this position the table again moved four times, in like manner as before
In the course of this conclusive experiment, and in less than half an hour,
the table moved, without contact or possibility of contact with any person
present, twelve times, the movements being in different directions, [and
some according to the request of different persons present.
“The table was then carefully examined, turned upside down, and taken
to pieces, but nothing was discovered. The experiment was conducted
throughout in the full light of gas above the table.
“Altogether your committee have witnessed upwards of fifty similar
motions without contact on eight different evenings, in the houses of
different members of your committee, aud with the application of the most
careful tests their collective intelligence could devise.”
TO INEBRIATES AND THEIR FRIENDS.
Just published, limp, Is. 6d.; cloth 2s.,
ON INEBRIETY, Continuous and Periodical, considered
as the Result of Physical Disease, and distinct from the Vice of
Intemperance: its- Causes, Nature, Treatment, and Cure, showing the
curability of the worst cases of Intemperance. By Sylvanus Harris, M.D.
^Pennsylvania). .
HAMMOND and CO., 20, Catherine-street, Strand; or post free from the
Author, 14, Serle-street, Lincoln’s-inn, "W.C. '
DEDICATED (by permission) to Sir WALTER TREVELYAN, Bart, i
"Will shortly be Published, price 2s. 6d., with a Portrait of the Smuggler
engraved from a Photograph by Jambs Partridge, Esq.
THE.LAST OF THE SMUGGLERS: being tbe
Autobiography of "William Rattenbury, of Beer, Devon.
Descriptions of this work have already appeared in “ The Graphic ” for
9th December, 1871, and the “Dark Blue” Magazine for September, 1872.
It is interesting as recording very faithfully the Devonshire idiom, and also
as illustrating a curious phase of English domestic history. It was at the
persuasion of Mr. Glasscott, the late Vicar of Seaton and Beer, that Ratten¬
bury wrote the autobiography, which has been read in its manuscript form
by many visitors to those Devonshire villages, and is now put into the
publishers’ hands in the hope of realising some small sum which may save
the aged smuggler from the workhouse. Mr. Ruskin, who has read the
original manuscript, writes:—“I shall have much pleasure in subscribing
for two copies of the ‘Life of the Old Smuggler,’ and am glad'it is to be
published.”
Amongst other subscribers are the following:—Earl-of Devon, the Earl
of Pembroke, Lady Mary Herbert, Lady Taunton, Sir John D. Coleridge,
M.P., Sir "Walter 0. Trevelyan, Bart., Sir Charles E. Trevelyan, K.C.B., Sir
John Bowring, Admiral Sir Jas. D. H. Elphinstone, Bart., M.P., Sir Massey
Lopes, Bart., M.P., Sir Stafford H. Northcote, M.P., Sir Sydney H. Waterlow,
Admiral-Sir-Thomas Pasley, Bart., Sir Frederick Bathurst, Lady Rolle, Lady
Jane Swinburne, Sir Charles Isham, the Hon. Mark Rolle, J. Gwynne
Holf6rd,’Esq."’ M.P., S.Morley, Esq.,M.P., Dr. John Brown (“RabandHis
Fri’ends.”), Dante G Rossetti, Esq, John Forster, Esq., A. Locker, Esq.
(“Graphic”); Mrs. Garrett Anderson, M.D., Rev. Canon Kingsley, Rev. J.
Llewelyn Davies, Rev, C. A. Johns, W. D. Christie, Esq,, C.B., W. Cave
Thomas, Esq."; Rev. H. Vyvyan (Vicar of Seaton and Beer),-Charles Hutton
Gregory, Esq., C.E., Captain Dalrymple Elphinstone, R.N. Rev. Compton
Reade, Mrs. Stirling, Algernon C. Swinburne, Esq., William Morris, Esq.,
(Earthly Paradise), F. Madox Brown, Esq., B. Coleman, Esq., P. McLagan,
Esq., M.P., Jos.'Aspinwall, Esq., &e., &c.
Persons interested are requested to send their names and addresses as
soon as possible to Mr. George Fraser, 3, Middleton-road, Camden-road,
London, N.
BEYERIDGE & FRASER, Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of -Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Fraser, at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
