.Ill mi HIJI.I ipiiiii III.J Iiu 1„ I\m
AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE,
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
1=1
No. 82.—(Vol. IY.—No. 12.) LONDON: MARCH 20j 1874. Published Weekly; Price Threepence
Contents.
Miss Cook’s Mediutuship   ...    ...' ...
Electrical Experiments with Miss Cook when Entranced
- Spiritualism and the Archbishop of Canterbury
Lavater’s Letters to the Empress Marie of Russia ...
The British National Association of Spiritualists ...
Private Seances   ....  
Cremation •...     ...   
Spirit Forms         ...
Poetry ... ...    ... ...■ ...    ... ...
Correspondence—National Association of Spiritualists
Miss Lottie Fowler in Glasgow   ...
■ The Sunday Spiritual Meetings   ...
The, London Anthropological Society—Spiritualism among Uncul-
‘ tured People Compared with Modem Spiritualism—Spiritualism
among the Brahmims..   ...
Paragraphs—Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism;
Seance at Mrs. Gregory’s         
133
134
136
136
138
138
139
139
140
140
141
141
142
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
TjTT'HERE ARE THE DEAD? or, SPIRITUALISM
T T EXPLAINED.
■ Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing, of spirits j proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and'can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
"PHce 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London: Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1873.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mx. John Lamont.
Secretary.
Mr. John Davidson, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. "William Meredith.
Mr. G. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. R. Casson.
Mr. D. Gay.
Mr. T. B. Griffin.
Mr, Riece.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale,
Mrs. Casson.
Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. John Lamont.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
Mr. Bretherton. I Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
- Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday,"the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for thb consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Association are
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as-a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tem., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Richard Fitton, Secretary pro tem.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISTS.—Sunday Evening Services are Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o’clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
R. Pearce, Hon. Sec.
MRS. CORA L. V. TAPPAN’S INSPIRATIONAL
DISCOURSES at the Cleveland Hall, Cleveland-street, Oxford-
street. Ths Committee have arranged for the delivery of these dis¬
courses at 7 o’clock every Sunday evening till April 5th, inclusive.
The expenses are not nearly covered by the sale of tickets and col¬
lections.
Donations or Subscriptions in aid will be received by the Treasurer,
Mrs. Honywood, 52, War wick-square, S.W.
Tickets can be had at the doors; also at Chappells; at Oliviers, Bond-
street, and at Burns’s, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom. Reserved seats 2s.
and Is. each. Body of the hall free.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and .on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAYENSCROFT, Manager.
SPIRITUALISM.
On Tuesday, March 24th, 1874,
A LECTURE
Will be delivered at the Unitarian Chapel, South-terrace (opposite
the Cricket Ground), Hastings, by
DAVID H. WILSON, M.A., L.L.M., (Cantab.) |
Subject:—“Is the Spiritual Theory a rational deduction from the
evidences of Spiritualism ‘
The chair will be taken at 8 p.m., by the Rev.'Jbhn A. Briggs.
Truthseekers of every shade of thought are invited.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 20, 1874
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS IS TO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.)
I
NSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance Medium).
President.—Mx. Alfred E. Lovell.
Mrs. 0. A. Blyton,
Mr. George Blyton,
Mrs. Amelia Comer,
Mrs. Theresa Wood,
Council.
Mr. A. M. Greene,
Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mr. B. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
A. M. Greene, Secretary, pro. tem.
A DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on hear¬
ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, and in¬
vestigation instituted, the- alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might be
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 15th September, 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter careful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modem Spiritualism.'
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations (vide Buie IX). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordi¬
nary seance held on the first Thursday even ingin each month, on introduction
by a Member. Th$ last Thursday evening in each month Is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on the first Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Booms of the
Association, 74, Xavarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelope
should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“ The prayer over he commenced an eloquent and philosophical address
on modern Spiritualism.”—North- Western Daily Times.
“ The medium then passed into what is termed the trance state, and in
clear and forcible language, with a readiness of expression and fluency of
utterance delivered a discourse on Spiritualism.”—Liverpool Daily Albion.
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lecturer, or what¬
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram¬
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature and its Needs’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery... . He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!”—South Wales Press.
“ Those who are intellectually inclined, and desire to know what Spirit¬
ualism is as taught by the spirits, will learn more in an hour’s conversation
with Mr. Morse’s guides than in months of misdirected seeking.”—Medium.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.”—Spiritualist.
“ Mr. Morse is what is called a speaking-medium, of no mean order, for
he kept crowded audiences intently listening each evening for above an hour
and a half to his certainly most powerful and accomplished addresses.”—
Darlington and Richmond Herald.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
Dalston association of enquirers into
SPIBITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Booms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Buies on application to the Secretary.
ALFEED E. LOVELL, President.
Mr. A. M. GBEENE, Secretary pro. tern.
TEE ST, JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. B. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. E. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, 1 Miss Banger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—TAx. Bichard Pearce.
ERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
into England the subject attracted attention in [Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
thisAssocciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Booms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
ARON FRANKLIN, PRESERVER. OF BIRDS AND
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOB OF NATUBE. Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’-heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. Aaron Franklin, 100, Suf-
folk-street, Birmingham.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBBABY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Eingslaud.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
Brice 2s. 6d.
LIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND.—
Showing the harmony of things spiritual with things material.
“The tone of the book is exceedingly pure and good."—Christian Spiri¬
tualist.
*** A list of spiritual and mesmeric works on application.
London: Bailliere and Co., King William-street, Strand,
MB. J. J. MOBSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
Mr. Morse holds a seance every Friday evening, at 8 o’clock, at 15, Southamp¬
ton-row, W.C., when he is in London, where letters', &c., may be addressed,
or to his private residence, Warwick Cottage, Old Ford, Bow, E.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
Presidents.
Mr. F. Cowper. | Mr. C. Hunt.
Treasurer.—Mr. Whitley.
Librarian.—Mr. Maynard, 103, Lisson-grove.
Secretary.
Mr. O. White, 4, Gray-street, Manchester-square, W.
The Membership Subscription is Is. per Quarter, which admits to full
fellowship, including use of books from the Progressive Library. Seances
are held weekly, to afford members an opportunity of becoming acquainted
with the Phenomena. Members are assisted in the formation of new
circles. A public meeting is held every Wednesday evening at the
Hall of Progress, 90, Church-street, Paddington, at 8 o’clock. 
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing to
become affiliated, are requested 1o communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. Thomas Blyton, 12, High-street, Bow, London, E., of whom
copies of the Constitution and Buies may be had upon application.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
2ymwm\—Herbert N. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane.
Offices.—64, BEBNEBS STEEET.
  Hon. Sec.—Mrs. Lowe (LoriSA).
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PBAOTIOAL BOOKBINDEB, STATIONEB, BOOKSELLEE, LETTEB-
PBESS, COPPEB-PLATE, AND LITHOGBAPHIO PBINTEB,
ENGEAVEB, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Spiritualist Newspaper.
The alleged identification of the
ENGLISH NATION WITH THE “LOST HOUSE OF ISBAEL.”
By A. L. Lewis, Honorary Secretary, London Anthropological Society.
Being a Paper read before the British Association for the Advancement of
Science (Brighton Meeting), and before the London Anthropological
Society, with the Discussions thereon. Beprinted from Anthropologia,
No. 2 (by permission of the Council of tlje London Anthropological Society).
With the addition of an Append on the alleged Scriptural Evidence. The
whole showing that Englishmen are not Israelites.
London: Published by the Author, at 4, St. Paul’s-ehurchyard, E.C. 1874.
  Price Sixpence. 
CHILDISH FANCIES.
Twenty short pieces in various keys for the pianoforte, composed by
CHAELTON TEMPLEMAN SPEEE (^)ts. 13).
Dedicated to Mrs. Denis, Fairbrook House, Rathfamham, Dublin.
PBICE THEEE SHILLINGS.
London: Published by B. Limpus, at the College of Organists, 41, Queen-
square, Bloomsbury.
% ^urir tip Jrujrm xr| f|| ntfo t\ ^pijjiiMlbmt
VOiLUjVIE FOUR. jHU]Y[BEF( TWELVE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MARCH 20th, 1874.
Spntttalbt gefospapr
Established ih 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch
Beduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually tom up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.O.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous 'Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E, W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions,':—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of 11 The Spiritualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be infoi'med of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Bochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Keamey-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-toad,
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst.—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thomfeldt, Main-ttreet.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churehyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny,
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 10s., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
J1EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—A, Fitzroy-square, W.
MISS COOK’S MEDIUMSHIP.
In order to ascertain whether the entranced Miss
Cook is.inside the cabinet while “Katie” is outside,
Mr. 0. F. Varley, F.R.S., conceived the idea of passing
a weak electrical current through the body of the
medium all the time the manifestations were going on,
and reading off the results by means of a reflecting gal¬
vanometer in the room outside." Mr. Charles Black¬
burn and Mr. J. C. Luxmoore kindly gave facilities for
the trial of these experiments; indeed, they were comr
menced at the house of the latter gentleman about three
weeks ago.
On the first evening of the experiments, when Mr,
William Crookes, F.R.S. was also present, a piece of
blotting paper wetted with a solution of nitrate of am¬
monia was placed on each of the arms of Miss Cook. A
sovereign was placed upon each of the pieces of wet
blotting paper, and connected with the battery by
means of platinum wires, the sovereigns being held in
position by pieces of elastic. Thus the body of the
medium was placed in the electrical circuit, as were
also a reflecting galvanometer and two sets of resistance
coils.
All through the seance the current flowed through the
galvanometer, showing that the circuit was never for
an instant broken, as it would have been had the wires
been taken off the arms of Miss Cook; moreover, had
they been taken off and the ends of the wires joined to¬
gether, the increased flow of electricity due to the re¬
moval of the electrical resistance caused by the body of
the medium, would instantly have increased the de¬
flection very greatly; instead of this, there was a
gradual and irregular decrease of deflection, caused
chiefly by the gradual drying of the blotting paper.
While Katie was actively engaged outside the cabinet,
the motions of her arms were such that had the wires
been then attached to her, Mr. Yarley said that oscil¬
lations of from ten to thirty divisions must have been
produced on the galvanometer, which, however, give
but slight oscillations when she was most active.
On the second occasion Mr. Crookes carried on the ex¬
periments, Mr. Yarley being absent. He obtained
similar results, but allowed only enough slack wire to
permit the medium, had she moved, to appear at the
opening of the curtains of the dark room used as a
cabinet. But Katie came six or eight feet outside the
curtains, into the room; no wires were attached to her,
and all this time the electrical tests were perfect. More¬
over, Mr. Crookes asked Katie to dip her hands in a
dish of a solution of iodide of potassium, which she did,
and it caused no motion of the galvanometer needle;
had the wires been attached to Katie, the liquid would
have given a short circuit to the current, and caused
an increased deflection.
Last Tuesday Mr. Harrison sent the following letter
to the Medium newspaper :—
134
THE. SPIRITUALIST.
March 20, 1874.
To the Editor of “ The Medium.'"
Sib,—As I chanced to be present recently at some seances at
which Mr. C. F. Varley and Mr. William Crookes passed a weak
electrical current through the body of Miss Cook, all the time
she was in the cabinet, and Katie was outside it, I have been re¬
quested by some of those present to send you. the results, for the
purpose of removing some of the effects of the disgraceful
attacks which have been made upon the character of a truthful
and reliable medium. Katie had no wires attached to her when
she came outside the cabinet. While she was outside the
cabinet the electrical circuit was not broken, as it must have
been had the wires been disconnected from the arms of Miss
Cook, unless the ends of the disconnected wires were joined
together. But in the latter case, the diminution of the elec¬
trical resistance would have instantly been made visible upon
the indicating instrument. The experiments made prove in
many ways that Miss Cook is inside the cabinet while Katie is
outside. The experiments have been carried on partly at the
residence of Mr. Luxmoore, and partly at the residence
of Mr. Crookes. This letter has been inspected by Mr. Crookes
and Mr. Varley, and is sent you with their approval.
William H. Harrison.
11, Ave Maria-lane, March 17th, 1874.
We have been favoured with an article on this sub¬
ject by Mr. Yarley, which is appended.
ELECTRICAL EXPERIMENTS WITH MISS COOK
WHEN ENTRANCED.
BY CROMWELL E. VARLEY, E.R.S.
The experiments in question were made at the house
of Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, J.P., 16, Grloucester-square,
Hyde-park, W. The back drawing-room was separated
from the front by a thick curtain, to exclude the light
of the front room from the back room, which was used
as a dark cabinet. The doors of the dark room were
locked, and the room searched before the seance began.
The front room was illuminated by a shaded paraffin
lamp turned low. The galvanometer used in the ex¬
periment was placed on the mantel-piece ten or eleven
feet from the curtains. The following observers were
present:—Mr. Luxmoore, Mr. William Crookes, P.R.S.,
Mrs. Crookes, Mrs. Cook, Mr. G. R. Tapp, Mr. Harri¬
son, and myself. Mr. Crookes sat close to the curtain
on one side, and Mr. Luxmoore on the other.
Miss Cook was placed in an arm-chair, in the room
which was subsequently to serve as a darkened cabinet.
Two sovereigns, to which platinum wires had been
soldered, were attached one to each of her arms a little
above her wrists, by means of elastic rings. Between
the sovereigns and the skin three layers of thick white
blotting paper, moistened with solution of nitrate of
ammonia, were placed. The platinum wires were
attached to her arms, and led up to her shoulders, so as
to allow of the free movement of her limbs. To each
platinum wire was attached a thin cotton-covered
copper wire, which led into the light room, where the
sitters were to be located. Thick curtains separated
the two rooms, so as to leave Miss Cook in the dark
when the curtains were down.
The conducting wires were connected with the two
cells of a Daniell’s battery, and a regular cable-testing
apparatus. When all was ready the back room was
darkened, the current passing through the body of the
medium the whole evening.
The batteries had been newly charged, and by tests
made before and after the seance, they were found not
to have varied more than one per cent. The current
through the medium diminished gradually, excepting
at certain times stated further on, in consequence of
the drying of the blotting paper, which increased the
resistance between the sovereigns and the skin.
Mr. W. H. Harrison, who was present, recorded the
readings and my remarks, and timed them with a chro¬
nometer, as I, from time to time, dictated. The cur¬
rent from the two cells flowed through the galvanometer,
the resistance cells, and Miss Cook, then back to the
battery. The electrical resistance of the body of the
medium produced 220 divisions on the scale of the
reflecting galvanometer at seven o’clock, and when the
two sovereigns were united, it gave a deflection of 300
divisions. The blotting paper dried gradually, and at
7.17 p.m. the deflection had fallen to 197 divisions.
Prior to the medium being entranced, she was re¬
quested to move her hands about, which, by varying
the amount of metallic surface in actual contact with
the paper and skin, produced deflections of from 15 to
30 divisions, and sometimes more ; consequently, if,
during the seance, she moved her hands at all, the fact
was instantly rendered visible by the galvanometer.
In fact. Miss Cook took the place of a telegraph cable,
under electrical test.
In the course of the evening, the following readings
were obtained and remarks recorded. The current
was not interrupted an instant during the whole seance.
Had the circuit been broken for only one-tenth of a
second, the galvanometer would have moved over 200
divisions.
I was placed at the end of the table ten or eleven
feet from the curtain, and only once was I allowed to
go nearer, viz., a minute or two before the seance was
over.
Our room being dimly illuminated, my eyes were
rendered less sensitive than those of the other observers,
because I was for the greater part of the time closely
watching the bright reflected image from the galvano¬
meter, but when I looked at Katie the lamp was for a
few seconds turned up to let me have a better view.
Katie was much like the medium, Miss Cook, and I
said to her, “ You look exactly like your medium.”
She said, “ Yeth, yeth !” I was therefore very anxious
to see if, when she moved her hands and arms, any
variation took place in the strength of the electric
current; sometimes there was a variation; at others,
viz., when she opened and closed her fist, and also
when she was writing there was no variation.
Towards the close of the seance the room was
darkened, and Katie allowed fne to approach her. She
then let me grasp her hand; it was a long one, very
cold and clammy. A minute or two afterwards, Katie
told me to go into the dark chamber to detrance Miss
Cook. I found her in a deep trance, huddled together
in her easy chair, her head lying upon her left shoulder,
her right hand hanging down. Her hand was small,
warm, and dry, and not long, cold, and clammy like
Katie’s.
In the course of two or three minutes she came out
of the trance, when Messrs. Luxmoore and BCrookes
came in with a light.
The sovereigns, blotting paper, and wires were ex¬
actly as I had left them, viz,, attached to her arms by
pieces of elastic.
I was so much exhausted after this seance that I was
obliged to discontinue the experiments. [I have lent
my apparatus to Mr. Crookes, and have been to his
house and tested the apparatus before Mr. Crookes,
using his son (who is not a medium) in place of Miss
Cook, who was not present.]
March 20, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
135
Mr. Crookes is unaffected by physical seances, but I
always am very much exhausted by them. Notwith¬
standing so much vital power is taken from me, my
presence very often weakens, or altogether' stops the
production of the phenomena.
The following table gives the readings and the
phenomena as they were noted down:—
Battery power two cells Daniells; resistance about four Ohms per cell.
Resistance of Galvanometer   39,000 Ohms.
„ „ Coils ... ...   ... 10,000 „
Total resistance before the medium was put in
circuit ... ... ... ... 49,000 „
TABLE.
Battery through 49,000 Ohms produced on the Galvanometer 300 divisions on
the scale; when Miss Cook in circuit also, 220.
Time.
p.m.
7.10
1
N 13
14
„ 15
I 16
i) 18
„ 19
„ 20
21
22
„ 23
24
R 25
» 29
1 27
» 28
29
„ 30
I 31 «
I 32
» 33
1 34
| 85
,,86
! 36i
Deflection.
220
200 to 260
220
220
210 -
220
200
197
197
195
196
195
194
195
194
195
193
196
195
193
191
190
189
191
191
192
192
193
191 to 195
193
192
193
189
191 v
186
176
174
171
155
155
151
148
153
151
164
157
155
154
156
154
153
157
154
155
152
152
151
152
135
150
Remarks.
Miss Cook in circuit, 23,000 Ohms when wrists
and fists moved.
Seance beginning.
The medium has shifted her position.
Ditto Ditto.
Katie whispered, her voice being recognised by
Mr. and Mrs. Crookes, 5fr. Luxmoore, Mrs. Cook,
Mr. Harrison, and Mr. Tapp.
Fluctuating. Medium apparently uneasy, and
moving about.
A fall of 36 divisions in one minute. Miss Cook
has evidently shifted her position and has proba¬
bly moved the sovereigns a little in so doing. No
break of circuit however. See note A.
“ Katie ” looked out from under the curtain on
the side next to Mr. Luxmoore, who was on her
left; this movement on her part required a motion
of her hands. Galvanometer moved five divisions.
Katie showed herself again as before for a few
seconds, lifting curtain as before. Galvanometer
did not move more than three divisions.
■ Ditto Ditto.
• Ditto Ditto.
Katie showed her hands, I did not see them, all
the others did; I was too far away and watching
Galvanometer.
. Showed herself again for a moment.
Katie showed her hand and arm, Galvanometer
fell seventeen divisions Ml Note B.
Katie showed both arms which she freely moved
about. Galvanometer rose 15, then 6, in all 21
divisions 111
Time.
p.m.
7.37
„ 38
„ 39
1 40
,i 41
„ 42
„ 43
„ 44
„ 45
,, 46
,, 47
48
Deflection.
156
156
155
157
155 to 157
157
155
156
156
155
157
156
158
146
149
150
147
150
146
Remarks.
( Katie appeared on the other side of the curtain
< close to Mr. Crookes. Showed both of her arms.
(I saw this.
f Katie put her hand on Mr. Crookes’s head, who
-< said it felt cold. I saw this. No movement of
(_Galvanometer. Excellent test. Note C.
/ Katie put her arm out full length, and asked
'for pencil and paper. Katie now began writing
in sight of observers. I watched Galvanometer
closely the whole t ime she was writing, and it did
not vary one division. Excellent test. After
the manifestation, Katie threw the paper at
Mrs. Cook (the medium’s mother). Katie then at
my request moved her wrists, opened and closed
her fingers, but the Galvanometer was steady the
whole time. I was watching the Galvanometer while
( asking the questions, and Crookes and Harrison,
and others, told me that she moved her hands again
and again in the manner requested by me. While
Katie was moving her wrists about and opening
and closing her fingers, we all distinctly heard
Miss Cook moaning like a person in a troubled
I dream. The opening and closing of her fingers
did not cause any variation exceeding one division
on the scale; had it been Miss Cook’s hand, the
Galvanometer would have varied at least 10 divi¬
sions.
{I here tested the sensitiveness of Galvanometer
and found that with 49,000 Ohms resistance, the
deflection was 297£ as against 300 degs. at the com¬
mencement of the experiment
At 7.48, Katie let me grasp her hand, and asked me
to wake up the medium.
Note A.—(7.25 to 7.26 p.m.)—Galvanometer rapidly
fell from 191 to 155; in another minute Katie ap¬
peared ; the galvanometer never rose higher than 157
or 158 after this sudden drop. (This is worthy of
careful note.)
Note B.—(7.35 to 7.36£ p.m.)—Galvanometer fell
from 152 to 135, and rose again to 150; and at 7.37
to 156. The medium seems to have moved much.
Here Katie showed both her arms, and moved them
freely about. This looked very suspicious; but
Note C.—At 7.39 p.m., Katie moved her arms about
freely, and touched Mr. Crookes on the head, the gal¬
vanometer being quite steady: it did not vary more
than one division; this neutralises the doubt just
expressed.
At 7.42, she was actively writing, but the galvano¬
meter did not vary one division. This, I maintain,
clearly proves that Miss Cook was not only in the dark
chamber while Katie was in sight, but also perfectly
quiescent.
At 7.45 p.m., she repeated this experiment with the •
same result; and while Katie was moving her fingers
and wrists I watched her, Mr. Harrison watching the
galvanometer. Mr. Crookes drew our attention to the
fact that Miss Cook was moaning like a person suffer¬
ing from an uneasy dream, and Katie was at the same
time standing before us, and moving her hands as
desired. C. E. Yarley.
Mr. R. Pearce, who had resigned his office of secretary
to the St. John’s Association, has withdrawn his resignation
at the request of the President, Mr. Barber. It is to be hoped
Mr. Pearce will not give up the office he has occupied so well,
I and for so long a time.
136
THE SPIRITUALIST.
SPIRITUALISM AND THE ARCHBISHOP OF
CANTERBURY.
The following let.ter has been sent to the Archbishop
of Canterbury:—
United University Club,
March 9,1874.
My Dear Lord Archbishop,—-I have ventured to
forward to your Grace a weekly journal called the
Spiritualist, of March 6, which contains the programme
of the newly formed “ British National Association of
Spiritualists/’ together with a more detailed statement
of the practical missions of modern Spiritualism which
I have myself suggested to the Council of that Associa¬
tion. Now that at least five fellows of the Royal Society
have avowed their conviction that fact and not fiction
is the foundation of this momentous movement, and now
that Mr. Crookes, F.R.S., has published in the Quarterly
Journal of Science a preliminary abstract of the results
which he has verified during four years of patient and
laborious investigation; now that some of the most en¬
lightened of the clergy have added their testimony to
that of myriads of trustworthy lay witnesses, the
matter can no longer be deemed beneath the notice of
the Primate of all England.
No one, however sceptical of the fact of open com¬
munication being established with the invisible intelli¬
gences who have long been believed, in some mysterious
manner, to minister to man—the fact of the commu¬
nion of saints vouched for by the Church in her creeds
—could be rash enough to question its extreme impor¬
tance, if once established. No one could dispute the
extensive influence it would be calculated to exert on
many social and religious problems, or fail to perceive
its bearing on the crystallised dogmas and creeds of
ancient churches, and especially on the faith and future
of the Church of England. ‘But, in the face of the too
general suppressions and misrepresentations of fact
which have characterised the utterances of the public
press on the subject during the last twenty-five years—
in the face of the ridicule which has been heaped on the
minor physical phenomena—which are merely the ele¬
mentary manifestations of spirit power—by superficial
observers and sceptical critics, it may well be that the
portentous facts known to so many patient investiga¬
tors are still as unknown to your Grace as they are to
the masses.
Those who have been so fortunate as to enjoy oppor¬
tunities of investigation are, however, now in a position
to avow their convictions and vindicate themselves from
the charge of superstition in the face of the whole
world; and I have to submit to your Grace that the
facts are now admitted and conclusively established to the
satisfaction of recognised authorities and leaders of
public opinion; that the scepticism of science being
vanquished, Spiritualism must soon be universally ac¬
cepted, and that it only remains to consider its bearing
upon the great questions of the day.
The facts point with irresistible unanimity to the
conclusion that a new Reformation more searching than
that of the sixteenth century is destined to distinguish
the Yictorian era, and that, in this age of rapid pro¬
gress, it cannot long be delayed.
Wise mariners reef their sails at the first signals of
the coming storm. I fear that many of the proposi-.
tions put forward in the catalogue of the many missions
of Spiritualism which I have had the honour to submit
must at first sight appear very heterodox and revolu¬
tionary to your Grace, but they are mostly very prac¬
March 20, 1874.
tical; they are already in extensive circulation; they
will undoubtedly be widely canvassed; they will un¬
doubtedly bear some fruit; and I humbly submit that
they are not unworthy of your Grace’s consideration.
I observe by to-day’s Times that the prelates of the
Church of England are now debating what measures of
reform shall be submitted to Parliament and Convoca¬
tion in the coming session, and their public utterances
tend to show that the eyes of the majority are far from
open to the urgency of the situation. They will do
well not to suffer themselves to be lulled into a
treacherous security by the advent to power of a so-
called Conservative Government.
No Conservative Government in these days of progress
can afford to conserve abuses. If it have any regard for
its own stability it must take the lead in their reform.
If it would conserve what is worth conservation, and.
bar out revolution, it must not stand still. If the
Church of England will be wise in time, she may stem
the flood waters which must else overwhelm her fleet.
Her organisation is very valuable, and may be made
far more powerful for good than heretofore. I am not
among the numerous and growing majority who clamour
for her disestablishment and disendowment. I contend
for a policy of comprehension and utilisation; but sure
I am that, unless an extensive and judicious reform be
forthwith inaugurated, disestablishment and disendow¬
ment will speedily come, in spite of all the opposition
which can be offered to them-
If the Right Reverend Bench, content to accept truth
at any price, would deign to investigate and recommend
to their clergy the investigation of Spiritual phenomena,
and take counsel with those angelic messengers and
ministering spirits whose voices are now once more
heard among us, the ministers of the Church and the
members of Convocation would not long be left in
doubt as to the character of the Reformation they
should welcome and lead:
I have the honour to be, my dear Lord Archbishop,
your Grace’s most obedient servant,
T. Herbert Noyes.
His Grace the Archbishop of Canterbury, Lambeth Palace.
LAYATER’S LETTERS TO THE EMPRESS MARIE
OF RUSSIA.
LEXTER V.—OH THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL.
Much venerated Empress,—Once more I forward a
little letter from the invisible world., In future (n.v.)
the communications will follow more closely.
This letter contains a very minute portion of that
which may be told to a mortal, on the perception and
appearance of the Lord.
Simultaneously, and under millions of different forms,
our Lord appears to myriads of human beings at will.
He multiplies Himself for mankind generally, indivL
dualising Himself, at the same time, for each separately.
To you, 0 Empress ! to your enlightened mind. He will
one day appear, even as He appeared to Mary Magdalen
in the garden at the sepulchre; when you are feeling
the greatest need, and you least expect it, then will
you hear from His divine lips your namp “ Marieand
imbued with the same sentiment of divine bliss as the
Magdalen, you will reply, “ Rabbi!” Overflowing with
fhe spirit of adoration like the Apostle Thomas, you
will say, “ My Lord and my God !”
We hasten to traverse the shades of darkness to
arrive at light. We pass through deserts to reach the
March 20, 1874.
THE SPIEITTJALIST.
137
promised land; and we suffer the pangs of childbirth
to he born into the true life.
May Crod and the Holy Spirit be with you and your
spirit. John Gasp ah Layatee.
Zurich, 13th, 11th, 1798.
Th« letter of cl happy spirit to his friend on earth t! On
the first perception of God.”*
Dear Friend,—Of the many things of which I
desire to speak to you, I will only name one this time,
which will interest you more than all the others.
Spirits can do nothing without special permission;;
they exist independently of their own will, by the will
of the Heavenly Father solely, who transmits His com¬
mands to millions of beings as to one, and replies in¬
stantaneously to millions who address Him daily. How
shall I make you understand the manner in which I
beheld the Lord ? It was in a very different way to
any that you, a mortal being still, can conceive.
After many apparitions, instructions, explanations,
and pleasures accorded to me by the grace of God, I
traversed a paradisaical country, with twelve other
spirits who had progressed by the same process of per¬
fecting as myself. We floated or flew beside one
another, in an agreeable and harmonious atmosphere,
forming, as it were, a slight cloud; we all felt the
same desire to progress and rise to an elevated condition ;
and as we advanced we became more intimate, more
emancipated, more joyous, more capable of enjoyment,
and we said, “ Oh, how good and merciful is He who
created us ! Halleluja to the Creator! It is love that
has engendered us. Halleluja to the Loving One l”
Animated by such sentiments, we pursued our way,
and rested by a fountain.
Here we felt a slight breeze, and borne by it there ap¬
peared one who was neither an angel nor a mortal, yet
he who approached appeared so human he attracted the
attention of all. A brilliant light, yet not surpassing
that of any happy spirit illumined all round. “ He is
one of us,” was the thought that flashed through all
our minds simultaneously. The form disappeared, and
we all felt deprived of something. “What a singular
being,” we exclaimed, “ what a regal bearing, combined
with a simple childlike grace.”
While we thus conversed, a dignified form appeared,
issuing from a little grove, and saluted us in a friendly
manner. The new comer did not resemble the pre¬
vious apparition, yet he also had a commanding ap¬
pearance combined with great simplicity.
it Welcome,” he said, “brothers and sisters,” and we
replied as with one voice : “ Welcome, Oh thou blessed
of the Lord, Heaven is reflected in thy face, and the
love of God shines forth from thine eyes.”
“ Who are ye ?” said the unknown. “We are the
happy adorers of all powerful love ?”
“ Who is the all powerful love ?” he asked us gra¬
ciously.
“ Knowest thou not,” we [replied, 2, the all powerful
love ?”
“ I know him,” said the unknown, in a soft voice.
“Ah! if you were but worthy to see and hear His
voice, but we do not yet feel pure enough to merit direct
contemplation of the most divine purity.”
In response to these words we heard a thrilling voice
from behind us say—“ You are cleansed from all sin
* This curious communication partakes of the characteristics of many
modem spirit messages; much of it is doubtless symbolical, and much of
it coloured probably by uthe mind of the medium through whom it was
giyen.—Ed. - " • .
and declared just by Jesus Christ, and by the spirit of
the living God!”
An inexpressible happiness filled our hearts as we lis¬
tened to these words, and turning to the spot whence
the voice proceeded, we felt inclined to throw ourselves
on our knees and adore the invisible speaker. At this
instant we one and all heard a name pronounced which
we had never before heard, yet which we each indi¬
vidually felt to be our own new name. Spontaneously
and with the rapidity of lightning we turned as if one
being, to the adorable speaker who thus apostrophised
us: “ You have found that which you sought. He that
has seen me has seen the all powerful love. I know
mine, and mine own know me. * I give to my sheep
eternal life, and they shall not perish in eternity: no
one can pluck them from my hands, or from the hands
of my Father. I and my Father are one.’ How can
I express in words the soft and supreme felicity which
filled our hearts when he who at each moment became
more luminous, more gracious, more sublime, extended
towards us his arms and pronounced these words, which
will vibrate in our hearts to all eternity, and which no
power can efface from our memory—“ Come hither,
elect of my father, inheritors of the kingdom prepared
for you from the commencement of the universe.”
After this he embraced us all simultaneously, and
disappeared. We remained silent, feeling bound
together to all eternity in the deepest sympathy, and
filled with supreme happiness. The Infinite Being
became one of us, all our heaven, our life in the most
exalted sense. Thousands of new sensations appeared
to quicken within us, and a new life to penetrate us.
Our former life faded from our memory; we commenced
to live; we realised immortality.
After awhile we recovered our speech. Ah, if I could
but communicate to you but one single tone of our
joyous adoration! “He exists! We live by Him, by
Him alone. His nature is life and love. He who
seeth Him lives and loves, and is interpenetrated with
the essence of immortality and love derived from the
Divine countenance: We have seen Thee, all powerful
love! Thou hast revealed Thyself to us beneath a
human form. Thou God of Gods, nevertheless Thou
wert neither man nor God; Thou man-God, Thou wert
only love; all-powerful through love Thou sustainest
us by Thy omnipotence, to prevent the force of Thy
all-powerful love, although softened by affection, ab¬
sorbing us into itself. Is it Thou ? Thou whom all
the heavens glorify ? The ocean of beatitude ? Thou,
the Almighty, who incarnated Thyself in the human
form, bore the burdens of humanity and bleeding on
the cross, became an inanimate form ? Yes, Thou art
the most glorious of all beings, before whom all man¬
kind bow down and become as dust, to be reanimated
and recalled to life, to dwell in Thee. The life of all
creation is centred in Thee, and from Thy breath only
love springs forth.”
This, dear friend, is but a crumb fallen to the ground
from the well-laden table of plenty, and from whence
I am nourished with ineffable felicity. Profit by it;
more will shortly follow, and be given to you. Love,
and thou shalt be beloved. Love alone can aspire to
supreme happiness. Love only can give happiness to
those who love. Oh, my beloved one, it is because of
thy affection I am enabled to approach thee, and to
conduct thee more speedily to the source of life, Love !
* Taken from tenth chapter of John, 27, 28, 29, and 30 verses.
isa
THE SPIRITUALIST.
God and heaven are within thee, even as they exist in
the mind and heart of Jesus Christ.
The 13 xi., 1798. I write that according to your
earthly chronology. Mateaeiosenagape.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A Council Meeting of this Association was held on
Monday evening, 16th instant, at Lawson’s Rooms,
125, Gower-street, Euston-road, London, N.W. The
Baroness Adelina Yay and Miss Anna Blackwell were
elected corresponding members, and many more Spiri¬
tualists as ordinary members. Instructions were given
for inviting acceptance of the presidentship, and
issuing further invitations for vice-presidents, as well
as additional members of Council. It has been decided
to hold a social meeting of members and friends on the
15 th of April next, the arrangements for which are
now in the hands of a sub-committee.
PRIYATE SEANCES.
THE WRITING MEDIUMSHIP OF A BABY.
Those who think that the phenomenon of writing
mediumship may be explained by the “ unconscious ce¬
rebration ” theory, will have a difficult point to explain
away, when babies too young to talk begin to write
intelligible messages under the influence of an invisible
power.
Last Sunday evening we were at a seance at the pri¬
vate residence of Mr. H. D. Jencken, Barrister-at-law,
of Goldsmith-buildings, Temple, E.C., and Mr. James
Wason, solicitor, of Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool, who
was also present, favoured us with the following nar¬
rative :—
“ On the fifth of this month (March), I was in Mr.
Jencken’s apartments at 3, Lansdowne-terrace East,
'Western-road, Brighton, while Mrs. Jencken’s baby
was in the lap of the wet nurse, near the fire. It was
about 1.30 p.m., in a well lighted room facing the
south. Mrs. Jencken was also present.
“ Suddenly the nurse exclaimed, * Baby has got a
pencil in his hand,’ but as she did not then add that the
pencil had been placed in the child’s hands by invisible
agency, I paid little attention to the remark. The
nurse next exclaimed, ‘ Baby is writing !’ Upon this
Mrs. Jencken rushed forwards, and called to me to
come and see. I then looked over Mrs. Jencken’s
shoulder and saw the pencil in the hand of the child. It
had just finished writing, and Mrs. Jencken, remem¬
bering what her medical man had told her about the
manifestations injuring the baby’s health, snatched the
pencil out of the child’s hand in a very excited manner.
The nurse, who [was frightened, said that ‘she must
give up her situation;’ Mrs. Jencken at first told her
that ‘ she might go,’ but afterwards reasoned her out of
her resolve.
“ The message written by the baby was :—
“ I love this little child. God bless him. Advise his father
to go back to London on Monday by all means. Susan.’
“ ‘Susan’ was the name of my departed wife.”
The age of the infant boy of Mr. and Mrs. Jencken
on the day when the above was written was five months
fifteen days. The message, as written, has since been
photographed.
Mr. H. D. Jencken made the following statement to
us last Sunday evening:—
March 20, 1874.
“The writing power of'the infant medium appears
to continue. On the 11th March I was seated at dinner
with my wife; the nurse was in the room with the
baby, and seated opposite to me. Whilst so seated a
pencil was placed in the right hand of the baby; Mrs.
Jencken then placed a piece of paper on the knee of the
nurse, under the hand of the baby. The child’s hand
then with great rapidity wrote the following sen¬
tence :—■
‘ I love this little boy, God bless bis mama. J. B. T.
‘I am happy.’
“ I then expressed the hope that the little boy might
write an address to his grandmother, who is now more
than ninety years of age. A few minutes afterwards
J a piece of paper was taken by invisible agency from a
side table and placed on the knee of the nurse. At the
same'time a pencil was placed in the hand of my little
boy, who wrote with great rapidity—
‘ I love my grandmama.’
“ The paper and pencil were then jerked away from
the knee of the nurse, and loud raps told me that the
spirits had complied with my request.
“ Another instance of the unusual powers of this
medial child occurred some few weeks ago, when I
entered the nursery to kindle a night light. On ap¬
proaching the bed I noticed a halo round the head of
the little boy; it gradually enveloped the whole of his
body, casting a luminosity over the under side of the
tent bed-curtains. Raps spelt] out, ‘ Notice the halo.’
Mrs. Jencken was not in the room, nor even on the
same landing at the time, so the manifestations were
not produced through her medial power. The nurse
was the only other person present.”
A SOFA MOVING WITHOUT CONTACT—-SPIEIT IDENTITY.
Last Monday night there was a seance at 15, Thorn-
ham-grove, Stratford, E., through the mediumship of
Mrs. Bassett. Mr. Bassett, Mr. G. R. Tapp, and Mr.
W. H. Harrison were also present.
At first there was a very good dark seance ; one end
of the room seemed alive with moving of chairs and other
objects, and several articles were placed upon the table.
The voice manifestations were of the usual description,
and one large faint light was seen moving about for
perhaps three minutes.
Afterwards, in a strong light, while those present
were seated round the table, a sofa moved up to the
table from the wall, a distance of about four feet,
whilst nobody was near or touching the sofa. The sofa
paused and trembled sometimes on its way; more than
once it vibrated visibly, and noises like muffled raps
came from it. The spirits tried to move it back again,
and carried it half way back, but were unable to do
more.
Yery loud raps were plentiful in the course of the
evening.
Mr. Bassett states that the identity of all three of the
spirits who speak with the direct voice through the
mediumship of his wife, has been proved to the full
satisfaction of their surviving relatives; for instance-
1. The spirit “James Lumbard ” has been recog¬
nised by his brother Mr. John Lumbard, an ex-po¬
liceman, who has been pensioned off for long servitude
and good conduct; his address is Cbobham-terrace,
Stratford, E. He did not know that his brother James
was dead until told by the spirit himself, and did not
know where to write to inquire into the truth of the
statement until the spirit gave him the address of his
THE SPIRITUALIST. 139
March 20, 1874..
widow in America. The brother wrote on speculation
to the address given, and it was found that the nar¬
rative given by the spirit was true.
2. The spirit “ Charles Dalman ” has been recog¬
nised by his son, Mr. James Dalman, of 2, Craven Yillas,
Leyton, Essex.
8, The spirit “ Richard Robinson ” has been iden¬
tified to the satisfaction of his son, Mr. William Robin¬
son, foreman of the carriage painters on the. Great
Eastern Railway, Stratford. He says that his father
has given him so many proofs of his identity that it is
impossible he could be deceived in the matter.
CREMATION.
Sir Henry Thompson’s paper on cremation has, it
appears, attracted much notice in Germany, having been
translated twice, besides obtaining warm support from
an eminent physician, Dr. Kopl. Moreover, the prac¬
tical Austrians have taken the idea up as one that has
really now passed beyond the stage of discussion. The
Communal Councils of Yienna and Gratz have adopted
a proposal to establish in their cemeteries the necessary
apparatus for cremation, “ the use of which will be
optional, and open to all.” A “veritable agitation,”
we are told, has arisen in both places, though whether
the excitement is all in favour of the fiery furnace in¬
novation, or whether the attached supporters of their
picturesque churchyards are indignant that these
venerable depositories of all that is mortal should be
deprived of their prescriptive rights, does not seem very
clear. We can only wish success to an experiment
which will be carried out for our benefit, though not at
our cost. Where the light-hearted Yiennese would burn
their progenitors or descendants without a sigh or a mur¬
mur, and afterwards tranquilly contemplate the beloved
remains in ajar neatly labelled and inscribed with all the
virtues of the lamented deceased, the more practical Eng¬
lish would like to proceed by early stages, without un¬
necessary shock to Mrs. Grundy’s unaccountably strong
feelings. But, when the furnace system becomes fashion¬
able on the Continent, it will spread here by degrees,
and the more advanced spirits among us will not be
slow to defy prejudices by nobly bequeathing “ their
works to all ages, their bodies to the consuming fire.”
This same prejudice is what Sir Henry has to struggle
against, and we fear he has not yet estimated the
time that must elapse before the ideas accepted by en¬
lightened science filter down through the intermediate
strata of Grundyism to the dense obstructiveness and
hostility to novelties that sway the humbler classes of
his countrymen. Englishmen of the ignorant order
have a rooted notion that human bones are indestruc¬
tible ; their faith—if we. may call it such—is repre¬
sented in Dryden’s couplet, which tells how, “ at the
dread assize. The rattling bones together fly, From the
four comers of the sky;” and they would object to cre¬
mation as an impious blasphemy against Nature at least,
if not Providence. Out of purely religious circles the
tdea of a material resurrection is more deeply rooted
than many persons are aware, and it will be a work of
time to show how far cremation can combat it.—Daily
Telegraph.
Several letters are kept over for publication in our next;
some of them arrived too late. They should always reach
us very early in the week.
f The testimonial to Mr. T. Blyton will be presented to
him on the last Thursday in this month, at 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E
SPIRIT FORMS.
Some interesting experiments by Messrs. Yarley and Crookes
will be found upon another page, detailing how Mr. Yarley
passed a weak electrical current through the body of Miss
Cook, the medium, all through a “ full form” seance, so that
had the medium been freed in any way from the wires while
entranced, it would have been instantly made known by the
instruments outside. In fact she was tested by one of the
greatest of electricians, whose skill in testing broken cables,
and of discovering what is going on at the place of greatest
resistance to the current (which in this case was a medium
and not a cable fault) has been employed for years by the
largest telegraph companies, whereby they have been saved
thousands of pounds in expenses, by being enabled to send
the cable-repairing steamer nearly to the exact place of the
fault, to fish up the cable where it requires mending, and not
to further injure it by hauling it up where it is in good con¬
dition.
Our article on p. 133, describing the experiments, was read
by Mr. Crookes and Mr. Yarley before it was put in type, and
Mr. Crookes has repeated similar tests with Miss Cook in his
own house, introducing certain modifications ; the results
have been as satisfactory as those already stated. He writes
to us:—“ It will be impossible for you to put stronger
language in my mouth when speaking of Miss Cook’s perfect
honesty, truthfulness, and perfect willingness to submit to the
severest tests that I could approve of ; and you can also state
that, as far as the experiments go, they prove conclusively
that Miss Cook is inside while Katie is outside the cabinet.”
This outspoken testimony is greatly to the honour of Mr.
Crookes, who holds such responsible positions in the scientific
world. When Mr. Home was attacked in the London daily
papers about the St. Petersburgh seance, it will be remem¬
bered that Mr. Crookes, although not a Spiritualist, was the
only man in this country who then publicly took Mr. Home’s
part. Did the papers then suppress other letters, or did
Spiritualists send none ?
Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Parkfield, Didsbury, near Man¬
chester, saved Miss Cook from the first from professional
mediumship; he has been throughout at the root of the
matter, and is the sole and entire guide of her seances. It is
greatly to his credit that he has protected so splendid a
medium from not a few .attacks by dastardly people, particu¬
lars of some of which have not yet come before the public.
He has taken a deep interest in the experiments of Mr.
Crookes and Mr. Yarley, and he and Miss Cook will give
them facilities for carrying on any experiments they desire.
We should be glad to see them recorded in the Quarterly
Jou/rnal of Science.
Last, but not least, Mr. J. C. Luxmoore has for a long time
taken charge of the seances in London for Mr. Blackburn,
giving much time and every care and attention to the work,
moreover, pinning his reputation as an independent gentle¬
man of high standing and character, to the truth of very un¬
believable manifestations, their character being so astound¬
ing. Everybody in any way connected with the circle, is
under a very heavy debt of gratitude to him for what he has
done.
The immortal Katie, whoever she may be, and her medium,
ought not to be forgotten in this category, for had not Katie
all along given good manifestations, the mortals concerned
would have been left in poor plight. She indignantly denies
that she is ” psychic force,” ” unconscious cerebration,” or a
“projection from the mind of the medium.” If anybody
at the seances holds these opinions, she usually thumps him
on the head, and leaves him to make this palpable fact fit in
with his theories.
This journal is not in the habit of making personal or com¬
plimentary remarks, but has from the first allowed good
workers in the cause of Spiritualism to speak by their own
acts. But when it is remembered what a vast quantity of
mud was recently thrown in many journals at Miss Cook’s
seances and everybody .connected with them, it is but right,
for once, to call attention to what several good workers have
done under difficulties, to establish in the popular mind hat
which they know to be true.
Perhaps of all those who merit sympathy for their testi¬
mony, the Earl of Caithness should not be forgotten, he being
a total disbeliever in Spiritualism and all its phenomena; he
told us a few days ago, that he gave his testimony merely from
his disgust at the nature of the outrage he witnessed at a
seance which he attended for the purpose of observing alleged
manifestations. Lady Caithness had never been at one of
I Miss Cook’s seances before.
140
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iloetrg.
JOY IN SOBBOW.
BT GERTBTOB M. HAYARD.
OH Thou, who art our Father and our Mother,
We how with reverent love unto the Power
Which not in wrath, but tenderly and wisely,
Has led our trembling footsteps to this hour.
With souls that thrill to the'deep bliss of being
As keenly as they quiver at life’s pain,
And eyes that look beyond this mortal seeing,
We know we call not on Thy name in vain.
We thank Thee more than for earth’s fleeting pleasures
For all our withered hopes, for grief and sin,
Which opened to our soul’s pride-blinded vision
A hidden well-spring of pure joy within.
We lift to Thee our hands, bereft treasure,
Standing ’mid broken idols round us strewn;
Oh not in gifts alone, but in bereavements,
Thy love is fully and completely shown. •
We mourn no more our fairest dreams departed,
No tears fall fast above our buried youth;
The spirit knows no age, kept verdant ever
By streams unfailing from Thy Fount of Truth.
Eyes, wet by sorrow’s tears, have clearer vision.
Hearts wounded, flee,‘0 Healer, unto Thine;
And with the sacred joy of grief, Great Spirit,
We thank Thee, kneeling at the inner shrine.
That life but shadow is of death the real,
Whose touch diviner breaks the bonds of clay,
And forth to rapturous sounds of angel-singing,
Leads the glad spirit on its homeward way.
Banner of Light.
(Eamspowtience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.}
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIEITTJALISIS.
Sib,—Observing by your last number that my name has
been published in the list of those forming the Council of
the above Association, permit me to state that it has been
placed there without my consent. J. Traill Taylor.
Nithsdale Yilla, Wood*green, March 11,1874.
SPIRIT MESSAGES AND PHYSICS.
SIR,—I have read with much interest some observations
recently made by you on the want of knowledge displayed by
spirit teachers generally of the truths of natural science, and
the unreliability of their statements upon all such subjects.
In respect to this disbelief in their superior knowledge, and
particularly in their alleged powers of celestial voyaging, I
take the same side as yourself, and append part of an article
which 1 contributed to the Spiritual Times some years ago
“In regard to the spiritual world and the condition of its
inhabitants, I believe that nothing very certain is known in
relation to them ; but it is clear that some individual spirits
find amusement in practising upon the credulity of man in
the flesh which they find an easy matter, as the superstitious
faith of most people induces them to receive the communica¬
tions of any intelligent spirits as truths confided to them by
sacred revelation. Our American friends seem to have been
particularly misled by spiritual misinformation. I allude to
a work published by Hudson Tuttle on the spiritual spheres.
The following is a short abstract of the information which he
received from spirits on the subject:—‘ Spirit, a refined gas,
essence, or vapour, set free by the inherent principle of pro¬
gress, and by chemical force from the animal, vegetable, and
mineral kingdoms, is carried by magnetic polar currents which
raise it to the second sphere (the first heaven) which exists
about sixty miles from the earth, in a solid belt extending
sixty miles on each side of the equator, and fifty miles in
thickness, leaving a distance of thirty miles round each pole.
The above-mentioned belt rotates round the earth, once in
about twenty-four hours, and is constantly increasing by
ascending currents. It is inhabited on the surface only, like
our earth ; and it has fruits, flowers, and beautiful singing
birds; also metals and timber, which are worked like those on
earth for instruments, machines, and dwellings. Spirits
called non-identified spirits build the houses of others called
identified spirits. There are three spheres attached to our
earth: the earth spiritual sphere for the worst class of spirits;
the second sphere which is a heaven; and the third, a higher
heaven; this is a hundred miles above the last, or two
hundred miles from our earth. The other planets have
spiritual spheres as well as our earth ; and the higher class of
March 20, 1874.
spirits can pasfs from one to another, all through the solar
system.’
“ These statements, I understand, have since been endorsed
and supported by Andrew Jackson Davis (who also has
published a visionary topography of what he calls the summer
land). In opposition, however, to these doctrines of the
spirits, which I cannot but consider as imaginative and
erroneous, I would allege that the atmosphere immediately
surrounding our earth seems to have been alone intended for
the support of living creatures. As we depart from its surface
and elevate ourselves into the surrounding space, the tempera¬
ture becomes colder and colder according to a fixed ratio ; so
that when two of our modern aeronauts not long since had
ascended in their balloon to the height of seven miles, one
became quite insensible, and the other lost the use of his
hands, and was only enabled to save himself and his com¬
panion from destruction by pulling the cord of the safety
valve with his teeth in order to lower the machine. At fifty
miles distance from the earth’s surface therefore, the strongest
alcohol would be frozen into a very solid mass; and at the
distance of one hundred, where the temperature is calculated
to be 112 degrees lower than on terra firma, the strongest
spirits that ever derived their origin from human bodies would
undergo a similar condensation; it would paralyse the power
of their wings, and'congeal their spiritual fluids ; the more so
as contrary to our natural expectation, it is found that at great
altitudes the sun loses its power of heating; for a thermometer
was used in the above-mentioned ascent, which had its bulb
blackened for the purpose of absorbing the sun’s rays, and
was fully exposed to them, yet it only rose one or two degrees
above another placed in the shade.
“ There is still another reason which prevents human beings
from attaining any great height in the air, or, in other words, *
departing to any great distance from the earth’s surface. This
is described by the illustrious adventurer Horace Saussure, the
first scientific naturalist who ascended Mont Blanc. The
density of the atmosphere undergoes a diminution according
to elevation in a corresponding ratio to that in which the cold
increases under similar circumstances.
On the top of Mont Blanc, the sound .of the voice is much
weakened, and the discharge of a pistol makes no more noise
than the explosion of a little cracker. But of all the effects of
the attenuation of the air, the most manifest was the extreme
acceleration of man’s respiratory movements. On the top of
this mountain, where the barometric column undergoes a
depression of nearly half, and where the lungs receive at each
inspiration a quantity half less than in the plain", it is neces¬
sary that the inspirations should be twice as numerous, in
order that the purification and life-preserving properties of
the blood should be maintained in the ordinary and natural
conditions; but at the same time that the respiration is
accelerated, the circulation of the blood is increased in the
same proportion, the pulse beating twice as quickly, or nearly
so, as in the atmosphere of the plains. Consequently, Saussure
and his companions suffered from fatigue, thirst, and fever,
which, however, may have been partly caused by the toil of
ascent. Moisture also decreases like the temperature of the
air, according to distance from the earth, till, at 25,000 feet,
it contains only one-fiftieth part of that found near its surface ;
and above this height there would seem to be an almost entire
absence of aqueous vapour. The want of heat, vital air, and
moisture, so disastrous to man in the flesh, cannot, in all pro¬
bability, be much more bearable by man in the spirit.”
The information which a spirit recently gave concerning the
inhabitants of Yenus, and their intention of making bonfires
to attract the attention of the inhabitants of our earth during
the transit of their planet across the sun’s disc, can only have
been acquired by such power of interplanetary visitation as
Hudson Tuttle describes. I therefore, for the reasons above
mentioned, consider the statements to be unworthy of credit.
But if we seek for knowledge of the spiritual world from
Holy Writ, we learn there that heaven and the spiritual
world are a state or condition, and not a locality. For St. Paul,
in the twelfth chapter of Hebrews, contrasting the Jewish
dispensation given from Mount Sinai, in Arabia, with the
Christian dispensation, says (verse 22), “ But ye are come
unto Mount Sion and unto the city of the living God, the
heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of
angels; to the general assembly and Church of the first-born
which are written in heaven ; and to God the Judge of all;
and to the spirits of just men made perfect; and to Jesus the
mediator of the new covenant,” &c. Now, as the Christian
converts were living on the face of our earth, and could not in
any way elevate themselves above it, it is plain that St. Paul
March 20, 1874.  THE SEIfilTUALIST. 141
speaks here of an organised spiritual government existing in
the midst of them; for though he says, “Ye are come to,” he
must certainly mean that, his readers had been brought to
such a spiritual condition as to be subjected to such spiritual
government; for as they could not go unto God, God or the
Church must have come unto them. P.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER IN GLASGOW.
An article recently printed in the Glasgow Daily News,
says:—
Befoi'e describing in detail one or two of the leading points
of the seance, I should premise that the friend whom I
selected to accompany me is, in my mind, distinguished above
all the friends I have or ever had by his profound common-
sense. Over forty years of age, having fought his way in the
world, respected by all who know him, and much resorted to
for counsel by his circle, he is emphatically one of the last of
men to be led away by feeling or sentiment. Cant of all
kinds is his special abhorrence, and quackery no one is
quicker to find out. When, therefore, we sat down in front
of Miss Fowler I felt that if anyone could assist me in detect¬
ing imposture, he was the man. After leading the conversa¬
tion from general topics imperceptibly on to Spiritualism,
Miss Fowler, in a short time, automatically stretched out
both hands, taking up my friend’s right hand and my left, he
and I also joining hands at her request, so as to complete the
circle. Miss Fowler then became more earnest in her Spiri¬
tualistic converse, impressing on us both with all the energy
of which her nervous system seemed capable the infinite
benefit of “ Spiritism ” to the human family, by quickening
their belief in the ^unseen, lifting their souls above all little
sectarian systems, and fixing their faith inalienably on the
world to come. Of course I heard all this without assent; I
felt that a reasonable and intelligent belief was far better
than a credulous faith ; and that a firm conviction that it was
best to do the right under all circumstances far transcended
any amount of talk about “ faith in the unseen.” Still, how¬
ever, the conversation continued, and gradually became trans¬
formed into a monologue, Miss Fowler talking without inter¬
mission of the spirits and their “ hallowed influences,” till she
began to sigh and shiver like one about to faint. Then her
words fell at intervals; her eyes began to close ; her breath
seemed to come slowly and with difficulty ; her countenance
stiffened from mobility into rigidity ; and she finally fell'into
what bore every appearance of a mesmeric sleep. Sinking
back in her chair she let go our hands, and after a few
minutes’ silence, during which she sighed heavily and shud¬
dered with great violence, she exclaimed—“ They come ! ah,
they come ! Annie is here !” (Annie is the dead German
girl whose spirit professes to speak through the medium.)
Miss Fowler’s face then changed, to a considerable extent,
into that of a young girl; her mouth, even, became twisted
into that petulant, childish form which students of juveniles
often observe ; and, in a mixture of broken English and Ger¬
man accent, with childish intonation throughout, she at once
plunged into an address to my friend.
Beginning at the4beginning, she announced authoritatively
to him that he was not born in this country ; that his parents
were both dead; that his father was the first to die ; that he
died with comparative 'suddenness ; that his mother died of a
lingering illness; that the spirit saw her lying with a peculiar
band around her head ; that she saw him giving his mother a
drink of water shortly before she died ; but that he was not
present when she died. Once during this I caught my friend’s
eye, but could make nothing of it. Of every incident above
related I—although his intimate friend—was totally ignorant;
in not a single point did he acknowledge to Miss Fowler that
she was correct; and yet he afterwards told me that every
statement in itself was perfectly true. She then told him that
the spirits of some of his relatives were present, and men¬
tioned the manner of death of three—viz., one by a disease of
the throat, another by dropsy, and a third by a long-diseased
limb. All this time no word of reply to Miss Fowler. Yet,
on reaching the open air, I asked—What of the statements ?
and was informed that every one was true. Proceeding
onwards, she told my friend that at one time he had a high
ideal of the stage, • and had himself gone upon the boards.
This I thought the very perfection of fooling, and scornfully
disposed of Miss Fowler’s pretensions in my own mind. I
knew not, nor did I dream, that my friend had ever strutted
his hour upon the boards; and, on leaving the hotel, 1 laugh¬
ingly told him he must surely acknowledge that in that respect
the prophetess was talking arrant nonsense. Again he in¬
formed me, to my profound amazement, that even in this Miss
Fowler was also correct, for that in his youth he had written
a play, and actually gone upon the stage to represent one of
the leading characters !
And so she proceeded, in a general • manner, from one lead¬
ing incident in his life to another till she came to his personal
characteristics and mental temperament, which she described
as well as though she had known him all her life. Of course
I thought that the latter portion of her “ prophesying” might
have been due to instinctive knowledge of human nature, but
she had no means of observing and studying my friend’s
countenance, for from the moment she entered the trance her
eyes were “ in a fine frenzy rolling,” and nothing was visible
of them for the most part but the whites. Many things which
she said were of a personal character not suitable for publica¬
tion; but upon the whole, in these as in her direct statements,
my friend said he must confess in all honesty, though he was
totally unable to account for the fact, that this woman whom
he knew not, and who could not possibly know him, had held
up to him the chief passages of his life “ as in a glass darkly.”
THE SUNDAY SPIRITUAL MEETINGS.
LAST Sunday, at the Cleveland Rooms, Cleveland-streef,
Portland-road, the chair was taken by Mr. T. Slater. A
hymn was sung and an invocation delivered by Mrs. Cora L.
Y. Tappan. A portion of Scripture having been read by
the Chairman, the anthem, “ I will arise” was sung.
Mrs. Tappan then proceeded to deliver an inspirational dis¬
course upon the influence of the circumstances and sur¬
roundings of this material life upon life in the spirit world
hereafter. There were certain contradictions in the extract
from the writings of St. Paul which had just been read,
which theologians might attempt to explain, but which,
to the logical reader, would always remain unanswered.
“ There is a natural body and there is a spiritual body.”
That statement could only be received in a spiritual sense;
material minds were incapable of understanding it. The
resurrection of Christ, as narrated in the Gospels, was often
referred to as authority for a physical resurrection of the body.
But the record is dubious as to this. Christ said to the thief
on the cross, “This day shalt thou be with Me in Paradise,”
and yet we are told that Christ remained in the tomb three
days. Some say, that during those three days He visited the
spirits in prison. If so, He did not go to Paradise. Then He
appeared afterwards to the disciples. He was either
drawn to a materialised body for that purpose, or their
senses were deceived. The former was the most probable,
for He could not endure to be handled by them whilst in this
formation resembling that of His physical existence. Many
believed that the dead sleep in their graves, to awaken only
at the trumpet of the resurrection. Yet it is recorded in
Scripture how Moses and Elias appeared to the Christ and His
disciples on the Mount of Transfiguration. If so, they were
brought out of their graves for that special occasion before
the final resurrection. Modern Spiritualism proves not only
the continued existence of spirits after leaving the body, but
that they inhabit a world real and tangible to themselves,
and that their condition in that world is determined by the
knowledge, occupation, and thoughts of their earth life. The
condition of an average mind in the future life is just what it
was in the body; we only leave behind us our material cir¬
cumstances and conditions, but not their consequences. The
germ of spiritual existence is in all human beings. Every
creature, wearing human form, possesses an immortal spirit,
whether idiot, lunatic, or sane. There is much even in the
mentally deficient that can be improved and elevated;
musical sounds, colour, and form, are the means by which the
imbecile may be trained, when ordinary modes of teaching
would fail. There was no greater madness in the world than
that of modern society, which allowed thousands of infants to
die for want of proper care. These went into the spirit world,
and were trained and brought up there, but they had never
any sympathy with men and women, having never been
through their ordeal of trial and temptation, which was so
necessary for the perfecting of the human soul. That which
is expedient has taken the place of that which is right; men
are taught to be good and just that they may prosper, not
because goodness and justness should be adhered to under
all circumstances, even those of loss or persecution. There
were many whom the world calls mad; many such had been sent
to asylums, who said they saw and conversed with spirits.
Many a child has had the germ of spiritual life crushed out of
142
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 20, 1874.
it by being told that it was under a delusion. Suppressed
mediumship is fraught with danger ; the good influences
will go away disappointed, and the way being left open, bad
influences will come and cause great trouble, and not unfre-
quently deprive the medium of reason. The laws that govern
spirit intercourse will, in time, become as well known as
the laws governing material existence. The golden rule is
set high on the altars in the many beautiful temples erected
by man, and is looked upon as truth in the abstract, but how
few men realise it as individual teaching, and act out its
simple yet all embracing precepts. Each man brings expe¬
diency to bear on his own circumstances, and does not carry
out the golden rule. He wrongs his neighbour, and pleads
that his peculiar circumstances justify him in so doing, but
that excuse will not avail him in spirit life. We should do
good, if evil to ourselves be the result here. We should do
the right fearlessly, looking beyond what will happen to us in
the present.
A hymn having been sung, a beautiful inspirational poem,
u The Valley of Life,” was then delivered, and the meeting
brought to a close by a few remarks from the chairman.
There was a large and attentive audience.
THE LONDON ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Last Tuesday night the subject of Spiritualism came before
the new Anthropological Society, at one of its meetings, held
at 17, Arundel-street, Strand, under the presidency of Dr. R.
S. Charnock, F.S.A.
SPIBITTUXISM AMONG- TJNCTJLTTJB.'ED PEOPLES COMP ABED
WITH MODEBN SPIBITUALISM.
Mr. A. L. Lewis (Secretary) read a paper by Mr. C. Staniland
Wake, on the above subject, as follows :—
Whether what is known as Modern Spiritualism is true or
false, it must have an equal influence on those who believe it
to be true. As being, then, influential for good or for evil
over the lives of thousands of people, its phenomena are
deserving of most careful attention. For the same reason,
the analogous phenomena which have been from time to time
observed among uncultured peoples are also worthy of study.
There is little doubt that nearly everything which has been
done by modern Spiritualists has been performed from time
immemorial by the Shamons, or sorcery doctors, of the
Turanian and allied tribes of the American and African con¬
tinents. The two great essentials required in either case are
the existence of disembodied spirits and mediums through
whom they can communicate with man. As to the former, I
much doubt whether there is any race of uncivilised men who
are not firm believers in the existence of spirits, or ghosts. In
most cases, and probably in all originally, these are the spirits
of dead men, who are thought, for a time at least, to wander
about the scenes of their material life, and occasionally to
make their presence known by sounds or by a visible appear¬
ance. So great is the dread of ghosts among many of such
peoples-that they will hardly venture out of their huts after
dark, and when any person is compelled to do so he invariably
carries a light, although he would not have the slightest diffi¬
culty in finding his way without its aid. Nor is the medium
wanting among the uncivilised races. The most influential
man in the tribe is the sorcery-doctor, except where he is
merely a tool in the hands of the chief, and all his influence
is due to ,his supposed control over, or, at least, communica¬
tion with, the denizens of the spirit world. By. their
aid he is able to bewitch his own enemies or those of
the persons who seek the exercise of his supernatural
power, and, on the other hand, to discover the origin
of the disease under which the sick man is wasting away,
and_to remove it from him should the spirits be propitious.
The sorcery doctor of an African tribe, like the showman of
the Mongol, is in fact a very oracle through his supposed
power of receiving communications from his immaterial
assistants. Moreover, the means by which he becomes en
rapport with the spirit world, is exactly the same as that
employed by the Spiritualist, although the mode in which the
mediumistic condition is induced may often be very, different.
Whether arrived at by a process of mesmerism, or by means
of a ceremony attended with great physical and mental
excitement, or, on the other hand, induced by extreme ex¬
haustion, or whether it is caused by a kind of intoxication,
the condition required is the one of trance. The most simple
mode of attaining it is probably the self-mesmerism of the
Zulus of Natal, an intense concentration and abstraction of
the mind, giving the clairvoyant faculty. Canon Calloway
states that this process of “ inner divination ” is commonly
practised by herd boys for the purpose of finding cattle
which have strayed ; and it is even used as a means of escape
by those who are threatened with destruction by a jealous
chief.
This clairvoyant power, which is intimately connected
with Spiritualism, is by some people ascribed to spirit com¬
munication. Thus, says Scheffer, among the Laplanders,
“ When the devil takes a liking to any person in his infancy,
he haunts him with several apparitions.. .. Those who are
taken thus a second time, see more visions and gain great
knowledge. If they are seized a third time they arrive to the
perfection of this art, and become so knowing, that without
the drum (the magic drum which answers to the tambourine
of the Mongol and the rattle of the American Indian), they
can see things at the greatest distances, and are so possessed
by the devil, that they see them even against their
will.” Scheffer adds that on his complaining against
a Lapp on account of his drum, the Lapp brought
it to him, “and Confessed with tears, that though he should
part with it, and not make him another, he should have the
same visions as formerlyand he instanced in the traveller
himself, giving him “ a true and particular relation’’ of what¬
ever had happened to him in his journey to Lapland. He com¬
plained, moreover, that “ he knew not how to make use of his
eyes, since the things altogether distant were presented to
them.” According to Olans Magnus, the Lapland Shamon
“ falls into an ecstasy and lies for a short time as if dead ; in
the meanwhile his companion takes great care that no gnat
or other living creature touch him ; for his soul is carried by
some ill genius into a foreign country, from whence it is
brought back, with a knife, ring, or some other token of his
knowledge of what is done in those parts. After his rising
up he relates all the circumstances belonging to the business
that was inquired after.”
Among the special Spiritualistic phenomena which are
recognised among uncultured people are spirit-rapping, spirit-
voices, and the cord unloosening, which, when first exhibited,
created in England so much astonishment. The last-named
phenomenon is not unknown to the North American Indians,
and is practised by the Greenlanders and by some of the
Siberian Shamons. Thus among the Samoyedes “the Schoman
places himself on the ground upon a dry reindeer skin. Then
he allows himself to be firmly bound, hands and feet. The
windows are closed, and the Schoman calls upon the spirits,
when suddenly a noise is heard in the darkened room. Voices
are heard within and outside the court; but upon the dry
reindeer skin there is regular rhythmical beating. Bears
growl, serpents hiss, and squirrels seem to jump about. At
last the noise ceases. The windows are opened, and the
Schoman enters the court free and unbound. No one doubts
that the spirits have made the noise and set the Schoman free,
and carried him secretly out of the court.”
We have here the noises, voices, and rope untying, which
are so common in spiritualistic seances. These find a still
closer parallel in the curious rites of Greenland Samanism,
the object of which is to enable the spirit of the sorcerer to
visit heaven or hell as occasion may require. The historian
Crantz thus describes the ceremony :—“ First the devotee
drums awhile, making all manner of distorted figures, by
which he enervates his strength, and works up his enthusiasm.
Then he goes to the entry of the house, and there gets one of
his pupils to tie his head between his legs, and his hands be¬
hind his back with a string; then all the lamps in the house
must be put out, and the windows shut up. For no one must
see the interview between him and the spirit; no one must stir,
not so much as to scratch his head, that the spirit may not be
hindered, or rather that he may not be detected in his
knavery. . . . After he has begun to sing, in which all the
rest join with him, he begins to sigh and puff and foam with
great perturbation and noise, and calls out for his spirit to come
to him, and has often great trouble before he comes. But if
the spirit is still deaf to his cries, and comes not, his soul flies
away to fetch him. During this dereliction of his soul he is
quiet, but by and bye he returns again with shouts of joy, nay
with a certain rustling, so that a person who has been several
times present, assured me that it was exactly as if he heard
several birds come flying first over the house, and afterwards
into it. But if the Torngak (or spirit) comes voluntarily, he
remains without in the entry. There an angekok (or magi¬
cian) discourses with him about anything that the Greenlanders
want to know. Two different voices are distinctly heard,
one as without and one as within, The answer is always
March 20, 1874.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
143
dark and intricate. The hearers interpret the meaning
among themselves, but "if they cannot agree in the solution,
they beg the torngak to give the angekok a more explicit
answer. Sometimes another comes who is not the usual
torngak, in which case neither the angekok nor his company
understand him. . . . But if this communication extends still
further, he soars aloft with his torngak on a long string to
the realm of souls, where he is admitted to a short con¬
ference with the Angehut poglit, i.e., the fat or the
famous wise ones, and learns there the fate of his sick
patient, or even brings him a new soul back. Or else he
descends to the goddess of hell, and sets the enchanted
creatures free. But back he comes presently again, cries out
terribly, and begins to beat his drum ; for, in the meantime,
he has found means to disengage himself from his bonds, at
least, by the help of his scholars, and then, with the air of one
quite jaded with his journey, tells a long story of all that he
hath seen and heard. Finally, he tunes up a song, and goes
round, and imparts his benediction to all present by a touch.
Then they light up the lamps, and see the poor angekok
wan, fatigued, and harassed, so that he can scarce speak.”
Except that the civilised medium attains to a state of
trance without so much excitement, and does not, while in
that state, take so distant a journey, the account given by
Crantz would almost answer for a description of a spiritual
seance. Most of the occasions in which the sorcerer is con¬
sulted would seem to be cases of sickness. Illness is usually
supposed to be caused by the agency of spirits, who are
annoyed at something having been done or omitted, and the
mission of the sorcerer is to ascertain whether the sick man
will live or die, and if the former, what offering must be given
to propitiate his tormentors. Among the Zulus the diviners
who eat impepo medicine answer, in a measure, to the Mon¬
golian Shamon, although they do not profess to have inter¬
course with supernatural agents. This is reserved, apparently,
for the diviners having familiar spirits. These people do
nothing of themselves, sit quite still,.and the answers to the
questions put by inquirers are given by voices at a distance
from them. Canon Calloway gives two curious instances of
this mode of divining. In one of them a young child,
belonging to a family from another kraal which had settled
in a village of this Amahlongwa, was seized with convulsions,
and some young men, its cousins, were sent to consult a woman
who had familiar spirits. They found the woman at home,
'but it was not until they had waited a long time that a small
voice proceeding from the roof of the hut saluted them.
They were, of course, much surprised at being addressed from
such a place, but soon a regular conversation was carried on
between them and the voices, in the course of which the
spirits minutely described the particulars connected with the
child’s illness—a case of convulsions. They then told the
young men that 1 ‘ the disease was not properly convulsions,
but was occasioned by the ancestral spirits, because they did
not approve of them living in their relative’s kraal,” and that,
on their return home, they were to sacrifice a goat (which was
particularly described), and pour its gall over the child,
giving it at the same time Itongo medicine. This took place
in the day time, and the woman did nothing but occasionally
ask the spirits if they were speaking the truth. “ The young
men returned home,” says Calloway, “ sacrificed the goat,
poured the gall on the child, plucked for him Itongo medi¬
cine, and gave him the expressed juice to drink and the
child had no return of the convulsions, and is still living.
During the interview with the woman, which took place in
the day time, she did nothing but occasionally ask the spirits
if they were speaking the truth, and, whatever the explan¬
ation of the case, one thing seems certain—the young men
had not seen the woman before, as she lived on the coast,
a day and a-half’s journey from them. In the other instance
referred to, the ultimate result was not so favourable, as the
sickness was not removed, but it was attended with an inci¬
dent by which we are again reminded of the phenomena of
Spiritualism. The spirits promised to dig up and bring to
the diviner the secret poison which they said was causing the
sickness inquired about. At the time appointed for the
poison to be exhibited, the old people assembled in the
diviner’s hut, and, after arranging themselves in a line at the
request of the spirits, they soon heard, first one thing fall on
the floor, and then another, until at length each person was
told to take up what belonged to him, and throw it into the
running stream, when the disease would be carried away. On
examining the things “some found their beads which they
had lost long ago ; some found earth bound up; others found
pieces of some old garment; others shreds of something they
had worn; all found something belonging to them.” In this
case, also, the voices came from above, but among some
peoples the spirit enters into the body of the diviner, in like
manner as with Spiritualistic mediums. This is so in China,
where the spirit of the dead talks with the living through the
male or female medium, as the case may be—and with all
uncultured peoples, in fact, who look upon their priests, or
sorcery doctors, as oracles.
There are two phenomena known to Spiritualists which we
cannot expect to find among uncultured peoples. One of these,
the so-called spirit writing, has been practised by the Chinese
probably from time immemorial, and is effected by means of
a peculiarly shaped pen held by two men, and some sand.
The presence of‘the spirit is shown by a slow movement of the
point of the pen tracing characters in the sand. After
writing a line or two on the sand, the pen ceases to move, and
the characters are transferred to paper. After this, if the
response is unfinished, another line is written, and so on, until
the pen entirely ceases its motion, which signifies that the
spirit of the divinity has taken its departure from the pen.
Like the spirit drawings of modern mediums, the meaning of
the figures thus obtained is often very difficult to make out.
The other phenomenon is the rising and floating in the air in
which Mr. Home is, or was, so great an adept. This in all ages
has been the privilege of the saints, Asiatic or European,
Buddhist or Christian, who have attained to a state of
spiritual ecstacy.
At the beginning of this paper it was said that, so long as
the phenomena of Spiritualism are believed to be true, they
have equal influence whether true or false. On the other
hand, it must not be thought that, because they are accepted
as true by uncultured people, therefore they are false, as being
merely due to fraud or superstition. To those even who
believe in a spirit-world, the question of spirit action in con¬
nection with the phenomena is one of the utmost difficulty ;
and in conclusion I would refer to a possible explanation of
the most remarkable of them, which, although not super¬
natural, will no doubt be thought by some persons more
difficult to receive than that of spirit agency itself. It has
been noticed that the faces which appear at the openings of
the cabinets in which the Spiritualist mediums sit are usually
at first, if not ultimately, much like the mediums themselves,
and yet it seems to be absolutely impossible, considering how
they are secured, that such could be the case. It may, how¬
ever, only be impossible under the ordinary conditions of
physical life. If certain phenomena said to have been ob¬
served were so in reality, the apparent difficulty is removed.
It has frequently been noticed that colouring matter placed bn
a spirit hand has afterwards been found on the hand or body
of the medium. This has been established by experiments
tried for the purpose. Further, it is stated that occasionally,
when a light has been suddenly struck, a long hand and arm
have been seen swiftly drawn in towards the medium. More¬
over, the body itself of the medium, absurd as such a thing
appears to be, has been seen to elongate, if we are to believe
the statement of Mrs. Corner, made through the Spiritualist,
in connection with the medium, Miss Cook. The familiar
spirit of this medium has been seen rising from her body,
and some Spiritualists believe that the spirits usually, if not
always, rise out of their mediums. In the instance just
mentioned the spirit was said to have been visibly connected
with the medium by cloudy, faintly luminous threads.
If we accept these statements as true, most of the pheno¬
mena of Spiritualism are explainable without reference to the
agency of spirits. They would show that the human body
must contain within itself an inner form, be it material or im¬
material, which under proper conditions is able to disengage itself
either wholly or partly from its outer covering. The spirit hands
which appear, and which are able to move heavy weights and con¬
vey them long distances through the air would really be those
of the medium. The faces and full length figures which show
themselves, holding conversations, and allowing themselves to
be touched, and even permitting their robes to be cut, become
the faces and figures of the mediums. This view receives con¬
firmation from the Spiritualist standpoint, from the fact (if
such it be), that the doubles of well-known mediums have
sometimes been recognised in the presence of the originals,
and (seeing that Spiritualists believe the body to be capable of
elongation) it is not inconsistent with what has been observed
that the spirit figure is sometimes much taller than the
medium. It is consistent, moreover, with the facts, that the
distance from the medium within which the spirit figures can
appear is limited, and that if the hands of the medium be held
closely from (he first, many of the manifestations cannot be
144
THE SPIRITUALIST.
produced. This point has been insisted upon as proof of im¬
posture, but assuming, for the sake of argument, the truth of
what is said as to the human % double,” it simply shows how
intimately associated are the external covering and the inner
form which has to become disengaged to show itself.
While offering this explanation of many of the most im¬
portant phenomena vouched for by the advocates of Spiri¬
tualism, it must be understood that I do so simply to show
that such phenomena, according to the evidence of Spiri¬
tualists themselves, do not require the intervention of spirit
agency. I should not, however, have referred to the subject
at all except for its bearing on the past history of mankind.
As stated at the beginning of this paper, “ Spiritism has a
marvellous influence over the mind of uncultured man, and
it has retained its influence almost unimpaired through most
of the phases of human progress. A late French writer, after
stating that superstition was supreme in the Boman Empire,
at the commencement of the Christian era, declares that
magic was universally practised, with the object of acquiring,
by means of “ demons”—the spirits of the dead—power to
benefit the person using it, or to injure those who were ob¬
noxious to him. It is thus evident that the phenomena to
which the modern term “Spiritualism” has been applied
are of great interest to the Anthropologist, and, indeed, of the
utmost importance for a right understanding of some of the
chief problems with which he has to deal. They constitute
an element in the life-history of past generations which
cannot be left out of consideration when their mental and
moral condition are being studied; and modern Spiritualism
may, therefore, be studied with great advantage as a key to
what is more properly called Spiritism. Not that the former
can be considered as an instance of “survival,” in the proper
sense of this phrase. Apart from such isolated instances
as that of Swedenborg, Spiritualism is of quite recent
introduction, and it appears to have had no direct connection
with its earlier prototype. It is worthy of note, however, that
it sprung up among a people who have long been in contact
with primitive tribes, over whom Spiritism has always had a
powerful influence. It is possible that intermixture of Indian
blood with that of the European settlers in North America
may have had something to do with the appearance of Spiri¬
tualism, which would thus be an example of intellectual re¬
version, analogous to the physical divergence to the Indian
type which has by some writers been ascribed to the descend¬
ants of those settlers. Or the former may be merely a resem¬
blance, instead of a reversion, dependent on the change in the
physical organism. In either case it is somewhat remarkable
that many of the so-called “spirits,” which operate through
Spiritualist mediums, claim to have had an American-Indian
origin.
I have not attempted to exhaust the subject in this com¬
munication, nor do I suppose that it will furnish any satis¬
factory explanation of the phenomena referred to. My sole
object is to bring the question of Spiritism, in its ancient and
modern phases, before the members of this society, that it may
receive at the hands of such of them as are more conversant
with the subject than myself, the attention which it deserves.
Whatever may be thought of Spiritualism and its eccen¬
tricities, experiences similar to those on which it is based,
have had too wide and lasting an influence over mankind to
allow of its being lightly estimated by the Anthropologist, who
is concerned with it, however, only under that aspect.
SPIEITTTALISM AMONG THE BRAHMINS.
Mr. George Harris, F.S.A., then read the following paper
by Mr. G. M. Tagore, formerly a Brahmin, and late Professor
of Hindu Law, at Univefsity College, London •.—
Brahmins believe that there are two kinds of supernatural
beings, good and bad, which are supposed to enter the body
and produce disease ; these are called Bhut an mada (devil
madness)and Heban mada (madnessjproduced by good spirits).
A person when attacked by devils, shows his aversion to
everything divine, and is very strong; when good spirits
possess a person, he has always a pleasure in flowers and good
smells, becomes pure and holy, and is inclined to speak
Sanscrit. He obeys Brahmins with strictness, and looks
courageous. Devils know the present, the future, and what is
hid or unknown. Unclean and wounded persons may be in¬
jured by devils. They are numerous and powerful and are
believed to be the attendants or servants of Shiva, and this is
why the affected person"has more energy and power than that
of man. There are eight principal devils that torment the
human species.
1st. When Deba graha, or a good spirit, enters a body, the
March 20, 1874.
person is always happy and contented, remains clean in his
person, and wears garlands of the sacred flowers, but he has
no sleep. He has a great love for Brahmins, performs the
prescribed ceremonies, and attends to old customs of his
ancestry.
2nd. A sur gruha. These are the enemies of the debas.
When the person is possessed with them, he perspires much,
speaks of the bad conduct of the Brahmins. He has no fear,
his eyes are turned, he is a glutton, is not pleased with his food
and drink, and is always mischievous. And so on.
Symptoms of persons possessed with devils are, their eyes
are swollen, they walk fast, are always sleepy, and sometimes
they are affected with severe shivering. During the cure, the
patient should be treated kindly. The cure of a person pos¬
sessed with a devil should be commenced by cleaning and
anointing his body with mustard oil; he should be dressed in
new clothes, and he should repeat the proper prayers so as to
satisfy the devil.
The Hindus and Pythagoras agree in the belief that
the heaven is peopled with gods, the earth with men, and the
middle or aerial regions with demons. Pythagoras and his
successors held the doctrine of metempsychosis, as the
Hindus do the same tenet of the transmigration of souls. The
Hindus, like Pythagoras, assign a subtle etherial clothing to
the soul apart frojn the corporeal part, and a grosser clothing
to it when united with the body, and called Suesma (or linga
sharira). Air is either eternal as atoms, or transient as
aggregates; organic aerial bodies are beings inhabiting the
atmosphere arid evil spirits who haunt the earth. At the
moment of death, the material elements of the body separate,
and the vital soul, which has an invisible body (linga
sharira) resembles the form of the body it had inhabited, and
retains the organs of sense and action. On separating from
one, it joins itself to another, and according to the actions he
had performed in a former state of existence, so will be his
future condition.
The old Hindoos had no notions of angels such as the
Christians have. Perhaps, through Western culture, their
spiritual notions will be refined in time. The idea of pos¬
session by good spirits is, I fiiid, peculiar only to the Hindu
race, and it is not traceable in the demonology of the
Christians or the Jews. The doctrine of an essential body
that survives the destruction of our present body, throws con¬
siderable light on the fifteenth chapter of Corinthians, and
may in the order of Providence be a prelude to the acceptance
of Christianity.
Mr. Joseph Kaines, M.A.^then read a paper on “ The Inter¬
pretation of Mythology.”
A discussion followed the reading of these papers, and it will
be published in the next number of The Spiritualist.
Everybody will be pleased to hear that the British
National Association of Spiritualists intends holding a soiree on
or about the 15th April. Several ladies have kindly promised to
act as lady patronesses, and it is hoped that all members of the
Association, and all friends of the movement, will be present
on the occasion. Members of the Council will speak on the
objects and aims of the Association. Further particulars will
be given soon.
Dalston Association oe Enquirers into Spiri¬
tualism.—At the last Council meeting of this Association,
held at their rooms on Thursday evening last week, the follow¬
ing presentations to the library were reported, viz. :—Paper
on Thallium, read before the Royal Society, and reprint of
article on the Phenomena called Spiritual from the Quarterly
Journal of Science, by the author, Mr. Wm. Crookes, F.R.S. ;
also What am I? (Yol. II.), by the author, Mr. E. W. Cox,
S.L.; and Another World, by Mr. Hy. M. Dunphy. Mr. A.
M. Greene has been elected honorary secretary and treasurer
in the place of Mr. Thos. Blyton, who has been elected a
member of the Council.
Seance at Mrs. Gregory’s.—A seance took place on
Tuesday evening last at Mrs. Makdougal Gregory’s, 21, Green-
street, Grosvenor-square, W., at which the circle consisted of
Mrs. Wiseman, Mrs. Fraser, Mrs. Templeman Speer, Mr.
Beauclerc, Mr. Herbert Noyes, Colonel Stuart, Dr. Richardson,
and Mrs. and Miss Showers ; but in consequence of Miss
Showers’ recent indisposition, no materialisation took place.
The spirit-vocalists sang several songs in their usual manner
—a most curious medley of voices—and they kept up a lively
but not very intellectual conversation, but they promised a
complete materialisation for next Tuesday, which is to be the
final seance of the series, as Mrs, Showers returns to Devon¬
shire at the end of the week.
March 20, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Bevealing Startling Facts
to the public, can be consulted on either Medical or Business Affairs con¬
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 12 to 5. Terms, One Q-uinea.
Address, “CrownHotel,” George-square, Glasgow, Scotland.
HUGH McLEOD, M.D., Psychometric, Impressional, and
healing by the laying on of hands; in which departments of Medium-
ship Dr. McLeod is prepared to give the highest references. Terms, 5s.
each person. Visits by arrangement. Hours 10 till 4. 22, Bobert-street,
Hampstead-road, N.W.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
j MESMEEIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bemard-street, Eussell-square. Private Seances attended.
MESMEEISM AND CLAIEVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Oampden-hill, Kensington.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d. ; Thursday evenings
5.s; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
Lately published,
WHAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Mental
Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. I. The MECHANISM of MAN.
By EDWABD W. COX, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s, 6d.
Contents.
chap.
1. Introduction.
2. What am I?
3. The Man.
4. How we Grow.
5. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind.
The Beflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the Will.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny^
31. Soul—Spirit—Anima.
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. The Natural and the Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul,
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery.
45. Conclusions.
MR. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmebist and
Btjbber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—194, Comwall-road, Notting-hill, W. .(Hammersmith line).
Please write.
DR. JOHN HUNTER and DR. MESMER may be
consulted upon all forms of illness, through MB. BOBEBT HABPEB,
from whom Mesmeric Treatment and Eclectic Medicines may be obtained,
at 114, Wardour-street, Oxford-street, W. Fees, 10s. and upwards. Hours,
one to five o’clock daily.
RS. EMPSON, Medical Clairvoyant and Mag-
JLTJL netio Healer, undertakes the Diagnosis and the Cure of Diseases
(if curable). Patients at a distance may obtain diagnosis and advice by
sending magnetic link and fee,of 10s. Address, 114, Wardour-street,
Oxford-street, W. Hours, one to five o’clock daily.
Becently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “ An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Patemoster-row.
WORK BY THE SAME AUTHOR.
An elegant little volume, bound in blue and gold, carmine edges,
Price 4s. 6d.
LYRICS AND BUCOLICS. The Eclogues of Yirgil,
a selection from the Odes of Horace, and the Legend of the Sibyll.
“Mr. Noyes’ qualifications are of no mean order. In the first place, he
has the essential one of thoroughly entering into and 'appreciating the true
spirit of his master, and even where, as we have said, he exceeds what
we conceive to be the limits of a translation, we attribute it rather to his
being carried away by his own muse than to his misunderstanding his
author’s. And here we have a second and no less important qualifi¬
cation for success. Mr. Noyes has a genuine poetic vein of his own, and
his lines have almost always the ring of true metal.”—Standard,
April 7th, 1868.
“There is a certain freedom and swing in these translations, which not
only more resembles the brisk spirit and ringing tone of the original, but
is truly refreshing after the stiff rendering which had been generally made
of Horace’s choicest composition.’’—London Review, Feb. 15th, 1868.
‘‘The Translations from Horace are spirited and musical. His light
Epicureanism and gay Stoicism are happily hit off.’’—Daily News,
March Zd, 1868.
“ Mr. Noyes’ Version of Virgil’s Pastorals may fairly take its place by the
side of Mr. Connington’s translation of the iEneid. The lovers of such
poetry have here as pleasant a bouquet as can well be set before them,”—
Speculator, March 7th, 1868.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
• SELLER, STATIONER. AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39. Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, Supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
TO THE READERS OF p THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
op Spiritualists. By A. J. (“Iota.”) Printed and published by T, Scott.
Price One Penny.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Aye Haria-lane, E.C.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and charming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and no
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Herald.
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I ? ”—Leicester Mercury
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflectiy readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest.—South Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
.in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
London: Longman and Co., Paternoster-row,
Just published,
The second yoldme of I what am i ?”
A Popular Introduction to Psychology and Mental Philosophy. By
EDWARD W. COX, Sergeant-at-Law. Price 10s. 8d.
This Volume completes the work. It treats of the Mechanism of Main in
action. The following are the
Contents :—
CHAP.
Preface.
1. Introductory.
2. Of the Intelligent Motive Forces.
3. The Conditions of Existence.
4. The Mechanism in Health.;
5. Of Sleep.
6. Of Dreams.
7. Of some of the Phenomena of
Sleep and Dreams
8. Of Delirium.
9. Of Insanity.
10. Of Natural Somnambulism.
11. Of Artificial Somnambulism. I.
The Condition.
12. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
II. Clairvoyance.
13. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
III. The Mental Phenomena.
14. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IV. Catalepsy.
15. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
V. Insensibility and Uncon¬
sciousness.
CHAP.
16. Of Artificial Somnambulism
VI. History.
17. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VII. Healing Power.
18. Of Artificial Somnambulism
VIII. Supersensuous Percep
tion.
19. Of Artificial Somnambulism
IX. Thought Reading.
20. Of Trance.
21. Of Unconscious Cerebration.
22. Of Psychic Force.
23. Of Psychic Force. I. The
Proofs.
24. Of Psychic Force. II. Its Phy¬
siology.
25. Of Psychic Force. III. The
Directing Inteligence.
26. Other Psychic Phenomena. I
Communicated.
27. Other Psychic Phenomena. II
Experiments.
28. The Summing Up
29. The Conclusions.
VOL. I. MAY BE HAD, PRICE 8s. 6d.
London: Longman & Co., Patemoster-row.
The progressiye spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Weekly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman.
Price Threepence. Tojbe had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 20, 1874.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because •within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the 'civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., O.E.; H. R,. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. yJ. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox, Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serj.eant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken,Esq., Barrister-at-law; J.H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’ ,  
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch eacn other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
6. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or .raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let- one person only speak, and talk to the table as to. an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful," and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? " Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, andfromthis time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” - Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the medium ? ” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences Of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms Of
xnediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STERLING,
Read 0#c«.-BR0WN STREET and MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
FIRE. -
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates
Bonus Returns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Renewed Premiums;
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most cpinpact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 59 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4Jd. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for'sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
EJ. BLAKE respectfully informs, the friends of
• Spiritualism in.the North, that he obtains all. the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &a., &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms, cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to MR. BARKAS),
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
TO OWNERS OF HOUSE PROPERTY.
E. BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
11, PARK GROYE, SHEPHERD’S LANE, BRIXTON,
RESPECTFULLY solicits the patronage of Owners of
House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixton
Road, and near the Railway Station—offering special facilities for the
prompt letting of Houses of every description.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed. ,
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS. — Handsomely-printed Blue
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion, may be obtained in packets, each containing 400, price 2s. 6d. per
packet. They are especially useful for distribution at public meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, reading-rooms, clubs, and' places of
public resort.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, London, E.O.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy 8vo.,
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel swedenborg: his life and
WRITINGS. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History the
Doctrines and the other-world Experinces of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav¬
ings, by C. H. Jeens—I. Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80.
London; Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published byE. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London,-E.O.
