AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[REGISTERED TOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 136.—(Vol. VL—No. 14.) LONDON: APRIL 2, 1875.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence*
Contents.
157
ReviewsResearches in the Phenomena of Spiritualism. By William
Crookes, F.R.S.: Luminous Appearances—The Appearance of
Hands, either Self-Luminous or Visible by Ordinary Light—Mr.
Crookes on Phantom Forms and Faces  
Miracles and Modem Spiritualism. By Alfred Russell Wallace:—
Mr. A. R. Wallace on the Efficacy of Prayer—The Influence of the
Mind of the Medium upon Manifestations—Mr. Wallace’s Experi¬
ments in Mesmerism—Community of Sensation in Mesmerism—
Mesmeric Phenomena During the Waking State—Mr. Wallace on
Immortality—Probable Duplication of Form   158
Mr. Crookes’Experimental Sitting with Mrs. Fay   161
Spirit Photography. By William H. Harrison:—Dream Pictures—A
Haunted House—Welsh Goblins—Curious Psychological Fact—
Apparition at the Moment of Death—Mediumship Among Faro
Women in Brazil—Psychological Communication Between Distant
Persons—Mr. Parkes’ First .Seances—A New Reason for Becoming
a Spiritualist—The Development of Mr. Parkes’ Mediumship—
Spirit Identity—Development of the Photographic Manifestations
—Trance and Physical Mediumship of Mr. Parkes—The Spirit
Guiles of Mr. Parkes   ...     ... 162
The Painting Mediumship of Mr. Duguid, of Glasgow. By William
Oxley     165
Indian Mediums and Manifestations   166
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Special Meeting of the
Council—Limited Liability of Members—Furnishing the New
Offices—The Bazaar—Prize Essays—The Secretaryship 167
Correspondence:—Alleged Evolution of Electricity from the Hands and
Feet  -   167
Answers to Correspondents  ...168
Paragraphs:—The W. Wallace Testimonial, 165; A Lingering Death,
168; Spiritualism in Dalston, 168; The Next National Association
Soiree     168
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
(Established 1870.)
President.
Henry D. Jencken, Esq,, M.R.I., F.R.G.S. (Barrister-at-Law).
Council
Mr. A. Ferguson Black.
Mrs. C. Ada Blyton.
Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Mrs. Amelia Comer.
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Mr. R Pomeroy Tredwen.
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mrs. M. Theresa Wood.
Hon. Sec. and Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
The purposes of the Association are:—
(1) . The collection of well-authenticated facts affecting Spiritualism,
through its own circle, or circles, and other available sources, so as to form
a basis for sound judgment.
(2) . By various means to offer facilities to investigators, and to induce
others to give the matter careful inquiry, with a view to a better understand¬
ing of thwphenomena and teachings of Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar As¬
sociations [vide Rule IX.). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordinary
seance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to which strangers
are admitted, under the same regulations as are inforced on the first Thurs¬
day evening in each month.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances, members of the Associa¬
tion have the privilege of utilising the well-stocked Library, comprising
numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred subjects. All the
English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are regularly supplied to
the Rooms for the perusal of Members.
All communications to be addressed- to the Secretary, at the Rooms of
the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed en¬
velope should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies. Copies of the
Prospectus, Rules, Circle Regulations, and directions “howto form Spirit
“Circles,” with any further information, to be obtained on application to
the Secretary at his private residence, 12, St. Phillip’s-road, Dalston, E.
PERSONS in Oxford interested in Spiritualism are
invited to call upon Mr. Stock, 14, Queen-street, with a view to the
formation of a society for the investigation of phenomena and the discus¬
sion of theories in connection with Spiritualism and cognate subjects.
PHOTOGRAPHIC COPIES OF THE ILLUMINATED
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are reqfiested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury,
Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, ^8, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.O., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules
may be had upon application.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
WILL HOLD A
SERIES OF CONVERSAZIONES.
The next Converzasione will he held in the Small Hall, St. George'
Hall, Langham-place, W. (entrance in Mortimer-street).
These meetings have been organised at the request, and for the benefit of
Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting friends and members,
and of discussing matters of interest connected with the Spiritualistic move¬
ment.
Music and other entertainment will be provided at each meeting.
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of interest is re¬
quested for exhibition.
Hours, from 7 to 10.30 p.m.
Tickets of admission—Single tickets. Is. 6d. Double tickets, 2s. 6d. Sub¬
scribers of one guinea, twenty tickets, each available for any one of the
first six meetings. To be obtained of the resident secretary, Miss Kisling¬
bury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.; and at the doors of the
Hall on the evening of April 7th, when holders of tickets for the course
can also exchange the required number.
NOTICE.
MRS. CORA L. V. TAPP AN’S LECTURES ON SUNDAY
EVENINGS.
Second Course
UPON THE « SOUL AND SPIRIT OF MAN, ITS ORIGIN,
PROGRESS, AND DESTINY.”
AT THE CAVHNDISH ROOMS,
71, Mortimer-street, Portland-place, London, every Sunday evening.
Doors open at 6.30, to commence at 7 p.m.
Reserved seats 2s. each. Other seats Is. each, and 6d. each, to be
purchased at the doors.
Tickets for a course of twelve lectures can be obtained of Mr. "Webster
Glynes, 4, Gray’s-inn-squarc, on application, enclosed post-office order for
24s. or 12s.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
.Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
- Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAYENSCROFT, Manager.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Apml 2,, 1875.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers foE 1875.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.—Mx. Edward Hope, 74, Russell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. 'William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. 'William Hitehman, Messrs. John Priest’
R. Oasson, James.Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. GE
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology..
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
TO THE READERS OF “ THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
op Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota") Published by E. W
Allen Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 61., First Series.
FAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J, M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, II, Ave Maria-lane.
Just published, price 2s.
CURATIVE MESMERISM,
BY
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, or from
Bailliere & Co., King William-street, Strand.
SPIRITUALISM AND REFORM. “The Banner of Light”
Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Century. Issued every Saturday, by Colby and Rich, No. 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, Mass.U.S. Terms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Year, 3,00 dollars. Six Months, 1,50 dollars. T iree Months, 75 cents.
C. & R. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progressive and
Reformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY; 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where T/ie
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
Published on the first of each month, Price Sixpence,
The spiritual magazine, edited by george
SEXTON, LL.D.. etc. This Magazine is the oldest of the periodicals
devoted to the cause of Spiritualism, having now been in existence for
upwards of fifteen years. It has from the first taken a very high stand in
the literature of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as were likely to
have a permanent interest.
A new series of the Magazine commenced in January, 1875, and this pre¬
sents therefore a favourable opportunity for new subscribers to commence
taking it regularly.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Patemoster-row, E.C.
T3SYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal, chiefly
JL devoted to the investigation of the imperfectly known phenomena of
psychic life. Edited by Alexander Aksakof, Imperial Russian Coun¬
cillor at St. Petersburg. Published at Leipsic, by Oswald Mutze, Nurnberger
Strasse, 21. Price 5s. for six months.
THE CRUSADE : A Popular and High-class Journal:
Devoted to the Promotion of the Great Temperance Reform in all
its Branches. Price One Penny. Two copies by post, 2|d. Published on
the 1st of each month, by the Editor, at The Holmes! Betchworth, near
Reigate, and by Abel Heywood and Son, Manchester, and 4, Catherine
street, London.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN
ENGLAND, by BENJAMIN COLEMAN. The author gives some
important facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which he was identified, and an account of some of the most remarkable
of his personal experiences. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane; George Farmer
4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn. Price One Shilling.
rpHE
FIRE
corpGration,
RE - INSURANCE
LIMITED.
CAPiTAL £200,000 (FIRST ISSUE, £100,000),
Divided into 20,000 shares of £10 each, half of which will be payable as
follows, viz.:—£1 deposit on application, £2 on allotment, and £2 in four
months.. after allotment. It is not expected that any further calls'will
at ahy time be m4de, and in no event can they be made in larger sums
than £1 per share, oral intervals of less than three months.
The Directors invite subscriptions for 2,250 shares (£22,500) in the Capital
Stock pf the Company, the same being a portion of that part of the first
issue which yet remains for allotment.
The Directors of the Fire Re-Insurance Corporation, Limited, in inviting
Subscriptions for the Shares mentioned above, deem it desirable to state
that:—
Each one of them, before joining the Board of the Corporation, made
bona fide application for Five Hundred Pounds’ Worth Of Shares, paying for
the same in the manner required in the Prospectus.
Since becoming Directors of the Corporation they have each (by subscrib¬
ing the sum of One Thousand Pounds to the Corporation’s Guarantee Fund)
increased their financial interest in the Corporation to the sum of One Thou¬
sand Five Hundred Pounds.
Every Share issued by the Corporation has been allotted upon bona fide
applications only. Not one Share has been given away.
DIRECTORS.
WyndhamH. N. Hoste, Esq., 7, New-square, Lincoln’s Inn.
Frederick Perigal, Esq. (late Admiralty), Chalcots, Belsize Park, N.W.
John Tapson, Esq., Brighton.
William Power Trench. Esq., Ealing, W.
W. L. Williams, Esq. (W. Williams and Son, Bread street, E.C.)
Bankers—London and County Bank (and Branches), Lombard-street,
London, E.C.
Solicitors—Learoyd and Learoyd, Albion Chambers, Moorgate-street,
London, E.C., and Huddersfield. Yorkshire
Auditor—W. G. Goodliffe, Esq. (late Accountant-General, India Office),
149, Palmerston-buildings, Old Broad-street, E.C.
General Managers—C. W. Pearce, F.S.S., and Joseph Freeman.
Head Offices—2, (Jueen’s-buildings, Mansion House, London, E.C.
Agencies—Manchester, Glasgow, Amsterdam, and Vienna.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS.
This Corporation has been formed for the purpose of transacting the
business of “ Re-Insurance” with Fire Insurance Companies.
Re-Insurance is a guarantee given by one Fire Insurance Company to
another to pay to it, in consideration of receiving a proportionate amount
of the premium, a portion of any loss it may incur under such of its policies
as are covered hy the guarantee.
The remunerative nature of the business of carefully managed Fire
Insurance Companies is well-known to their Shareholders.
The returns made by order of Parliament, and other official documents,
show that their aggregate annual premium income always exceeds by a
large amount the sums paid for claims.
The following summary, compiled from the published returns in 1873, of
72 companies, strikingly exhibits this profitable working:—
No.
Companies.
British....  
United States.,
Continental ..
Income for
one year.
£
5,404,825
5,337,811
5,170,768
Claims
Paid.
Excess of
Income
over
Claims.
£
2,938,141
2,681,029
2.327,048
£
2,466,684
2,656,782
2,843,720
Balance available for dividend and expenses, £7,967,189.
The business of the Corporation being to re-insure a portion of the surplus
business of such companies, and receiving from them a premium income
exactly proportionate to the amount of business re-insured, it will share
proportionately in their profitable working.
The Corporation is already transacting a satisfactory and steadily increas¬
ing business; its premium income for the year 1875-6 being expected to
exceed £20,000.
The rate of profit that may be fairly anticipated is shown in the following
Table of the business position of the undermentioned Re-Insuranoe Com¬
panies. The Dividends paid by these for the last two years average 17J-
and 22 per cent, respectively.
Name.
Alliance of Vienna..
Security 
Swiss   
Vienna   
Magdeburg    
Pannonia   
Frankfurter  
Aachen  
Cologne   
Premium
Income.
£
86,636
247,272
37,022
97,253
114,504
115,808
25,054
31,244
82,572
Excess of
Premium
Income
Qver
Claims
Paid.
£
61,404
142,632
14,667
66,609
41,287
63,597
11,498
12,827
37,585
Dividends
Paid Last
2 Years of
Return.
26§
16§
17
7f
20
9
83f
6
17J
33J
20
20
14
26|
13
4U
12
The Formation Expenses of the Corporation were unusually small, and
no Promotion Money has been paid.
Applications for Shares will be received at the London and County Bank,
Lombard Street, London, E.C., or at any of its branches; or at the Offices
f the Corporation.
VOtUjVIE £IX. JHUJVIBER FOURTEEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, APRIL 2nd, 187B.
Spmtalisf
Established in 1869.
riHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three, shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Reduced terms for extended periods.
The, SpirUualist is a very good medium for advertisements; because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Coreespondenoe.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All"
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Alien, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spirititalist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of 11 The Spiritualist" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E. C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct. ■
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 388, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Rpssell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118 Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Bruuswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Bandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell,—M. Thomfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries oh the globe
and London, is one shilling.
JJ1EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the*accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—i, Fitzroy-square, W.
l&ebtetos.
Researches in thePhenomena of Spiritualism. By William
Crookes, F.R.S. London: J. Bums. 1875.
This book is a reprint of articles, some of which'
have been published in The Quarterly Journal of
Science, the remainder in The Spiritualist. The work
is the best yet issued for the purpose of interesting
physicists and persons of a mathematical order of mind
in the facts of Spiritualism; previously Professor Hare’s
book was the best extant for this special purpose, but
it is' quite eclipsed by the work now before us, because
the latter is written by a greater man, and the re¬
searches are pushed further, and with more refined
appliances; there is also more avoidance of inference
and speculation, so that, to physicists who open the
book with the intention of condemning it, there is
scarcely any course open but the dishonourable one of
denying the facts themselves. There is no scientific
error in the work one-twentieth so glaring as that with
which Professor Tyndall fed a Royal Institution audi¬
ence at his last lecture there, on “ Sound,” when to
prove that layers of air varying in density can reflect
sound from their surfaces, he reflected sound-waves
from the surface of a bat’s-wing gas flame, although he
ought to have known that a surface at which violent
chemical action is -taking place is in a very different
molecular state to that of the plane of contact of two
layers of air varying in density, but with no chemical
action at surface of contact. He might as well have
cited the example of the surface of an island covered
everywhere with burning volcanoes, as identical with
the surface of an island everywhere a smooth, tranquil
desert.
The facts set forth by Mr. Crookes were for the most
part witnessed in his own house, in the light, and in
the presence of non-professional mediums.
With most of the contents of the book the readers
of these pages are already more or less familiar, but it
is useful to have all the articles in one cover, and the
work is an excellent one to present to inquirers; there
will doubtless be a large demand for it in America,
where the details of the experiments are less known
than they are here, although the broad results are as
well known there and as fully appreciated.
The following quotations from the work are of
interest, and show that Mr. Crookes, greatly to his
honour, and, unlike several fellows of the Royal Society,
is not afraid to testify publicly to any spiritual pheno¬
mena he may see under test conditions :—
LUMINOUS APPEARANCES.
These, being rather faint, generally require the room to be
darkened. I need scarcely remind my readers again that,
under these circumstances, I have taken proper precautions to
avoid being imposed upon by phosphorised oil, or other means.
Moreover, many of these lights are such as I have tried to'
imitate artificially, but cannot.
Under the strictest test conditions, I have seen a solid
self-luminous body, the size and nearly the shape of a turkey’s
158
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 2, 1875
egg, float noiselessly about the room, at one time higher than
any one present could reach standing on tiptoe, and then gently
descend to the floor. It was visible for more than ten minutes,
and before it faded away it struck the table three times with
a sound like that of a hard, solid body. During this time the
medium was lying back, apparently insensible, in an easy
chair.
I have seen luminous points of light darting about and set¬
tling on the heads of different persons ; I have had questions
answered by the flashing of a bright light a desired number of
times in front of my face. I have seen sparks of light rising
from the table to the ceiling', and again falling upon the
table, striking it with an audible sound. I have had an
alphabetic communication given by luminous flashes occur¬
ring before me in the air, whilst my hand was moving about
amongst them. I have seen a luminous cloud floating upwards
to a picture. Under the strictest test conditions, I have more
than once had a solid, self-luminous, crystalline body placed in
my hand by a hand which did not belong to any person in the
room. In the light I have seen a luminous cloud hover over a
heliotrope on a side table, break a sprig off, and carry
the sprig to a lady ; and on some occasions I have seen a
similar luminous cloud visibly condense to the form of a hand
and carry small objects about. These, however, more properly
belong to the next class of phenomena.
THE APPEARANCE OP HANDS, EITHER SELF-LUMINOUS OR VISIBLE
BY ORDINARY LIGHT.
The forms of hands are frequently felt at dark seances, or
under circumstances where they cannot be seen. More rarely
I have seen the hands. I will here give no instances in which
the phenomenon has occurred in darkness, but will simply
'select a few of the numerous insiances in which I have seen
the hands in the light.
A beautifully formed small hand rose up from an opening in
a dining-table, and gave me a flower; it appeared and then
disappeared three times at intervals, affording me ample oppor¬
tunity of satisfying myself that it was as real in appearance
as my own. This occurred in the light in my own room, whilst
I was holding the medium’s hands and feet.
On another occasion a small hand and arm, like a baby’s,
appeared playing about a lady who was sitting next to me. It
then passed to me and patted my arm and pulled my coat
several times.
At another time a finger and thumb were seen to pick the
petals from a flower in Mr. Home’s button-hole, and lay them
in front of several persons who were sitting near him.
A hand has repeatedly been seen by myself and others play¬
ing the keys of an accordion, both of the medium’s hands
being visible at the same time, and sometimes being held by
those near him.
The hands and fingers do not always appear to me to be
solid and life-like. Sometimes, indeed, they present more the
appearance of a nebulous cloud partly condensed into the form
of a hand.* This is not equally visible to all present. For in¬
stance, a flower or other small object is seen to move; one
person present will see a luminous cloud hovering over it,
another will detect a nebulous-looking hand, whilst others will
see nothing at all but the moving flower. I have more than
once seen, first an object move, then a luminous cloud appear
to form about it, and, lastly, the cloud condense into shape,
and become a perfectly-formed hand. At this stage, the hand
is visible to all present. It is not always a mere form, but
sometimes appears perfectly life-like and graceful, the fingers
moving, and the flesh apparently as human as that of any in
the room. At the wrist, or arm, it becomes hazy, and fades
off into a luminous cloud.
To the touch, the hand sometimes appears icy cold and dead,
at other times, warm and life-like, grasping my own with the
firm pressure of an old friend.
I have ’retained one of these hands in my own, firmly re¬
solved not to let it escape. There was no struggle or effort
made to get loose, but it gradually seemed to resolve itself into
vapour, and faded in that manner from my grasp.
MR. CROOKES ON PHANTOM FORMS AND FACES.
These are the rarest of the phenomena I have witnessed.
The conditions requisite for their appearance appear to be
so delicate, and such trifles interfere with their production, that
only on very few occasions have I witnessed them under satis¬
factory test conditions. I will mention two of these cases.
In the dusk of the evening, during a seance with Mr. Home
at my house, the curtains of a window about eight feet from
Mr. Home were seen to move. A dark, [shadowy, semi-trans¬
parent form, like that of a man, was then seen by all present
standing near the window, waving* the curtain with his hand.
As we looked, the form faded away, and the curtain ceased to
move.
The following is a still more striking instance. As in the
former case, Mr. Home was the medium. A phantom form
came from a corner of the room, took an accordion in its hand,
and then glided about the room playing the instrument. The
form was visible to all present for many minutes, Mr. Home
also being seen at the same time. Coming rather close to a
lady who was sitting apart from the rest of the company, she
gave a slight cry, upon which it vanished.
We have never seen a “ shadow ” phantom. Does
Mr. Crookes mean that the light was so low, that the
outline of a fully materialised spirit looked like a black
shadow upon a slightly lighter background ? ’ These
manifestations are of so important a nature that it
would have been better had he described them more in
detail.
Miracles and Modern Spiritualism. Three Essays, by
Alfred Russell Wallace. London : J. Burns. 1875.
This book is a reprint of essays, one of which, on
“Miracles,” has been published in The Spiritualist.
This particular essay for depth of thought and closeness
of reasoning, is the finest specimen of literary work in
the present book, and a clear answer to the arguments
of Hume, Lecky, and others against miracles or
inexplicable wonders, which however are not assumed
by Mr. Wallace to be outside the domain of law.
Another of the essays is entitled “A Defence of
Modern Spiritualism,” and was originally published in
the Fortnightly Review. This portion of the book will
be the most attractive to those who are not Spiritualists,
but who desire information on the subject. Mr.
Wallace makes known in this essay the interesting
circumstance that he paid one visit only to the
spirit photographer at Holloway, and obtained an
“ unmistakable likeness ” of his own mother, but some¬
what more pensive and idealised than in life.
The following extract is interesting :—
MR. A. R. WALLACE ON THE EFFICACY OF PRAYER.
The recently discussed question of the efficacy of prayer
receives a perfect solution by Spiritualism. Prayer may be
often answered, though not directly by the Deity. Nor does
the answer depend wholly on the morality or the religion of
the petitioner; but as men who are both moral and religious,
and are firm believers in a Divine response to prayer, will pray
more frequently, more earnestly, and more disinterestedly,
they will attract towards them a number of spiritual beings
who sympathise with them, and who, when the necessary
mediumistic power is present, will be able, as they are often
willing, to answer the prayer. A striking case is that of
George Muller, of Bristol, who has now for forty-four years
depended wholly for his own support, and that of his wonder¬
ful charities, on answer to prayer. His 1 ‘ Narrative of Some of
the Lord’s Dealings with George Muller ” (6th Edit., 1860)
should have been referred to in the late discussion, since it
furnishes a better demonstration that prayer is sometimes
really answered than the hospital experiment proposed by Sir
Henry* Thomson could possibly have done. In this work we
have a precise yearly statement of his receipts and expenditure
for many years. He never asked any one, or allowed any one
to be asked, directly, or indirectly, for a penny. No subscrip¬
tions or collections were ever made; yet from 1830 (when
he married without any income whatever) he has lived,
brought up a family, and established institutions, which have
steadily increased, till now four thousand orphan children are
educated and in part supported. It has happened hundreds of
times that there has been no food in his house, and no money
to buy any, or no bread or milk or sugar for the children.
Yet he never took a loaf or any other article on credit even for
a day; and during the thirty years over which his narrative
.extends, neither he nor the hundreds of children dependent
upon him for their daily food have ever been without a
regular meal! They have lived literally from hand to mouth;
and his one and only resource has been secret prayer. Here
THE SPIRITUALIST.
159
April 2, 1875.
is a case, which has been going on in the midst of us for forty
years, and is still going on; it has been published to the
world for many years; yet a warm discussion is carried on by
eminent men as to the fact of whether prayer is or is not
answered, and not one of them exhibits the least knowledge of
this most pertinent and illustrative phenomenon! The
Spiritualist explains all this as a personal influence. The per¬
fect simplicity, faith, boundless charity, and goodness of
George Muller have enlisted in his cause beings of a like
nature; and his mediumistic powers have enabled them to
work for him by influencing others to send him money, food,
clothes, &c., all arriving, as we should say, just in the nick of
time. The numerous letters he received with these gifts,
describing the sudden and uncontrollable impulse the donors
felt to send him a certain definite sum at a certain fixed time,
such being the exact sum he was in want of, and had prayed
for, strikingly illustrates the nature of the power at work.
All this might be explained away if it were partial and dis¬
continuous ; but when it continued to supply the daily wants
of a life of unexampled charity, for which no provision in
advance was ever made (for that Muller considered would
show want of trust in God), no such explanation can cover the
facts.
The argument might be pushed further than Mr.
Wallace has done in this paragraph, wherein he assumes
that <c medial power ” may sometimes be absent when
prayer should be answered. In Spiritualism there is much
evidence of the truth of Swedenborg’s statement, that
the thoughts of all people are connected with the spirit
world, and that good and evil thoughts are synchronously
shared—usually unconsciously—by vast numbers of
spirits and mortals, so that all men are mediums.
| gWhen a man aspires for that which is pure, and true,
and loving, he probably places himself in harmony with
higher spirits and leaves a greater gulf between himself
and the hells, consequently leads a much better and
happier life than those who never have recourse to
prayer. Aspiration is usually followed by inspiration,
and true prayer may be defined as aspiration, so that a
man by act, and thought, may pass his whole life in
prayer, yet never go down on his knees, never enter a
church, and never utter a word of supplication. As the
king says in Hamlet:—
Words without thoughts never to heaven go.
Savages and some civilised men pray to the spirits of
particular departed mortals; we know one medium who
is sometimes plagued by bad spirits, and who prays to
Socrates, of whom he is a great admirer; the plan is
lisually efficacious, the evil influences depart and good
ones flow in, probably because by the act of prayer he
raises himself out of the sphere of bad spirits. There
is evidence in Spiritualism that prayer is good for all
men, whether medial power in the ordinary sense of the
word be present or not.
On page 229 Mr. Wallace quotes from The Spiritual
Magazine a valuable passage, because of the additional
light it throws upon the influence of the mind of the
medium upon manifestations. The statement is made
by Dr. F. L. H. Willis, professor of Materia Medica in
the New York Medical College, as follows :—
THE INFLUENCE OF THE MIND OF THE MEDIUM UPON
MANIFESTATIONS.
One evening the medium went into the dark room alone,
and took her seat at the piano. I was in the sitting-room
adjoining (the door between was open), the light from which
made every object in the circle-room distinctly visible.
Scarcely had the medium struck the first note upon the piano,
when the tambourine and the bells seemed to leap from the floor
and join in unison. Carefully and noiselessly I stole into the
room, and for several seconds it was my privilege to witness a
rare and wonderful sight. I saw the bells and tambourine in
motion. I saw the bells lifted as by invisible hands and
chimed, each in its turn, accurately and beautifully with the
piano. I saw the tambourine dexterously and scientifically I
manipulated with no mortal hand -near it. But suddenly,
by a slight turn of the head, the medium became aware of my
presence; instantly, like the severing of the connection
between a galvanic battery and its poles, everything ceased.
Mark this ; so long as my presence in the room was known
only to the invisibles, so long the manifestations continued in
perfection; the moment the medium became aware of it,
everything stopped. A wave of mental emotion passed over
her mind, which was in itself sufficient to stop the phenomena
at once. The incident proved to my mind most clearly that,
in most cases, it is the condition of the medium that renders
it so difficult for spirits to perform these wonders in the light,
rather than any lack of power or disposition on their part.
When there is a lack of “ harmony ” at spirit circles
the spirits are probably not directly affected thereby,
but their instrument, the medium, being in a state of
timidity or distrust they cannot act so well, a calm,
happy state of the nervous and mental system of the
medium being desirable. When a medium is agitated
by passion, not by anxiety, spirits with physical power
have more scope than at other times, for that state of
mind, as we have seen on more than one occasion, per¬
mits the veriest fiends to run riot; it is the very reverse
condition to that in which a medium may place himself
by prayer. Perhaps in Dr. Willis's case, the spirits, as
well as the medium, did not know he was there ; they
may possibly have been able to get the information
only through the consciousness of the medium. In the
case of the outrage at Miss Cook’s circle, the medium
had no suspicion of foul play, neither had the spirits,
so the*manifestations went on very well, showing that
what information the spirits could get in that particular
case, could only have reached them through the con¬
sciousness of the medium. We have known unjust
suspicions on the part of mediums to react on the
utterances of spirits.
Mr. Wallace’s book offers few loopholes for criticism;
we can only speak of it in terms of almost unqualified
praise, so will conclude this notice by quoting a few of
his own experiences:—
MB. WALLACE’S EXPERIMENTS IN MSSMBBISM.
My earliest experiences on any of the matters treated of
in this little work were in 1844, at which time I was teaching
in a school in one of the Midland counties. Mr. Spencer Hall
was then lecturing on Mesmerism, and visited our town, and 1
and many of my pupils attended. We were all greatly inte¬
rested. Some of the elder boys tried to mesmerise the younger
ones, and succeeded; and I myself found several who, under
my influence, exhibited many of the most curious phenomena
we had witnessed at the lecture. I was intensely interested
in the subject, and pursued it with ardour, carrying out a
number of experiments to guard against deception and to test
the nature of the influence. Many of the details of these
experiments are now stamped as vividly on my memory as if
they were events of yesterday, and I will briefly give the sub¬
stance of a few of the more remarkable.
I produced the trance state in two or three boys, of twelve
to sixteen years of age, with great ease, and could always be
sure that it was genuine, first, by the turning of the eyeball in
the orbit, so that the pupil was not visible when the eyelid
was raised; secondly, by the characteristic change of counte¬
nance ; and, thirdly, by the readiness with which I could pro¬
duce catalepsy and loss of sensation in any part of the body.
The most remarkable observations during this state were on
phreno-mesmerism and sympathetic sensation. By placing my
finger on the part of the head corresponding to any given phre¬
nological organ, the corresponding faculty was manifested with
wonderful and amusing perfection. For a long time I thought
that the effects produced on the patient were caused by my
wishing the particular manifestation; but I found by accident
that when, by ignorance of the position of the organs, I placed
my finger on a wrong part, the manifestation which followed
was not that which I expected, but that which was due to the
position touched. I was particularly interested in phenomena
of this kind, and by experiments, made alone and silently,
completely satisfied myself that the effects were not due to
suggestion or to the influence of my own mind. I had to buy
160
THE SPIRITUALIST.
a little phrenological bust for my own use, and none of the
boys had the least knowledge .of or taste for phrenology; yet,
from the very first, almost all the organs touched, in however
varied order and in perfect silence, were followed by manifesta¬
tions too striking to be mistaken, and presenting more won¬
derful representations of varied phases of human feeling than
the greatest actors are able to exhibit.
These experiments have a value because of their
bearing upon the “ devil ” theory of certain of the
lower manifestations, which are sometimes accompanied
by low passions or deceit. The medium at the time is
usually in a mesmeric sleep, and if the spirits have to
work through or draw power from the base of the brain
in producing certain physical results, may there not
sometimes be no particularly evil spirit at work in the
case, as in this example of Mr. Wallace and one of his
schoolfellows ? May not the repulsive effects be due to
the enhanced action of particular portions of the brain?
Bad spirits are certainly at work sometimes, but ob¬
servers should bear in mind that phreno-mesmeric
influences may also tend to produce some of the same
results.
COMMUNITY OR SENSATION IN MESMRRISM.
The sympathy of sensation between my patient and myself
was to me then the most mysterious phenomena I had ever
witnessed. I found that when I had hold of his hand he felt,
tasted, or smelt, exactly the same as I did. I had already
produced all the phenomena of suggestion, and could make
him tipsy with a glass of water by calling it brandy, and cause
him to strip off all his clothes by telling him he was on fire; but
this was quite another thing. I formed a chain of several
persons, at one end of which was the patient, at the other
myself. And when in perfect silence I was pinched or pricked,
he would immediately put his hand to the corresponding part
of his own body, and complain of being pinched or pricked too.
If I put a lump of sugar or salt in my mouth, he immediately
went through the action of sucking, and soon showed by ges¬
tures and words of the most expressive nature what it was I
was tasting.
A medium is believed to be a person mesmerised by
“ a spirit out of the body,” instead of by “ a spirit in
the body,” and there is evidence tending to prove that
one of the chief motives which draws low spirits to the
lower mediums, is the power they thereby gain of
enjoying the pleasures of earth over again by community
of sensation with the medium. Yet the Cases are not
quite parallel, for Mr. Wallace does not say that he
felt sensations first communicated to his medium.
Nevertheless, the possibility of communication of sen¬
sation in one direction is established, and we do not
know what might have taken place in the other, had
Mr. Wallace been a disembodied spirit. Mesmerists
who undertake to heal disease, sometimes take upon
themselves the maladies of their patients (but in a some¬
what milder form), until by experience they learn how
to throw off the adverse influence.
Once at a public seance, while Mr. Morse was en¬
tranced, the communicating spirit was asked to explain
“ The Psychology of Drunkenness.” The “ Strolling
Player ” replied that the man while drinking had his
thoughts and passions stimulated by a horde of spirits
of departed drunkards, who, through him, were tasting
their old pleasures over again—“ Pine sport for you,
my masters! ”
MESMERIC PHENOMENA DURING THE WAKING STATE.
After 1 had induced the state of coma several times, some
of the boys became very susceptible during their ordinary
waking condition. I could induce catalepsy of any of the
limbs with great ease; and some curious little facts showed
that it was real, not imaginary, rigidity that was produced.
Once a boy was in my room in a state of complete rigidity
when the dinner-bell rang. I hastily made passes to relax the
body and limbs, and we went down together. When his plate
Aebil 2, 1875.
was before him, however, he found that he could not bend one
of his arms, and not liking to say anything, sat some time
trying to catch my eye. I then had to go to him, and by two
or three passes rendered him able to eat his dinner. This is a
curious and important fact, because the boy went down think¬
ing he was all right. The rigidity was therefore in no way
caused by his “ expectation,” since it existed in opposition
to it. In this boy and another one I could readily produce the
temporary loss of any of the senses, as hearing or smelling,
and could even so completely take away the memory that the
patient could not tell his own name, greatly to his disgust
and confusion, and this by nothing more than a simple pass
across the face, and saying in an ordinary tone of voice,
“ Now, you can’t tell me your name,” And after he had re¬
mained utterly puzzled for some minutes, if I made a reverse
pass, and said, “ Now, you know your name again,” his whole
countenance would change—a look of relief coming over it as
the familiar words recurred suddenly to his memory.
The following was the religious position of Mr. Wal¬
lace when he began to inquire into Spiritualism:—
MR. WALLACE ON IMMORTALITY.
During twelve years of tropical wanderings, occupied in the
study of natural history, I heard occasionally of the strange
phenomena said to be occurring in America and Europe under
the general names of “ table-turning” and “ spirit-rapping
and being aware, from my own knowledge of mesmerism, that
there were mysteries connected with the human mind which
modern science ignored because it could not explain, I deter¬
mined to seize the first opportunity on my return home to
examine into these matters. It is true, perhaps, that I ought
to state that for twenty-five years I had been an utter sceptic
as to the existence of any preter-human or superhuman
intelligences, and that I never for a moment contem¬
plated the possibility that the marvels related by Spirit¬
ualists could be literally true. "If I have now changed my
opinion, it is simply by the force of evidence. It is from
no dread of annihilation that I have gone into this subject;
it is from no inordinate longing for eternal existence that I
have come to believe in facts which render this highly pro¬
bable, if they do not actually prove it. At least three times
within the last twenty-five years I have had to face death as
imminent or probable within a few hours, and what I felt on
those occasions was at most a gentle melancholy at the thought
of quitting this wonderful and beautiful earth to enter on a
sleep which might know no waking. In a state of ordinary
health I did not feel even this. I knew that the great
problem of conscious existence was one beyond man’s grasp,
and this fact alone gave some hope that existence might be
independent of the organised body. I came to the inquiry,
therefore, utterly unbiassed by hopes or fears, because I knew
that my belief could not affect the reality, and with an
ingrained prejudice against even such a word as “spirit,”
which I have hardly yet overcome.
PROBABLE DUPLICATION OF FORM.
Mr. Wallace, after narrating some of his earlier ex¬
periences in Spiritualism, narrates how he put a wine¬
glass under a table near a medium, and adds:—
After a short time it was gently tapped, producing a clear
ringing sound. This soon changed to a sound as if two glasses
were gently struck together; and now we were all astonished
by hearing in succession almost every possible sound that
could be produced by two glasses one inside the other, even to
the clang of one dropped into another. They were in every
respect identical with such sounds as we could produce with
two glasses and \?ith two only, manipulated in a variety of
ways, and yet I was quite sure that only one wine-glass was in
the room, and every person’s hands were distinctly visible on
the table 
I may add that the imitation of the sound produced by two
glasses was so perfect that some of the party turned up the
table immediately after we left it, under the impression that
the unseen power had brought in a second glass, but none
could be found.
Either a second wine-glass was brought into the room
and carried away again by spirits—for through some
mediums they have full power to do this—oy the wine¬
glass was temporarily duplicated, as in the duplication
of the forms of mediums at materialisation seances, and
as in the duplication of the blue dress of Mrs. Fay at
April 2, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
161
the recent seance at the house of Mr. Crookes. If no
second wine-glass was introduced, the fact described by
Mr. Wallace shows that an object placed near a medium
for a minute or two only can be duplicated; and whether
this actually was or can be done, ought to be determined
by experiment now that the question is raised. It has
long been known that the body of a medium, and the
dress long charged with emanations from that body,
can be duplicated, but whether objects suddenly
brought near a medium can be treated in the same way,
is not yet known with certainty.
MR. CROOKES’ EXPERIMENTAL SITTING WITH
MRS. FAT.
Mr. Serjeant Cox is disposed to believe that the figure
clothed in a blue dress which he saw when his book was
handed to him at this secince, must have been Mrs. Fay
herself; and that, principally, because he is unable to
understand the double of a blue silk dress and pearl
bracelets. He would rather believe that Mrs. Fay’s
“ spirit arms maintained the electrical communication
while her body was moving a,bout.”
It is obvious to remark that in the numerous cases of
apparitions which are on record, many of which have
given audible and palpable evidence of materiality, the
appearance of ordinary clothes—e.g., of rustling silk
dresses—has repeatedly been presented. And the dis¬
tinction between the conventional ghostly drapery and
the phantom blue silk dress is one of kind only. The
power that can produce one may be assumed to be
capable of producing the other.
But it is useless to argue about probabilities, and
where certainties are to be had we shall all prefer them.
Let me, then, relate one case in which the body pre¬
sented was decidedly not the body of the medium. The
experiment was made in a private apartment occupied
by the Comte de Bullet in the Hotel de FAthenee, Rue
Scribe, Paris, and is one of many. Behind a curtain
suspended across one corner of the room Firman, the
medium, was placed; in the opposite corner was Buguet
with his camera. The Count took his place behind the
curtain and grasped Firman’s hands, continuing to do so
throughout the seance. Under these circumstances a
figure appeared, and was posed and photographed by
Buguet.* I have a copy of the picture (9^in. by 7|in.)
before me, and I am informed by Madame de Yeh and
Mr. Gledstanes that it is a clearly recognised portrait of
the Count’s sister-in-law. The face is perfectly clear
in definition, and presents features which are perfectly
recognisable. But far more remarkable than the face
is the vast cloud of gossamer-like drapery that fills the
whole picture. It is of the finest texture, shading
away into filmy, almost imperceptible fineness. The
abundance of it is most striking; and the wildest
imagination could not fancy a being so arrayed con¬
* The most important of the facts in this article is comprised in this
sentence; were it not for the words “ appeared V and V posed,” it might
have been supposed that the spirit was not objectively visible, and that
the picture was one of Buguet’s spirit photographs taken in his ordinary
way. But if the spirit actually stood there as palpably as any of the
mbrtals, this is one of the most conclusive and interesting seances on
record. Yet as all Spiritualists want to know how spirits materialise and
how they disappear again, why is no information on these most interesting
points given? Another circumstance should be borne in mind; the three
persons present, M. Buguet, the Comte de Bullet, and Mr. Firman, are all
of them mediums, who by clairvoyance might see a spirit not materialised,
or, as mesmeric sensitives under the will-power of spirits, might be made
to see whatever the spirits chose, just as a ” biological ” lecturer can make
six or seven sensitive boys on a public platform see anything which he
wills them to see. In either of these cases there may have been no material¬
isation at this particular seance. Perhaps our contributor will obtain some
information from Paris on these points ? Is the Mr. Firman mentioned in
this article the son of Madame Louise?—-Ed.
cealed in a private room, or entering it from without
through the corridors of an hotel in broad daylight.
The drapery lies in thick fleecy clouds, as unlike as
possible to the conventional drapery of the “sheeted
dead,” or to the “ darned tablecloth” which some have
fancied they saw in Buguet’s pictures.
Now here is a case in which a being is created—it
comes to nothing short of that—clothed in a most elabo- ’
rate and unlikely fashion, and all this while the Count
de Bullet, in his own rooms, and in morning light,
holds the medium’s hands, so as to be assured that he
does not move. Is this less wonderful than a presenta¬
tion of a double of Mrs. Fay ? I submit that one clear
case in which the medium’s body is decidedly not pre¬
sented establishes a similar presumption in the other
case.
Moreover, abundant proof is at hand that garments
and drapery are materialised—I use the term for lack
of a better—and “ dematerialised,” when no longer
required, just as a human body is formed and dissipated
again. The current number of The Spiritualist con¬
tains two cases in point, one of the duplication of the
human form at Terre Haute, Indiana, when medium
and double were visible simultaneously; the other of
the permanent materialisation of flowers, which still
remain in the possession of the gentleman to whom
they were presented.
Mr. Serjeant Cox rightly insists on the nature pf the
intelligence at work, and this makes very strongly
against his theory that Mrs. Fay herself handed out
the book to him. Even if Mrs. Fay could have been
removed from the handles of the electrical apparatus
without breaking the current—and it is not even hinted
how her spirit (the only agency at work according to
Mr. Serjeant Cox) could possibly effect such a marvel—
how are we to account for the access of intelligence
which was observed ? She moves about a darkened
room without disturbing anything, takes books of which
she knew nothing from shelves which she had never
looked over, and presents them with perfect accuracy
to their respective authors, some of whom were un¬
known to her even by name. She has suddenly become
endued with omniscience and ubiquity, for all this time
her “ spirit arms ” are holding the handles, and she
has gone up into the drawing-room and brought down
a plate, and has got into a cupboard and brought out a
box from it! Beside the ponderous difficulty, not to
say the wild absurdity of such an explanation, the
whole spirit theory is simple.
“ Plainly the form was either Mrs. Fay or her
double.” Why ? I have gathered some cases in which
the evidence shows that two, three, four, and even five
forms have been produced through the mediumship of
a single person. Does the human spirit then possess
the power of multiplying itself indefinitely ? of cloth¬
ing itself with all sorts of garments ? and of appearing
indifferently as man, woman, or child ?
And why, if this be so, does it invariably give a
false account of itself'? Why dons the spirit which in
its normal state is truthful and sincere become false
and tricky as soon as it is disengaged from the body ?
It remains for those who put forward the hypothesis
that the spirit of the medium is the sole agent in these
manifestations, to account for these incongruities and
seeming impossibilities. On this hypothesis it is only
the flesh that keeps us straight at all; the released
spirit comes out in a new character, and “ my aban¬
doned double ” is something more than a joke.
162
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 2, 1875.
The proposal to test the fact that the medium is in
her chair throughout the experiments by allowing her
feet to be shown outside the curtain, does not seem to
me to advance matters at all. To most minds Mr.
Crookes’ test will be enough.
Any lingering doubt will not be dispelled by any
such test, tor the power that could produce u spirit
arms ” eight feet long, or duplicate a blue silk dress, may
be assumed to be equal to the production of a pair of
feet and the duplication of a pair of boots.
The test of all others is that which I have mentioned
above. If the Comte de Bullet can hold the medium in
his private apartment, and achieve the results which he
has attained, there can be no valid reason why others
should not do the same. It is merely a matter of time,
patience, and money. These the Count has liberally
expended on daily experiments in private, and he has
his reward. It is earnestly to be hoped that a similar
course in other cases may be pursued. I agree entirely
with Mr. Serjeant Cox that in a matter so momentous
nothing short of the best and completest evidence should
be held sufficient; and I have no doubt that with
proper care it can be obtained. M. A. (Oxon.)
SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHY.
BY WILLIAM H. HABBISON.
For some years past Mr. F. M. Parkes has borne the
reputation, among Spiritualists, of obtaining spirit
photographs by means of his mediumship; during
much of that period Dr. Sexton, Mr. G. Childs, and
others, have watched the production of the pictures,
and like all those who have had personal knowledge of
Mr. Parkes, speak well of him. Until the last few
weeks, also, Mr. Parkes took no remuneration for his
pictures, but for several years gave them away, and
bore all the expenses of their production. I mention
these circumstances because, during the taking of the
few pictures by him while I was present, there were no
test conditions. I did not see the photographic mani¬
pulations all the way through, the spirits apparently
being as chary of allowing the influence of strangers
to act in the developing room, as they are of allowing
anybody to enter cabinets at materialisation seances
before they have full confidence in the person they
intend to introduce. Throughout all the manifestations
in Spiritualism, the spirits seem to put difficulties at first
in the way of those who would place the whole subject
on a purely physical basis. For my own part I am now
not sorry that the question of personal character is
made so large an element in gaining advanced know¬
ledge on the subject, better people being thereby
brought into the movement, and a barrier being to
some extent placed across the path of the more ob¬
jectionable, who wish personal integrity to be a myth
of no absolute practical value.
Mr. Parkes can take spirit pictures in all weathers
and at all hours of the day and night, because he uses
the magnesium light; the results, however, have not
much pictorial beauty, the shadows thrown being
harsher than when the sitter is properly lighted by the
diffused rays from the northern sky, as in ordinary
photographic studios. A black background is used,
near one side of which the sitter is placed; the spirits
appear on the negative in front of the other side of the
background, but nothing is visible there to normal
eyesight while the plate is being exposed in the camera.
The theory is that spirit friends of the sitter come there
with him, and that Mr. Parkes’ spirits help them to get
either themselves, or representations of themselves,
photographed.
Some of the spirit forms which appear on the
negatives are evidently photographed direct from living
beings, others resemble photographs of drawings or
paintings, others again seem to be pictures of distorted
images. At materialisation seances for recognisable
spirits, mask-like faces come alternately with living
faces in the earlier developments, and there appears to
be a direct connection between materialisation seances
and spirit photographs, the latter showing what the
spirits are doing before they themselves or the objects
they bring are visible to the eye, In some of Mr.
Parkes’ pictures the mortal sitter is illuminated with
light falling in one direction, whilst the spirit is illumi¬
nated with light falling in the opposite direction,
which tends to show that in such cases the spirit
picture was placed upon the plate at a different
time, or was photographed from an invisible
drawing, or was illuminated by invisible actinic rays
from an unknown source. In almost all the instances
where the outlines of the sitter and the spirit overlap
each other, the spirit is in front, and the white drapery
is not cut off by the darker dress of the sitter, as would
be the case were the spirit behind; pictures with the
spirit behind partly hidden by the sitter in front, if they
were regularly obtainable would be fair test pictures,
because there would be great practical difficulties in the
way of obtaining them artificially, with dark rich blacks
in the deep shadows of the picture.
From what has been stated it will be seen that
sceptical photographers would raise the plea that the
spirits might be printed upon the negatives in the dark
room, by diffused light passed through transparencies.
Some half dozen plates have been exposed in my
presence, and placed in my hands while wet, immediately
after development; they bore no marks of the super¬
position of a transparency, they had not been artificially
“ doctored” in any way, and the deep blacks in the
shadows were not fogged. If Mr. Parkes would use a
background with a clear sharp pattern upon it, it would
much increase the test character of all his pictures;
ladies who attend should pin up their shawls instead of
the black clothj for a background, and sit in front of
them, so as to be photographed with the shawl behind.
In the face of all these ff conditions,” throwing so
much onus upon personal character, as in most spiritual
manifestations in their earlier stages, Mr. Parkes very
truly says that the best evidence of spirit action is the
production of a recognisable spirit photograph, which is
very true when the sitter is not an enthusiast, and
when the face of the spirit is so clearly defined as to
leave no room for the exercise of the imagination. Mr.
Parkes claims to have obtained many such; he also
claims that the character of the pictures changes with
many sitters who come; a Roman Catholic, a stranger
to him, attended once; monks, crucifixes, and so on,
then came out on the pictures.
In my own case, I could not in any degree recog¬
nise any of the spirits who appeared on the plates. I
“varied the conditions,” however, within permissible
limits, and unexpectedly to Mr. Parkes, by writing to
Mrs. Corner (Florence Cook), who lives in the neigh¬
bourhood, asking if she could attend in the afternoon
for a spirit photograph, for I reasoned that the sudden
introduction of such a powerful and reliable medium
ought to change the character of the pictures, which
April 2, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
163
could not be the case were they prepared upon trans¬
parencies in advance. A few hours after the receipt of
my note, Mrs. Corner kindly called on Mr. and Mrs.
Parkes; they did not know her; she had to explain who
she was and why she came. Mrs. Parkes then said, “ Oh,
come down stairs and sit for a spirit picture. We
ought to get something good! ” A quarter of an hour
after the proper time I arrived ; Mr. Parkes entered the
room with a freshly-developed negative, on which was an
elaborate picture of the celebrated white-robed “ Katie,”
in her conventional white dress, alongside Mrs. Corner.
This was a very fair test of the genuineness of the photo¬
graph, for as already stated, Mrs. Corner had appeared
there unexpectedly but a few minutes before.
Mr. Parkes is exhausted by a photographic seance
just as much as a rapping medium is exhausted by
physical manifestations, and he finds that although he
can usually get two or three pictures once a day, re¬
sults are more secure if he photographs but once in two
days, so he adopts the latter course greatly to his own
credit, for it is more just to the sitters. If he exposes
four plates, spirits are usually found upon two or three
of them. When he begins to prepare the first plate he
partially loses consciousness, and he is more or less en¬
tranced all the rest of the time; in fact, Mrs. Parkes
sometimes has to take the negative out of his hands or
he would drop it, or rub off the picture with his fingers.
Two persons are necessary in taking these pictures;
the other was once Mr. Reeves, afterwards Miss Sexton,
now it is Mrs. Parkes; she stands by the canlera, so
that her “ influence ” shall act upon it. All along Mr.
Parkes has found that particular manifestations through
his mediumship are strengthened in the presence of
particular people.
I have to thank .Mr. and Mrs. Parkes for the kind¬
ness with which they received me, and the unreserve
with which they gave all the information desired. Mr.
Parkes lives at the east end of London, at 6, Gaynes
Park-terrace, Grove-road, Mile-end-road, E., so is not
in that region at present troubled by too many callers,
which perhaps is to the advantage of the sitters, since
he is more sure of results if he holds a seance but once
in two days. The best, although not the most direct
way of getting to his house, is to take the train by the
North London Railway from Broad-street to Bow,
thence by tram to Grove-road, or by cab to Gaynes
Park-terrace. His house is perhaps fifteen or twenty
minutes’ walk from Bow station. There is a passenger
station (unfit to accommodate cattle) on the Great Eastern
Railway not far from his house, but altogether the other
route is the best.
The following is Mr. Parkes’ account of his own
mediumship:—
DREAM PICTURES.
I do not know whether my mediumship is hereditary, but
both my mother’s mother and my father’s father had glorious
visions shortly before they died; in my grandfather’s case he
slightly recovered, and lived for two or three days after seeing
the visions. He appeared to me a few nights after his death.
I was 42 years of age on the 20th£day of this month (March),
my birth being on the same day as that of Mr. Home, and from
my boyhood upwards have at intervals had visions. I called
them “ pictures,” and thought that they were some kind of
harmless mental illusion. I see spirits somewhat rarely, and
mostly when I am passive; Isee spirits or scenes just the same
when my eyes are open as when they are shut; sometimes I
do not see anything for two or three weeks, then I have what
may be called an attack of visions,^ lasting sometimes
only a day or two, and sometimes for a week or two.
I find that by sitting still, and passively yielding, these
visions come while I am at a spirit circle, but I did not
know that the spirits had anything to do with them until
Mr. Whiting told me so. Sometimes a vision screens solid
objects in the room from my gaze, but generally speaking I
can see through these dream-pictures. Sometimes the objects
in the vision stand out in relief, sometimes they are
quite flat, like pictures. Latterly most of them have been in
relief. All the outlines are sharply defined; the objects are
always motionless.
A HAUNTED HOUSE.
In my boyhood I used to see spirits, I suppose by a different
kind of vision, for they moved and looked solid. About the
year 1848, when I was sixteen years of age, I lived with my
parents about a mile from Pontypool, Monmouthshire, in an
old farm-house which bore the reputation in the neighbour¬
hood of being haunted. The first night I slept in that house,
I plainly heard a man with hobnailed boots, walking in the
room above mine, but when I went into the room the noise
stopped; when I returned to my bedroom it began again, so I
called my father. He ridiculed the idea of any one being in
the house, but these noises occurred several nights running,
and were heard by my mother as well as by myself. Later
still there were noises in the attics like a man using a hammer
and chisel. I heard these noises frequently when other
persons did not hear them. Occasionally visitors to the house
heard them. One day a charwoman, who knew nothing of the
circumstance, asked my mother “ whether she heard the car¬
penters upstairs.” For a long time before we entered the
house Welsh servants would not live in it, because it had the
reputation of being haunted, and there was a legend that a
man had cut his wife’s throat in it, a story which was without
proof so far as I know.
WELSH GOBLINS.
On a bank outside the house I sometimes saw a dog of
immense size—six feet high—lying down at full length, raising
his head, and making a piteous and continuous howling noise.
I also frequently saw a little dwarf in the neighbourhood of
the house. When I spoke of these things, I was ridiculed, but
one day when I told a local brewer of the name of Thomas
Jones about these spectres, he produced a very old book,
written by one “ Parson Jones of the Tranch,” in which there
was a description of these very spirits, the dog and the
dwarf, which the author had seen himself; he called them
“ ghosts.”
Only six months ago when I was not well I saw a great dog
chained up near the door in my bedroom : he kept straining
his chain, as if he wished to jump at me.
CURIOUS PSYCHOLOGICAL PACT.
During the latter part of my residence at Pontypool these
visions ceased. I was taken ill with tubercular disease of the
lungs, and the medical man recommended that I should go
abroad. At that time I had a young friend who was studying
chemistry, and who had pulmonary disease of the lungs. My
parents, thinking it to be contagious, separated us, and would
not allow me to see him. But my mother sat up with him at
night alternately with his own mother during his illness. On
coming home very early one morning, she looked into my
bedroom to see that I was all right; I started up, and told her
that I knew what she was going to say—namely, that my
friend was dead ; I next stated that he died about ten o’clock
on the preceding night; I further told how his room was
furnished, although I had never been in that particular apart¬
ment. This was all true. I suddenly woke out of my sleep,
and made these statements, and did not know what made me
do so, or how I became acquainted with the circumstances,
but the occurrence of course surprised both my mother and
myself.
APPARITION AT THE MOMENT OP DEATH.
In consequence of that illness, I went abroad to Brazil,
where it was intended that I should meet an uncle of mine
who had left there for California; and I waited for him to
rejoin me.there, but his return was not expected until some
months after my arrival. I was then residing at the house of
the largest merchant in Bio de Janeiro, and one day, when he
gave a large party, I was asked why I kept apart from the
company, for I was depressed in spirits, and, while reclining
on a couch, was impressed that my uncle was dying, and I told
them so. Twelve days afterwards, I was called by my friend
into his bedroom, where he informed me that a vessel had
arrived bringing the news that my uncle had died about the
time that I was affected by the premonition.
MEDIUMSHIP AMONG FARO WOMEN IN BRAZIL.
In Brazil there are many African blacks, among whom
certain phases of spiritual phenomena are common. Those
who have the power of communicating with spirits arc called
164
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 2, 1875,
“ Faro women.” One night, when I was unwell with a rheu¬
matic .affection, I went to one of these women, a negress of
the name of Bernada; she took me into the garden by moon¬
light, and made passes over me ; after a time a cloud, fourteen
or fifteen feet high, rose from the earth at a distance of about
ten yards from us. It revolved rapidly, and approached
nearer and nearer; then it hovered over us and surrounded
us, at which moment I was entirely relieved from my pain.
PSYCHOLOGICAL COMMUNICATION BETWEEN DISTANT PEBSONS.
After that I had a long interval with no spiritual expe¬
riences. Shortly before my marriage it was discovered that
when I gazed at the picture of my intended wife while she was
elsewhere, she saw me with a light on my face ; she did not
see me when I thought of her at other times, so the circum¬
stance of gazing at the picture had something to do with my
appearance to her.
MB. PAEKES’ FIBST SEANCES.
I had no further experience of importance until the mid¬
summer of 1871, when I first heard of Spiritualism. I was
dining at the house of Mr. Reeves, who kept dining rooms at
York-road, King’s-cross, London, where I saw a copy of The
Medium newspaper on the table. I made inquiries of Mr.
Reeves, who told me that there was truth in the subject, and
that he had & waitress who was a medium, so could let
me see some manifestations if I liked. I accepted the invi¬
tation at once, but found that with her kind of mediumship
we had to sit in the dark. We had table motions. Several
spirits said that they were present, one of whom called him¬
self “Bill Jones,” and said that he was a gold-digger. He
often communicates with me at the present time. I next went
to see the elder Mrs. Marshall, at Bristol-gardens, Paddington:
although I was a stranger to her, she told me that I “ drank
far too much tea,” which was true; she also described my
grandfather accurately, and told me that “he had a military
name and bearing, but was not a military man.” This was
true; his name was Major Parkes.
A NEW SEASON FOR BECOMING A SPIRITUALIST.
I met Mr. Whiting, and sat with him at his circle at
Kentish-town, six months after I first met Mr. Reeves. I told
Mrs. Parkes from the first about my inquiries into Spirit¬
ualism, and she thought that the whole subject was wicked,
until our baby died without being baptised, and as orthodox
people said that the baby had consequently gone to hell, she
resolved to take up Spiritualism in order to go there too, for
she felt she could not be happy anywhere else.
THE DEVELOPMENT OF MB, PABKES’ MEDIUMSHIP.
One evening a gentleman, a stranger to me, came to one of
our dark seances at Kentish-town, and I had a vision. I saw a
little boy swinging a censer towards him, and after that, a
monk kneeling in a dark nook before a crucifix. The gentle¬
man was a Catholic, and he recognised the order of the monk
from my description of the dress.
I sat about ten times at Mr. Whiting’s. I also continued
my sittings with Mr. Reeves, whose spirits were good
developers, for I found that my mediumship grew stronger in
his presence, and suffered in his absence, therefore I am
positive that a developing power is connected with certain
mortals or their spirits. Mr. Reeves was not a medium.
There is a different character in the mesmeric influence of
different persons which I can feel quite distinctly while in
their presence.
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
One evening I went to our developing circle in the Cale¬
donian Road. Dr. Wilson, Mrs. Wilson, Mr. Reeves, my wife,
and a young man named Squires—who sat next to me—were
also there. Mr. Squires was entranced, and made to shake
his hands over mine; then one of my hands began to shake,
and traced out the initials “ W. H. P.” in fern-like letters.
Mr. Squires then muttered the name “ William.” I said
“ William Hancock ?” He (still entranced) replied, “ No,
your uncle.” I had an uncle of the name of William H.
Parkes. Mr. Squires then automatically represented the
nature of his death, and also that he was afflicted with a
partial blindness of one eye, all of which was quite correct.
My hand next wrote without my volition the letters “ E. P.,”
the initials of another uncle, and the- entranced Mr. Squires
clearly gave me to understand that it was my other uncle.
These evidences of identity deeply impressed me with the
truth of Spiritualism.
DEVELOPMENT OF THE PHOTOGBAPHIO MANIFESTATIONS.
One evening in January, 1872, at a seance at the house of
Mr. Reeves, my wife jocularly remarkedthat she would like a
photograph of one of my attendant spirits who called himself
Bill Jones, and recommended me to try to get one from MrJ
Mumler, the spirit photographer of New York. Bill replied,
“ Why don’t you try to get it yourselves ? ” but he would not
promise that it would be obtained if the attempt were made.
Afterwards, at Mr. Whiting’s, at Kentish-town, the spirits said
that perhaps I might get spirit photographs if I tried, and
they added that Mr. Reeves was to keep the collodion, clean
the glasses, and keep them in his care, in order that they
might be charged .with his influence. At first we had irre¬
gular markings on the plates, like those obtained by Mr.
Beattie at Clifton ; afterwards a hand appeared on the plate,
over the head of Mr. Reeves, and luminous rays streamed
downwards from the fingers of the hand. This picture, like
all our eaily ones, was a positive. All the forms in our early
pictures were mere outlines, as if cut put of paper; thus, a
face shown in profile would have no eyes. The spirits told us
not to show these early attempts to anybody ; the results were
not convincing, and they themselves were learning how to
produce them.
Later still we had a likeness of Bill Jones, with a billycock
hat on, and looking exactly like a scarcecrow, for his clothes
drooped as if they had nobody inside, and were suspended on
a stick. That was our first negative.
One day Mr. W. Reeves, a brother of our friend Mr. Reeves,
and a disbeliever in Spiritualism, saw one of these photographs
on the chimney-piece, and although he had been told that we
were instructed by the spirits that we were not tp let anybody
see them, he seized it to show to some friends who came there
to dine. He said that the negative “ was pulled away from
his hand by an invisible power and replaced on the chimney-
piece without being destroyed, he therefore resolved not to
show it.” His face was white with fear when he made this
statement. Both the other medium and myself were out of
the room at the time, showing that the spirits had soma
power in the place during our absence.
The first recognisable portrait which we obtained came
about three months after we first began the experiments ; it
was a likeness of the late Mr. J. W. Jackson, of Glasgow ; the
sitters were Dr. Sexton and Dr. Clarke, of Edinburgh. Mr.
Jackson was represented over the table in a sitting posture,
with his hat between his knees, crown downwards; the spirits
said that he appeared thus to convey the idea that aid was
needed for his wife and family. Mrs. Jackson was rather
annoyed when she heard of the circumstance. She did not
believe in spirit photography, so she came to me and sat for a
portrait, when Mr. Jackson appeared again.
1 had several recognised portraits after that, but sometimes
there was great distortion, as if the forms were made of some
elastic or soft material. The pictures were of all kinds; I used
occasionally to get a curious sort of drawing, like a coarse
crayon sketch upon a white ground, and my spirits said that
these were “ projected ” or “ sent ” by other spirits who could
not come themselves. As my power gradually developed these
kind of pictures decreased in number, but still I occasionally
have much to contend against in the shape of distortion;
many pictures would be recognised but for the distorting
effect. I noticed that this distorting effect was lessened very
much when any person of artistic or refined taste was in the
room, and that the beneficial influence remained a consider¬
able time after he left—say for some weeks—but gradually
died out, except after the visit of one artistic friend, who left
behind him a permanent influence upon the pictures.
I have clairvoyantly seen the spirits trying to form them¬
selves to be photographed. Every part of them is in motion;
they look like magic-lantern pictures projected upon steam.
They have no colour; their faces, dresses, and every part of
them appear to be of the same material. Sometimes there is
no definition at all in them. These are the real spirits. I
have never clairvoyantly seen the drawings which appear on
some of the photographs, and which the spirits say are “ pro¬
jected.” I see these steam-like spirits quite as well with my
eyes shut as with them open, but they do not seem to be
entirely subjective, since they appear in the photographs. I
rarely get any “projected” figures now; I was so disgusted
with them that I said I would rather have bare plates.
Once I took six or seven of these spirit photogr aphs in the
dark; we took the cap off the lens as usual, bat I do not know
whether that was necessary.
I have tried to ascertain from the spirits how they produce
the pictures, but their statements have not been very clear to
my understanding, or to that of other listeners. My chief spirit
guide, Dr. Woolley, says that “ every part of the photographic
process has to be spiritualised; that the camera, chemicals,
April 2, 1375.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
165
and so on are all spiritually represented in the other world.”
All my chemicals have to be kept in the dark room, and the
spirits use them by what Dr. Woolley calls “ association.” I
asked them if they could bring out a picture on the plate with¬
out my putting the plate in the camera, and they said “ No.”
They say that even the wood of the camera is charged with a
special influence.
TRANCE AND PHYSICAL MEDIUMSHIP OP MR. PARKE S.
In the earlier days of my development I had raps, table
manifestations, and spirit lights; at the present time I get
direct spirit writing occasionally. Once at a dark seance at
the house of Mr. Reeves I was entranced, and on awaking
found that I had left the table, and was stealthily creeping
round the room on all fours ; this gave me a severe fright, for
I saw at once that if I had been discovered I should have been
charged with attempting imposture. I asked the spirits
“ why they did it ?” They replied that it was “ necessary for
my development.” However, after that I never sat at a dark
circle without my wife holding my hand, to see that I kept
my place. Still, they got me away once after this, ’• and when
a light was struck, I was found praying in a corner of the
room.
THE SPIRIT GUIDES OF MR. PARKES.
The first spirit-guide who communicated to me, called him¬
self Bill 'Jones. He introduced himself by raps through the
table at Mr. Reeves’, and as soon as I commenced being en¬
tranced, the higher spirit, “ the teacher,” spoke by my instru¬
mentality. Shortly afterwards Dr. Woolley commenced con¬
trolling me, and several others have occasionally spoken through
me, and most recently one stating his name to be Jonas Nash.
It is with very great difficulty that I have been able to get any
account from them of their earth-life; they seem ever to give
evasive replies to questions on this point, and assert that they are
members of an association of which it is a rule never to look back,
but to direct their energies forward, the effect of which is that the
memory of the past fades away from them whilst the light of
the future dawns the more brightly on the present. Never¬
theless the spirit Zephaniah Stent (who used to preside over
the physical phase of my earlier mediumship), has stated that
the “ teacher ” was Edward the Confessor; that Bill Jones is
the son of a wheelwright, who was a Yorkshireman, his
mother was a Lancashire woman, and that he was born whilst
his parents were on tramp—that is waiting about to get work;
his spiritual name is Leader, both he and the Teacher have
peculiar robes which they wear occasionally. Jonas Nash was
a native of Bishopswearmouth where he died about fifty years
ago, at about fifty years of age, he has given some description
of the place, &c., but has since declined referring further to
the subject of his past life, and I will here state that I have
no recollection of any spirit speaking through me in a way
that I was enabled to identify him with the pastlife of any person;
and it is a curious fact, that those relatives who these spirits
have informed me are about me, and whom 1 have frequently
seen, never wrote or sppke through me excepting in one in¬
stance, which was by writing and was certainly very character¬
istic, both as to the diction, hand-writing, and signature of a
lady relative.
One point in connection with these photographs may
hereafter prove to be of exceptional value in philoso¬
phical research. For a long time it has been known
that the occasional presence at a seance of a particular
person exercises a good or bad influence over the mani¬
festations, which influence is felt more or less at subse¬
quent seances, when the individual in question is no
longer present. In the pictures by Mr. Parkes, some
of the effects of .such influences are photographically
registered, and brought somewhat within the region of
exact observation.
The W. Wallace Testimonial.—The honorary Secre¬
tary of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism
has received the following subscriptions in aid of the above,
and requests an acknowledgment in our columns, viz.:—Mrs.
Amelia Corner, 2s. 6d.; Soht Notylb, 2s. 6d.; R. Pomeroy
Tredwen, 2s. 6d. ; Alfred E. Lovell. 2s. 6d. ; George Robert
Tapp, 5s.; Mrs. Edward E. Corner, 2s. 6d.; J. Tozeland, 10s.;
total, £1 7s. 6d. Many of the members paid their contribu¬
tions direct to the treasurer, Mr. H. Biefield, some time before
any official intimation about the testimonial was received by
the Associatien.
THE PAINTING MEMUMSHIP OF MR. DUGUID, OF
GLASGOW.
BY WILLIAM OXLEY.
On Thursday evening (March 25th), by the'arrangements of
our kind friends “ within ” and “ without,” I was privileged to
witness a phase of spiritualistic phenomena, unique, so far
as I know, namely, the production of oil paintings in the
dark, and without any action whatever, by embodied human
beings.
There were five present besides the medium, in whose house
we met at 8 p.m.; being asked if we had any choice as to the
character of the manifestations, we replied that we left it
to our invisible friends to do what they thought the best.
A prepared or grounded card, about 18 by 9 inches, was then
arranged upon the easel, and Mr. Duguid was soon off in an
unmistakable trance. I do not think it would be possible for
any one to imitate this; the pupils of the eyes are turned
high up above the centre line, and the upper lids drawn over
so as to exclude all light from the optical parts, the white
part only being exposed on the under side; in this position
they are fixed till the influences are removed, and the medium
is restored to his normal condition.
The medium then placed himself at the easel, and prepared
his pallet and colour-box. When the gas was turned off, and
the room was in total darkness, we heard the pencil scratching
for a few minutes, when the raps from the table instructed
Mr. Bowman to turn on the lights ; we then saw the outlines
of a landscape in strong, bold marking ;> this preamble occu¬
pied about three or four minutes. The gas jet was then left
burning, when the medium dashed off—or rather on—the
colouring, and in about twenty minutes the painting was finished,
the medium’s eyes being fixed all the while as before mentioned.
The painting itself was a very fair production, being a lake
scene, with three mountains in the distance, and bold rocks in
the foreground, with trees on the right.
“ Steen,” the controlling representative spirit, now ordered
that the medium should be tied in his chair, which was done
by Mr. Bowman, both arms being fastened by kerchiefs, and
the wrists as well, all firmly knotted, so that the medium
could not possibly use his hands. Before being thus fastened,
six plain cards, carte size, were placed on the table, when a
piece was torn off the corner of one and given to one of the
sitters; the gas was then turned off. It was afterwards ordered
to be turned on again, and Mr. Bowman was told to do the
same to a second card, the piece torn off being given to me;
the gas was then turned off again. We sat in darkness for
about three minutes when the raps announced that the gas
should be lighted (in the darkness the sitters all sat with
locked hands); the two cards were not to be seen; in fact
they had disappeared, the medium being fastened' in his chair
just as he had been tied. The gas was again turned off; we
sat in total darkness for about five minutes, when the raps
ordered the gas to be lighted. To my astonishment the two
missing cards were now on the table, the one with a miniature
landscape, the other with the bust of a young girl, with golden-
coloured hair and a blue dress, the oil paint being quite wet,
and the medium exactly as he had been fastened. That Mr.
Duguid could not have done them is certain from the fact that
he had not moved, and the painting utensils had previously
been all put into the box, and all the paint cleared and scraped
off the pallet; that none of the sitters could have done them
was equally certain from the fact that every hand was clasped,
and seeing that the whole was done in pitch darkness, even if
they could have done it, the feat would have been none the less
wonderful. The gas being once more turned off and the
medium fastened as before, two musical boxes, one a small,
the other a large one, started off playing alternately, and the
small one floated away to what appeared to be a considerable
distance, the effect of which was very fine. We each were
then favoured with perfumes, the aroma of which was simply
exquisite, being a combination of the rarest eastern spices.
Steen was now asked if he could say who the portrait repre¬
sented, to which he replied that he did not know, but that the
“ old ones ” were telegraphing to me. The “ ancient one,”
Hafed, the Persian magician, one of the “wise men of the
East,” then told me through Steen who it was to represent,
and he further gave me some particulars respecting the com¬
munications he had given through the medium, but which I
forbear to note, as they would not at present be understood.
The communications, which have been taken down by Mr.
Nisbet, as they were uttered through Mr. Duguid, the medium,
—the accumulation of five years,—purport to be a history of
the earth-life and spirit-life of Hafed, Prince of Persia, and
166
THE SPIRITUALIST.
will form a volume of not less than 550 pages demy 8vo, and
enriched by copies of a series of drawings, done by direct
spirit agency, illustrative of his history. This work, if Mr.
Nisbet meets with sufficient encouragement to publish it, will
form one of the most valuable additions to the already rich
spiritualistic literature of our times, and will be one of its
rarest treasures.
Mr. Duguid is a man of gentle and unpretentious appear¬
ance, and no one who is a discerner of spirits can be in his
presence without feeling that they are in the presence of a
man who is “ without guile.” May he long be spared to be
an instrument for the cultivation of such a glorious work as
he has been gifted to perform.
Higher Broughton, Manchester, March 27,1875.
INDIA.N MEDIUMS AND MANIFESTATIONS.
The sudden unloosening of mediums from the closest,
and most skilfully knotted bonds, has been a wonder
during the last few years, and now become an ordinary
manifestation. Like everything else under the sun, it
is, however, nothing new. In the Portuguese History
of the Indies, printed 1581,'folio, there is an account of a
set of magicians, called Ouvans or Soangus, in the island
Gromboccanore, in the East Indies. They are said to
have had the art of rendering themselves invisible, and
passing where they pleased; and, as they did infinite
mischief by these means, the people hated and feared
them mortally. The history goes on to say that the
king of the island once presented a Portuguese officer,
named Brito, with some of these ouvans, who made an
incursion with them on the people of Tidore, and, by
aid of their magic arts, conquered and killed great
numbers. To test whether, in effect, they possessed
the faculties ascribed to them, Brito had several of
them tied by the neck, and their limbs strongly lashed
with ropes, without any possibility of disengaging
themselves by natural means ; but, however closely
guarded, they were in a short time found loosed and
free. The history adds that Brito, in order that the
King of Tidore might not complain that he made war
on him with devils, dismissed them at length to their
own island.
"What real occurrences may be hidden in this wild
story it were hard to say, but the feature of sudden
resolution from bonds by unapparent means is clearly
indicated. Some extraordinary mediumistic powers
probably originated the tale. The uncouth name,
Gromboccanore, seems to be the same with Grama-
bakanar, an ancient port on the western coast of India,
now abandoned. As for the barbarous appellation
“ ouvans ” and “ soangus,” the present writer can only
conjecture that the former is a word distorted from a
Dravidian root, signifying evil, mischief, murder;
and the latter a mangled form of “ sunyakoran, i.e.,
magic-monger, from “ sunyam,” magic, sorcery.
In connection with this subject it may be remarked
that some of the famous Indian juggling feats appear
hardly explicable except on the supposition of wonder¬
ful mediumistic and levitating power, which though only
of late attracting attention in Europe, has doubtless
existed in great force and practice amongst the ancient
nations of the East. Eor example, the famous basket-
trick, now performed under many modifications in
London and elsewhere, has been often described with
wonder by travellers in India, where it has reached a
development unapproached in Europe. Its highest and
rarest manifestation—for less striking and marvellous
gradations of performance are far more common—is
thus briefly described. The performers are just as ready
to do it by daylight as by dusk, and,the usual place for
April 2, 1875.
exhibition is the broad, solid chunam floor of the
verandah of an Indian bungalow, or even its flat roof.
The spectators sit round in a circle, and the principal
juggler brings forward a little girl, from six to eight
years old, and leads her round the circle. He then
places her in the midst, ties her hands behind her back,
and binds all her limbs together, which all the company
may inspect, and then puts over her a large beehive¬
shaped basket of closely woven bamboo. He then
walks about flourishing a sword and making various
strange gesticulations after the manner of jugglers, and
presently enters into conversation with the child, who
answers from within the basket, affects to become
angry, at last furious, and, rushing to the basket,
plunges his sword several times violently into it. The
groans and struggles of the child are heard within it,
and “ griffins” who see it for the first time can with
difficulty be kept from rushing on and collaring the
murderer, hut shortly he smooths his brow, paces round,
waving his arms mystically, and uttering sundry in¬
cantations, then raises the basket, and, lo ! in place of
a dead and bleeding child there is nothing !
Presently the little girl, free and unbound, comes
smiling from round a corner into the circle, holding out
her hand for the “ baJcshishes ” she is sure to get. Be
it remembered that this is done in open day, on a hard
floor, and in the midst of spectators seated a few feet
distant all round, and seems inexplicable from any point
of view except by some enormous mediumistic and
levitating power; and so indeed is the well-known
mango or flower trick, performed under the same con¬
ditions, in which from a dry mango stone, buried in a
few handfuls of earth, a shoot is made to arise, first.
shown in bud, then in leaf and flower, and lastly
bearing a ripe fruit. This trick quite baffles all who
see it, and who would explain it by ordinary sleight-of-
hand.
Whilst on the subject reference may briefly be made
to the astounding accounts given by mediaeval travellers,
especially Marco Polo, of feats witnessed by them in
India, when objects flung up into the air vanished and
never fell down, and performers mounting a rope, ap¬
parently attached to nothing, disappeared, and presently
their dismembered limbs came tumbling down out of
the empty air! This the old travellers witnessed in an
open space by open day, and of course could only
attribute it all to Satan. The full account, with curious
wood-cuts and notes, may be read in Colonel Yule’s
splendid edition of the travels of Marco Polo, published
a year ago; the truthfulness of the old Yenetian’s
account of what he saw, like that of Herodotus, after
long ridicule is now established, and Colonel Yule sees
no reason to suspect that in the above particular
instance he was telling traveller’s tales. The power
necessary for such displays, however, seems to have been
lost or fallen into disuse in modern times; at least, the
present writer has heard of no instances near our own
age.
To conclude these Indian manifestations the writer
may add one within his own knowledge. In Tin-
nevelly, the extreme province of the Indian
Peninsula, there lived, and still may be living,
a Brahmin of ill repute, a gaunt, weird-looking,
wild-eyed man, possessed of uncanny powers, especially
of fascination or power of eye. European residents
would often send for him and desire him to exhibit this.
He, or any one present, would then tear from any
hedge or bush a long wreath of convolvulus or other
April 2, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
167
trailing plant and throw it on the ground or in the
verandah before the spectators. Then standing a few
paces distant, he would fix his unearthly eyes intently
upon the long green streamer, fingering his beads and
muttering to himself, when, sometimes in a shorter
sometimes a longer time, the wreath would begin to
move, and as though endued with life or pulled by a
string approach him serpent-like, coming up to his feet
and following him if he retreated; people might walk
between and scrape with sticks to discover any
suspected string connecting him with the plant, but to
no purpose. Tor all that could be discovered the long
wreath moved of its own accord in obedience to his
power of eye or will. In Dr. E. Crowell’s work on
Spiritualism and primitive Christianity there are some
curious instances and speculations respecting eye-power.
It is remarkable that this Brahmin was induced by a
European gentleman, now living, for a considerable
bribe, to disclose the secret of his power. He acquired
it from him, and was able to effect the feat. But it
would seem he considered there was something objection¬
able in it, for he was religiously disposed; and after a
time desisted from putting the power into practice, and
lost it. He would not be questioned about it, and
declined any conversation on the subject.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OE SPIRITUALISTS.
SPECIAL MEETING OE THE COUNCIL.
On Tuesday, last week, a special meeting of the Council of
the British National Association of Spiritualists was held at
its rooms, 38, Great Russell-street, London, under the pre¬
sidency of Mr. Alexander Calder. The other members present
were Mr. Martin R. Smith, Mr. Keningale Cook, B.A., Mr.
Algernon Joy, Mr. and Mrs. Morell Theobald, Mr. and Mrs.
Thomas Everitt, Miss Houghton, Mr. E. T. Bennett, Mr. E.
D. Rogers, Mr. H. D. Jencken, Mr. Webster Glyn.es, and Mr.
Reigan.
LIMITED LIABILITY OF MEMBERS.
The Registration Committee produced the Memorandum of
Association and other particulars proposed to be submitted to
the Board of Trade, in order that the National Association
should be registered, so that the liability of its members
should be limited to five shillings each. The clauses were
then amended in detail, and it was found that to comply with
the provisions of the Act some of the rules of the Association
would have to be modified. As this business was transacted
in conversational fashion, little time remained afterwards for
the consideration of other public questions.
FURNISHING THE NEW OFFICES—THE BAZAAR—PRIZE ESSAYS—
THE SECRETARYSHIP.
Mr. Rogers reported that £76 3s. 9d. had been expended in
furnishing the offices so far, and that another £70 would pro¬
bably be required. A further sum of £50 out of the guarantee
fund was then voted for this purpose.
It was resolved that the bazaar, to raise funds in aid of the
furnishing of the offices, should be held in the Co-operative
Hall, Castle-street, Oxford-street, on the 26th, 27th, and 28th
of May next. A lady friend of Mr. Martin Smith subscribed
£5 towards the bazaar, and the Baroness Adelma Yay £4;
several friends will contribute money as well as goods.
Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace, Mr. Martin R. Smith, Mr. J. M.
Gully, M.D., and “ M. A. (Oxon),” were appointed judges of
the essays to be sent in in competition for the gold medals of
the Association.
Miss Kislingbury, in accepting the secretaryship, resigned
the honorary secretaryship, as follows:—
To tht Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
Ladies and Gentlemen,—In consequence of your having done me the
honour to appoint me your Resident Secretary, I hereby beg, in accordance
with our accepted constitution, to tender the resignation of my seat on the
Council.
Allow me also to express my sincere and grateful thanks for the kind and
hearty manner in which all those present supported my election at your
last meeting, and for the liberality which, by enabling me to devote all my
time to the interests Of Spiritualism and of the Association, has added as
much to my personal happiness as I trust it may do to my public use¬
fulness.
As your secretary, I feel that I cannot do better than keep always before
me, as a model, the “ ideal ” portrayed by Mr. Martin Smith in his address,
to which, however unattainable, it will be my constant wish and effort to
aspire. Very faithfully yours, Emily Kislingbuky.
The resignation having been accepted, the proceedings
closed.
(Eomsponuence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who somitimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.']
ALLEGED EVOLUTION OE ELECTRICITY FROM THE HANDS
AND EEET.
Sir,—Warned solemnly, Mr. Editor, that I must only
“ show or quote any experiment,” the hint in question shall
be severely obeyed—albeit, not sternly given by yourself.
Deferentially therefore it is now submitted, in reply to a sort
of editorial challenge of scientific disproof—that the nervous
system of man does not always affect the exquisite galvanome¬
ter, even when the current of a galvanic battery is passed
through ganglia, as demonstrated by Matteuci {L'Institut, No.
75); hence, Professor Muller was led to declare, “ Neither
Person nor I have yet been able to detect free electricity in
th.Q nerves ot man” (Magendie, Journal de Physiol, x., 216).
Again, contrariwise, Pfaff and Ahrens have very distinctly
shown (Meckel, Archiv., iii., 161) the kind of electricity in the
human body by the following invincible conclusion: “ The
body of man, when perfectly naked, manifests the same quan¬
tity of electricity, and magnetic phenomena are often common
to all parts of it in excitable or sensitive persons of a sanguine
temperament.” * Similar factsjpertaining to the development
of electricity, which manifested itself in sparks, without any
friction, or pulling off articles of dress, &c., are particularly
well attested by Dr. Carpenter in all his works on physiology,
&c., as well as in various papers, essays, and lectures by Sir
Henry Holland and other Fellows of the Royal Societyf on the
organic production of electric sparks by human beings. (See
especially Humboldt, uber die gereizte Muskel urd Nerven-
faser, 1 v. 159. Shall I say more, or must I needs stop
forthwith ? Some individuals, according to my experience
and observation (of more than forty years’ duration in such
matters), spontaneously exhibit electric and magnetic phe¬
nomena very frequently and powerfully when vegetarians,
teetotallers, and non-smokers, and the most unquestionable
cases of other forms of disturbance of electric equilibrium
have been scientifically recorded—not only throughout the
history of every philosophical magazine of Europe and
America, but in all the legitimate orthodox medical journals
And is there not- an electrical lady to be found in the British
National Association of Spiritualists ? At all events, in the
midst of many other examples, you may find an account of a
remarkable female electrician, detailed by Dr. Hosford in the
American Journal of the Medical Sciences for 1838.
There was no time, from the months of January to April
inclusive, when that lovely instrument was incapable of yield¬
ing bright electric sparks; in short, “ four sparks per minute,
of one inch and a half, would pass from the end of her finger
to a brass ball on the stove; these were splendidly brilliant,
very distinctly seen and heard in any part of a large room, and
most sharply felt when they passed to another person,” &c.j:
The interesting phenomenon in question, as I can personally
testify, was immediately mentioned to the Messrs. Harrison
and Co. of that day; and to their eternal honour as scientists,
be it recorded in The Spiritualist of this, our present time,
each philosopher in succession, like Thomas of Didymus,
required vivid electrical sparks, not due to friction, to pass
from the lady’s knuckle to every handsome proboscis, where¬
upon they saw and felt the influence of electricity in woman,
with involuntary exclamation and speedy recoil.
Lastly, you inquire of me, with charming emphasis, “ What
has mesmerism to do with electricity ? ” What, indeed ?
More astounding still, if possible, it is affirmed editorially,
“ No one denies the remedial powers of unseen agents! ”
Good Gracious, Angel of Truth !! What next ? Neither more
nor less than this, do I now protest. Without electricity, in
my opinion, no magnetism; without magnetism, celestial,
terrestrial, organic, or human, tables move not; raps are
absent, conspicuously; Spiritualism were defunct, the pre-
* Assertion without experiment.—Ed.
f Then why not quote one case?—Ed.
t Where is the testimony of competent witnesses that these were not
due to friction, and what are their names and addresses ?,—Ed.
168
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 2, 1875,
sence of media is vain, there is neither matter nor spirit, and
no communion between two worlds.
William Hitchman, M.D.
Liverpool, March, 15th, 1875.
t Dr. Hitchman was asked to quote one case in which electrical sparks
were obtained from the human body, in the presence of competent
witnesses who certified that those sparks were not due to the friction of
clothes against an unusually dry skin, but he has not done so. He refers
to various books, he quotes an American case—perhaps the one referred to
and explained by Dr. Tyndall—hut he does not give the details of any ex¬
periments by which competent witnesses demonstrated the effects not to be
due to friction. Mr. Varley has been present when sparks were coming
from the human body in a dry cold atmosphere in North America; he saw
the cause of the phenomenon, and at once made sparks come from his own
body; the dry carpet acted as an insulator and by rubbing his boots over
it he generated enough electricity to light the gas with a spark from his
knuckles. The raps at spirit circles have not the angry snapping sound of
electrical sparks; an experimentalist with batteries of any kind cannot make
noises like them; in fact some, but probably not all, spirit raps, are made
with the knuckles of a partly materialised spirit hand under the table. ,As
to the other raps, Messrs. Varley, Blackburn, and Harrison have attached
delicate electrical indicating apparatus to a table from which the said raps
were coming, but there was not the slightest trace of the presence of
electrical di-turbanrte; it is true, however, that further experiments should
be tried in this direction before coming to a decision. Professor Tyndall
and some other physicists are unreliable authorities as to abnormal physical
effects resulting from vital actions, as evidenced by their utterances about
mediums, still in this particular problem they have the best of it as yet, be¬
cause their statements are clear and supported by experimental evidence
so far as they go, which is not the case on the other side.—Ed.
A Lingering Death.—rOne of Macready’s taking cha¬
racters in Dublin was Pierre ; but be was yoked to a slow-
going Jaffier, who, at the close, was so long in shuffling off bis
mortal coil, that an impatient gallery-god called out, “ Ah,
now, die at once! ” To which another upper deity replied,
“ Be quiet, you blackguard ! ”—and then, with a patronising
tone to the lingering Jaffier, “ Take your time ! ”—The
A thenceum.
Spiritualism in Dalston.—Mr. C. E. Williams, the
well-known physical medium, and Mr. F. M. Parkes, the spirit
photographer, both of whom have recently been elected hon¬
orary members, have made liberal concessions to members of
the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism', who
may attend their sittings. Members can ascertain particulars
on application to the honorary secretary. The facilities thus
afforded to the members of the Association will tend to aug¬
ment their opportunities for observing some remarkable
phenomena, and will be correspondingly appreciated. A
special seance with Mr. Williams is to be held on the last
Thursday in this month, 29th instant, to which admission
will be by tickets only, the price of which can be ascertained
on application.
The Next National Association Soiree.—As the
Cavendish Rooms could not be procured for a single evening
in the month of April, the next conversazione of the British
National Association will be held in the Minor Hall, St.
George’s Hall, Langham-place, W., on Wednesday next, the
7th April. The room not being quite so commodious as could
be desired, there will be no platform, and the entertainment
will partake more of the character of a drawing-room recep¬
tion, where friends can meet for conversation, and strangers
and new members can be introduced. There will be refresh¬
ments and some music, but the programme will not be so long
as usual. At the Council meeting on the following. Monday
the terms of subscription to the reading-room, and other ar¬
rangements relating to the Association’s new premises at 38,
Great RusseU-street will be decided on. Members will do well
to take the opportunity of discussing at the soiree this and
other matters of interest to the Association.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
M., Newcastle.—Your letter has already been published.
The letters of “ R. G. S.,” and other friends, will be published next
week.
Correspondents are requested to make their letters brief and to the
point, or their publication may be considerably delayed, except
when the contents are of considerable public interest.
Errata.—Mrs. Woodforde writes that, in her last letter, the words,
“I contemplate,” should be “We contemplate,” and the word
. “ notions ’’ should be “ motives.”
G. T. Giertsen, Belgaum, India.—You ask why Messrs. Crookes
and Wallace do not record their experiences in a book, but by this
issue you will see that they have done so. Many besides your¬
self complain of Mr. Pine’s book and advertisements, wilich we
also think do the movement nO good; but we believe that he acts
conscientiously in the matter, so do not' stop ’the advertisements;
such action would be undue interference with liberty of opinion.
Miss Lottie Fowler will leave London for the Conti¬
nent in May next.
The reading-room of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists will be opened as soon as possible after the next meet¬
ing of the Council on the 12th of April.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
THE object of the Committee and of the Members gene¬
rally is, to spread abroad a knowledge of the great and preaious
truths of Spiritualism. We unite and labour for this purpose, and ear¬
nestly hope for the co-operation of all who are solicitous that their fellow-
men should become acquainted with the fact of spirit-life and spirit-com¬
munion.
Subscription, Is. per quarter, for which valuable and interesting works
on Spiritualism, &c., are lent to read.
Charles J. Hunt, Secretary.
RAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSURANCE
COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated under Act of Parliament, 25 and 26 Viet., cap. 89.)
OFFICES42, POULTRY, LONDON, E.O.
■ An Assurance of £1,000 can be effected by payment of a Single Pre¬
mium of £3 covering the whole Life. Profits Divided amongst the
Members.
Agent—Mr, THOMAS BLYTON, 12, St. Phillip’s-road, Dalston, London,
E., of whom Prospectuses and all information can be obtained on applica¬
tion.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, ana
umbrellas.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 3rd Edition, with Appendix.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz. Price 3s.
London.—Simpkin, Marsh ail & Co.
A BOOK FOR THE MILLION.
Read the following from 11 The London Review."
The Two Discoveries ; or, Key to Pine’s Spiritual Telegraph. By
Clement Pine. London: Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, and of the
Author at Bridgwater. Price Is. By post, Is. Id.
Spiritualism has become one of the most absorbing studies of the day.
Enquiring minds long to pierce its hidden mysteries, and fathom its mys¬
terious depths. Those endowed with the highest attributes have been and
are the most diligent searchers into the veiled and sacred spirit-world.
The author of the above soul-absorbing work claims for it the wonderful
power of unlocking the abstruse labyrinths of mathematical science,
enabling everyone, who values the privilege, to converse as freely with
friends in spirit-life as when they were on earth. We must certainly say
that the book is a curious, original, and thoughtful one, which will amply
repay an attentive perusal. It is replete with the most startling evidences
of the truth of Spiritualism, and the author’s spirit of sincerity permeates
every page. The appendix more especially proves the writer to be a man
of deep learning, profound thought, and a most able mathematician; his
facts are incontrovertible, his reasoning sound, and his deductions clear and
logical. We cordially and strongly recommend this, the most original
book of the day, to the perusal of our readers; and congratulate the author
upon producing a work so replete with information, and of such absorbing
interest as the “ Two Discoveries."
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS AND NEWSAGENTS.
T C. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
© SELLER, STATIONER, AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
ofTg Spiritualist, 39. Smallbrook-street,'Birmingham, supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
London. Agencies accepted for any Publication.
Established 1842.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston-lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information
as to Local Association, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
BEYERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions o Printing.-
Estimates forwarded on application,
April 2, 1875.
ME SPIXUTUALlSt.
m
TSS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANT®, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can be consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs, connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
1 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 2, Vernon-place,
Bloomsbury-squaro, W.C.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to *5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bernard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
X> OBERT HARPER is now sufficiently free from busi-
JL*/ ness engagements to undertake LECTURING and HEALING.—
R. H. has been a close student under many eminent professors in the great
Spiritual University for 14 years. He is willing to communicate what he
has thus acquired, by Lecturing upon the Higher Branches of the Spiritual
Science, to any who may desire his services. The Terms will be made
suitable to the poorest Societies, and may be learnt on application. Address
Soho-hill, Birmingham.
'R. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
'ISS GODFREY, CUR AT I YE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
n application by letter.
JY. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational speaker,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return in
or about the month of June next. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—War wick-cottage, Old Ford-
ad, Bow, London, E.
DR. M’LEOD and sibyl—magnetic healing
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefltted. By Utters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfleld, Esq., 15,
Lower Belgrave-street, Pimlico, S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture.
'ESSRS. HARRY BASTIAN AND MALCOLM
TAYLOR, Physical and Mental Test Mediums, from America.—
PARLOUR SEANCES every evening except Tuesday, Friday, and
Sunday, at 2, Vernon place, Bloomsbury-square. Tickets, 5s. each; hour
8 o’clock. For private seances, address as above.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
Trance mediumship for family business
and Other Tests, Healing or Development, by Spirit Mesmerism, &c.
Mr. Olive, 49, Belmont-street, Chalk Farm-road, N.W. Six years practice.
Terms—21s. per private seance.
A public seance at above address on Tuesday evenings, at 7 o’clock,
admission 2s. 6d. Also at 15, Southampton-row, Holbom, on Mondays
at 3 p.m.
■NTOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDLER, Professor
JLX of Curative [Mesmerism (80 Years Established), attends patients
daily] from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indication of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
PARKES, SPIRITUALIST PHOTOGRAPHER.
• Sittings a la seance by appointment, Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays. The magnesium light used in dull weather or when required.
Fee, one guinea per sittine. Address, 6, Gaynes Park Terrace, Grove-road,
Bovy, E.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS. (Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, near Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-bill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Liiian-villa, H<dder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Fi'z-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21. Green-street Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-bill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, War wick-square, SW.
Jencken, H. L>., M.R.I.. Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple,E.C.
Bamsay, Mrs. ,46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer. S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Fincbley-road, N.W.'
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council. . ..
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thornham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Bichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Beigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Qlasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, Esq., 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Bed-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road. Blackheath. S.E.
Davies, Rev. C.Maurice. D.D , 44,Netherwood-rd., Wes Kensingtoh-pk., W.
Dawe, N. F., 8, Marlborough-toad, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-bill, Hendcn, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester,
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond. &., M.S. Tel.E, 6, Loughborough-road North, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Gale, R., 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Giynes, Webster, F.L.A., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
I Isbam, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-sti eet, Hyde-park, W.
James, Capt. J., Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.LG.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Bang, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road,. E.O
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road, St. John’s-wood.
Nosworthy, Mrs.F. a., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Noyes, T. Herbert, Jun., J.P., Olub-chambers, Regent street.
Regan, James, 4, Stanley-villas, Northcote-road, New Wandsworth.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29, Daly ell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, M.A.,M.D., LL.D., &c.,17, Trafalgar-road, OldKent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Sirawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Cemral-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. G., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c.,25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall.
S.W., ana 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square. Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,38, James-stieet, Buckingham-gate, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. I’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonohitz, Styria, via Gratz, Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg. _
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S. ’
J. M Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev.J.Tyerman, Editor (Progressive Spiritualist), Melbourne, Australia
Mrs 'Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal. ^
C. C mstant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Berne, Switzerland
Epea Sargent, Esq., Box 3,556, Boston, U.S. A.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, RussbU
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M, Edouard Buguet, 5, Boulevard, Montmartre, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Ohamps-Elysees, Pans.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Cbamps-Elysees, Paris*
Gr. O. Wittig, Esq., Numberger Strasse 35, Leipsie
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Wurzburg, Bavaria.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
Dr. G. L. Ditson, Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, Africa.
IV
THE SPIKITUALIST.
April 2, 1875.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. R. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. O. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls ox the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’  
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Enquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence. '
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean ‘-‘ Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is Understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get Ihe best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are born of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of ofEer~forins of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.j
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection with their communications in its columns are
Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince JSmile de Sayu Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Count de Medina
Pomar; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H .
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B. A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe;
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox London-, Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barris¬
ter-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LLM.; Mr. C.
Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nos worthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W. Lindesay Richardson,
M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 69 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4£d. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
or enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings cormected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Neweastle-on-Tyne.
J. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c., &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6cL Single copies may be ordered. Terms cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to Mr. BARKAS),
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Published on the First of each Month. Price Twopence,
THE CHRISTIAN SPIRITUALIST,
EDITED BY GEORGE SEXTON, M.A., L.L.D.
Honorary and corresponding Fellow of the Royal Italian\Academy of Science, &c.
Each number contains inter alia—
An Oration, by the Editor. Original Articles on some Phase of Spiritual¬
ism. Leaves from the Editor’s Note Boo". Reports of Lectures, Meetings,
Seances. Reviews of New Books and Publications. Spiritual News, Poetry,
Correspondence, &c.
Published by F. Arnold, 86, Fleet-street, London, E.C.
THE SPIRITUAL AND PSYCHOPATHIC insti¬
tute, 1, Dunkeld-street (opposite Emmanuel Church), West
Derby-road, Liverpool. 1 a.m. to 4 p.m. Healers sent to all parts (terms
per arrangement.) J. and L. E. Coates, principals.
THE PROGRESSIVE SPIRITUALIST AND FREE
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. TyermAN,
Price Threepence. To behadof W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy 8vo.
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel Swedenborg: his life and
WRITING. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the
Doctrines and the other-world Experiences of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth, also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav¬
ings, by C. H. Jeens—I. Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holbom, in the Parish of'St. Andrew-
* above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.C.
