A F^EQORD OF THE PROQI\E^^ OF- THE £CIEJ^CE AND ETHlC^ Of SPI^ITUAEI^M.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 42. (Vol. III.—No. 3.)
LONDON: DEC. 15, 1872.
Published on the 1st and 15th of every
Month; Price Fourpenee.
Oftmtents.
Proselytising     ... ... ....   34
Spiritualism in Dalston
Swedenborg on Men and Women ...  
Private Seances:—Seance at Upper Norwood; seances :at Mr. Everitt’s;
seances at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s; seances at Mrs. Henry Cook’s
The Anthropological Institute:—Prehistoric Stone Implements from
India; Anthropology at the British Association; the Admission of
Ladies to Anthropological Meetings ; Prehistoric Implements
St. John’s Association of Spiritualists
A Case of Spiritual Obsession  
Spiritual Resurrection    ...
Tracts.
Correspondence:—Face Manifestations
Poetry:—Eternal Progression ... ...
Spiritual Guidance   ... ...
Paragraphs: —Etruscan Inscriptions; Royal Institution
Dalston association of enquirers into
SPIRITUALISM, 74, Navarino road, Dalston, E. Stances are held
every Thursday evening at 8 o’clock; and a Library is in course of forma¬
tion for use of members. Prospectuses and Rides on application to the
Secretary. Subscription 3s. per quarter in advance. Thos. Blyton,
Secretary, &c.
]\/riSS GODFREY, CUR ATI YE MESMERIST AND
JltJL RUBBER. Clairvoyant Examination and complete Diagnosis,
One Guinea. Mesmerising or Rubbing, One Guinea per week, and travelling
expenses.
Miss Godfrey may be seen, by appointment, at 161, Hampstead-road, N.W.
MISS HUDSON, Normal Clairvoyant and Prophetic
Medium, RECEIVES VISITORS daily (Sundays excepted), from
Twelve till Six o’Clock, at her Residence, 17, Castle-street, Wells-street,
Oxford-street. Terms, Five Shillings each. Visitor. Private Parties also
attended in the Evening; terms, One Guinea and travelling expenses.
EBIRD, Builder, House-decorator, Plumber, and
• Gasfitter, desires to inform his Friends and Employers that he
has taken NEW PREMISES, at 11, Park-grove, Shepherd’s-lane, Brixton,
opposite the Railway Station. Estimates given for every description of
work in the above branches. ~ 
BEYERIDGE & FRASER, Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully annoqnce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
Thos. wiles, bookseller, stationer, cir-
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
Price 6d. Cloth, 9d. Post free.
HEATEN OPENED.—Part H. being further descrip¬
tions of, and advanced teachings from, the Spirit Land. Given
through the mediumship of F. J. T. With an Appendix containing the
Scripture proofs of Spiritualism.
J. Bums, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.; E. W. Allen, 11, Ave-Maria lane, E.C.
Also Part I., price 6d. Cloth, 9d.
SELECTED BY HER MAJESTY’S COMMISSIONER FOR THE
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITIONS.
PHOTO O R A P H S.
Prices from 6s. per Dozen.
MR. A. L. HENDERSON,
OF 49, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON BRIDGE,
AND OF 2, AMERSHAM ROAD, NEW CROSS, S.E.
Photographer on Enamel to the Queen.
EPPS’S COCOA. —The Civil Service Gazette
remarks—“By a thorough knowledge of the natural laws which
govern the operations of digestion and nutrition, and by a careful application
of the fine properties of well-selected cocoa, Mr. Epps has provided our
breakfast-tables with a delicately-flavoured beverage which may save us
many heavy doctors’ bills.”
Made simply with Boiling Water or Milk.
Each packet is labelled—
JAMES EPPS & Co., Homoeopathic Chemists, London.
Also makers of CACAOINE, a thin Evening Beverage.
British imperial insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
Incorporated pursuant to Act of Parliament.
Capital—£200,000 in 200,000 Shares op £1 Each.
Head Offices: BROWN STREET And MARSDEN STREET, MANCHES TER
Chief London Offices: 20, KING WILLIAM STREET, E.C.
Central Trustees:
Augustus Frederick Baypord, LL.D., Senior Registrar, Court of Probate,
Doctors’ Commons, London; and Chancellor of the Diocese of Man¬
chester.
William GimberGoodlipfe, Accountant General, India Office, Westminster,
London.
Charles Oppenheim (S. Oppenheim & Sons), Director of the Union Bank
of London, Austin Friars, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Christopher WeGuelin (Thomson, Bonar & Co.), Director of the Bank of
England, 573, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Auditor: Dr. William Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., London, and Southlands,
Bromley,1 Kent.
The system of Insurance carried out by the “British Imperial”
(originally devised hy Dr. Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., of Somerset House, and
adopted with some modifications by her Majesty’s Government), is perfect
in Security, Equity, and Convenience.
In Security, because every With Profit, and Self-Insurance Policy, is
issued upon English Government Securities, held in Trust, away from the
control of the Directors, for the sole purpose of meeting policy claims, the
amount invested (80 per cent, of the whole premium) being shown by the
National English Life Table, compiled by the Registrar-General for the
Government to be more than sufficient to provide the sum insured under
the policy.
IN Equity, because in the event of an Insurant failing to continue the
payment of his premiums, only sufficient thereof is retained by the Corpora¬
tion to profitably cover the risk incurred upon the life during the time it
was covered by the insurance; the remainder being returned to the Insurant.
The amount returned varies according to the Table under which the
Insurance is effected, between nearly one-half and three-quarters of all the
premiums.
In Convenience, because the “ Surrender Value ” is endorsed on every
Policy, and is made payable at three days’ sight. It can also be used to its
full amount, by payment of 5 per cent, per annum interest on the sum with¬
drawn, without invalidating the Policy.
JOHN A. FEIGAN, General Manager.
WILLIAM DAVIES, Secretary.
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STERLING.
Head O^ces.-BROWN STREET AND MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER.
FIRE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates.
Bonus Returns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of tep Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Renewed Premiums:
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities.
British imperial life, and British
NATIONAL (FIRE AND GUARANTEE) INSURANCE COR¬
PORATIONS.
Applications for Agencies to either of the above Corporations can be
made to C. W. PEARCE, at the Chief London Offices, 20, King William-street,
E.C., from whom Prospectuses, Proposal Forms, and all other information,
can be obtained.
Aaron franklin, preseryer of birds
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE, Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’ heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. AARON Franklin, 58, Suffolk-
street, Birmingham.
34
THE SPIBITUALIST.
Dec. 15, 1872.
Cjj,e Spmkalbf
CHARG-E FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Three shillings
and sixpence for tlie first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word.
The, Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and ah
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually tom'up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication,, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 4s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Aye Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity m the supply of '■'■The Spiritualist" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies cati then be ordered of him by post, direct.
PROSELYTISING.
In our last issue we offered a few suggestions as to
the line of action it might be most judicious to take
publicly in the matter of proselytising, and suggested
that the amount of platform preaching and talking
about Spiritualism might be lessened with advantage,
if the same energy were to be employed in founding
good permanent spiritual institutions, so useful in their
character that the public should begin to demand ad¬
mission into our ranks, instead of having Spiritualism
forced upon their attention.
We now desire to make a few suggestions for the
consideration of thoughtful Spiritualists, about indi¬
vidual action in the matter of proselytising. The
secretaries of the St. John’s and Dalston Associations
recently made known their opinions, the result of expe¬
rience, that it is best hot to be too anxious to prose¬
lytise, and the Dalston Association has had much better
meetings and seances since it increased the restrictions
on the admission of visitors. We have long since ceased
to take much interest in making individual proselytes,
knowing that persons of the right mental and spiritual
character are sure to work their way into Spiritualism
without much urging, because they feel the want of it;
also, that people who are not naturally Spiritualists had
better not be forced into our ranks; the attempt .to
convert them causes anxiety to those who undertake
the task, seances are spoilt because they break condi¬
tions, and instead of looking upon communion with the
world beyond the grave as one of the greatest boons
that man can have, they sometimes seem to think it to
be a special favour that they consent to attend for once.
The following method of dealing with a man of this,
description has often been practically tried, and found
to be efficient. We will put it in the form of a
dialogue:—
A.—I tell you it is all imposture, and that you have
been deceived. You show me a solid object floating in
the air and I will believe, otherwise I will not.
JB.—What you believe or disbelieve is your own
business, and not mine; I have no right to interfere
with your opinions, and no time to attempt to bring
under your notice phenomena which you can see for
yourself if you choose to give the necessary time and
work. In bearing testimony to you, as an old friend,
that these things are true, I have done my duty, and
my responsibility ceases. There is a life beyond the
grave, and you will have to enter it whether you like to
or not; but whether you believe or disbelieve before
you get there is your own business, and I have no
desire to convince you against your inclination.
A. —But if you believe Spiritualism to be a great
truth, you ought to be anxious to convince me..
B. —Not at all. It is a commercial principle that
bad goods require forcing upon the attention of the
public, but that rational people will demand and obtain
superior articles for themselves. If scientific demon¬
stration ofl the reality of a. life beyond the grave is so
small a boon in your eyes, that you will not work for
it yourself, but wish me to force it upon you, you
cannot expect anybody else to take more .interest, in the
truth or error of your own opinions, than you do your¬
self.
A. —By refusing to argue, or to take me to seandeS,
you are shutting the door against an honest inquirer.
B. —You are not an honest inquirer. You have
pronounced judgment before investigating, by deci¬
sively stating Spiritualism to be imposture, and that
I have been deceived, although you have no practical
knowledge whatever of the subject. Honest inquirers
come to a decision after investigating, and not before.
A. —How can I see these things for myself ?
B. —Perhaps, by forming a spirit circle among your
own friends in your own home. At all events, that is
the best way to begin the investigation. Afterwards
you might go to the medium A or the medium B.
A. —Those are professional mediums, and I object
to them. Honest people are not likely to attempt to
make money out of spiritual things.
B. —Your last remark strikes, also, the'clergy of all
denominations and religions with very great force.
What right have you to take the time of a medium
for your private benefit, and to make no return for the
property thus taken ? My objection to taking you to a
non-professional medium, is that you intend to sit in
judgment to decide whether the said medium is an
impostor or not. The medium feels no interest in your
opinion, and, as he is a friend of mind, I see no reason
why I should ask him to let you sit in judgment to
decide whether he is an honest man. Would you like
md to ask you to meet a medium, that the medium
might sit with you for two hours to decide the point
in his own mind whether you were a rogue or not ?
If you show real interest in the subject by giving some
time and Work to it by yourself, afterwards I will try
to give you more facilities.
A. —But you know that if you convinced me, I can
influence so many others, so you ought to take more
trouble to do So.
B. —Spiritualism is now a great movement, with
millions of followers, and a literature of thousands of
volumes. No private individual, whether he be Dr. A.,
Lord B., or Professor G., can do much to perceptibly
accelerate or retard its progress. If you stated Spi¬
ritualism to 'be true, the friends you mention would
only say that you had gone mad, and ought to be con¬
fined in some highly respectable lunatic asylum. If
you wish to learn about Spiritualism, and will give
time and work, the door is open. If not, I have no
desire to force it upon you ; and if you are sure your
present opinions are right, hold them fast, what you
believe or disbelieve being your own affair. As I have
no desire to proselytise, and you have led me into a
longer argument than usual, we had better change the
subject.
At this stage of the conversation, the inquirer some¬
times is somewhat nettled, but, as a rule, sees the full
Deo. 15, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
35
force of the argument, that nobody can be expected to
feel so much interest as himself in his own state after
death. If Spiritualism were not true, it would be
impossible to take up the independent position assumed
in the above conversation, and it might be necessary to
bring people into it by pressing, by a vast amount of
talk, and by threatening them with pitchforks and
endless torments in unquenchable flames, if they
refused to believe. Threats like these have a very
painful influence over children too young to think for
themselves, or to escape the pernicious effects of such
libellous misrepresentations of Almighty love.
Day after day, and week after week, good, honest
Spiritualists may be seen at spirit circles, worrying
themselves to convince some acquaintance present, and
by their very anxiety weakening the manifestations
they so much desire to obtain at that particular time.
After all, are the results worth the trouble ? Every
man, naturally a Spiritualist, will gravitate into the
movement without much forcing. We think that in
most cases it would be wise to adopt a dignified policy,
and to make inquirers feel that it is a great privilege
to be put in the way of receiving scientific demonstra¬
tion that there is a life beyond the grave. Instead of
coming to a spirit circle with the idea that it is an
entertainment produced for their special benefit, that
they are sitting in judgment, and “ monarchs of all
they survey,” they ought not to be admitted at all till
they acquiesce in the justice of the spirit of the com¬
mand,—“ Take thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place
on which thou standest is holy ground.”
SPIRIT-UALISM m DALSTON.
The second special seance this season in connection
with the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritu¬
alism was held at our rooms, 74, Navarino-road, Dal¬
ston, London, on Friday evening, Dec. 6th. The weather
was very wet, but the attraction of a seance with Mrs.
Jennie Holmes was more than sufficient to overcome
that drawback. The tickets were readily taken up in
advance. Mrs. Holmes (the medium) sat beside a
small round table placed in front of the fire-stove in
the front room, and the circle, consisting of ten ladies
and sixteen gentlemen, placed as nearly as possible
alternately, was formed around the walls of the two
rooms. A guitar, violin, tambourine, several sets of
bells, an iron ring, a tambourine hoop bound with iron,
and a length of rope, were placed upon the table beside
the medium. *
Mr. and Mrs. Holmes were introduced to the meeting,
and, after a few prefatory remarks from Mrs. Holmes,
describing the characteristics of her mediumship, Mr.
Henry , a gentleman of a markedly sceptical
tendency of mind with reference to spiritual manifesta¬
tions, was requested to secure the hands of the medium
with the rope. Having cautiously secured the medium’s
hands, fastening them to the back of a chair, he resumed
his seat, and the members of the circle joined hands, so
that no single individual (excepting the medium, who
was secured) could possibly move without the knowledge
of his neighbour. The lamps were then removed, ren¬
dering the rooms perfectly dark, and the members of
the circle'were enjoined not to loose their hands. The
various instruments were immediately manipulated, and
a voice was heard which was recognised by several as
that of a spirit known by the name of “ Eichard.” This
spirit freely travelled with the guitar to various parts of
the rooms, and replied to various observations made by I
members of the circle. A light being called for, the
lamp was lit, and Mr.  , after carefully scru¬
tinising the rope-fastenings, affirmed that he was per¬
fectly satisfied they had not been tampered with. On
resuming his seat, and the members of the circle again
joining hands all round, the lamp was extinguished,
when the various instruments and bells were very freely
manipulated, being taken by the spirit “ Eichard ” and
others, to the extreme points of the circle, touching
various members gently on various parts of their bodies
on request, while remarks freely passed between the
circle and the spirit “ Eichard.” Mrs. Holmes was
repeatedly heard from her seat urging the spirits to do
their utmost for the sceptics present. ?* Eichard ”
having expressed his disapproval of the rope fastenings,
they were suddenly removed and thrown into the lap of
Mr. . The lamp was relit, and on being ex¬
tinguished an Indian spirit named “ Eosa” spoke with
the direct voice to several members. Mrs. Holmes was
then entranced by “ Eosa ” who carried on some brisk
conversation and sung some most whimsical lines,*
which, in reply to a question, she stated she had learnt
from Senator Wilson. In a short time this spirit re¬
quested Mr.   to hold her medium, whom she
referred to as the “ little squaw.” Mr. having
groped his way in the dark, then seated himself facing
the medium, and the circle closed up the gap consequent
on his leaving his seat; he then, at “Eosa’s” injunc¬
tion, grasped the hands of the medium, as he expressed
himself, “ like wax,” and took good care not to release
either of them. He reported that he failed to discover any
ring on either her or his own arms, and that he felt the
ring upon the table at his side, and at the same time he felt
hands touching him on different parts of his body; and
in a minute or two, on re-lighting the lamp, the ring
was discovered on his arm, with one of the instruments
laying across their hands. An explanation was sought
for, but Mr.  appeared unable satisfactorily to
explain the result. The lamp was again extinguished,
*when I and one or two others requested that the “ ring
test” might be repeated with us. “Eosa” eventually
chose me, whom she designated as the “ Little Chief of
the Institution.” I make the following statement, and
am prepared, if necessary, to take oath as to the truth
of the same :—“ On seating myself directly in front of
the medium, I placed my feet against those of Mrs.
Holmes, and then firmly grasped her hands which I
retained throughout this experiment. On drawing my
hands from the head and neck downwards, along each
of her arms, pressing somewhat heavily in order to
ascertain with greater certainty as to the possible
existence of a duplicate ring, and doing the same down
my own arms, never, for a single moment, releasing my
firm ‘ grip 1 of the medium’s hands, I was perfectly
satisfied of our being free from the possession of any
iron ring whatever. My hands were then allowed to
feel the ring, and tambourine hoop bound with iron,
upon the table at our side; and, still ‘ gripping’ the
medium’s hands, in a short space of time the iron ring
suddenly came upon my right arm, while, at the same
moment, the guitar was placed across our hands. The
lamp was re-lit ; and having expressed myself to
* The few lines we could catch of this song were:—
“ A grasshopper sat on a sweet ’tater vine,
Sweet ’tater vine,
Sweet ’tater vine,
And a great turkey gobbler came and snick him up behind! ’’
Eosa was asked if this were a spiritual hymn. “ No,” said she, “andmy
medium thinks it’s a very improper thing to sing at a seance," upon which
Eosa recommenced singing it with great glee. “ Who taught it you,
Eosa ?” said an inquirer. “ Senator Wilson,” was the reply.—Ed.
36
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 15, 1872.
‘ Rosa’ as perfectly satisfied, I released the medium for
the first time since grasping her hands, and, removing
the iron ring from my arm, suspended and rung it, and
found it perfect. I may add, that, on taking my seat
in front of the medium, and grasping her hands, I
was immediately manipulated by what must have been
several pairs of hands over my body, from the head
downwards. The spirit ‘ Richard ’ spoke to me on
seating myself by the medium, while ‘ Rosa/ through
the medium, was incessant in her injunctions not to
let go my grasp of the hands of ‘her little squaw,’
which, however, was superfluous, as I took care to
preserve my ‘ grip ’ to the finish.” I then resumed my
seat, and the lamp was once more extinguished, when
Mrs. S. C. Dunsterville was permitted to have the
“ ring test” under similar conditions as narrated above;
but, instead of the iron ring, the “ iron bound hoop ”
was placed upon her arm. After this, a large luminous
glow was seen by all for some little time, rapidly flitting
about the rooms, and a few members of the circle
reported that they saw the features of an elderly man
with a long grey beard. Miss Florence E. Cook, who
was present, was recognised by the various spirits,
some of whom gave her notice of their intention to
show their faces soon through her mediumship. Several
other members were recognised; and while Mrs. Holmes
was in the back room, speaking under the control of the
spirit “ Rosa,” to a member, her instruments and the
table were moved in a most astonishing manner in the
front room. • On the lamp being re-lit, the medium
resumed her seat, and the table was replaced in its
original position. The rooms were again placed in
darkness, when the spirit of one known as “ Irish
Ann,” spoke with a thorough Irish accent through the
medium ; and after a short time, the seance was closed
by another spirit named “ Bell,” invoking the blessing
of God, the Great Spirit of the Universe, upon all.
The lamps were then lit up, and a most cordial vote of
thanks to Mr. and Mrs. Holmes for their services, was
proposed by Mr. J. Barr Robertson, seconded by Mr.
"W. H. Plaister, F.R.G.S., and carried with acclama¬
tion. The meeting was exceedingly unanimous in its
expressions of gratification at the results of the even¬
ing’s seance. Thomas Blyton,
Secretary and Treasurer.
SWEDENBORG ON MEN AND WOMEN.*
BY WILLIAM WHITE.
Men and women differ physically; and as the body
is derived from the mind, we are bound from the diverse
effect to infer a diverse cause: as their bodies differ
their minds must differ: and as the root of the mind is
the will, and the will is the habitation Of the love,
man’s love and woman’s love must be distinct as their
sex.
Now, what is the distinction between man’s love
and woman’s love ? Swedenborg says:—
“Man’s love is discoverable in his affection for
knowing, for understanding, and for growing wise.
Knowledge is the pursuit of his childhood, understand¬
ing of his youth and manhood, wisdom of his manhood
and old age.
“ Woman’s love is discoverable in her affection for
knowledge, intelligence, and wisdom, not in herself,
but in man.”
* From White’s Li/e of Swedenborg. London : Simpkin, Marshall & Oo.
These, their mental characteristics, are visibly re¬
produced in their forms and habits—
“ How far from the very cradle the genius of man
differs from that of woman, was made clearly evident to
me from the study of a number of boys and girls. I saw
them at times through a window in the street of a great
city, where more than twenty assembled every day.
The boys in their pastimes were tumultuous, vociferous,
apt to fight, to strike, and to throw stones at each
other; whereas the girls sat peaceably at the doors
of the houses, some playing with little children, some
dressing dolls or working on bits of linen, and some
kissing each other; and, to my surprise, they yet
looked with satisfaction at the boys, whose pastimes
were so different from their own. Hence I could see
plainly that a man by birth is understanding, and a
woman, love; also the quality of each, and what each
would be without conjunction with the other.”
Let me repeat these distinctions.
Man is the love of knowledge, understanding, wis¬
dom. He searches for information, strives to under¬
stand nature, and delights in the application of the
truths he has won.
In woman we discover no such aptitudes. She cares
nothing for science in itself, and has neither desire nor
ability to extend its frontiers; but science and wis¬
dom, when realised in man, she does love. In fine,
man loves science for itself; woman loves science in
man. Such is the difference between man’s and woman’s
love.
In this view we see man as a centre of which woman
is the circumference—an oak about which she twines as
vine or ivy. Man’s love displays itself in intellect: woman
is a ring of love around that intellect. Her life is the
worship of his. Her intellect is formed for the reception
and appreciation of his.
More: woman is derived from man. The love of man’s
intellect (which woman essentially is) exists in man him¬
self. We behold it in the pride of his own understanding,
when, Narcissus-like, he gloats over his own graces.
Such love in men we abhor; yet this love, which in him
moves us to loathing, is nothing but woman in him.
That a wife should hold her husband’s intellect in re¬
verence, and that she should find in its dictates the order
and strength of her life, is for her the fulness of bliss.
It is the articulate or inarticulate longing of every true
woman to be brought to him whom she can honour and
obey and girdle with her love. Charlotte Bronte (with
that accurate knowledge of woman’s heart which her
novels display) describes Miss Shirley Keeldar desiring
“ a husband whose approbation can reward—whose dis¬
pleasure punish me. A man I shall feel it impossible
not to love, and very possible to fear.” The fact is, no
wife is happy who does not find in her husband her
master. "Wives, indeed, try to rule, but they try as
engineers test bridges, by passing enormous weights over
them. If the bridge endures the strain, the engineer is
satisfied; if the husband yields, the wife’s triumph is her
despair.
That a man should delight in his intellect we rightly
regard with disgust. Therefore, says our author, it was
provided that man’s love of his own wisdom should be
taken out of him and made woman. The process is
described in the mysterious allegory in Genesis, where
Eve is extracted from Adam.
This doctrine of the derivation and dependence of
woman on man will meet with little favour from those
who are committed to the “ woman’s rights ” view of
THE SPIRITUALIST.
37
Dec. 15, 1872.
the sexes; yet a contrary doctrine will have to suffer all
the disasters to which fancy is subject from fact.*
It is broadly asserted that woman initiates nothing ;
that in all respects, mental as well as physical, man
is father and she mother; that whatever is in her was
first in him.
Woman’s name has no place among inventors and
discoverers; nothing in art or science owes birth to her
brain. She has kept house for the world since the
world began, but it is questionable whether she ever
devised or improved fire-place or cradle, dish or kettle,
needle or thread. If by compulsion she trades, she
never ventures out of the rut of custom; if she grows
rich, it |,is by accumulation, or the industry of routine,
never by adventure or speculation. She dislikes change,
is naturally conservative. She has had ample practice
in literature, but the critic vainly explores her volumes
for original thought: her best efforts never exceed a
skilful disposition of man’s wares—after his methods.
She brings no truth to light, nor does she restore for¬
gotten truths to new life; nor does she forge new
theories or arguments. Her moral superiority is some¬
times alleged, but ignorantly. She never inaugurates
reformation. She rises as man rises, and sinks as he
sinks : history and ordinary experience prove she is ever
ready to be as good or as wicked as he is willing to be.
Her sympathy with man is perfect; but her relation
to him is wholly subordinate and maternal. She can
no more beget ideas than she can beget children.
It may be objected that many women are wiser than
many men; but the objection is without point. The
question is, Whence is the wisdom of wise women ?
Their light may be very great, but is it not reflected
from men, to whom they are as moons? Nor will the
question be fairly treated by reference to contemporaries,
whom it is impossible to estimate impartially. Their
light is level with our eyes, and we can neither discern
its origin or quality with certainty. Many women have
astonished their generation by their feats in art and
literature, but how seldom has a feminine reputation
outlived a century!
PRIVATE SEANCES.'
[Reported by permission.)
SEANCE AT TJPEEE NORWOOD.
We have received the following letters :—
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
Sir,—I send you an account of an extraordinary seance
which a neighbour of mine has just had with Messrs. Herne and
Williams as mediums. My friend does not wish his name to
appear in print at present, I therefore vouch for his intelli¬
gence and veracity. In addition to his written statement, he
has given me personally an account of many curious things
done at this seance by the spirits, and especially the passing
of several bulky articles from another room, whilst the doors
were locked. I also questioned the women servants, and
found them most earnest in attesting the general facts spoken
of in the following letter. B. Coleman.
Bernard Villas, Upper Norwood, Dec. 9.
Dec. 3rd, 1872.
My dear Mr. Coleman,—You are aware that in con¬
sequence of the loss of my wife some short time since, as a
source of consolation Spiritualism was brought under my
notice, and I soon had the opportunity of testing its reality,
and since then I have frequently witnessed manifestations
more or less convincing. My family consists of a boy of thir-
* The question of “ woman’s rights ” has nothing to do with the question
of the superiority of men or women. Assuming women to be the weaker
sex of the two, that would be an additional reason why the law should not
increase the disabilities implanted by nature. The less legislators inter¬
fere with the laws of nature the better, and liberty should neyer be fettered
except in cases of the most pressing necessity Ed. *
teen and a little girl of three years of age, with both of whom
I am in the habit of occasionally sitting and of obtaining
manifestations from the table. On the last two or three occa¬
sions we received this message, purporting to be from my
wife—“ Send for Herne and Williams and I will show my¬
self.” Not thinking that this message would be realised, I
was at first reluctant to do so, but on its being repeated for
the third time, I desired Messrs. Herne and Williams to come
to my house, and it is now my intention to give you briefly
the astounding facts that transpired, particularly as you will
find some of your former revelations, on this subject realised.
This took place but two days ago. As I had never had these
young men in my house before, I thought it necessary to ex¬
plain to my two servants (who are sisters) the nature of a
seance, and invited them to join the circle, which, with
myself, the two children, and the medium, made seven in all.
I am accustomed to read family prayers night and morning,
, and I commenced our seance by reading a chapter in the
Bible, and by repeating the Lord’s Prayer. We then extin¬
guished the lamp. You, Mr. Coleman, are well aware of the
ordinary physical manifestations which take place on these
occasions, so I will not enumerate them. I was at first arrested
by a warm hand gently passing over my head, and a voice
speaking close to my ear, which I at once recognised as that
of my wife. At intervals bright lights appeared, one particu¬
larly, over the table ; this was about the size of my closed
hand. The spirit voices, as you are aware, that usually
accompany these mediums are three, John King, Katie, and
Peter. The two first said very little on this occasion, but
Peter, to my surprise, changed his usual flippant and some¬
what coarse style, and showed himself, in several ways, per¬
fectly conversant with my family affairs. At this time, an
hour having elapsed, we were told by Peter to break up, and
give the “ boys ” refreshment, and on resuming the sitting,
“ your wife will try and show herself.”
On reassembling, I placed the mediums in one corner of the
room, with a curtain before them, and a heavy table in front;
all present sat on the opposite side of the table. We were
very soon told by Peter that the mediums were entranced, and
that he would wind up a musical box in the room whilst the
spirit was endeavouring to make herself visible to us, which
Peter did. Presently, a bright light, as large as a double fist,
appeared at the other end of the room in which we were all
sitting ; this bright light, which gradually increased in size
as it approached me, seemed suddenly to expand, and dis¬
closed the face and form of my wife unmistakeably. The
figure was clothed in a. flowing white robe, which extended
from the head to the feet. For at least twenty minutes did
the figure, almost as natural as in life, speak to me, embracing
me and the children, saying, “ Don’t fret, I am unspeakably
happy; ” and with many other endearments the seance closed,
whilst the realisation of this stupendous fact nearly over¬
whelmed us all. The two following messages we found
written by the spirits on sheets of paper which were on the
table :—
“ God is love, and nature is the witness of His grandeur
and love, from the grain of sand to the drop of water.”—
Katie King-.
“ Each time the power will be stronger. You must not fret
too much.”—John King.
I have no objection to this being made public, withholding
my name, if you please ; and perhaps you will vouch for my
sincerity. Believe me, dear Mr. Coleman, yours faithfully,
A. B.
SEANCES AT MR. EVERITT’S.
Mr. Everitt has sent ns the following letter:—
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
Sir,—I take this opportunity of letting our numerous friends
know that we are still in the land of the living, as many have
written, and others have made personal inquiries after our
well-being, and whether we are still having seances, as they
have not seen any account of our sittings in any of the
spiritual papers of late. In the first place during the latter
part of our residence in Penton-street, Mrs. Everitt’s health
would not admit of it, and in the second place during our
residence in our pew home, our time has been so fully occu¬
pied in completing arrangements in house and garden, that I
am afraid, from our silence, many of our old friends will begin
to think that we have retired from an active interest in the
great and glorious parts of man’s immortality as demonstra¬
ted, so abundantly, and in such a variety of ways, to every
honest and unprejudiced inquirer by the living, loving, ever
I active, ever present denizens of the spirit world. We have no
38
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 15, 1872.
wish or intention to bury our talents, or retreat from the path
of duty, but are still exercising those gifts which our Heavenly
Father has endowed us with. I am happy to say Mrs. Everitt’s
health has been much improved since we have been here, and
that when we have had sittings all the usual phenomena of
her mediumship have been manifested with equal or greater
power. The spirit lights, the delicious and varied perfumes,
the audible voices of John Watt, Znippy, Dennys, and other
spirit friends, have been heard at our circle as usual, to the
great delight of those present.
It would occupy too much of your valuable space to relate
the particulars of several private conversations I have had
with John, from an hour to two hours at a time. How few
there are who will believe that I sit coolly alone with calm
composure for hours together, conversing upon interesting
topics with what they call a “ghost,” but their un¬
belief does not alter the fact. Gtod, myself, and my spirit
friend know it to be a fact, and it will remain such to all
eternity. John has given me most indisputable proofs of his
individuality and independent existence apart from Mrs.
Everitt. The privilege of seeing persons in the other life has
been granted more fully and frequently of late to Mrs.
Everitt, so that persons have recognised their friends and re¬
lations from the descriptions given. She has had several re¬
markable visions of late; the last one especially was deeply
interesting on account of the important truths revealed. She
was first permitted to see the ancient mode of spirit
communion, how they formed their circles, and how they pro¬
tected themselves from evil spirits that might otherwise rash
into their midst. How by incantations, waving of wands, and
burning incense, the spirits they wanted were compelled to
appear, and how the magi, high priests, or mediums conversed
with the spirits called into their presence. Then followed
the modus operandi of modern spirit communion. The sitters
were arranged in the form of a horse shoe, and the medium
was sitting at the opening. The controlling spirit comes,
takes the medium by the hand, and the medium leaves her
natural body, and goes to her spirit home, where she is soon
surrounded by her friends. Mrs. Everitt knows that she has
not finally left her natural body, by the luminous blue life-
cord, which goes from the back of her head, to the back of the
head of the natural body. She also saw the spirit circle
formed a little above the one in the natural world, and the
spirits collecting the emanations from the sitters, and sur¬
rounding the medium with this luminous and comparatively
solid substance. She saw how the spirit lights were produced,
and how the spirit hands, arms, and faces were formed from
this substance. From this material also the spirits formed a
throat, mouth, and part of a face, and connected with this
curious formation was a long tube coming from the medium.
From the end of the tube issued a vapour, which was the
breath of the medium, which the spirit used in connection
with his extemporised apparatus to speak audibly in the
natural world. This vision will explain many difficulties to
persons who have had much experience with the direct
voice. Friend John has often told us that he used no organ
of Mrs. Everitt’s to speak with, but her breath, only. It will
be remembered by many that our friend John Watt wrote his
name on our ceiling at Penton-street. I am happy to say he
has put his autograph on our ceiling down here. Friday, the
6th inst., after John and Znippy had been talking to us for
about an hour, we heard as though he were scraping the tube
on the ceiling. Presently he said “ I [have put my name on
the ceiling for you the pencil fell down and was found to be
worn flat at the point. The autograph is a fao simile of the
one in Penton-street, but larger and bolder, the letters occupy¬
ing in length about 15 or 16 inches; the room is 10 feet 6
inches high. The persons present were Mr. E. D. Rogers, of
Norwich ; Mr. M. Theobald, and Miss Mummery, of Holder’s-
hill, Hendon ; Mr. and Mrs. Charles Pearce, of Brixton ; Mr.
Glendenning ; and Mr. and Mrs. Cook, of Highgate.
Hendon, N.W., December 10th, 1872. T. Everitt.
We have received the following letter :—
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
Sir,—During the past few months the manifestations of
the power possessed by the inhabitants of the spirit-world
over matter have been so varied and interesting that the
circle of inquirers is widening largely. Amongst the different
phases of mediumship none, when carefully weighed, are of more
value than that of the ‘ * direct writing ” for which the circle of
those old and tried friends to the movement, Mr. and Mrs.
Everitt, has for the past two years been so famed. In the
presence of Mrs. Everitt papers on abstruse metaphysical
subjects, written sometimes at the speed of one hundred and
fifty words in a second of time, have been periodically given,
and under such a variety of test conditions that some of the
most sceptical of inquirers have been compelled to abandon
their scepticism. These papers are in a connected series, and
it is to be hoped that Mr. Everitt will, ere long, give to the
world a history of them, and will publish them in their series.
Since Mr. and Mrs. Everitt have removed to their new
country house in the pleasant suburb of Hendon, the spiritual¬
istic world, in which they were so prominent, has heard and
seen but little of them. A large circle of friends will, there¬
fore, be glad to learn that the seances to which, for so many
years past, they were so fraternally welcomed by Mr. Everitt,
have been resumed, and that the variety of phases of spirit
manifestations which have always been their characteristics,
•are as multifarious and as charming in their freshness as ever.
It has been the privilege of the writer and his wife to be
present at the last three seances held in their house, and of
the many truly touching evidences given by our friends in the
spirit-world of their willingness to gratify our desires when it
is in their power to do so. “John Watt” gave to Mr.
Everitt, on Friday evening last, one of the most pleasant.
It was so very gratifying to Mr. Everitt, and so very unique
withal, and also a very excellent test, that I have troubled
you with all the foregoing to introduce it.
The seance was held in a large dining-room, 10 ft. 6 in. in
height from floor to ceiling, and during the continuance of it
“ John Watt” took up a pencil from the table, and wrote his
name in bold, legible characters on the ceiling, about eight feet
distance from Mrs. Everitt, and on the other side of a gasa-
lier, which thus intervened between the medium and that
part of the ceiling written upon. In this way ‘ ‘ John Watt ”
has given a proof of his presence amongst his friends, which
proof is ever present. 0. W. Pearce.
14, Burnley-road, Stockwell, S. W.
SEANCES AT MRS. MAKEQTJGALE GREGORY’S.
The following account of some recent seances at Mrs.
Gregory’s, has been sent us by one of the guests pre¬
sent :—
Several seances of great interest have recently been held at
21, Green-street, under the hospitable auspices of Mrs. Makdou-
gall Gregory. On two occasions there were present, with several
other mediums, a clergyman of the Church of England, who
lately recorded in the columns of the Medium his own recent
and unusually rapid development as a physical medium, under
the signature of “ M. A.,” in two interesting letters headed
“ Cross and Crown.” Having since developed into a trance
medium, he gave an address on the spiritual spheres—stating
that there were seven higher and seven lower than the earth, and
to that extent, vindicating the veracity of the inspired Dante. At
a subsequent seance, at which he was not present, Miss Hudson,
the clairvoyante, who had never seen or heard of him, saw a
vision of a glorious tree with exuberant foliage and lovely pen¬
dulous pink flowers, which suddenly shot up and rapidly faded
away. She saw that this tree symbolised a very remarkable
medium who had developed with extraordinary rapidity, but
who had still many marvellous gifts not yet full-blown ; for the
beautiful flowers were not full-blown, and there was no fruit.
She argued, moreover, from its rapid fading, that the medium
symbolised by the tree was very frail, and needed the greatest
care; that he was greatly overworked, and must not overdo
his mediumship. He was like a beautiful china bowl that
must be most delicately handled. Her description was so
accurate in many particulars that it was easy to identify him,
and her entirely confirmed the substantial accuracy of her
statements when they were communicated to him. When on a
subsequent sitting in his absence, a letter of his was put into
her hands without any intimation which could have enabled
her to identify the writer with the subject of her former vision,
she repeated many of her former statements, with some
curious additions ; for instance, she saw between the leaves of
his letter (which she had not read) a little snake in a par¬
ticular spot, which, on being referred to, proved to be a
reference to his physician. It was evidently the Snake of
Esculapius, for she said it meant that the doctor did not
understand his case; she, herself, prescribed for him, and
on this occasion again saw the vase symbolical of the flower¬
ing tree repeated as before; and by it she identified him.
Her statements on this occasion were again reported to M. A.,
who found them so remarkable that he determined to see her
privately himself incognito, and without any prior intimation
whatever of his coming. He accordingly paid her a visit,
Deo. 15, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
39
when she gave him most remarkable tests of the truthfulness
of clairvoyance, and described the same “ symbolical tree ” as
appearing over his head; and particularly described a radiant
spirit brooding over it, who seemed to be mesmerising him
through its boughs. This spirit, who gives the name of “ Im-
perator,” and who is the chief of the large band of spirits
which he knows to be about him, he was able to identify by
description, which exactly tallied with his own visual experi¬
ence. All this is very remarkable ; for it will be observed that
the clairvoyante saw the vision spontaneously on the first occa¬
sion without ever having been even placed en rapport with him,
except by sitting in the room in which he had been present a
day or two before; on the second occasion, when the rapport
was established by a letter; and on the third, when she saw
him as a stranger for the first time, when he was particularly
careful to give her no clue to his identity till he rose to take
his departure.
But perhaps the most remarkable of the recent seances in
Green-street was that held on Tuesday the 3rd inst., when no
less than three of the circle of seven were clergymen of the
Church of England—whose initials only I will at present give.
Besides the hostess, the circle consisted of the Bev. Dr. D.,
the Bev. Mr. S., the Bev. Mr. and Mrs. H., and Mr. Herbert
Noyes; Mr. Sheppard being the medium.
After a good deal of interesting information had been com¬
municated, which was chiefly of private interest, Mr. Noyes
was informed that he would shortly have placed in his hands a
most extraordinary hieroglyphic manuscript in three languages;
that he would keep it by him for several months; study it
closely, and finally decipher it, and receive many impressions
from it. He was further informed that he would be shortly
influenced by a spirit present to write a volume, which would
greatly astonish both himself and his friends. A hymn was
then called for, and it is noteworthy that “ Jerusalem the
Golden ” was suggested by Mr. N., bpt that the thought of it
occurred almost simultaneously to two of the clergymen pre¬
sent. The singing was interrupted by Mr. Sheppard calling
out that something had been brought by the spirits from
Jerusalem, and placed on the head of the Bev. Mr. H. A
light was called for—ras it was a dark seance—but nothing was
found, so the light was extinguished, and the hymn again
resumed', when Mr. Sheppard again explained that something
had now been brought, and that it was under Mrs. Gre¬
gory’s chair; on a search being made there was found a
little mother-of-pearl cross, such as is manufactured at Jeru¬
salem, with the word Jerusalem rudely engraved on the back
of it in English characters, pendant from a very delicate little
neck chain, apparently of fine gold, and Eussian workman¬
ship. The Bev. Mr. H. was imperatively desired by the
medium to wear this cross, as the influence with which it was
highly charged was calculated to have a very beneficial effect
in developing his latent powers. Mr. Noyes, then enquiring
whether any spirits were about him, was informed that an
Egyptian spirit was present of the name of Horus, and also the
Bev. Mr. Hood, a great collector of Egyptian antiquities, with
whom he had some years since purchased two papyri in
Egypt, but who is since deceased. As the fact of Mr. Noyes
having’even been in Egypt was wholly unknown to the medium,
the appearance of hieroglyphics, and pyramids, and Egyptian
spirits about him, was at any rate very remarkable.
SEANCES AT ME. HENEY COOK’S.
On Saturday, Nov. 30th, at a seance for spirit faces,
through the mediumship of Miss Florence Cook, at the
house of Mr. Henry Cook, Hackney, the visitors pre¬
sent were Mr. Enmore Jones, of Enruore-park, South
Norwood; Mr. T. Wilks, president of the Dalston
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism; Mrs. and
Miss Corner; and Mr. T. W. Taunton.
Mrs. Comer has sent us the following letter:—
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
SlE,—Will you kindly record one or two most interesting in¬
cidents, which took place at a seance at Mr. Cook’s, Nov. 30th ?
The circle was harmonious, and after the tying, &c.', had
been accomplished by the spirits, as previously described in
your columns, Miss Cook became entranced, and “ Katie,”
soon after showed herself at the aperture in the cabinet. One
of the gentleman visitors begged her acceptance of a bouquet
(similar to those worn by gentlemen in the buttonholes of
their coats), in a small glass vase. She immediately consented,
and asked me to take it to her. On my raising the vase to the
opening oLthe cabinet, she put out her hand with its long,
slender, wax-like, though animated fingers, with their beauti¬
fully formed nails, and grasped the vase in a perfectly natural
manner. On taking it into the cabinet, the vase shook as if
too heavy for its bearer. “ Katie ” then placed the flowers to
her nose, and I asked her if she could smell them, and she re¬
plied “No.” She then asked the donor if she could do what
she liked with the bouquet, and on his complying with her re¬
quest, she untwined the wire from the stalks, and separated
the flowers, throwing the rose to one of the gentleman visitors,
requesting him to ketep it for her sake, and the rest to my
daughter, with a prettily-turned compliment, telling me I
might have the wire which she dropped at my feet, as I sat
close to the cabinet.
During the second part of seance, “Katie” was asked
to bring I the black,” when she soon appeared with her own
face black, even the whites of her eyes were black, the eye¬
balls being only distinguishable through being of a deeper
shade. Upon our expressing surprise at her being able to ac¬
complish such a transformation, she said she would come with
a blue face some time.
This black face to me was most convincing. Sitting close to
the cabinet, I had a better opportunity of examining, it than
the rest of the company, the eyes having such an unnatural
appearance, at the same time the countenance animated, and
the mouth conversing, appeared to me something more than
wonderful among these marvellous phenomena. On “Black
Katie ” leaving us, in two or three minutes she re-appeared
beautifully fair and life-like as before.
. Other most interesting manifestations took place during the
evening, but I dare not ask for more of your valuable space.
3, St. Thomas’s-square, Hackney, Amelia Cobneb.
December, 1872.
We have also received the following letter from Mr.
Taunton:—’
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
Sir,—Allow me, through the medium of the Spiritualist, to
add my testimony to the genuineness of the wonderful mani¬
festations of spirit-power which take place through the
mediumship of Miss Florrie Cook.
On Saturday, the 30th ult., I had the great pleasure of
being present at one of Miss Cook’s cabinet, seances, on which
evening the manifestations were more than usually powerful.
The construction, dimensions, &c., of the cabinet have been
described in former numbers of the Spiritualist, so that it is
needless for me to reiterate them. I will merely, in as few
words as possible, endeavour to give you a short resume of the
most interesting of the manifestations that occurred during
the evening.
Miss Cook seated herself on a chair in the cabinet, taking
with her some black tape. The door was then locked on the
outside. In the space of a few minutes, Katie King’s voice
was heard in conversation with the medium, whom she shortly
afterwards succeeded in tying up. She then bid us open the
door. We found Miss Cook securely bound by the black tape
to the chair on which she was seated. All the knots were
then sealed by one of the visitors, and, the cabinet and the
mode of tying having been fully inspected by all, the door was
again closed and locked as before. We had not long to wait
before the small curtain over the opening in the cabinet com¬
menced to move, and at length to be drawn slowly aside. The
face of Katie now appeared within the opening, but somewhat
in the background, and only just visible in the dim light given
by a gas jet, some ten feet distant, and which was turned
down very low at first. Nearer and nearer to the opening
came the face, and slowly was the light increased or lowered,
in obedience to the directions of the spirit, until at length the
room was brilliantly lighted, the full glare of the direct light
from the burner, however, being shaded from the opening in
the cabinet by a small hand-screen. Katie grew more and
more confident in her efforts, until at length she put her face
quite out beyond4the opening, resting her chin on its lower
edge. She remained in this position, which was again and
again renewed at our request, for a considerable time. Her
face was exceedingly beautiful, and was rendered especially
so by the calm and happy expression it wore. The complexion
was brilliantly clear and delicate, the features regular, and the
eyes beaming and lustrous. There was nothing deathly about
the face: on the contrary, the impression it left on one was
that of a most lovely, calm, and perfectly human face. The
hair was not visible, being hidden by some pure white mate¬
rial, arranged in folds, which only served to heighten the
serene beauty of the spirit. Hands of varying size were put
out *from the opening, and a glass flower vase was taken by
40
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Katie from a gentleman present into the cabinet, the flowers
out of which were afterwards thrown by her to two of the
visitors present. Another face succeeded Katie’s, the upper
portion of which bore some resemblance to Katie’s, but the
lower portion, the chin and mouth, was entirely dissimilar.
There was also a scar over one eyebrow. This face, too, was
remarkable, but the expression it wore was a very, .very
sad one. This spirit appears very frequently at these seances,
and her sad expression is seemingly caused by the inability of
a gentleman to recognise her. On finally withdrawing from
the opening, she hid her face in her hands, as though her
grief had at length proved too much for her. This manifesta¬
tion was deeply interesting. One could not but help sympa¬
thising with the spirit, for she seemed so truly grieved to find
that she was not recognised. A third face afterwards ap¬
peared, and, strangest pf all, a dark one. As far as I could
judge, I should say it was of a very dark copper colour, almost
black. It was not very distinct, appearing but for a second
or so in any one position, and continually dodging about from
one corner of the opening to the other. On reopening the
cabinet, we found Miss Cook in a deep trance, fallen forward,
chair and all, against the side of the cabinet. The tape and
seals were intact, as we had left them, and the tape had to be
cut in numerous places before we could release the medium,
who seemed very hot and flushed from being shut up so long
in the cabinet. Thko. W. Taunton,
3, Belsize-park-terrace, Belsize-park, N.W,
Dec. 12th, 1872.
On Wednesday evening, Dec. 4th, a seance was held
at Mr. Cook’s, under good test conditions. The visitors
present were Mrs. Corner; Miss Till; Mr. Charles Black¬
burn, of Manchester; Mr. A. L.'Henderson, of 49, King
William-street, London-hridge; Mr. Samuel Guppy, 1,
Morland-villas, Highbury-hill-park, N.; and Mr. W.
H. Harrison, Herne Hill.
At the close of the seance the following account of
it was drawn up, Mr. Guppy dictating the first two or
three sentences, and Mr. Henderson most of the others;
but the strict accuracy of every sentence was con¬
sidered and passed unanimously before it was written,
and the measurements given in the document are
exact, as they were made on the spot with a measur¬
ing tape:—
We, the undersigned, hhd the pleasure of being present at a
spiritual seance at Mr. Henry Cook’s, Hackney, on Wednesday
evening, December 4th, 1872. Miss Cook, after entering the
cabinet, was tied, by some power, at the wrists, round the
neck, and round the waist, to the back of her chair, with
thread. After the examination and sealing of every percep¬
tible knot, by Mr. Henderson, he, at his own suggestion, and
with the assent of the medium, tied a thread round the side
cross-bar and round the front left leg of the chair ; the thread
was then brought under the door to the outside of the cabinet,
and fastened to the carpet by a common pin, in a good light.
Thus the thread could have no play up and down the leg of
the chair, consequently the chair could not be moved more
than two inches without breaking away from the pin which
held the thread outside. The other thread was knotted close
to each of the wrists of the medium, and sealed, so that the
hands could not be passed through the loop round each wrist.
The doors were shut, and soon afterwards a small hand,
followed by a large one, appeared ; next came a face calling
itself “ Katie, the spirit,” in full gaslight; she was clearly seen
by all present, she much resembled the medium in appearance,
and was surrounded with white drapery. The beautiful
white face then went away, and in three or four minutes the
same features reappeared, nearly black all over; the
“ whites ” of the eyes were also nearly black, the pupils being
blacker still. It was a living face, and talked to us all in full
light. This dark face went away, and in less than three
minutes, most likely two minutes, the white face, perfect as
before, reappeared, and talked to us. She threw out two
oranges, one to Mr. Guppy, and the other to Mr. Henderson.,
Then there was a breakage in the seance, and at the second
sitting Katie appeared as before. The thread was so close
round the wrists of the medium, as to cut into the flesh, so
that the knots on each arm could not be sealed without
burning her. One of the knots near the waist was tied with
thread by Mr. Henderson. A piece of thread was tied by Mr.
Henderson to three or four parte of the thread about the
Dec. 15, 1872.
medium, and the end of this second thread was passed under
the bottom of the door, and held all through the seance by Mr.
Henderson. He proposed the test, and the medium assented to it
at once, the object being to prove that she did not get upon the
chair. The distance from the seat of the chair to the top of Miss
Cook’s head, when seated, is thirty-one inches. The distance
from the seat of the chair to the bottom of the opening in the
cabinet at which the faces appear is fifty-one inches, so that
the distance from the top of her head to the bottom of the
opening in the cabinet is twenty inches. During the sitting
Mr. Henderson said he felt tugs at the thread he held not
exceeding six inches. When Mr. Blackburn clasped it, he
says he felt tugs not exceeding two or three inches. Katie
said that every time she drew power from the medium, the
medium gave a jerk. At the end of each sitting, the seals and
knots were found to be perfect, and Mr. Henderson has them
now in his possession, and says he will show them to any¬
body who will call upon him. Before the seance Mr. Hender¬
son was in the room by himself examining the cabinet as long
as he pleased, and he said that he was perfectly satisfied with
its bona fide character.
Amelia Corner, Samuel Guppy, Charles Blackburn,
A. L. Henderson, Henry Cook, Emma Cook,
Eliza Till, William H. Harrison.
Eor some weeks past, Mr. Blackburn' bad objected
to the rope-tying method as not being satisfactory to
sceptical people, so narrow black tape was adopted.
Then, at his desire, thread was substituted, with which
Mr. Henderson and others all felt perfectly satisfied, as
proving to them the medium’s integrity. It was the
first time thread had ever been used.
In the seance just described, after the medium had
been tied to her chair with a short length of fine
thread, Mr. Henderson asked permission to tie another
thread, where he pleased, to a the fastenings already
made. This he did, tying his thread at places close
behind the medium’s back to the other thread which
held her to the chair. The end of his thread he passed
under the door, and held in his hand during the seance,
sitting holding it in a “ bird-catching” attitude, leaning
forward, and looking at the opening in the cabinet,
where Katie soon appeared with a laughing face, and
nodded at him.
Mr. Henderson, who is somewhat noted among Spi¬
ritualists for his intense scepticism, attended in a very
friendly state of mind, and did not attempt to alter the
usual conditions without first asking permission, hence
he had a good seance.
The light at these seances is always strong, consisting
of a gas flame, turned full on, and the room is small.
But at the second part of this seance a paraffin lamp
with a burner of larger size than usual was also used,
so that with the two flames the room was brilliantly
lighted. The faces bore the light for several minutes.
On Saturday evening, Dec. 7th, an attempt was
made to use the circle for proselytising purposes. A
hole was bored by the visitors in the cabinet, without
asking the consent of the spirits, and a thread, after
being tied and sealed round the waist of the medium,
was passed through it and held outside. The visitors
having imposed their own conditions upon spirits who
do not come to earth to be!governed by man in their
teachings or manifestations, then sat waiting the
results. Soon the medium began to be uneasy, said “ the
thread was choking herthat "she felt hotshe "did
not think that the cabinet was really hot, but that the
spirits were making her feel hot.” Then there was
plenty of singing by the members of the circle, but no
manifestations. Finally, Katie said that the medium
must be untied, and taken out of the cabinet into the
fresh air.
At the second sitting there was the tying round the
Dec. 15, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
41
waist, and the thread through the cabinet door as before,
hut no sealing. After a long time three faces came to
the opening in succession; the “Haverfordwest” face,
looking white and miserable, with eyes fixed, and staring
unpleasantly; then Katie’s face for a moment or two,
nearly black; then it came white, with a deeply sorrow¬
ful expression, and the eyes staring or moving by jerks,
as usual when the power is weak. Before the cabinet
door was opened the thread was off the waist of the
medium inside the cabinet, so that practically there was
no tying whatever during this manifestation.
Those invited by the spirits to sit near the cabinet
door at these seances usually have some medial power.
The lady who sat nearest the door on this occasion will,
if she sits a few times at home for manifestations, pro¬
bably find herself to be a medium.
Last Tuesday evening there was another seance at
Mr. Cook’s, at which various faces were seen in perfec¬
tion. The power was very great, the sitters being all
thoroughly friendly to the medium, and she knew it.
Katie said that at the second sitting she wanted a piece
of twine tied round Miss Cook’s waist, the knot sealed,
and the end of the string passed through the hole in the
cabinet, and held outside. This was done, and the string
pulled nearly tight. When she was entranced, and fell
forward in her chair, there was a pull at the twine not
exceeding ten inches, but nothing afterwards. Katie
came and talked for probably ten minutes or a quarter
of an hour, and to all appearance was as solid, and
real, and living, as anybody else in the'room. At the
close of the seance the two seals which had been put on
the two knots were found to be perfect. Two knots
and seals had been made, because it was thought that
Miss Cook, in falling forwards, might accidentally crack
the wax on one of them.
The success of this seance, \n its test aspects, was due
to the absence of suspicious thoughts on the part of the
visitors. Katie says she intends to have this method
of tying adopted regularly in future; and, as a Man¬
chester gentleman observed, “ It is as good as any iron
grating.”
One of the visitors present has favoured us with the
following account of the seance:—
A seance of more than usual interest took place at Mr.
Cook’s on Tuesday evening, the 10th inst., although the con¬
ditions were the reverse of favourable. The medium (Miss
Florence Cook) was by no means well, and the weather was
more than usually severe, if that, indeed, were possible. The
circle included Mr. and Mrs. Mpnkiewicz, Miss Hartwig,
Miss Douglas, Mr. W. H. Harrison, and Mr. Henry Dunphy.
Miss Cook, on entering the cabinet, was tied with very thin
twine, like packthread. It was passed round her wrists so
tightly as to leave an indentation that remained visible for
some hours afterwards, and thence was carried round her
waist and neck, the end being passed through a hole in the
cabinet, where it was subsequently held by Mr. Dunphy, so
that had the medium risen from her seat, or used her hands
in any way to produce the subsequent manifestations, he must
have become aware of the fact. As a further precaution, her
right arm was firmly tied to the back of the chair with a
cambric pocket handkerchief, the ends of which, as also the
knots of the twine, were carefully sealed. Shortly after¬
wards, the medium became entranced, and a lively conversa¬
tion ensued between “Katie” and several members of the
circle. She showed her face many times under a strong light,
and spoke from the aperture, showing the movement of the
mouth and the expression of the eyes. On one occasion she
said, “Look to your watch,” and then disappeared. Within
about three quarters of a minute a black face appeared, and
then, within a similar period, Katie herself returned, and said,
gleefully, St Don’t I show better faces than through any other
medium ?” Of this there can be no manner of doubt. Sub¬
sequently, violent thumps or concussions were heard in the
cabinet, and when the doors were opened, Miss Cook was
found sealed and tied, and (as usual) in a trance.
At the second sitting the twine was passed round her waist
by one of the visitors, and the knots being sealed in two
places, the end was again passed through the hole in the
door. The effect of this arrangement was that “ Katie”
appeared in a much shorter time than before. The “ Haver¬
fordwest Spirit,” as it is now termed, also appeared, and tried
to speak. The features were totally different to those of
‘ ‘ Katie, ” and she pointed several times to a scar on the forehead
over the left eye, and seemed to indicate that she desired to make
some communication, but was unable. “ Katie” afterwards
appeared, and put her two arms completely outside the
cabinet. She subsequently beckoned to all the visitors in
succession to come close up to her and examine her features.
Mr. Dunphy then inquired whether “Katie” would put on a
heavy gold ring, which he took off his finger and offered 'her.
This she immediately took out of his hand and placed on her
own wedding finger, saying naively—‘ ‘ We are now engaged.”
On Mr. Dunphy subsequently reaching with his hand to
receive the ring, “ Katie” allowed him to touch hers, and
afterwards told him to touch her lips, which he did with his
hands, “ Katie” imprinting a kiss upon them.
The most remarkable features of this interesting seance
were, first, that the faces remained longer in sight, and under
a more powerful light, than on any previous occasion ; se¬
condly, that “Katie” spoke in an animated manner while
showing her face; and, thirdly, that she allowed the mem¬
bers of the circle to approach quite closely, and in one case
actually to touch her.
The “ Haverfordwest face ” has not yet been recog¬
nised, but the /South Wales Daily News of Dec. 2nd
said:—
“ The Spiritualist, published on Saturday, contains an
account of a seance recently held at Hackney, by Miss Cook,
a well known ‘ medium.’ In the course of the evening a
Haverfordwest ‘ spirit ’ would seem to have put in an appear¬
ance, and claimed acquaintance with Mr. W. H. Harrison, a
gentleman known throughout South Wales as having been
editor of the Cambria Daily Leader. As the believers in
Spiritualism have recently been somewhat active in this
district, and held a number of seances in the principal towns,
an extract from the Spiritualist's report may prove of interest,
and possibly lead to the ‘ recognition ’ of the ‘ spirit ’ ”
Our account of the seance followed the above pre¬
amble, and as the South Wales Daily News circulates
in Haverfordwest as well as in the other principal
Welsh towns, perhaps the publication may lead to the
recognition of the spirit. She has been appearing
regularly now at the seances for some time. Mr. Har¬
rison says he has not the slightest idea who she is.
Every time she appears she calls attention to the red
mark over her left eye, by pointing to it with her
finger.
It will be noticed that the worst seances with Miss
Cook invariably take place on the exceptional occasions
when the circle is used for proselytising purposes, as
her mediumship is extremely sensitive to adverse in¬
fluences. The best manifestations take place when
all the members of the circle are bound together by
the affections, and this is never the case when
some of those present are considering whether
the rest are imposing upon them or not. A good way
of developing her mediumship would be to let sceptics
go to Mrs. Holmes’s seances first, to get the rough edge
of their prejudices taken off, and to encourage the spirits
in their work by making Miss Cook’s a thoroughly spi¬
ritual circle. We wish to see the spirits walking out
of the cabinet and mixing with the visitors present,
and Katie says she means to try to do it. The weari¬
some anxious work of proselytising keeps back higher
manifestations; and it is really better for new inquirers,
and better for Spiritualists, that the former should get
over their first difficulties by having their first seances
with a test medium suited for proselytising work. To
42
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 15, 1872.
get ttie best manifestations, it is our duty to give the
spirits the best conditions. This opens up the religious
aspect of Spiritualism. We think that experience will
prove that the highest manifestations can only be
obtained at circles where all the members meet toge¬
ther in harmony and purity of thought, desiring revela¬
tions from the angel-world, and receiving them with
thankfulness. If the best manifestations could be
obtained without reference to mental and spiritual
conditions, Spiritualism might become a branch of
mechanics, the Engineer might become its chief news¬
paper, and our religion be forged by a blacksmith, with
nothing in it to make the world happier or better.
THE ANTHROPOLOGICAL INSTITHTE.
PEEHISIORIC STONE IMPLEMENTS FROM INDIA.
On Tuesday evening, December 3rd, at the ordinary fort¬
nightly meeting of the Anthropological Institute, 4, St. Mar-
tin’s-place, Trafalgar-square, London, Sir John Lubbock,
Bart., M.P., F.B.S., presided.
Mr. E. W. Brabrook, F.S.A., read the minutes of the last
meeting, which were confirmed.
Colonel A. Lane Fox exhibited some stone implements from
India, which had been forwarded to him by Colonel Pearse,
B.A. They consisted of stone celts from the grove and hill¬
top temples of the Shevavoy Hills, at Salem, on the railway
half-way between Madras on the east, and Beypore on the
west coast. Colonel Pearse said that these celts were de¬
posited as votive offerings by the Malayalis in their temple to
Purinall, their chief deity, and are called by them “ Wiggine-
spoora,” which means—“ That which takes our ills upon
itself.” They are not made by the Malayalis| but found by
them in the bed of a river half-way up the hills, about 2,500
feet above the sea level, and chiefly in one place where the
British road now crosses' the river. There are not many of
these aboriginal temples existing now, and they are chiefly in
out-of-the-way places.
Dr. Campbell suggested that Colonel Pearse should be asked
to contribute a paper on the subject of these stone implements.
The thanks of the meeting were given to Colonel Fox and
Colonel Pearse.
ANTHROPOLOGY AT THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION.
Colonel Lane Fox next read a report on Anthropology at the
British Association meeting at Brighton. He said that some
changes had been made in the method of conducting the busi¬
ness of the Anthropological department, for at Brighton the
papers were classified, and so arranged as to give one day to
each branch of Anthropological science; in consequence of
the regulations not being well understood, full justice was not
done to all the authors, but altogether the interests of An¬
thropology had been promoted by recent changes. He then
briefly noticed some of the chief papers read before the
department, after which he said that the discussions were of a
more scientific character than in former years, in consequence
of particular subjects being set apartjfor particular days, so that
persons ^interested in each branch were more drawn together
on those days. The popularity of the Anthropological De¬
partment was proved by the large attendance, and not a few
of those present were ladies. Only one paper was rejected as
unfit to be read before women. Experience had proved that J
the exclusion of women from the meetings of the Anthro¬
pological Institute was certainly a financial, if not a scientific
blunder. Only one paper on psychology had been read at
Brighton. Much about savages had been discussed in the
geographical section which ought also to have been discussed
in the Anthropological department; the anthropologists and
geographers worked well together at the meeting, and a joint
committee had been appointed to draw up instructions for
anthropological observers travelling in foreign countries.
THE ADMISSION OF LADIES TO ANTHROPOLOGICAL MEETINGS.
Sir John Lubbock said that at Brighton he was unable to
be present in the Anthropological department, because of his
duties as President of the Biological Section,"but he kept his
eye on what was gping on in the department, and could testify to
the complete accuracy of the report which Colonel Lane Fox had
read that evening. The question of admitting ladies to the meet¬
ings of the Anthropological Institute was one on which ther e was
much difference of opinion among the present members. He
believed that it was impossible that the human race could
make much progress beyond the very low point to which it
had already arrived, so long as the difference which existed
between the occupations of the two sexes was maintained.
He had felt much regret at the exclusion of ladies from the
Institute. At the meetings of the Ethnological Society, to
which they were admitted, very few attended, consequently
the Anthropological Institute had left the question open for a
time, to give attention to more important subjects. Now that
the point had been again raised, he was glad of the oppor¬
tunity of expressing his entire concurrence with the views of
Colonel Lane Fox. The British Association had recently
made arrangements which gave entire satisfaction to the stu¬
dents of anthropological science, but if any thought differently,
the president and council would no doubt be happy to repre¬
sent their views to the British Association. There should, of
course, be some delicacy in expressing opinions about the con¬
stitution of another society, but he believed the real object
of the council of the British Association, to be to aid the
progress of all branches of science so far as in their power.
Very valuable papers had been read this year at Brighton.
He should be glad to hear any remarks from gentlemen pre¬
sent.
Mr. E. Charlesworth, F.G.S., said that Colonel Fox had
given them a very able and interesting report, and he had
raised the very important question whether or not the female
element should be admitted into the learned societies of this
metropolis. During the last forty years the female element had
predominated at the British Association, yet it was absent in
the learned societies of London. The late Mrs. Somerville had
been a great adornment to the world of science, and she had
been admitted as a member of the Royal Astronomical Society,
because the council felt her claims to be so great that it was
impossible to reject them. The Geologists’ Association had
admitted ladies from the first, and had never had any diffi¬
culty of any kind in consequence. Still, there were societies
in which the question arose whether certain discussions could
take place, and be considered in the way they really ought to
be to do them justice, supposing ladies were present. If
ladies were to be admitted to the learned societies it need not
be done all at once. Could there not be certain limits?
Could there not be a limited number of invitations to ladies
who have special claims? The whole subject would no doubt
be well considered at another time.
Mr. Brabrook said that formerly the learned societies used
each to send a representative to the meetings of the British
Association, who gave in his report on his return. Now, the
plan has been abolished, and the president of the section re¬
presents his society, and afterwards gives in his report. The
Anthropological Department was very popular at Brighton,
and its proceedings were a great success. The question of the
admission of ladies to the Anthropological Institute would no
doubt be considered by the council, and the members would
probably have the subject brought before them again. He had
great pleasure in moving a vote of thanks to Colonel Lane Fox
for his report.
Mr. F. G. H. Price seconded the motion.
Sir John Lubbock said that the Anthropological Department
at Brighton was so popular, that it rather took the wind out
of the sails of the one over which he presided. However,
what papers they had in the latter were read with due solem¬
nity. (Laughter.) They could scarcely discuss the subject of
the admission of ladies any further that evening.
The vote of thanks was then given with applause.
PREHISTORIC IMPLEMENTS.
Professor T. Rupert Jones, F.R.S., F.G.S., read a paper
“ On some implements bearing marks referable to ownership,
tallies, and gambling, from the caves of Dordogne, France.”
He exhibited drawings of some implements made of bone,
ivory, and deer’s horn, with various rude cuts, scratches, and
holes in them. He said that he believed all savages to be
gamblers ; some of the stone implements were probably used
for gambling purposes, or as tallies to aid the memory.
Colonel Lane Fox exhibited some Esquimaux arrows, some
bone implements, and a knife brought by Mr. Petherick from
Central Africa.
Mr. A. W. Franks said that similar bones to those described
in Professor Jones’s paper had also been found in other caves
in France, and several bird’s bones had been found with
curious marks upon them. One could understand that marks
upon arrows might bear reference to ownership, but it could
hardly be so in the case of marks upon the slender bones of
birds; these latter appear certainly to have been tallies.
Many of the ornaments of savages bear marks which are aids
THE SPIRITUALIST.
43
Dec. 15, 1872.
to memory; but when the oral record is lost, they become but
cut sticks.
Mr. J. M. Buckley said that tallies are still used in Cork and
Waterford, and in various parts of the county of Kilkenny,
especially at harvest time, as aids to memory. To the pfe-
sent day, also, the Irish were in the habit of marking on
their shilelaghs the number of fairs or weddings they had
attended, by means of notches, or by brass nails hammered
into the wood.
The thanks of the meeting having been given to Professor
Rupert Jones and Colonel Pox,
Lieut. Cooper King, B.A., read a paper on “ The discovery
of a flint implement station in Wishmoor Bottom, near Sand¬
hurst.” The spots on which they were found appeared to have
once been slight elevations above the surface of a marsh or
small lake.
The thanks of the meeting were given to Lieut. King, and
the proceedings closed with the reading of a letter from the
secretary to the Society of Antiquaries, Somerset House, in¬
viting members of the Anthropological Institute to one of its'
meetings.
ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
On Thursday evening, Nov. 28th, Mr. Enmore Jones, of
Enmore-park, South Norwood, gave a lecture to the St. John’s
Association of Spiritualists, St. John’s Hall, Corporation-row,
Clerkenwell, London. Mr. Steele presided.
Mr. Enmore Jones said that the subject of his lecture was—
“What is death?” and his answer was—“Death is renewed
life.” He was a member of the Dialectical Society, and most
of the members of that society were Deists. He (Mr. Jones),
however, was a Christian, or ought to be one. A member of
the Council of the Dialectical Society recently read to its
members a paper on “Death,” so he (Mr. Jones) attended to
hear it, expecting to gain some knowledge, but he was only
told that death was the extinction of life. Then the author
turned away from his subject to that of suicide, and told the
Dialectical Society that it was desirable, when bodily pain
was great, that the sooner the man ended his life, the better.
He argued that men were intended to be happy during life,
and when they could no longer be happy, they ought to put
an end to their existence. He said, “What is the use of a
future ? I should not like it. Who wants to go to hell, where
all is brimstone and fire?” Of course, nobody liked to go
there; but if there were such a place, men would have to go
there, if they fitted themselves for it. The author of the
paper also said that a man who committed suicide ought not
to be under the ban of the law; he ought to be allowed to cut
his throat, if he liked, and no stigma should be attached to
his family in consequence. He said that those who believed
in a future life, founded that belief upon intuition, spiritual¬
istic phenomena, and God’s justice, but he did not try to
answer these three arguments. Intuition was mind, and he
(Mr. Jones) looked upon mind as a substance, otherwise it
could not act upon the body. He considered the human mind
to have the shape of the body, and to consist of head, arms,
trunk, legs, and feet, but all devoid of flesh. Flesh could not
lift itself, but the power or mind within lifted the mortal
human arm. Cut off the hand, and it was gone, so far as the
eye could see ; but only the flesh was gone, the real hand was
in its place still. A sensitive who was able to see the light
from magnets, and the auras of material objects, would see
the hand in its place still. A few days agp, he met a man
who had lost his bodily arm, yet he said that he often felt
pain in the hand of that arm, and such cases were common.
Sensitives could see the missing hand; and if others could
not do so, they ought not to set up their own sensations
as standards. Some persons, for instance, would, while
indoors, feel the effects of the east wind directly it began
to blow, but the east wind might blow for a week with¬
out himself (Mr. Jones) being able by his sensations to tell
it from any other wind. A man who had lost his arm put
the stump against the warm wall of a warm room, yet he
felt the cold outside the house chilling his missing hand. The
sensitives who see the ghost’s arms, and the light from mag¬
nets, can also see the ghost of the whole body when its flesh
is gone. The testimony of such a large number of sensitives,
who agreed in their separate narratives, who were truthful
people, and who had no motive whatever for deception, ought
to be accepted. Although he personally accepted the Bible as
the great source of truth, he was approaching his subject that
evening from the standpoint of a man who did not care a snap
of the fingers for the Bible. Anciept Egyptian inscriptions
and the Moabite stone proved the historical truth of some of
the narratives in the Old Testament, so the remainder might
also be reasonably accepted. Three spiritual beings came to
Abraham and spoke to him. Again, a man wrestled with
Jacob all night, and in the morning Jacob found that he had
been grappling with a spirit. Manoah’s wife and her husband
saw a man, who told them about the future birth of Samson,
then rose over a flame of fire, so they knew he was a spirit.
At the Ascension two men appeared in white in the crowd.
Peter was let out of prison by an angel. Roman, Russian,
and general European history teems with accounts of ghosts
being seen at different times in different places. At the pre¬
sent day the family of the Duke of Argyll has its spirit, which
appears when any great family events are going to occur; he
stated this at second hand, having been told of the fact by a
person who had it from the Marquis of Lome. Irish families
have their banshee. He (Mr. Jones) had at seances seen a
materialised spirit hand more than once. Recently in his own
house, at a dark seance with Miss Kate Fox, he saw a luminous
spirit hand take up a pencil and write a message. At another
seance with her a spirit wrote thirty lines in the dark, and not
one word was off the thin blue lines ruled upon the paper.
There was also not the slightest indication from beginning to
end of the pen having been dipped twice in the inkstand.
The message was signed “ J. W. Jackson,” and had been
published in The Spiritualist. Nine of his family of fourteen
had passed to the other life; soon he and the rest would have
to go too. When a man’s heart is wrung with anguish at the
loss of his beloved ones, what he hears from the pulpit is one
thing, and what he knows for himself is another (Applause)..
Having obtained evidence of the reality of a future life, he
now in the fulness of his heart threw out the knowledge to
those around him (Applause).
Mr. Cotter asked Mr. Jones if he would tell the meeting
about spirit photographs, as he had given attention to the
subject.
Mr. Jones said that he believed that spirit photographs had
been obtained, especially in America. He believed that several
had been taken in England. Years ago a bad shilling was
given to him, but that did not make him think that there were
no good shillings in the world. He had obtained spirit photo¬
graphs in his own home, and a few had been taken in Bristol,
which were also genuine. If they could only have an upright
spirit photographer who would rather cut his right hand off
than play a trick, there was ndthing to prevent the production
of a multitude of genuine spirit photographs.
Mr. J. D. Claridge spoke of the imbecility of old age, and
asked if the freed spirit were also imbecile ?
Mr. Jones said that the apparent imbecility might be due to
merely temporary physical imperfection.
Mr. W. H. Harrison said that he thought that medical men
explained why people who had lost their arms felt pains in their
hands, by the theory that the external influence affects the
ends of the nerves in the stumps, and these nerves telegraph
the sensation to the brain, so that the patient fancies the pains
to be in the hands in which the same nerves once ended. But
Mr. Jones’s statement that a man felt the cold outside a warm
wall by means of his spirit hand and arm projecting through the
wall, militated against the theory. He wished Mr. Jones
would give the narne and address of the man in question, and
the names and addresses of the witnesses present.
Mr, Jones said that he had not the names and addresses,
but perhaps he could get them.
Mr. Harrison said that there was no doubt as to the genuine
character of the message through Miss Fox’s mediumship, but
was it in the handwriting of the late Mr. Jackson ? The reason
he asked was that in it Mr. Jackson said something about play¬
ing on harps. Now Mr. Jackson was a member of the Anthro¬
pological Institute, and all who knew him would deem harp¬
playing to be the last occupation he would take to, and one
which would make him feel idle and utterly miserable. Was
there any evidence that this spirit message came from Mr.
Jackson ?
Mr,, Jones said that he had tried to solve the point, and
with some difficulty had obtained specimens of Mr. Jackson’s
handwriting, and found it not to be the same as that in the
message. Still there was a certain amount of similarity in its
freeness, not easy to describe in words. Perhaps much of the
message partook of the ordinary symbolical nature of spirit
utterances, and “ playing on harps ” merely signified a state
of happiness. Mr. Jackson did not say he was playing, but
that we should hear their harps, in ^contrast to our earth
music,
The proceedings closed with a warm vote of thanks to Mr.
Enmore Jones.
44
THE SPIRITUALIST.
A CASE OF SPIRITUAL OBSESSION.*
From the Spiritual Magazine.
In the year 1867 a letter from me to Mr. Coleman
appeared in the Spiritual Magazine, giving an account
of my spiritual experiences, which had been only those
of vision to within a short period of that time, when
voices which I had heard indistinctly for a long time
had become audible, and had addressed me. There
were but four voices at first, but gradually there were
many others heard at times. The four first heard were
two females, and two males. Until very lately those
voices were never silent night or day. When I awoke
at night I would invariably hear them conversing to¬
gether, almost always about me. They read my
thoughts almost before I was conscious of them myself.
Their language was low and abusive. They seemed
generally animated by the bitterest hatred to God, and
especially to our Lord Jesus Christ; but they some¬
times respected the Blessed Yirgin and the Roman
Catholic Church. For a long time after I first heard
them they spoke so loud and so vehemently, that I fre¬
quently could not hear persons who were conversing
with me. The suffering caused by this unceasing per¬
secution, this constant presence, is perfectly indescrib¬
able. Their intelligence seemed of a very low character,
and their conversation was obscene and blasphemous.
The difference between them was always very plain.
One of the males was evidently of more acquirements,
and possessed a very agreeable voice, both in speaking
and singing, but he seemed more wicked than the other,
who appeared to be a low profligate. One of the
females seemed to be of middle age and the vei4y in¬
carnation of cold malignity. The other female seemed
young, and had a voice of singular sweetness. She and
the profligate appeared in great terror of the other two.
At first their memory of the earth-life was most indis¬
tinct, but after some time they seemed to recollect many
things. They could not pursue any connected line of
thought, nor reason on any subject. I have been told
by^ other spirits, who are evidently of a superior class,
and who speak in my brain, and whose conversation is
highly intellectual, religious, and friendly, that during
their earth-lives those spirits delighted in contradicting
every opinion advanced by other persons; particularly
did they glory in cavilling at the Bible, and in unset¬
tling the religious belief of every person whom they
could influence. The man with the pleasing voice was,
.1 am told, a very learned man, and they assert that one
of the circle was Staupitz, an inquisitor and torturer.
The profligate man has always professed the most ex¬
travagant passion for me, and declares that he is to be
my spiritual husband.
I see a number of spirits, and am conscious of three
degrees of spiritual sight and hearing. I have also
been developed -as a medium for impressional writing.
I must also mention another curious particular, which
is, that the spirits do not appear and speak to me at
the same time. On the contrary, they speak, and
although at the time I may see some spirits that I know
are belonging to their circle, they don’t become identi¬
fied with the voices speaking at the time. I have
* In this painful case, it is difficult to say how much may he subjective
and due to disease. Oases of obsession, pure and simple, are, fortunately,
extremely rare in Spiritualism, and we have reason to believe may be
checked at the outset by taking the afflicted person to a powerful medium,
whose attendant good spirits can drive away such spirits as the writer of
the article describes. Many cases, which doctors believe to be insanity,
are cases of incipient obsession, and in their ignerance of Spiritualism
they often send such persons to a lunatic asylum, to be driven mad in real
earnest, by the worse spirits infesting such places.—Ed. of S.
Dec. 15, 1872.
several times beheld spirits suddenly appear to pass
into a kind of dream, their countenances seeming as if
the intelligence were withdrawn from within, leaving a
kind of mask, the eyes showing a most awful expres¬
sion, which should be seen before it can be even
imagined. Then the spirit would feebly, as in a dream,
go over some criminal act. One I saw make several
stabs at the throat of another, but without effecting his
purpose.^ The sight was dreadful. Another cautiously
followed a spirit around a drawing-room, concealing a
dagger in the folds of her dress behind her, and when
she got near enough to her intended victim, she stabbed
him in the face, and I saw his entire person deluged
with blood, then all vanished. This scene was beheld
in the dark, with open eyes. The previous scene I saw
in the daylight, with open eyes. These experiences
caused me to feel much interest in the “ Tale of Eter¬
nity,” as the unhappy spirit is there described as appear¬
ing to enter the same state, previous to re-enacting his
crime. I may remark that the book I have mentioned
was not published at the time I beheld these visionary
crimes.
These spirits have caused me uneasiness by threaten¬
ing me with their vengeance for not (as they say)
having spoken to them sufficiently, and tried to convert
them. This accusation, I must remark, is untrue, as
I have never omitted a day during the four years they
have obsessed me, in which I did not urge repentance
and amendment of life upon them. I have prayed for
them, and reasoned with them, but apparently to no
purpose. What is very awful is, that on several occa¬
sions, one of their number has appeared to wish to rise
out of the state of guilt and misery in which they
exist, but the naan I have spoken of as the most in¬
fluential among them, interfered, and succeeded by his
arguments in turning the wavering spirit from her in¬
tention. Yesterday, one of them told me that they were
in a state of complete darkness unless my thoughts were
turned towards them;
I have passed through a most awful and interesting
crisis, which seems to have greatly abridged their power
to make their voices audible to me. The entreaties and
wailings of one of their number induced me to again
reason with and pray for them. Again they resumed a
portion of their power to address me, and they have
made use of it to load me with abuse, prophesy my
death, when they will waylay my spirit, and rush with
it down to their dwelling, and there keep me in spite of
any angel or spirit. Their hatred is also increased
towards me, and I overheard the spirit who pretended
a desire to repent and amend say that she now hated
me to such an excess, in consequence of being obliged
to dissemble with me, that she would never leave me
till she had made me commit some sin that could not be
repented of, and then would rend me with her hands
into a hundred fragments.
I have not been left all this time without help and
comfort from good spirits. If you think this worth in¬
serting, perhaps I may have comforted some other
haunted minds which may be cheered to find they are
not singular in their spiritual trials, and perhaps some
persons may feel inclined to relate their sorrowful ex¬
periences. Often have I felt almost in despair, and
thought that deliverance would never come. Yet God
mitigated my sufferings when they were at their height;
when, overcome by illness of body and sore distress of
mind, I began to think that never more should I know
one moment’s peace or quiet, even then came help, and,
Dec. 15, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
45
to my delighted surprise, I knew perfect silence for the
first time in four years, though I was never left alone
to combat with these real fiends.
If there are any among your readers who would give
their opinions as to what I ought to do under these
circumstances, as to whether I am under any obligation
as a Christian to speak to these spirits, I would feel
really grateful to such persons for their advice. I have
no person near me on whose judgment I can rely.
There is one answer they have almost always returned
to my entreaties that they would seek pardon and re¬
conciliation with God; this is, that loathsome and
wretched as their abode is, they there can enjoy their
favourite sins, which could not be the case if they were
removed to a higher sphere, and that they would much
prefer being in hell with those enjoyments than be in
heaven without them. These spirits declare themselves
to be under the control of other and more potent spirits,
and they have always shown the greatest dislike to
have anything related about them, or, in fact, to be
spoken of at all. , E. P.
SPIRITUAL RESURRECTION.*
How beautifully Zaratusht, the Eifth Messenger, has
described the resurrection, may be learned from the
following extract (part of a dialogue between himself
and the Logos, or Holy Spirit) which I cite from the
true Zend-a- Vesta now lying before me. What a sub¬
lime and splendid image it conveys! How worthy of
the paradise scene where it is described, and how wholly
in accordance it appears with all that is known of God
or of the Euture, either from revelation, reason, or ex¬
perience. Contrasted with the resurrection described
by Paul, and believed by his followers, and the corporeal
palingenesis of all the early Christian fathers, it shines
like light from heaven itself; yet this was the well-known
faith of all our forefathers in the olden ages, which are
popularly commiserated as days of sin and darkness;
and this is the doctrine itself as it was revealed to all
more than four thousand years ago by one of the most
divine of teachers and philosophers:—
Zaratusht.
O Mihr ! f more splendent in thy brightness
Than the emerald-fiery stars of the wholly-shining arch,
Answer unto me ; make thou known
The condition of man’s spirit after death.
Is it dissipated into invisible air,
Like the cloud that lately shone so luminous ?
Or doth it pass into some other form ?
And if so, whence comes that form ?
Mihr.
When the pure spirit ascends from earth,
It scents the perfume of odoriferous trees ;
It feels as if it were still in body;
It knows not that it is free from chains.
A sweetly-scented wind conveys it
To the Ethereal Regions of the Upper Zone ;
A music, rich, divine, and pure,
Surrounds, salutes, and fills it. '
It beholds an image of its own holiness,
Like a beautiful virgin budding into bloom ;
Sacred, starry-shining, star-crowned,
With snow-white wings. To it, it speaks..
Who art thou, O beautiful one ?
Who art thou, 0 virgin-light of heaven ?
Never have I seen or dreamed of aught
So pure, so lovely, so divine as thou art.
* We quote this from Enoch, &n interesting book just published by Messrs.
Triibner & Co.
t Mihr, according to the learned Orientalist Hyde, signifies Love, Benevol¬
ence, Mercy. (Dt Relig. Vet. Pers., p. 105.) This is the Greek Eros, or
Divine Love: the Madonna, or Holy Spirit of Heaven.
It answers thus : In me thou seest
An image of thy thoughts, thy life, thine actions ;
I am thy conscience symbolized before thee,
Beautiful, as thy deeds have been.
Then the pure ascending spirit
Passes into this new form of existence.
It animates that heavenly phantom,
And ascends, virgin-like, on high.
So also in the Ved, which Brigoo published, six hundred
years before the coming of Zaratusht, the last moments
of a man, and his ascent to God, or his lapse to darkness,
are thus finely described:—
When strength departeth from a Man,
And the moment of death is close at hand,
[ Those who are present demand of the dying,
Knowest thou me, O child?
So long as the spirit hath not left the body,
And consciousness remains, he knoweth them ;
But when the spirit hath departed from the body,
Then indeed he knoweth them no longer.
And this spirit, if it be pure and holy,
Is attracted upwards by the rays of the Sun,
As thou hast seen his glorious beams
Drink up the waters of the sea.
He who hath directed his contemplations to God,
And hath sought the Beautiful One all his days,
His spirit passing through the arch of his brain
Ascends upwards by the path of the Sun’s rays ;
Quick as the thought of man,
It goes through the centre of the Sun,
And flashing unscathed through lucid fire,
It ascends, a star into a paradise.
In the regions of pure flame,
In the golden zones, amid pellucid waters,
That sparkle like a sea of sunbeams,
It moves, it gleams in lightning-flashes.
But they who are grossly ignorant and irrational,
Who have not sought, or wished to know or find
The Beautiful One who sitteth in the Heavens,
Whose throne is circumambient light and glory;
Their spirits pass not through the illuminated brain ;
Neither do they attain unto the Sun’s rays;
But going out through the baser parts,
They wander in corporeal spheres.*
The Spirit of Light which endureth no evil thing,
Which knoweth not passion, or death, or sensualism,
Whose every desire is holy, pure, and sacred,
Unto that Blessed One they cannot attain.
TRACTS.
Once there was a bad little boy, whose name was Jim—
though if you will notice, you will find that bad little boys
are nearly always called James in your Sunday-school books.
It was very strange, but still it was true, that this one was
called Jim.
He didn’t have any sick mother, either—a sick mother who
was pious and had the consumption, and would be glad to lie
down in the grave and be at rest, but for the strong love she
bore her boy, and the anxiety she felt that the world would be
harsh and cold towards him when she was gone. Most bad
boys in the Sunday books are named James, and have sick
mothers, who teach them to say, “ Now I lay me down,” &c.,
and sing them to sleep with sweet plaintive voices, and
then kiss them good night, and kneel down by the bedside
and weep. But it was different with this fellow. He was
named Jim, and there wasn’t anything the matter with his
mother—no consumption, or anything of that kind. She was
rather stout than otherwise, and she was not pious; moreover,
she was not anxious on Jim’s account. She said if he were
to break his neck, it wouldn’t be much loss. She always
spanked Jim to sleep, and she never kissed him good night; on
the contrary, she boxed his ears when she was ready to leave
him.
Once this little bad boy stole the key of the pantry and
slipped in there and helped himself to some jam, and filled
up the vessel with taf, so that his mother would never
* I do not know, nor have I ever had time to inquire, whether there be
anything in what is called Spiritualism; hut as far as I do know, and
assuming the appearances of the Departed to be true, it is evident that they
have been Spirits so bound to sensualism and earth, that they never have
been able to get beyond it into any of the higher Spheres, and hence their
ignorance may be accounted for.
46
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 1.5, 1872.
know the difference; but all at once a terrible feeling didn’t
come over him, and something didn’t seem to whisper to him,
“ Is it right to disobey my mother ? Isn’t it sinful to do this ?
Where do bad little boys go who gobble up their good kind
mother’s jam ? ” and then he didn’t kneel down all alone and
promise never to be wicked any more, and rise up with a
light happy heart, and go and tell his mother all about it, and
beg her forgiveness, and be blessed by her with tears of pride
and thankfulness in her eyes. No; that is the way with all
other bad boys in the books ; but it happened otherwise with
this Jim, strangely enough. He ate that jam, and said it was
“ bully,” in his sinful, vulgar way; and he put in the tar, and
said that was bully also, and laughed, and observed “ that the
old woman would get up and snort ” when she found it out;
and when she did find it out he denied knowing anything
about it, and she whipped him severely, and he did the crying
himself. Everything about this boy was curious—everything
turned out differently with him from the way it does to the
bad Jameses in the books.
Once he climbed up in Farmer Acorn’s apple tree to steal
apples, and the limb didn’t break, and he didn’t fall and break
his arm, and get torn by the farmer’’s great dog, and then
languish on a sick bed for weeks, and repent and become good.
Oh! no; he stole as many apples as he wanted, and came
down all right; and he was all ready for the dog, too, and
knocked him endways with a rock when he came to tear him.
It was very strange—nothing like it ever happened in those mild
little books with marbled backs, and with pictures in them of
men with swallow-tailed coats and bell-crowned hats, and pan¬
taloons that are short in the legs, and women with the waists
of their dresses under their arms and no hoops on. Nothing
like it in any of the Sunday-schoor books.
Once he stole the teacher’s penknife, and when he was
afraid it would be found out, and he would get whipped, he
slipped it into George Wilson’s cap—poor Widow Wilson’s
son, the moral boy, the good little boy of the village, who
always obeyed his mother, and never told an untruth, and was
fond of his lessons and infatuated with Sunday-school. And
when the knife dropped from the cap, and poor George hung
his head and blushed, as if in conscious guilt, and the grieved
teacher charged the theft upon him, and was just in the very
act of bringing the switch down upon his trembling shoulders,
a white-haired improbable justice of the peace did not sud¬
denly appear in their midst and strike an attitude and say,
“ Spare this noble boy—there stands the cowering culprit! I
was passing the school-door at recess, and, unseen myself, I
saw the theft committed !” And then Jim didn’t get whaled,
and the venerable justice didn’t read the tearful school a
homily, and take George by the hand and say such a boy
deserved to be exalted, and then tell him to come and make
his home with him, and sweep out the office and make fires,
and run errands, and chop wood, and study law, and help his
wife to do household labours, and have all the balance of the
time to play, and get forty cents, a month, and be happy. No ;
it would have happened that way in the books, but it didn’t
happen that way to Jim. No meddling old clam of a justice
dropped in to make trouble, and so the model boy George got
thrashed, and Jim was glad of it; because, you know, Jim
hated moral boys. Jim said he was “ down on them milk¬
sops.” Such was the coarse language of this bad, neglected
boy;
But the strangest thing that ever happened to Jim was the
time he went boating on Sunday and didn’t get drowned, and
that other time that he got caught out in the storm when he
was fishing on Sunday, and didn’t get struck by lightning.
Why, you might look, and look, and look through the Sunday-
school books, from now till next Christmas, and you would
never come across anything like this. Oh! no; you would
find that all the bad boys who go boating on Sunday invariably
get drowned; and all the bad boys who get caught out in
storms, when they are fishing on Sunday, infallibly get struck
by lightning. Boats with bad boys in them always upset on
Sunday, and it always storms when bad boys go fishing on the
Sabbath. How thi§ Jim ever escaped is a mystery to me.
This Jim bore a charmed life—that must have been the way
of it. Nothing could hurt him. He even gave the elephant in the
menagerie a plug of tobacco, and the elephant didn’t knock the
top of his head off with his trunk. He browsed around the cup¬
board after essence of peppermint, and didn’t make a mistake and
drink aquafortis. He stole his father’s gun, and went hunting on
the Sabbath, and didn’t shoot three or four of his fingers off.
He struck his little sister on-the temple with his fist when he
was angry, and she didn’t linger in pain through long summer
days, and die with sweet words of forgiveness upon her lips;
that redoubled the anguish of his breaking heart. No ; she
got over it. He ran off and went to sea at last, and didn’t
come back and find himself sad and alone in the world, his
loved ones sleeping in the quiet churchyard, and the vine-em¬
bowered home of his boyhood tumbled down and gone to
decay. Ah! no; he came home drunk as a piper, and got
into the station-house the first thing.
And he grew up, and married, and raised a large family, and
brained them all with an axe one night, and got wealthy by
all manner of cheating and rascality; and now he is the in-
femalest wickedest scoundrel in his native village, and is uni¬
versally respected, and belongs to the Legislature.
So you see there never was a bad James in the Sunday-
school books that had such a streak of luck as this sinful Jim
with the charmed life.—Coleman Sellers.
(tfnOTspontience*
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal audits readers.']
FACE MANIFESTATION'S.
Sib,—I was present at a seance With the professional
mediums, Messrs. Herne and Williams, last night, at their
rooms, and, as the progress of the manifestations during the
last few weeks has been truly astonishing, perhaps a short
account of what took place may interest some of your readers.
The mediums sat in a moveable cabinet, something after the
pattern of that used by the Davenport brothers. A seat is
fixed inside at each end, consisting of a plain board, perforated
on each side by three elliptical holes, through which the ropes
are passed when the mediums are bound, thus making it im¬
possible for them either to leave their seat or to move it with
them. The front of the cabinet is composed of three panels,
the two outer ones having doors which are fastened with bolts
within and without. Above each door, and over the centre
panel, is an aperture about a foot square and five feet from the
ground, covered with a small black curtain. Through these
three openings, after the mediums were entranced, the spirits
first projected hands, and afterwards showed their faces for a
few seconds at a time, raising and dropping the curtain as they
required it. The cabinet was placed at the end of the back or
smaller room, and the company sat in rows in front of it; last
night the visitors were so numerous that the seats extended
back beyond the folding doors into the front room. The gas
here was lowered, but the light was sufficiently strong to allow
those who were furthest removed from the cabinet to see the
faces quite distinctly.
Last night the first face which presented itself was that of
John King, with strong, black beard and moustache, dark,
piercing eyes, and white turban. He did not speak to us when
showing his face, but he allowed the visitors, perhaps twelve or
fifteen in succession, to go up to the cabinet and put a hand
through the curtain; after grasping the hand, John raised the
cm tain, and gave each person an opportunity of inspecting his
visage more closely. Later on, the spirit Katie called me up
by name from the back row of seats. On my approach, she
raised the curtain and showed me herself and John both to¬
gether, two living, glowing human faces, radiant with beauty
and beaming with intelligence. Katie’s head was adorned with
a veil of flowing white muslin.
I can never forget or mistake these faces, and if these mani¬
festations are only the forerunners of what is to come—if we
may, each and all, hope to recognise our own beloved friends
from the spirit-world, in living, breathing forms, like those
with which I stood face to face last night—I can only say that,
at present, the thought seems to me almost more than human
weakness can bear; and it is as well that we should first become
familiarised with such sights through the introductory efforts
of our kind, hard-working friends, John and Katie King. I
will not relate what further took place, as the rest has often
been described. I will only add that the power did not appear
to flag during the whole two hours the mediums remained in
the cabinet, although there were twenty-seven persons present,
not reckoning Messrs. Herne and Williams. I believe that the
majority were Spiritualists, unknown to myself, but apparently
on familiar terms with John King and his manifestations.
93, Clarendon-road, W. Emily Kislingbury.
Dec. 10.
We hear that the large second edition of Mr. Serjeant
Cox’s treatise on “ Psychic Force” has been already exhausted.
It has been twice reprinted in America,
Dec. 15, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
47
^netrg.
ETERNAL PROGRESSION.
The following verses are from Mr. H. Cholmondeley-Pennell’s Modern
Babylon (London: John Oamden Hotten);—
Not the ‘rest ’ of the schoolman—his heav’n—not that, I know—
No cloud-kissing, psalm-singing, passionless bliss,—
A living death in a dead-alive life—not so,
Better the throb and the passionate strain of this:
Better this pulsating span with its agony-sweat,
Hell’s pain, than an age of such objectless ease,'
For so were the struggle wasted, the victory won a defeat,
And the war-blade forged for the sheath of eternal peace.
Is not a man as a sword, picked from the dust,
Tb be ground and polished and set to the Master’s hand,
And tried in the furnace?—for what? everlasting rust?—
No, for battle, bright battle with wrong to the utmost ehd.
Is a life-long of action to prelude a death-long sloth ?
Is the race-horse trained like a star to rot in the stall ?
A way with the cant-born lie—I hold it as truth
Whatever wherever be heay’n it has work for all...
♦ * * * * * * * *
Progress—A progress of all things under the sun,
To perfection; of things that have life, great and small;
An infinite progress of endless existence begun,
And man—man’s body and spirit and mind—before all.
Not thro’ this orb alone, this glitt’ring atom in space,
But onwards thro’ sphere over sphere, exhausting the uses of each,
Going from strength unto strength, up to the holiest place
Where Heaven is in sight—the Heaven of heavens within reach.
Progress untold, unmeted by system and line,
Thro’ centuries past and ages yet for to come—
“I have said ye are Gods,” the temples of Love divine—
Be strong, be loving, 0 Gods! progress to your home.
SPIRITUAL GUIDANCE.
Spiritualists may on rare occasions be met witb,
who sacrifice their own individuality, to a great extent,
so as to be governed in all their actions by spirit mes¬
sages. As there are both good and bad spirits, and as
spirit messages are more or less coloured by the mind
of the medium, especially when the medium is one who
never loses consciousness, this sacrifice of personal inde¬
pendence is to be deprecated. Mr. B. Coleman has had
great experience in Spiritualism ; and in one of the
back numbers of the Spiritual Magazine he says, on
this subject:—
“I believe in the constant presence of spirits who
surround us in our pilgrimage through this earth-life ;
that these invisible attendants have great influence
over our individual actions for good and evil; that all
human beings are mediums in some way, though the
great majority are not consciously so, and but a com¬
paratively few can be used to give palpable evidence of
spirit presence and power*
“ Mediumship, and, especially, that character of me-
diumship through which powerful physical manifesta¬
tions are obtained, does not necessarily imply the pos¬
session of intellectual culture, superior wisdom, or high
moral worth. I know that spirit messages—I mean,
veritable messages from unseen intelligent beings—are,
at best, unreliable, and, as I have more than once said,
I do not allow them to influence my actions at the expense
of my own reason. I would prefer at all times to be
guided by the sound judgment of one I know in the
flesh, rather than by the casual acquaintance of any
disembodied spirit of whom I know nothing. In a
word, I would not accept advice, nor be guided by the
majority of my invisible acquaintances, because they are
in what is assumed to be,—‘ the superior condition/
any more than I would be controlled by the majority of
men whilst in this world, whom these spirits represent,
with but little change in their conditions, morally or
intellectually, after their translation to the spirit world.
“ I believe that a man who throws off this ‘ mortal
coil’ to-day, is not necessarily better or worse than he
was yesterday. Our constant experience proves it.
We who see how some spirits can and do act, are satis¬
fied that our early notions of the conditions and nature
of spirit life were erroneous, and being convinced of
this, we ought not to be afraid of proclaiming it,
“ Let it not, however, be supposed by these remarks
that I am less a Spiritualist than I have ever been. I
know that Spiritualism is a grand and elevating truth;
that, properly understood, it is the great light of the
present age. I see that it is, under God’s providence,
the means of destroying the wide-spread infidelity
which surrounds us; that, in great measure, it breaks
the materialistic fetters by which so many are enslaved,
and opens up tu the convert a life full of hope and
consolation.”
A Spiritual society is in course of formation at Brixton,
and it will probably be a very efficient one. Residents in the
neighbourhood interested in this matter should at once put
themselves in communication with Mr. 0. W. Pearce, 14, Burn-
ley-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Once we asked Miss Kate Fox, who has had twenty
years’ experience as a medium, “ What weakened the mani¬
festations in her presence more than anything else ? ” She
replied, “ When I have a feeling of dislike to any person or
persons sitting in the circle.” Other mediums, also, find that
their manifestations suffer from the same cause.
It is a. good plan for subscribers to order the spiritual
periodicals through a local newsvendor, and not by post.
The journals are thus made to pass through many hands before
delivery, thereby practically forcing many people to recognise
Spiritualism as a fact, and making its literature better known
to the whole publishing trade. Local reading rooms and
newspapers should be liberally supplied with copies of spiritual
periodicals.
Etruscan Inscriptions.—Last week Mr. Murray pub¬
lished a book on “Etruscan inscriptions,” analysed, trans¬
lated, and commented upon by Alexander, Earl of Crawford
and Balcarres, and Lord Lindsay. The object of the book
is to show that the language employed in the Etruscan inscrip¬
tions was an ancient form of German, in corroboration of an
argument derived from independent sources, to prove that
the Etruscans wefe a branch of the Teutonic race.
Royal Institution.—The next sessionwill begin directly
after Christmas, with the delivery of a series of six lectures
by Dr. William Odling, E.R.S. These Christmas lectures
always begin at three, and end at four o’clock in the afternoon;
they are richly illustrated by experiments, and are adapted to
a juvenile auditory, although the best philosophers of the day
are delighted with them, and do not think it beneath their
dignity to attend; consequently the lectures are thronged by
old and young, and a very large proportion of ladies. Tickets
for the course may be obtained on payment. The evening
lectures are open only to members, and to friends invited by
them. A syllabus may be obtained on application to the
secretary, Dr. H. Bence Jones, Royal Institution, Albermarle-
street, London. Professor Tyndall is still in America, but will
return in a few months.
The last number of the Spiritual Magazine contains
another long article in favour of the perpetrator of the recent
photographic imposture and his abettors. The editor has
never seen many of the doubly exposed pictures, and pictures
elaborately doctored and worked up by hand (which pictures
reliable investigators so patiently collected), and months ago
he refused to go and see them, and consult about them, when
Mr. Enmore Jones invited him to do so. He also knows
nothing of photography, and pleads that ignorance as a
reason why his version should be trusted, “ practical ” men
being in the habit of making such mistakes about Spiritualism!
He has also never taken the trouble to call upon Mr. Pycock,
to learn the revolting details of the confession made to him
about the manufacture of some of the photographs and other
matters. The editor of the Spiritual Magazine gives a some¬
what inaccurate list of the genuine spirit photographs taken,
as if this had some bearing on the question. Can he not see
that the presence of a good shilling does not prove a neigh¬
bouring pewter shilling to be genuine ? Our relations with
the Spiritual Magazine, a respectable old-established periodi¬
cal, are of the most friendly nature, so this is no newspaper
quarrel. We regret to see the lamentable incompetence of
the editor to deal with the subject.
48
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 15, 18,72.-
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family friends and relatives,
often gives the most satisfactory evidence of the reality of spiritual
phenomena, and this is the best way for enquirers to begin. At
the same time, as no fully developed medium is present among
those who have never obtained manifestations before, possibly there'
may be no results. . Nevertheless, it is a very common thing for
striking manifestations to be obtained in this way at the first sit¬
ting of a family circle; perhaps for every successful new circle
thus started without a medium, there are three or four failures, but
no accurate statistics on this point have yet been 'collected.
Consequently, to save time, investigators should do as the Dia¬
lectical Society did, form several new circles, with no Spiritualist
or professional medium present, and at one or other of them re¬
sults will probably be obtained. When once manifestations have
been obtained they will gradually increase in power and reliability
at successive sittings. The following is a good plan of action:—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. "Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance, Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4., People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such’ a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be’of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. "When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Tes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established. ;
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sittingvjn the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to Change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ "Who is the medium ? ” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-cliosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
G. H. ANDREWS,
TAILOR, &c.,
61, LAMBS CONDUIT STREET, FOUNDLING, W.C.'
BEGS to inform Gentlemen, who may honour him with
their patronage, they can be supplied with clothes cut in the most
ashionable manner, good materials, and sound workmanship, at very
moderate charges. Fit and style perfect, having been many years in the
well-known firm of Messrs. Pulford and Co., 65, St. James’s Street.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
Trousers, from   0 13 6 I Black Suit, from  3 0 0
Vests  0 7 0 | Unrivalled Black Doe .110
Tweed Suit  £2 10s. Od.
And all. other Garments at the same moderate charges.
TO INEBRIATES AND THEIR FRIENDS.
Just published, limp, Is. 6d.; cloth 2s.,
ON INEBRIETY, Continuous and Periodical, considered
as the Result of Physical Disease, and distinct from the Vice of
Intemperance: its Causes, Nature, Treatment, and Cure, showing the
curability of the worst cases of Intemperance. By Sylvanus Habkis, M.D.
(Pennsylvania).
HAMMOND and CO.r20, Catherine-street, Strand; or post free from the
Author, 14, Serle-street, Lincoln’s-inn, W.C.
The rise and progress of spiritualism
in England, by Benjamin Coleman, recently published in the
Spiritualist, reprinted in pamphlet form, on toned paper,'with coloured
wrapper. The discussion is also included in the pamphlet. Copies may bo
had at one shilling each, of Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C., and
are of especial value for presentation to those who are uninformed on the
subject of Spiritualism.
DEDICATED (by permission) to Sir WALTER TREVELYAN, Bart.
Will shortly be Published, price 2s. 6d., bound in cloth extra, with a
Portrait of the Smuggler, engraved from a Photograph by Jambs Pabt--
ridge, Esq.
THE LAST OF THE SMUGGLERS: being the
Autobiography of William Rattenbury, of Beer, Devon. Edited by
George Fraser, with numerous explanatory notes by Miss Elizabeth Traies.
Descriptions of this work have already appeared in .“The Graphic” for
9th December, 1871, and the “ Dark Blue ” Magazine for September, 1872.
It is interesting as recording very faithfully the Devonshire idiom, and also
as illustrating a curious phase of English domestic history. It was at the
persuasion of Mr. Glasscott, the late Vicar of Seaton and Beer,- that Ratten¬
bury wrote the autobiography, which has been read in its-nianuscript form
by many visitors to those Devonshire villages, and is now put into the
publishers’ hands in the hope of realising some small sum which may save
the aged smuggler from the workhouse. Mr. Ruskin, who has read the
original manuscript, writes:—“I shall have much pleasure in subscribing
for two copies of the ‘Life of the Old Smuggler,’ and am glad it is to be
published.”
Amongst other subscribers are the following:—Earl of Devon, the Earl -
of Pembroke, Lady Mary Herbert, Lady Taunton, Sir John D. Coleridge,
M.P., Sir Walter C. Trevelyan, Bart., Sir Charles E. Trevelyan, K.C.B., Sir
John Bowring, Admiral Sir Jas. D. H. Elphinstone, Bart., M.P., Sir Massey
Lopes, Bart., M.P., Sir Stafford H. Northcote, M.P., Sir Sydney H. Water-
low, Admiral Sir Thomas Pasley, Bartr, Sir" Frederick Bathurst, Lady
Jane Swinburne, Sir Charles Isham, the Hoh. Mark Rolle, J. Gwynne
Holford, Esq., M.P., S.Morley, Esq.,M.P., Dr. John Brown (“Rah and His
Friends.”), Dante G. Rossetti, Esq., John Forster, Esq., A. Locker, Esq.
(“Graphic”), Mrs. Garrett Anderson, M.D., Rev. Canon Kingsley, Rev. J.
Llewelyn Davies, Rev. C..A. Johns, W. D. Christie, Esq., C.B., W. Cave
Thomas, Esq., Rev. H. Vyvyan (Vicar of Seaton and Beer), Charles Hutton
Gregory, Esq., C.E., Captain Dalrymple Elphinstone, R.N. Rev. Compton
Reade, Mrs. Stirling, Mrs. Amelia Lewis, JohnC. Freund, Esq. Algernon C.
Swinburne, Esq., William Morris, Esq. (Earthly P(aradise), F. Madox
Bro^n, Esq., &c., &c.
As only "a limited number of copies will he printed, persons interested
are requested to send their names and addresses as soon as possible to Mr.
George Fraser, 3, Middleton-road, Camden-road, London, N., or to the
publishers, British and Colonial Publishing Company, Limited, 81a, Fleet-
street, E.O. ^
Now ready, Fcap.-8vo. cloth, 2s. 6d.
THE DESTINY OF MAN, THE STORM KING, and
other Poems. iBy Frederick Griffin. Written by Planchette.
London: Triibner and Co., 8 and 60, Paternoster-row-..
LIST of SUBSCRIPTIONS to partially meet
EXPENSES of the FORTNIGHTLY PUBLICATION of
Spiritualist ”:—
Charles Blackburn, Esq....
“ A Friend at a Distance ”
A. L. Elder, Esq., per Benjam
W. Tebb, Esq.   
Enmojre Jonfes, Esq. ... ...
C. F. Yarley, Esq., F.R.S.
Mrs. K M. Cox  
“ Trutliseeker ” (Liverpool)
Sir Charles Isham, Bart....
Thomas Grant, Esq 
Friends at Brixton:—•
Miss.Ponder ...  
Miss E. Ponder  
Mrs. Rudd    ...
“Longfellow ” ... ...
Mr. Withall ... ... ...
Mr. E. Bird ...  
Mr. George Dawson ...
Mr. Dawson Rogers ...
Mr. Rogers  
Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald
Mrs. Gunyon 
Coleman, Esq.
“ A Friend,” Temple  
N. F. Daw, Esq 
Richard Beamish, Esq., F.R.g
James Wason, Esq 
The Countess of Caithness
Mr. and Mrs. Edmiston
“Bitterness ” 
Algernon Joy, Esq 
James Beattie, Esq 
G. Thomson, Esq., MD.
Mrs. Robert Campbell
“ A Friend,” Manchester ...
Benjamin Coleman, Esq. ...
E. Musgrave, Esq. ... ...'
“A Friend,” F.R.S. ... ...
Miss Kislingbury 
G. Nelson Strawbridge, Esq.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory...
Miss J. H. Douglas  
“AFriend”    ...
John E. Purdon, Esq,, M.B.
Mrs. Hennings  
J. Craig, Esq. ...  
G. D. (Hackney), Balance in excess of publishing account
Subscriptions in aid of this object may be remitted to N
Esq., treasurer, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.; Benjamin
Coleman,Esq.,Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood; or to Enmore Jones, Esq.,
Enmore-park, South Norwood, S.E.
the
‘The
s. d.
0 0
0 10
0 8
Fabyan Daw,
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Fraser, at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
