BJ3CIISTEBED AS A NEWSPAPJtlt.
S>f!)
« Cl i
it ©liitgf Jtitosjjajjtv cunneilfO luiih SjJuiliwiism m (Steal Siiilaitv.
Cl
THE “ SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS 246, Boulevard
des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltpnaia. ROME; The International
Library;'-34tr and 347,- Carso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI : Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S. : 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal” Office. MEMPHIS ,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
No. 216. (Yol. IX.—No. 11.) LONDON: FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
©oiuetus.
Experiments in Spiritualism at Oxford in 1872. No. I. By
St. George Stock, M.A.:—A Riotous Seance—The Story
of Betty Hopkins 121
Painting Mediumship 121-
A Seance at Dalston   124
Dr, Slade’s St. Petersburg Engagement   ... 125
Direct Spirit 'Writing and other Manifestations. By Emma
Tyndall  125
Mr. Sidgwick and Dr. Carpenter on the Slade Prosecution 126
Direct Spirit Writing. By Henry D. Jencken, M.R.I., Bar-
rister-at-Law ...       ... 126
Dr. Slide  ... 127
The Prosecution of Dr. Slade 127
The Relationship to Spiritualism of the Late Dr. Robert
Chambers. By Jane H. Douglas   182
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Meeting of the
Council          132
Paragraphs:—How the Earl of Dunbar Consulted a Me¬
dium, 123; A Seance in Newcastle, 125; The Slade
Prosecution     ’. 125
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of - the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most or the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Yarley, O.E., E.R.S. ; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wies¬
baden) ; The Countess of Caithness: the Duke of Leuchtenberg;
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, P.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York): Mr. Epes Sargent;(Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross -Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelina Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Tempieman Speer, M.D. (Edm.);
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr.
St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon): Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe: Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”] ; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies. D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. II. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. ill. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual .subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States, 4 dole. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S:, and their receipt forwarded to “ The Manager,
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C.”
Cjj* Jtospp.er,
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Half-a-
vJ crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty woids, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn up when read, hut
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to he addressed to Mr. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street,
London ; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the first post on the previous Wedtet day
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
N o notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will he posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of ]0s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria lane, London,
E.O.
Just published, tv New Song.
TO EMEMBRANCE (embossed 4s. in A
JLVi flat for contralto or baritone, and in 0 for soprano or
tenor. Woids by W. H. Paeicer. Sung by Miss Laura
Matthews, Niiss Hellier, Mr R. Odell, and Mr. Sidney Barber.
Also the .Snowdrop Mazurka and Dewdrop Redowns (second
edition), each 3s., by tie tame composer. To be had of all
Music-sellers, and of the Author and Publisher, post free, at
half price. . Copyrights reserved. A few second-hand piano¬
fortes for sale, from £5-to £18. - N. Vickery,- Professor of
Music, 9, Oambridge-tenace, Railton-road, Herne-hill, S.E.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OE SPIRITUALISTS.
ANDREW
JACKSON DAVIS TESTI¬
MONIAL FUND.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.C.
(Entrance in Woburn Street.)
Agenda for October, 1876.
Wednesday, 4th.—Soiree at 38. Great Russell Street, at
6.30 p.m. Music, Conversation and Refresh¬
ments. Open to members and friends.
Admission, Is.
Friday, 6th.—Seance Committee at 6 p m.
„ Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
„ Committee’s Private Seance at 7.30 p.m.
Tuesday, lOffi.—Correspondence Committee, at 5.15 p.m,
„ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ Council Meeting, at 6 30 p.m.
Friday, IZth.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
,, Committee’s Private Seance at 7.30.
Monday, Kith.—Soiree Committee at 6 p.m.
„ House and Offices Committee, at 6.30 p m,
Thursday, 19f/i.—Mr. Blackburn's Free Seance, Mr. W.
Eglinton, medium, at 7.30 p.m.
Friday, 20<A.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
„ Committee’s Private Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
Wednesday. ‘loth,—Library Committee, at 6.30 p.m.
Thursday, 26/A—Mr Blackburn's Free Seance, Mr. W.
Fglinton, medium, at 7.30 p m.
Friday, 27th.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
„ Commiitee’s Private Seance at 7.30 p m.
Mr. Blackburn’s Seances are free to inquirers, who must be
reccmmended fcy a member, or apply personally to the Secre¬
tary. Members are admitted to the Seances by ticket at a
nominal charge.
PRIZE ESSAYS OF THE BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
In the year 1875, through the liberality of two members of
its body, the Council of the British National Association of
Spiritualists was enabled to offer two prices, the first consisting
of a gold medal or £20; the second of £10, for the best and
second best essays on a selected subject, which was—“The
Probable Effect of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral and
Religious Condition of Society.”
The conditions were that the competition should be open to
all British born or naturalised British subjects, and further to
all foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, provided the essays were written in English.
The following gentlemen were kind enough to consent to
adjudicate upon the merits of the competing essays:—Mr.
Alfred Russel Wallace, the well-known naturalist and F.R.G.S.;
a gentleman known to a large circle under the nom de plume of
M. A., Oxon.; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D., and Mr. Martin R. Smith.
Of the essays sent in, the two which have been printed were
selected by the judges as worthy of the first and second prizes
respectively, by reason of their logical and literary merits; tut
the Council of the Association, though it has undertaken their
publica’ion, holds itself free from all responsibility for the
views of the writers.
The first essay, by Miss Anna Blackwell, is in course of
translation into the French, Spanish, German, and Italian lan¬
guages.
Can be ordered of Mr. W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O. Price Is. lid., post free.
PRIZE ESSAYS—BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.—The Prize Es¬
says on the Probable Effect of Spiritualism on the Social, Meal,
and Religious Condition of Society are now on sale, and may
be obtained at the Rooms of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
strtet, and of Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria lane, price Is.,
post, Is. l£d.
NEWCASTLE SPIRITUALISTS’ SOCIETY.
LECTURES—-OCTOBER, 1876.
English Committee};
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Alexander Oalder, Esq.
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
H. Oollen. Esq.
Andrew Glendinning, Esq.
William H. Harrison, Esq.
Sir Charles Isham. Bart.
Henry D. Jencken, E'q,, M.R.I.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Dr. George Sexton.
William Tebb, Esq.
Honorary Treasurer:
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq., 20, Palmeira-square, Brighton,
Honorary Secretary:
Mr. Thomas Blyton, 72, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E,
List of Contributors to 3rd October, 1876.
£ s. d.
O. B., per Benjamin Coleman, Esq. (forwarded
direct to Mr. Green)  50 0 0
J. N. T. Martheze   25 0 0
Charles Blackburn    20 0 0
William Tebb, Esq   ; 10 10 0
“Nicodemus”  10 10 0
Thomas Grant Esq  10 10 0
Countess of Caithness   10 10 0
Alexander Calcter, Esq  5 0 0
P. R. Harrison, Esq  3 3 0
Mrs. Catherine Berry   2 2 0
N. FaByan Dawe, Esq  2 2 0
James Bowman, Esq  2 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.     110
Miss Ponder     110
S. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A  110
W. R. T  110
H. Collen, Esq  10 0
R. Glendinning, Esq    10 0
William H. Harrison, Esq    10 0
Thomas Blyton, Esq  10 0
A. O. Pwinton  10 0
John Lamont, Esq  10 0
Miss Kislingbury   0 10 6
T. S   I I     0 10 0
Augustus Johnston, Esq  0 10 6
From a German  0 6 0
Per Mr, James Burns’s list in The Medium and
Daybreak, 29th September, 1876, viz.:—
£ s. d.
Miss Jane Jennings  .'  0 5 0
Mr. W. Jennison   1 0 0
Mr. Burns’s Lecture  2 4 5
N. V.    0 5 0
A Grateful One   10 0
M.A. B  0 10 0
F. M  0 2 6
Mrs. Ool. Boyd      0 10 0
Mrs. E. F. Eddy, of Boston  0 10 0
Ool. P. Greek   1 1 0
Mr. Beckett       0 2 0
Mr. R. Wonley       1 10 0
J. F. C   0 10 0
Dr. Thomas Hayle  110
Mr. D. Richmond   0 6 0
Mr. D. Burgess   0 2 6 10 19 5
The Committee earnestly solicit further contributions to
wards this fund. Remittances can be forwarded either to Mr
J. N. T. Martheze, the hon. treasurer, or to Mr. Thomas Blyton
lion. sec.
EIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated peiiods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the fiveniog.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may he had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manag-jo
Mr. J. Ji Morse—
“The Greater Human,” Sunday. Oct. 1, at 7 p.m.
“ How does the Soul become Individualised? ’- Monday,
Oct. 2, at 7.30 p.m.
Mr. John Hare—
“ The Coming Time and the Coming Man,” Sunday,
Oct. 8, at 7 p.m.
Mr. Thomas Pattison—
“Swedenborg’s Heaven and Hell” (continuation of
previous lecture), Sunday, Oct. 15, at 7 p.m.
Miss H. Long-bottom (of Halifax)—
“ Who Does it All, and How is it Done Wednesday,
Oct. 18, at 7.30 p.m.
‘ Salvation according to Spiritualism,” Oct. 22, at 3
p.m
“ God the same yesterday, to-day, and for ever,”
Sunday, Oct. 22, at 7 p.m.
Mr. John Walton—
“ The Lessons of Spiritualism," Sunday, Oct. 29, at 7
p.m.
Admission free. A collection to defray expenses.
DR. SLADE.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST” OE Sept. 29th CONTAINS
ALL THE EVIDENCE ON BOTH SIDES,
HIGH was given for and against Dr. Siade
in the Times newspaper. It contains a reprint of
the letters in the Times from Professor Lankester, F.R.S.; Dr.
H; B. Donkin: Colonel Lane Fox, president of ihe Anthro¬
pological Institute; Dr. Carter Blake; Mr. 0. O. Massey,.
barrister-at-Jaw; Mr: J. A. Olarke; Mr. A. R. Wallace,
F.R.G.S.; Mr. A. Joy, M.Inst.O.E.; Mr. G. O. Joad; Mr. Park
Harrison; Mr. Serjeant Cox; Professor Barrett, and Dr.
Siade.—2jd.. post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-:treat, London, W.O.
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
,to Spiritualism will be thankfully received, and duly, acknowr
lodged for the above Association Rocm, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire,
M
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Oct. 13, 1876,
BKITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1. Hereford-square, West Crompton, S.W.
Vice- Presidents.
Blacttburti, diaries. Park field, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Ceniard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitf, I'lionias, Liliaii-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex,
N.W.
Fitz-Ucrald, Mrs., 19, Cambridjfe-street, Hydo-park, Hr.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Guirv Si SC., M.O., Orwell-lodge. Bedl'ord-liill, Ballmm, S.W.
Hitcbman, William, M.U.U.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq.,
Liverpool.
Hollywood, Mrs ,52, Warwiek-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.U.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Jtamsay, Mrs., 4(5. Bryanston-square,. W.
lingers, E. 1) . liosc-vilia, Ciiurcii-end, Einchley, N.W
Smitli, Martin it., lleatnlands, M’inibledon-eommon, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templenian, >1.1).,Douglas House, 18, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
tVason, James, Wason's-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, IV. P., Derby House, Helper.
Armfield, W. N., Eden-villa, (.!airns-rd.,New Wandsworth, SAV.
Ashton, E P , Hope-villa, 205, P.ri.xton-rond, S.W.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, P.utchworlh, hear lieigate.
Binney, V A.,22, St. Ann’s-squmv. M.uiclie-ter.
Browii, James, 159, Eglinton-stiect, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, It), Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cotfln, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen's-gatc, S.W.
Ooliey, Kev. Tims., 11, Belle Vuo-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale. LL.1>., Nightingale Hall, Richmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K., Nightingale Hall, iticlnnond-liili.
Cooper, R., Vlenua-lodgc, Eastbourne.
Orosland, Newton, Lyiiton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
lieatli, S.E/
Dawe, N. Eubyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, .1. T\, Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edinainis, T. H., 7, Oberstcin-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Liliau-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.W.
Fitton, R , 84, Walnut-street, Chectham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, C, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., C, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Olendinning A., 4, Cast'edinc-rpad, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hhide, Titos., 4, Oobdcn-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Hook.O. T„ Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, l)elamere-c''cscent, AVesthourne-square, AV.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, AArest-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Ch arles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 04, Seymour-street, AV.
Joy, Algernon, M.I C.E , Junior United Service Club, S.A\\
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswatcr, W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maitby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. Jolm’s-wood, X W
Mansell, F. AVr.. 'The liawthorns, Church-end, Einchley, N.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 90, Portland-plaec, W.
IMawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswoll-ro.ul, E.C.
Meers, W. ])., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. AY'arwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nbsworthy, Mrs.. 17, Richmdiid-terrace, Brcck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. \V., 113, Albanv-strect, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, liichard, 8, Fassett-i’oad, Dalston, E.
Reirrers, Christian, 2, Ducio Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, Airs.E.Dawson, l!ose-villa,Church-end,Einchley, N,
Sexton, GCorge, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
r me., S E
Stra vhr dge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, South Ken¬
sington, S.AV.
Strawbridge, Mrs.G.N., Annandale, Central-bill. Upper Norwood.
Stock, St. George AV., M.A., St. Paul’s College, Stony Stratford.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret's-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Murk-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M,, 62, Granvilie-park. Blackhead), S.E.
Tredwen, It. Pomeroy, 49, C'f vcrtoii-strcet, I’imlico, S. \V.
AA’alhouse, M. J., 9, Randulph-crcscent, Maida-vale, W.
AVedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Aiine-st., Cavendisli-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
A\ ilson, 1). II. M.A., LL.M., Poste Restante, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Onne-square, Bayswater, W.
AVithall, >Uss H., 1, ‘the Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.AV,
Witiiall, II., 1, The Elms, St. John’s .road, Brixton, S AV.
AVood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Clielsea, S.AV.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, AVimbledon-common, S.AV.
Auditors.-
Mr. J. II. Andre. Mr. H. Cook. Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kisllngbury, 38, Great RusseU-street, Bloomsbury,
London, AV.O.
Honorary or Corresponding Afembers.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Hussia.
Prince Emile de Sayn AVittgcnstcin, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S M.I. de I’Empereur Russic, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a RalidjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron V’on Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelina Von A’ay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness (luldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Treviso, Paris.
General Don Joaquim Bassols aMaranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The lion. Alexandre Aksaaof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
Tile Baroiv.yon Dirckinck-Holmteld. Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veb, 26, Avenue dcs Cliamps-Elysecs, Paris.
Mine. de Veh, 26, Avenue dcs CTiumps-Elysees, I’aris
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Brautlag, New A’ork, TT.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. CoraL. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss A111)!* BlackAvell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Ba|)0D Poarychaml >HUra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
Jaiit^s Mybie, Esq., Behoea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston,
V 'U.S.A.
A. J. Blko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
T)ie ReV-J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
J)r. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, AVurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, >I.D., care of Mr AV. II. Terry, 90,
Russell-street, Aielbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Qregor C. AVitiig. Esq., Kornerstrasse 26, Lemsic, Germany.
w.yHg Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, llelbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue O.e Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
it, T. Cliild, Esq , M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. .Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinten-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
■ ■ U.S.A.
M .F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria,
.G,' L,Ditson,Eg(j., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
AV L. Sammons, Esq., Capo Town, South Africa.
J, Murray Spear, Esq., 2219, Mount, Arernou-sireet, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vcrnon-street. Philadelphia.U.S.A.
J. H. GfedstanejljEsq., 5,Rue de ia 'ferrasse, Paris.
Samuel Uhinnery, Esq , 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samnel AVatson, Memphis, Tennessee. U S.A.
Lutlier Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S A.
>1. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de P Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, CayugaCo., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet. Hotel de 1 Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O'Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-plaoe, Dorsct-lane,
London, N.W.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdllo. Huet, 178, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
AV. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunliut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pestli, Hungary.
Dr. A E N-.hrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq , 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. Ilallock, 4(5, Ilercford-road. Bayswater, AV.
Mrs. Hal lock, 4(5, Horeford-road, Bayswater, AV.
Signor Damiani, S.dita Ponteoorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. II. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bmhler-str.tssc, near Vienna.
M. Coclxet, Alusce des Beaux Arts, Rue Tangier, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
Tlie Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—George Browne,
Esq., 03, Newiauds-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Maguetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. See.—11. E, Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixlon. S.W.
The Spirlter-Forsclier Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, >1. Anton
Prochaszku, Josefstadt Erzhcrzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hangary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual, Society. Hon. Sec , H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola. Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent— tl Visconde de Torres-Solauot.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for Midsummer, 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice President.— Mr. John Ainsworth
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman,
Executive Committee.—Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, Mrs. Hnlley, Mrs.
Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, Dr. Hitehmau, Mr R'chard Nos-
worthv. Mr. Vaughau, Mr. John Laniout, Mr. Meredith, and
Mr. J h a Priest.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J, Charlton, and Mr. Vaughan.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
July, 1876.
STRANGE VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy. Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeiav. Byron,
Bronte, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt. Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trauce state, and are of the most
intensely interestirg and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
rpHE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
JL GEORGE SEXTON, LL D.. etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has ftom the first taken a very high stand in the li erature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literal y ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yaid, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
cob ny—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition Pi ice 3s.
London:—Sijipkin, Marshall <fc Co.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
TO HER MAJESTY’S
MILITARY AND NAYAL FORCES,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK
LONDON, N.W.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“Grannie's Nu sery Rhyme Book” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty o< igiual tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Cb. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie”
herself. Mrs. Weldon fells eveiything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. "Weldon, Tavistock House,
Ts-vistock-square, W,C.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home dally, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m.
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenings (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only; at 8 o'clock each evening.
Address as above.
MISS CHANDOS eradicates Consumption,
Cancer, Insanity, Dipsomania., Nervous and Infantile
Diseases. £1 per visit (within threa miles), including specifics.
By pest, monthly, £2 2s.
Full instructions in Mesmerism and Electro-biology, postal
and private, 17, Brunswick square, W.O.
SPIRITUAL HEALING.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
the above on Mondays, 11 a.m. Treatment by clair¬
voyant. Prescribing and spirit mesmerism. Many have been
cured or relieved. Testimonials may be seen. Test medium-
ship by trance and writing. Development and other phases as
usua'.. Public Seances at 7 p.m. Tuesdays, and 3 p.m. Fridays.
Admission, 2s. 6d. Private consultations should be previously
arranged, but Mrs. Olive is generally at home from 1 to 4 p.m.
15, Ainger-terrace, King Henry’s-roatd, N.W. (close to Chalk
Farm Station).
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
MRS. BURKE is about to hold PUBLIC
SEANCES at her Boarding House for Spiritualists every
Friday evening at 8 o’clock; to commence on Friday, tne 15th
lust. E. W. Wallis, medium for trance communications. Other
seances are in process of arrangement. Fee, 2s. 6d.
A seance tor refined physical manifestati jds, with a firs'■.-class
medium, will be held on the Wednesday evenings of each
week, for a few weeks only. Fee 5s.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue Sc. Honore',
Paris.
MEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, G eat Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post tree for l^d.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
A LADY of Culture, having passed a hospital,
is anxious to obtain an engagement as MONTBLY
NURSE, where no menial work is required. Reference to
Medical man. Terms five guineas a month, or according to
circumstances. Apply to the Secretary, Briti h National
Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
GOOD CHAMBERS or FURNISHED
APARTMENTS to LET. Apply to Miss S., 44, Jer-
myn-street, Piccadilly, London.
TO LET, FURNISHED, a Pretty Semi¬
detached Villa, with drawing, dining, and fine bedrooms
and dressing-room, kitchen, scullery, beer-closet, and pantry ;
water up and down stairs; bed and table linen and plate. 6£
guineas a week for four months. References given and re¬
quired. A. B., Post-office, Sandown, Isle of Wight
Furnished apartments to let,
consisting of pleasant Sitting Room and Large Airy
Bedroom, overlooking and having access to large garden.
Thorough cleanliness, and home comforts studied. Near to
Rail and Omnibus. G. P., 102, Clarendon-road, Netting hill, W.
TO BOOK OOLLECTOBS.
CHARLES LOWE, NEW AND SECOND¬
HAND BOOKSELLER, 1 and 3, Ann-street, Bir¬
mingham, has always on sale upwards of 20,000 vole, of useful
Books in all branches of Literature. Catalogues gratis and
p st free to any address. Libraries and small parcels of
books bought for cash.
Republished from The Spintualist for July 14th.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDENTI-
kJ CAL WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane. E.O.; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St John’s-road, Lewisham High road, S.E.
rpHE TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, THE TWO
JL CLEVER SCEPTIC 4. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a senes of illustratiomi,
selling forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F R S . X.Y.Z. B.I.G.A.S.S.,and hisassi tant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent littie book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d : post free, CJd. Spiritualist newt paper
branch office.
mHE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldebt
JL journal devoted to the Spiritual Philomphy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Monrgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietots. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. Ihe banner .s a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interest irg
and instructive reading, embracing a library department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
• philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
. spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 88, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
VOJLUJVIE N"lJN[E. KuMBER f^EEVEjH.
LONDON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13th, 1876.
EXPERIENCES IN SPIRITUALISM AT OXFORD IN 1872.
No; I.
BY ST. GEORGE STOCK, M.A.
As I have always derived pleasure and profit myself from
reading other people’s experiences in Spiritualism, and com¬
paring the results they have reached with my own conclu¬
sions, I trust it may not be presumptuous in me to hope
that in my turn I may be conferring a like benefit by
setting on paper some account of the facts which first
made me a Spiritualist, if I may so call myself. Were I to
be asked at this moment what is the general impression left
upon my mind as the outcome of my whole experience, I
should say it is this : that I have been brought into contact
with personal intelligences, apparently unconnected with
matter, but resembling in every other respect vulgar
humanity, who assert themselves to be the souls of departed
men and women. The discussion of the legitimacy of this
impression must for the present be subordinated to a narra¬
tion of the facts which led to it. I need scarcely, however,
remind the reader that the full force of facts can never be
given on paper; there are so many slight combinations
of circumstances which collectively dispose the mind to a
particular conclusion, without their being singly of sufficient
importance even to impress the memory. The general con¬
clusion of which I have spoken, whether true or false, has
at least been reached without prejudice, and as the result of
pure conviction—rather, I should say, in the teeth of pre¬
judice, for who that has shared the training and imbibed
the spirit of this age could be ready without reluctance to
rush into a belief in ghosts, and rehabilitate the crudities
and absurdities of mediaeval superstition? ‘ Yet nothing
short of this is what facts have forced me to.
I was first led to take a serious view of Spiritualism by
reading Mrs. De Morgan’s book, From Matter to Spirit.,
This was in January, 1870. In what way my mind was
affected by the study of it may be seen from an entry in my
diary, which I must beg the reader’s pardon for quoting. It
occurs under January the 13th of the following year:—
u There are still many creatures of the dark skulking and
hiding their obscene heads in the corners of credulity. Ghost
and hobgoblin, spirit-rapping and table-turning, the dark
power of the mesmerist, and the wizard dreams of the clair¬
voyant. Some of these, no doubt, will be ignominiously
exploded, others commanded by the sentinels of science to
account for their intrusion.” Curiosity, however, once
aroused, could not easily be allayed. I used to try experi¬
ments in table-turning both at home and in college. My
friend Mr. Percy R. Harrison, now head master of the
school at Grasmere for the education of the sons of Spirit¬
ualists, had also been stimulated to inquiry by reading
Mrs. De Morgan’s work, and was more disposed to serious
belief than myself. In his room in Pembroke College,
several of us used to meet and hold seances in the evening.
A small table was in the habit of displaying surprising
activity on these occasions. At times it would career about
the room when no more than the tips of two or three fingers
were resting lightly in the middle of it. My theory was
that the motive power was nerve force; that the mere
fact of the wish for phenomena in the mind of the
sitter was sufficient to send a thrill down the nerves
which communicated motion to the table. On one occa¬
sion, by a series of eliminations, we determined that there
was only one person in the room whose presence at
the table was indispensable for manifestations, though
even he could produce nothing alone. We, of course, ac¬
cused this person of pushing, though his vigorous denial
forced us to believe that it was done unconsciously. In
order to make good the charge, I placed some back-gammon
men under his fingers, the result of which was that the
| table remained still, and the back-gammon men were seen
||' moving tremulously over its surface. Another time some
11 college friends of mine were experimenting with a planchette.
! Two of them had their hands on the instrument, when the
i question proposed was which of the college boats would be
j last in a race that was then about to come off. One of
i the two sitters expected the Jesus boat to be last, the
| other unpatriotically thought our own college of Pembroke
|y would have that distinction. The answer was the com-
> | promise of u Jebroke.”
In like manner all answers which I had got out of a table
[ | had certainly been put into it from my own mind or that of
1 j some of the sitters through the medium, more or less con¬
sciously of the fingers. So far then there was nothing very in¬
explicable in what I had witnessed ; and the result was that
in February the 19th, 1871 (as I find from looking back over
my diary) I purposed with the temerity of ignorance, to
write a scathing review of some pamphlets by a clergyman
in which the phenomena of Spiritualism were devoutly
ascribed to the devil. Since then I have come to have great
sympathy with this view. For the term “ devil,” is by
general consent used as a symbol for unknown agencies ; and
so I understand the persons who put forward this explanation
as wishing to intimate that there is more in the subject than
they can easily penetrate. It was not till March 8th, 1872,
that I was destined to be brought into this more humble but
more receptive mental attitude.
A RIOTOUS SEANCE.
I had lost sight of my friend Harrison for some little time,
owing- to our having both left college and taken lodgings in
different parts of the town. But chancing to meet him one day
he told me that he had been holding seances with some boys
and that they had obtained the most astounding phenomena.
My curiosity was, of course, inflamed, and I eagerly availed
myself of his invitation to attend a seance on the evening of
the day above referred to. This evening, ridiculous as the
account of it will seem, was the beginning of a new era in
my mental history, as I believe Spiritualism will prove to
be in the mental history of the world. I will avail myself
of an account of the seance contained in my diary which has
the freshness of first impressions. Under the head of Friday,
March 9, I find the following:—
u In my entry on the 19th of February last year, I see that
I have mentioned bringing home some pamphlets on table¬
turning, with the intention of reviewing them. That inten¬
tion was never carried out. It is as well that I did not waste
time by writing on a subject on which I was not entitled to
give an opinion. Yesterday I received a strange and very
disturbing accession to my stock of ideas. Necromancy has
ceased to be a mere name to me, and become a matter of
real experience.
“ When, some terms ago, Harrison and myself, along with
some other men, began to amuse ourselves with table¬
turning, I, at least, never seriously contemplated its leading
to such exceedingly strange results as those I witnessed
last night. Harrison alone maintained his interest in the
occult sciences, and now seems as complete a necromancer as
was ever dreaded or burned in a darker age. Last night I
joined, by invitation, a stance of the i Fiery Circle ’ at his
lodgings. With the exception of Harrison himself, all
the members of this society are small choir-boys; one of
them belongs to the choir of New College, and all the rest
to that of St. John’s. Their innocent chat during tea con¬
vinced me that they were not designing impostors, who had
laid a deep trick to impose upon my friend’s credulity, though
I confess to having harboured that suspicion at first. They
are all of them mediums, but some more than others. After
tea, the proceedings of the evening commenced by some of
the boys writing under the direction of “ the ppirits.” They
122 THE SPIRITUALIST. Oct. 13, 1876.
held a pencil in their hands over a blank sheet of paper, and |}|
waited till their hands were set in motion without a con- fjj
scioirs effort of will. The writing1, consisting of short j?i
Sentences, was frequent enough, but there was nothing in it j)j
at all calculated to impress h sceptic. When it did not jsj
cpnvey directions as to how the proceedings were to be carried i(i
on, it was composed of trivial remarks that might well ijj
have occurred to the writers themselves. Sometimes the isj
spelling was correct, at other times so grotesquely bad j(|
as to argue ingenuity rather than ignorance. The first [)]
sentence written was, a Three cheers for Mr. Stock,” and Kj
this was the key-note of a great part of the casual com-
munioafions during the evening. The spirits all professed jjj
themselves exceedingly gratified at my presence, and de- jsj
dared that the seance 'nou\<\. be a good one in consequence. j)j
The writing directed that two of the boys should first be jjj
entranced, and should sit by themselves at one end of the jsj
room, while the rest of the company sat at the other. So j/j
far we had nothing but writing; but suddenly a noise was j)j
heard, and two stones appeared on the floor in the middle of j j
the room. The impression I had was that they were not j|j
thrown across the room, but fell straight through the air. Ijj
The mediums presently afterwards directed that the lights ! Is]
should be put out, and now we composed ourselves for the in
business of the evening, which assumed a sufficiently weird I j
character. On one side of the room sat the two boys already jj!
mentioned : on the other the rest of the company, with the j j
exception of one of the boys who stood in the middle sway- m
ing to and fro a censer full of incense, which Harrison had jjj
on a previous occasion been directed to procure. Meantime jH
stones were flying about in all directions, often hitting the j>j
company, but never hurting them. Shortly, by the direc- jjj
tion of one of the mediums, the censer was swung round ijj
and round instead of to and fro. The circle of red light jjj
described by its revolution attracted us all by its mystic jjj
appearance, and as we watched it one of the boys called out, j j
as if by a happy suggestion, “The fiery circle!” On a jjj
previous occasion this name had been given to the circle by jjj
the express wish of the spirits, but no more satisfactory j j
reason for the choice could be got out of them than, 11 Be- jj
cause there’s a fire in the'room.” After a short interval of jjj
darkness we were directed to light up, and then several j j
scraps of paper were discovered folded up on the floor. The jj
boys were equally eager to see, and amused at seeing, their j j
contents. Their behaviour seemed perfectly natural.”
So far I avail myself of the words of my diary; but I jjj
will now, while refreshing my memory therefrom, continue jjj
the narrative from my present standpoint, as it may occa- jj
sionally be convenient to introduce some slight reference to jjj
subsequent experiences and conclusions. I cannot attempt jjj
to give a detailed account of the proceedings of the evening, jj
which were of a very disorderly and confusing description ; iq
but on the whole they may be distinguished into these two jjj
phases. First, a general riot and hubbub, and, in the jjj
earlier part of the evening, the appearance on the floor of jj
copious showers of folded papers, containing written com- jjj
munications; and, second!}', the entrancement of the j j
mediums with detailed communications through them pur- I j
porting to come from particular spirits. The showers of jjj
papers ceased before the spirits conversed with us at any j j
length through the mediums. The riot continued more or j j
less throughout, though at first it seemed to be caused by j |
the direct agency of the spirits, as I could detect no motion j j
on the part of the mediums, afterwards through means of jjj
the boys, all of whom were taken possession of more or less jjj
during the evening. Not only was there copious stone- jjj
throwing, without, however, any damage to the windows or 111;
the glass frames of the numerous pictures that hung round j j
the walls, but articles in the room were flying about “ in Jj
most admired disorder,” and at the intervals when we jjj
lighted up the boys themselves were found still entranced, jj
disposed of in very eccentric positions about the room. At jjj
one point the proceedings appeared to me to carry a jjj
peculiarly demoniacal air. After a very riotous interval of j j
darkness we lighted up, and found all, or nearly all, the boys jjj
scrawling and writhing about on the floor in the agonies of jjj
possession, or else lying in a dead stupor, from which it was jjj
difficult to arouse them. Often when a spirit was speaking jjj
through one of the mediums the others were making such a 1‘
noise, jabbering nonsense, that the communicating spirit
refused to go on till they were removed out of the room.
One of them I helped to carry out, as he was incapable of
walking. The others., who proved troublesome, were re¬
moved in the dark without my aid. In each case one of the
other boys, who was not at the time possessed, was sent to
look after his comrade in the adjoining room. One of the
boys was so violent when conveyed away that double guard
had to be placed upon him. On one occasion we heard a
loud rapping in this outer room, where the candles were lighted,
and a boy who was there immediately ran in to report it to
us. Wine or water was given to the boys to aid in bringing
them round ; but some of them had not completely shaken
off the effects of the entrancement by the time we parted
for the night. I may also mention that when we were
engaged in bringing the mediums round, with all the
candies lighted, an inkstand was carried off one of the
tables to the floor in the part of the room where I was. My
back was turned at the moment, and there was a boy stand¬
ing by in such a position that it seemed to me he might
have knocked it off. I asked him if he did so, and he
replied, with quite an ingenuous air, “ No ; something hit
me as it went by.” It was my strong impression at the
time that the boy had not moved the inkstand; but this
impression would be of very little value if it were not that
I afterwards witnessed clear instances of the motion of
objects in the light without contact.
The written messages that were found showered about the
room in such abundance during the evening were obviously
emanations from the minds of the boys. They were, more¬
over, in boys’ handwriting. My expected arrival had
evidently been regarded as somewhat of an event, many of
the messages having reference to my presence. For instance,
one was, “ Mr. Stock is loved by all the spirits ” ; another
ran as follows, “ Dear sir,—I am glad you have got Stock
hear to nite, for you will get on well. Yours very Truly.”
(Then followed initials of spirits whose names had been
announced on former occasions.) On the corner of the
paper containing this was written, “ I stole this paper out
of Dutton’s house last night,” Dutton being the name of
one of the boys; and on the back, in a different hand¬
writing, “ Excuse our badd ritin ; you nose we can’t spel,”
a confession which was amply carried out by many other of
the messages, as for instance, by this, u Let Stock sit by
hisself in the corner of the cubburd ware you keep the tea
and sugar, coffee, jam, &c.” Another paper, when opened,
showed a picture representing, “Mr. Stock courting” (no
attempt at portraiture), having written at the side, “ I’ll
have your chignon.” The contents of another were as follows :
“ Why do you not ride on a bicycle ? I often do without being
seen.” On another paper there was written, “ Peachy is
brother to Joe, because they have both fat cheeks.”
When I read this out, one of the boys exclaimed :
“ Oh ! that’s what the schoolmistress said to-day ! ” I will
not apologise for detailing all this trash. In the ash-heap
of folly we may light on the jewel of truth. I have given a
specimen of the contents of these papers, to show how
entirely, in this case, at all events, the “ spirit-messages ”
were the product of the medium’s mind. For these were, I
believe, genuine spirit-messages; as genuine, that is, as
spirit-messages commonly are. On this occasion, it is
true, there was little or nothing to distinguish them from
vulgar trickery, but I was afterwards satisfied that not the
writing on Belshazzar’s wall itself could, in the mode of its
presentation, lay more claim to a supernatural origin than these
childish absurdities. So much for the written ; 1 must now
say something of the oral communications. The entranced
mediums sometimes spoke in their natural way, sometimes
in forced tones and in vulgar and ungrammatical language.
Often, when one of them had.been spoken through for some
time, the spirit would tell us that he would say no more, for
fear of exhausting the medium ; and then generally informed
us what medium would be spoken through next, sometimes
adding the name of the spirit that would entrance him.
Each spirit finished up by requesting to be asked three or
four questions, which were seldom or never answered, after
which, he or she, as the case might be, would bid us “good
night.” Inquiries involving knowledge not possessed by
the medium were systematically shirked.
Oct. l§\ i878.
THE S^lUliUALISf.
What chiefly interests me in looking back upon these
proceedings, is to notice the family likeness of this seance to
the innumerable ones I have since attended. Here were
children who had never heard the name of Spiritualism, till
my friend got his landlady’s son, with some of his com¬
panions, to assist him in turning tables, conducting them¬
selves exactly in the approved fashion of professional
mediums. The cause, whatever it may be, which underlies
other Spiritual manifestations, was here in independent
operation. The first control which we had, presented simply
the confused jumble of ideas that one finds in a dream. The
communicating spirit gave his name as Jim or James Halifax,
and affected a .tone of vulgar comedy. He said he had been
born in Jamaica, was half Dutch and half mongrel, and
lived at Halifax in Jamaica, a flourishing—uwhat d’ye
call?” We suggested town,” a city,” and so on, but to
no effect. One of his great points was that he had died at
the age of 76, and that if he had lived for two days longer
he would have been 79. This, he said, he could prove out
of the 13th book of'Euclid, which they learnt in Jamaica,
and accordingly proceeded to do so. Afterwards he became
a little more coherent, and informed us that during his
lifetime he had been a member of a spirit-circle that
had been formed in Jamaica, to which also belonged a Mr.
Stock, who was some relation to myself. One day, as they
were sitting round a table, a book came down through the
ceiling, hitting Mr. Stock right on the nose. The name of
(he book was The T?vo Marriages. I was told it was a
beautiful book, and was advised to read every word of it,
being informed that I would find in the public library the
very same edition that Jim Halifax had read in Jamaica.
During another meeting of this Jamaica society, which, like
the one then sitting, was called aThe Fiery Circle,” there was
a “illustration” in the ceiling, and a woman suddenly appeared
on the table before the company (an evident reminiscence of
Mrs. Guppy), and shortly afterwards disappeared through
the window, and was seen no more. I had the curiosity to
inquire for this book at the town library, and found it to be a
novel by Miss Mulock. Harrison, at my request, subse-
quently asked the choir-boys if any of them knew the book,
and it came out that one of them not only knew it, but
had got it to read out of the town library. I mention this
as a typical instance of the transparent nature of the im¬
posture that these boys were in some way made to practise.
There were numberless little occurrences like this, showing
at once the absurdity of attaching any importance to the
cemmunications, and the utter absence of intention to
deceive.
THE STORT OF BETTY HOPKINS.
Another control which we had during the evening pre¬
sented a far greater appearance of verisimilitude, and if di¬
vorced from its surroundings, might have passed muster
very well for being really what it professed to be. The
cr mmunicating intelligence purported to be a certain Betty
Hopkins that had been murdered a little while before, in a
field off the Seven Bridges-road, and whose murderer was
never discovered. She told us he was a tall Irishman, a
Fenian, who met her on the road and to whom she sold a box
of matches. Instead of paying her first, he told her to come
into the field down below. She replied that she could not
that night as she was tired. However, on his insisting, she
went. Afterwards, on her asking him to pay her he refused.
To put it in the words that came from the mouth of the |
medium, “ He did not pay me for the matches nor for any- |
thing else neither.” Instead of paying her he, being either |
mad or drunk at the time, whipped out a razor that he had |
it] his pocket and drew it across her throat. She was still j
able to run away; and when he saw her running he followed j
and killed her. After that she knew no more about him, but j
she imagined that he had got into the next train, and gone I
off to “ Dobelin.” All the narrative of this spirit was given j
in the vulgar tone and diction of an Oxfordshire woman of the |
lower orders. One might well have believed that Betty Hop¬
kins herself was in the room talking to us. At one point the I
speaker broke off to warn me not to repeat the story to any- j
one, else some great judgment would come upon me. The |
Avhole thing showed high dramatic power, and there was a |
delicacy of treatment in one part that staggered me as com- i
ing from a child. After the seance was over one of the boys 1
ij expressed great disappointment on hearing me mention that
Betty Hopkins had spoken. She had announced her
| presence on a previous occasion, and he was curious to hear
| something about her. From this I gathered that he was the
medium spoken through. It was difficult to distinguish
| one from the other in the dark, and they were none of them
I in a condition to give a certain account of themselves.
Betty Hopkins was of all our controls the most inclined
to be communicative, but kept constantly checking herself
| when on the verge of a revelation, professing to stand in
great awe of the other spirits, who, she said, would get
round her, and kill her when she came back (the way she
accomplished conversing with us was by “getting out of the
key-hole”), if she told us anything that she had no business
!j to. She said she did not wished to be killed again. This
| she presently explained to mean being handed over to the
bad spirits for a week to be tormented. On being asked
whether she had ever suffered this punishment herself she
replied, “No; but I’ve seen it done many a time.” Pre¬
sently the thoughts of Betty Hopkins reverted to herself,
and the medium’s tone of voice changed. We heard the
| following expressions muttered in a meditative kind of way,
| “ I was a good old soul in my way when I was alive.” “ I
| keep thinking of my murder.”
Another spirit of a murdered woman turned up the same
j evening, and mentioned a street in the town of Oxford as
! I her abode during earth-life. I forgot the address, but my
j scepticism would in any case have disinclined me from an
i attempt at verification. She said she had made her living
| | when on earth by painting feathers for ladies’ bonnets, and
| | gave us a detailed account of how she had been poisoned by
ijj a person who mixed some stuff in her tea which gave it a
| I very sweet taste. She thought the reason must have been
j j because she had some money saved up in the house which
u her murderer knew of.
These were the three principal controls we had during the
j | evening. Other spirits did little more than give names,
j Such inventions as Frisk, Flip, Jiggery-Pokery-o, and
||| It ingam a ta, would have sufficiently declared their own
| I character, even if Betty Hopkins had not warned us that
| | spirits, as a rule, only gave nicknames, though claiming that
||] she herself was an exception. After the stance I went back
|(| to my rooms and studied Herodotus, puzzled by what I had
j I seen, but far from excited. Such was my first introduction
m to Spiritualism. The impression left upon my mind, though
| | it may surprise one who merely reads this account, was that
I | there was no imposture whatever on the part of the boys,
!-| and that the childish interest they manifested in the events
|(! of the evening was perfectly genuine. 11 did not believe
m that the stones were thrown by them, or that they had been
I able to deposit the papers in odd corners of the room, into
jjl which they had not stirred, or, finally, that the communica-
ijj tions made through them were the product of their will,
||| though there can be little doubt that they were the product
1(1 of their minds. The proceedings of the evening seemed to
j| me to be under the direction of some will extraneous to the
|(j sitters. The intelligence displayed was evidently drawn
l(| from the brains of the sitters ; but what was the power that
i|j shaped that intelligence to a definite end? I can only say
|( that it was the same which shapes, more or less successfully,
ji every other seance I have seen, to the same end, namely, to
) produce the impression of the presence of the dead. For
(| my own part, I gravely doubt whether the dead are present,
(| but I cannot doubt that there is an intelligent power at
}! work that would have us think so.
How the Earl of Dunbar consulted a Medium.—Bower records
that Patrick, the seventh Earl of Dunbar, in 1285, jestingly asked Thomas
| of Ersildoun, commonly called “ the Rhymer,” whether any remarkable
| event would transpire on the morrow. The bard replied in the mystical
I language of prophecy, “ Alas for to-morrow, a day of calamity and
I misery 1 Before the twelfth hour shall be heard, a blast so vehement that
I it shall exceed those of any former period—a blast which shall strike the
| nations with amazement—shall humble what is proud, and what is fierce
| shall level with the ground ! The sorost wind and tempest that ever was
I heard of in Scotland.” Thereupon, says the Rev. J. M. Wilson, Thomas
went to bed, leaving his prediction to be fulfilled either by accident dr’the
I weather ! At the ninth hour, nothing having taken place, his lordship
i upbraided the poet as an impostor, but at the twelfth a messenger, with
I horse covered with foam, brought the news of the death of King
Alexander III. by a fall from his horse at Kinghoru,
124
THE SElMTtJALIST.
Oct. 13, 1873.
PAINTING MEDIUMSHIP. j j
•am the il British Journal of Photography”) .
Who that lias made inquiry into the most recent develop- | |
ments of those still imperfectly-understood sciences—mes- j j
merism and psychology—will not have heard of the name ||j
of David Duguid, of Glasgow, of whom it is stated that he ; j
is able to paint pictures in the dark? It need scarcely be llj
said that among the various things of interest to be seen jjj
on the occasion of our visit to the western capital of Scot- j j
land the almost miraculous performances of Mr. Duguid ici
occupied a distinctive place in our note-book. Who is ]||
David Duguid ? He is a photographer, or rather a photo- jjj
graphic assistant of Mr. James Bowman, of Jamaica-street. j(j
What his special gifts are will be revealed in the course of jjj
this article. -j|!
As the result of the friendly services of Mr. Bowman, jjj
we, together with several friends, whose names will here- jjj
after be given, were privileged by having an interview with j j
Mr. Duguid, in order to witness a display of his marvellous j|
powers. We found him to be a man in the prime of life, jjj
of a singularly bashful and retiring disposition, his head jjj
exhibiting an almost abnormal degree of development in j j
what phrenologists style the intellectual regions. j jj
The reader must imagine, then, a small party of persons jjj
seated round a room limited in extent, in the centre of ijj
which was a table, the hour being eight o’clock in the Ijj
evening. On this table was placed a box of oil colours j j
in tubes, a palette, brushes, and a few carte-de-visite jjj
mounts which had been coated with collodion for the j j
purpose of preventing oil colours from being absorbed or j
running. This, we think—for on this point we quote from j
memory—had been a previous suggestion either of Mr. A. j
L. Henderson (of London) or of some one competent to give j
practical advice on such a matter; but its importance will ij
be seen in the sequel.
A mount was removed from a few that had been placed in a j
case, so as to be easily reached, and, on the suggestion of j
Mr. George Mason (of Union-street), a small piece was torn j
from the corner, and placed in our keeping. This was for jj
the purpose of identifying the card at a future time. We, jj
however, adopted a difi’erent method of securing such identi- jj
fication. When collodion is poured upon an enamelled, jj
coloured card, it invariably runs in certain streaks. The j
nature and position of the streaks on the card in question we jj
noted very carefully, so as to be able, to recognise it among j
others. Mr. Duguid, after sitting still for a few minutes—■ j
during which time an active conversation on anthropology, jj
the Servian war, the weather, and other congenial topics was j
carried on—appeared to fall into a quiet sleep, which Mr. j
Bowman said was a state of trance. The light was now j j
extinguished, and, during the period of obscuration, Mrs. jj
Mason, by request, sang in a most charming style a favourite j
Scotch song, the conversation previous to this musical jj
episode being carried on as before. After a brief period the j
light was turned on, and the card that had been marked jj
and noted in the manner indicated was found to have had j
painted upon it, in oil colours, a lovely little sketch of a j
river or lake scene ; a castle or fort, with trees on the right j
bank, a jutting bank on the left, mountains in the distance, j
and a steamer proceeding down the river. The painting was j
contained within a well defined space marked by a pencil, j
It is now in our editorial office, and may be seen by any who j /
choose to call for the purpose. It has already, we may j
state, been seen and intently examined by several artists, j
who state that there is a certain u style ” about the picture j j
indicating that its producer is a clever artist. But this was j
not all, for on a second card, now in the possession of Mr. j
Johnston, of Glasgow (who was present, and whose name in j
connection with the introduction of the Lambertype process j
in Scotland is not unknown), was also painted, the image in j
this case beipg quite circular. Two other <l manifestations ” j
followed in pencil—one being a landscape sketch (retained by j
Mrs. Mason), the other an extract from Paradise Lost, |
which may be seen at-our office. , , , ’ i|
When 1 he light was again turned on, Mr. Duguid appeared jj
as before, viz., quite insensible. By what means were these j
paintings and drawings produced? We offer no opinion i
whatever. But of one thing there is no doubt—they were ij
produced in the dark. Messrs. Downey (of Newcastle)
and Mr. J. G. Tunny (of Edinburgh) were present on the
second evening when these remarkable occurrences took
place. To these gentlemen Mr. A. L. Henderson explained
that he had on a prior occasion seen Mr. Duguid at work
with his eyes closed, and he (Mr. Henderson) not only inter¬
posed an opaque sheet of paper between the painter’s eyes
and his work without causing any change, the painting be¬
ing proceeded with as before, but that he had suddenly turned
down the gas when the painter, palette and brushes in hand,
was approaching the easel to commence work, as suddenly
turning up the light after a few minutes, only to discover
that the artist had been all the while proceeding with his
work as if nothing had happened. It should here be recorded,
to the honour of Mr. Bowman and of Mr. H. Nisbet, who
seemed to possess a friendly influence over Mr. Duguid, that
everything they could do to facilitate the investigation of this
strange matter by members of the British Association was
done;
If it be asked, how is it done ? we answer simply that we
do not know. We have made free use of the names of per¬
sons present on both evenings, and we refer those desirous
of ascertaining more than we have here detailed to one or
other of those gentlemen, who, we feel assured, will blame
us for understating what took place. These phenomena must
prove an interesting subject for investigation by the curious
in matters anthropological. We have omitted to state that
Mr. Duguid’s hands were firmly tied throughout this “ dark
seance P
A SEANCE AT DALSTON.
At the ordinary weekly seance, held at the rooms of the Dalston
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston,
on Thursday evening last week, the 5th inst., Mr. Francis G. Herne was
present amongst numerous other members. It was agreed that the front
seance room should serve the purpose of a “ cabinet,” an ordinary table¬
cloth being suspended at the opening by one of the folding doors. Messrs.
G. R. Tapp and Arthur Vaughan examined the medium, and reported
that no drapery or other contrivances were hid about his person. The
medium was then left alone in darkness in the front seance room, to
which all access was cut off except through the back room, in which the
other members present were seated in a subdued light. After sitting a
few minutes, a voice emanated from the front room, requesting two of us
to enter and seat ourselves at the table at which the medium was
seated. The medium’s left hand was taken hold of by Mr. Arthur
Vaughan, while Mr. Thomas Blyton held the right hand of the medium,
and the circle was completed by our joining our disengaged hands. The
position of the circle thus formed was in the middle of the room, the
medium being securely held in the manner described throughout the
period during which the following remarkable manifestations took place,
while the writers confidently assert that the medium was a perfectly
passive agent in their hands throughout.
Several pairs of hands, of different sizes and temperatures to those of
the medium, were felt by us simultaneously manipulating various parts
of our bodies, sometimes in a caressing and at times in a playful manner,
and various distinct and characteristic voices maintained a conversation
with us, the direction or locality from which the voices emanated being
varied and away from the medium. A loud voice accompanied the
playing upon the bass and treble of the piano, the fall of which was
opened; while, simultaneously, a small hand-bell and tambourine were
raised from the table and kept time to the piano. The shaking of some
drapery was then heard, and the drapery at our request was drawn
across our hands and felt to be of soft texture. A dark form was ob¬
served by both of us to rise up at the back of the medium, and in doing
so crossed the line of our sight at the top of the two windows, where a
space of about six inches admitted light from the road lamps outside, so
that we were enabled to trace the outline of the upper portion of the
form, and observe the gauzy description of drapery. We were informed
by the voices that spirits purpose to show themselves in the back room
amongst the other sitters, while the medium is held by us in the
front seance room; but the experiment was not successful on this occa¬
sion, although we had ample evidence that materialised forms were
present and distinct from the medium. We repeatedly took precautions
to satisfy each other that the medium was securely held by us on each
side, and are therefore positive that he was not participating actively in
the production of these manifestations. Other results were observed by
us so as to evidence the probability of many individualities at work.
On releasing our hold of the medium for the first time, we left the
front room and resumed our seats amongst the other members in the
back room. Assurance was given by voices that better success would be
obtained on the next occasion, when similar conditions are to be
observed. c, a (A. Vaughan,
( Thomas Blyton, Eon. Sec.
Signed
Dr. S. T. Speer has returned to London.
Many communications from correspondents are kept over, because they
3re not forwarded by the writers so early in the week as might have
en done.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 13, 1876.
DR. SLADE’S ST. PETERSBURG ENGAGEMENT.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, of St. Petersburg, in the j
course of a letter to Mr. W. H. Harrison, says :—aI have just |
heard from Herr Wittig that a certain Professor Lankester jj
is about to prosecute Mr. Slade for obtaining money under false j)
pretences. I send you a few lines to pray you to make known !
to Mr. Slade that he need not be disquieted about his engage- j
ment at St. Petersburg on November 1st. Tell him that if j
the other affair necessitates his presence in London, that jj
he may remain there as long as he pleases, to have the j
question sifted to the roots. He may also come here as I
late as he pleases, and we, on our side, do not wish to make j
any change in our original terms.” Dr. Slade, it will be j
remembered, had made an arrangement with M. Aksakof, j
Prince Wittgenstein, and others, to submit his powers to j
the examination of a scientific committee appointed by St. j
Petersburg University. j
DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING AND OTHER MANIFESTA¬
TIONS. ■ \ ,11
BY EMMA TYNDALL.
While public contention is going onas to the truthfulness of j j
Dr. Slade as a spirit medium, it may not be uninteresting to jjj
your readers to hear of another medium through whom the jjj
same class of phenomena occurs. ||j
A few weeks ago a gentleman with whom we have been jjj
acquainted for some years of the name of Monck, called upon j j
me in the morning and described a stance he had been hold- j j
ingin London the day previously under strict test conditions, j j
at which time direct writing came on a book slate with a j j
tiny piece of pencil inserted between the leaves, with his j j
hand resting upon it on the table—not under it, as I believe Iji
is generally the case with Dr. Slade. He gave the slate to j j
me to read the message written upon it, which covered the j j
two inner leaves, and it was alleged to come from his spirit- | j
guide to say that he now found this medium so fully de- j j
veloped, that he, the spirit, could give through him news j j
from the spirit-world, which would greatly benefit the human j j
race, or words to that effect.
After reading it I put the slate upon one of our drawing- j j
room tables between the medium and myself, and began con- j j
versing about a near relative of mine who had died a few jjl
years since, leaving property by will, a large amount of which j |
has never been found! All at once the medium became jjj
slightly convulsed and being as he alleges “ clairaudient,” he jjj
said he heard a voice say “ You shall have the money.” jjj
Instantly^ in an agitated manner, he exclained “Rub the jjj
writing off the slate ”—which I did very quickly. He then i ji
put the tiny pencil between the leaves of the slate and placed jjj
it upon my head, with my own hand upon it, and his (the jjj
medium’s) upon mine. In an instant I heard scratching as jjj
if writing were going on, and in the space of time one could j j
scarcely count ten seconds, upon opening the slate, I jjj
found the four pages written closely over, every letter well jj
formed, and the lines and margins as evenly kept as if they jj
had been ruled. This would have taken an ordinary writer |jj
at least five minutes to have done. The message was ad- jjj
dressed to me and purported to come from our relative con- jj!
cerning the missing property, which he said should be re- j
stored to us.
On another occasion, when sitting at our dining-room j j
table, a heavy German one, with chairs of the same jjj
character, this medium and another gentleman with myself jjj
occupying the three sides, while an empty chair stood at jjj
the fourth side, the latter began to move about quietly at jjj
first, but then with a sudden jerk it fell with its back on Ijj
the edge of the table three times. I exclaimed somewhat !
startled, “ What can that mean ?” when our friend replied, jjj
“ It answered in the affirmative a mental question of mine.” ijj
Whereupon the medium described the personal appearances m
of two ladies he saw behind the chair, which were exactly jjj
those of the relatives our friend wished to know if present j j
then, from whom he had often written communications, ijj
though through another medium, thus bearing an inde- jjj
pendent testimony to the reliability of Dr. Monck’s medium- j, j
ship. ; ' 'I j
The erratic chair finally leaped on to the table, much to 111
125
my terror, though I earnestly wished at the time that my
cousin, Dr. Carpenter, had been present to witness it,
also a very sceptical relative of my husband, Professor
Tyndall.
Both these eminent scientific men would do well to
follow the example of Mr. William Crookes, who has just
published (Burns, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.), his re¬
searches into the phenomena of modern Spiritualism with
a non-professional medium in his own house, and found
them to be “ facts.” Few will be hardy enough to dis¬
pute them with the Copley Gold Medallist, for the origirfal
discovery of the “ Radiometer,” and as this instrument is
not yet applied to any useful purpose, it might form an
object of thought to those persons who are ever crying about
Spiritualism, li Cui bono ?''
As regards this latter subject, the pregnant words of
Mr. J. T. Hoskins might be quoted. He wrote from the
Reform Club to the Echo upon an article that had
appeared in its columns, entitled Lord Amberley and
Spiritualism, which described all believers in the new
creed as victims of fraud and credulity. Mr. Hoskins ac¬
cused Lord Amberley of grave indiscretion in censuring
persons who, having studied the subject, are unquestionably
more competent to form an opinion for the guidance of
others than one who, after attending a seances, denies the
possibility of intermundane communication, and the testi¬
mony of intelligent men in all ages of the world, eg.,
Isaiah, Ezekiel, St. Paul, St. John, Homer, Plato, Socrates,
Irenseus, Luther; and, in modern times, the late Lord
Brougham ; Owen, ex-minister in the American diplomatic
service; Judge Edmonds, of New York; Greeley, editor of
the Tribune; Mr. A. R. Wallace, Prince Wittgenstein, and
a host of others hardly less distinguished in literature,
theology, and science.
Mr. Hoskins goes on to say that he does not hesitate to
characterise modern Spritualism as the most important
religio-scientific movement of the present day, and one that
cannot hold a middle position. Either Spiritualists, who
may be counted by millions within the British Empire
alone, may be ranged under two categories of dupes and
knaves, or they are sober-minded, and, in the highest
sense, liberal-conservative reformers, who, quietly and
systematically marshalling their facts and scientific expia¬
tions thereof, are beginning to throw additional light upon
a solemn event. Spiritualism, he argues, is destined to
influence, though at present it may be imperceptibly, the
current of public thought on nearly every political and social
question ; to crush materialistic infidelity with one hand, by
the skilful handling of materialism’s own weapon — the
weapon of positive sensuous demonstration—and with the
other to stamp out priestcraft by breathing a new spirit
into the Churches, thereby gradually leading up to the
ultimate and not far distant reconciliation of science and
religion.
Grange-road, Edgbaston, Birmingham, Sept. 2oth.
The rehearsals of Mrs. Weldon’s Private Choir commence on Saturday,
14th October, at half-past seven, at Tavistock House, Tavistock-square.
Mrs. Weldon’s first “ Sociable Evening,” at Langham Hall, takes place
on Monday, the 6th November, at 8 p.m.
A Seakce m Newcastle.—Last Thursday evening, at a seance, at
Weirs Court, while several persons were sitting in a subdued light with
Miss Fairlamb as medium, outside the cabinet, a draped figure presented
itself from within, and at the same time movements of solid objects were
taking place within. The medium was not moving and was visible to
all.—J. T. Rhodes.
The Slade Prosecution.—Mr. Munton writes to us:—“ The con¬
versation as to depositing the defendant’s table with the court officials has
been variously reported, owing to the noise and confusion making it
difficult at the moment for anybody to hear. It was the complainant’s
solicitor who first offered to defray the cost of a substituted table, and I
at once acceded, but when I remarked that it would probably do equally
well if I undertook to produce the table when wanted, stating that as
it was known that a table was invariably used on the occasion of the
manifestations under discussion it practically involved a suspension of
sittings till another one was procured, somebody called out that it wafe a
trick Bible, and I instantly answered that it was a mere question of value.
I most assuredly named no price—indeed I had no personal knowledge
whatever of its value—but I believe that some bystander did. It is,
pei’haps, obvious that no lawyer would voluntarily produce a table and
Object to its examination, but this is the complexion which accidental
circumstances have erroneously given to the controversy.” Mrs. Weldon
suggested that if the prosecution wanted the table they should pay for it,
the result being that rather more than <£2 has to be paid for the same;
Oct. 13, 1876,
126 THE SFIKITUALLST.
MR. SrDGWICK AND DE. CAEPENTER ON THE SLADE
PROSECUTION. |
Mr. Sidgwick, F.RS., has asked us to publish the fol- |
lowing paragraph*.— j
“ Mr. Henry Sidgwick wishes us to state that Prof. Lan- i
kester’s use of his name, in the legal proceedings against j
Dr. Slade, was wholly unauthorised. He has no connection j
whatever with these proceedings.” j(
Dr. Slade invited Dr. Carpenter to a s/ance without charge, |
and afterwards agreed to give him another, in Dr. Car- j
penter’s own house, with Dr. Carpenter’s own furniture and ,j
slates. Later still he wrote, reminding Dr. Carpenter of the j
arrangement, and received the following reply :— |
a University of London, Burlington-gardens, W., I
“ October 4, 1876. |
Dear Sir,—Not having returned to town until Monday !
afternoon, I w7as unable to answer your letter in time for the |
appointment you proposed in it. j
The matter having been since brought before the public j
in a different way—to which I desire you to understand that j
I am no party, my name having been introduced not only jv
without but against my consent—I think it better to wait the j
result before making any further move.—Yours truly,
“ Dr. Slade.” “ Willm. B. Carpenter. |j
DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING.
BY HENRY D. JENCKEN, M.R.I. j j
After the conversation we had yesterday in regard to ! !
direct writing, and the many instances on record of the Hi
happening of this, to me most interesting manifestation, I ||j
have determined—and I admit somewhat reluctantly, for I i j
had resolved not to publish any seances at which Mrs. Jencken j j
had assisted—to make known the facts of a sitting which i i
took place on the 6th September last, at 51, Hollarid-street, j j
Kensington, the house of Mr. S. C. Hall, the well-known Hi
Editor of the Art Journal. Nine friends met there at about .'jjj
eight o’clock in the evening, including Mr. and Mrs. Hall, j |
Mr. and Mrs. Mayo, Dr. Nethercliff, of the Chelsea infirmary, j j
Mrs. , and Miss , Mrs. Jencken and myself.
After a short sitting in the dark, luminous clouds or j j
•patches of nebulous light, some coming from above, j 1
others rising from near the ground, settled upon the table, ! j
and then disappeared. Mrs. Hall and Miss felt the j j
pressure of a. soft hand, and raps indicated the presence of j j
the unseen visitors. I refrain from giving the particulars of j j
the messages, given by the raps, as they related more or less j j
to the private life of some of the members of the circle.
After a short pause, the door of the room in which we j i
•were sitting was gentlyL opened, and a form was distinctly j j
seen in the semi-light, as it streamed into the darkened room, |||
from the hall lamp. The apparition—for 1 cannot describe jjj
it otherwise—appeared to be semi-transparent. I could all j j
but see objects through it, and yet the outline was complete, jjj
To make sure that no optical delusion was carrying us away, j
questions as to who saw the figure were put all round, and j j
answered affirmatively, save in the case of two members jjj
present who were seated with their backs to the door.
Having thus preluded, I have now to describe the most jjj
interesting phenomenon of this evening’s sitting.
Several efforts by the unseen beings had been made to give j j
us “ direct-writing.” Finally, we were ordered to hold each j j
other’s hands and to contract the circle by drawing close up jjj
to the table. A luminous, small, beautifully-shaped hand | j
then descended from the side at which I was sitting, that is to j
say, at the opposite side to Mrs. Jencken. The hand seized a ! j
pencil which was lying on the table and wrote the letters J j
“E. W. E.” |
The power of holding the pencil then evidently failed. I
The pencil, which had been held between the forefinger and j I
third finger, dropped on the table, and the hand raised itself ! i
high, over head, and disappeared. After a short pause it j j
reappeared, descended, touched the table, took hold of the jjj
pencil, and wrote the words “ God bless y—.” At the letter j i
y the strength again appeared to give way, the pencil j j
dropped, the hand rose quickly, and was gone.
1 have witnessed so many instances of direct spirit writing, Hi
that this additional instance would have been but of little
attraction to me, but for the fact that others also witnessed
the manifestations, some of whom were not Spiritualists, but
merely witnesses. This gave interest to this seance. The
hand, as sketched by me, was distinctly seen by Dr. Nether-
cliftj-Mrs. Mayo, Mr. Mayo, and others present; each of
those present saw the hand from a different point of view;
in other words the objectivity of the hand was distinctly
observed.
I enclose the original document, containing the direct
writing, and on the right hand top of the page is the
sketch of the hand. As I was drawing this sketch, several
of the guests clustered round my chair, and aided me by
suggesting how they each of them witnessed the writing.
The luminosity around the wrist was singularly beautiful. The
circumstances under which this direct writing happened were
exceptionally favourable, as a test of the reality of what
occurred. The sitting took place at the residence of Mr.
Hall; those who were present retained the greatest self-com¬
posure. The medium was seated facing the direction whence
the hand descended; the writing was done in the centre
of the table, around which we were seated; the position of
the hand was at right angles to Mrs. Jencken. I name these
circumstances to meet in advance any theory of optical delu¬
sion, hallucination, or any other hypothesis to explain what
happened.
During the many years in which I have pursued the
inquiry into Spiritualistic phenomena, I have come across
numerous cases of direct "writing, one even where my little
boy was the medium. My sister-in-law, Mrs. Kane, has
had direct writing, almost constantly, under conditions
rendering suspicion or doubt impossible; only this day the
keys of the piano were touched and a tune played in her
presence (with difficulty, it is true), but played whilst the lid
of the instrument was locked, and the key in my possession.
But I must not diverge from the object of my letter, namely,
to place at your disposal a narrative of the happening of
direct writing, the now much discussed question of the day.
I may perhaps be allowed, in conclusion, to add that
whatever may be the prejudices of men, however absurd
the many theories may appear to be which have been put
forward in the attempt to explain these phenomena, the fact
of the occurring of the manifestations cannot be contradicted.
The evidence of a host of witnesses cannot be sneered away by
those who have never investigated. This being the case, I
submit that it becomes all but imperative on scientific men
to investigate and ascertain the cause of the mysterious
manifestations.
The following message was given through the medium ship
of Mrs. K. F. Jencken, the mother of Ferdinand Jencken, on
the 19th September, 1876. As this little fellow has been so
often before the public, and the medial development may
interest some of your readers, I venture to transcribe for
your information what is now before me :
“ Years before this dear boy was born, we predicted his
future. Now, at three years old, you have the holy j >y of
seeing a beautiful promising child, far beyond his years in
intellect, far brighter than other children of his age, more
delicate in brain, more sensitive, more intellectual. We
have some important words of advice to give you on this'
Oct. 13, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST. 127
his third birthday. Never say an unkind word to him ; be
firm, but never rebuke so as to wound his sensitive nature;
let him only hear from all his surroundings that which is
refined in character. His little brain stores every word
away; guard him from all lowering intercourse. Bear in
mind that some.day he will act upon the teachings he now
garners in; guide him with gentle words, always let his
reason guide him; and if you do this, all we have pre¬
dicted of this singularly gifted child will come true. We
love him dearly; we shall always care for him, out
prophet, our messenger between the two worlds. God bless
him! God bless also little Henry, who will have his great
duties as one of the brightest stars in England to perform.
Do by him the same. God bless and prosper his parents.
“ M. F., J. B. T., and all the circle.”
DR. SLADE.
The readers of these pages are reminded of the duty of
strongly supporting the Committee which is watching Dr.
Slade’s case. Subscriptions, large and small, should fie
remitted to Dr. George Wyld, 8, Great Cumberland-place,
London.
THE PROSECUTION OF DR. SLADE.
From Wednesday's “ Daily Telegraph.''
Yesterday, at Bow-street Police-court, before Mr. Flowers, Henry Slade,
described as of 8, Upper Bedford-place, and G-eoffry Simmons again appeared
in answer to a summons granted at the instance of Professor E. Ray Lankester
and others, charging them with having, by means of subtle ci'aft and devices,
deceived and imposed upon certain of her Majesty’s subjects, for the purpose
of obtaining money. A second summons charged the defendants with having
conspired together with a view to defraud Professor Lankester, Mr. T. J.
Allman, Mr. H. Sidgwick, Mr. R. II. Hutton, Mr. Edmund Gurney, and Mr.
W. B. Carpenter, on Sept. 11th last. The hearing of the case was commenced
on the 2nd instant, and adjourned until yesterday, the defendants being
admitted out on bail during the interval. As on the former occasion, the
court was densely crowded by .ladies and gentlemen interested in the case, and
by a number of well-known Spiritualists, including Mrs. Makdougall Gregory,
Mrs. Wiseman, Mrs. Weldon, Miss Ex Fitz-Gerald, Miss Kislingbury, Dr.
Geo. Wyld, Dr. Carter Blake, Mr. Enmoro Jones, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr.
Arbuthnot, Mr. Henderson, Mr; A. R. Wallace, Mr. 0. C. Massey, Captain
Garratt, Mr. A. Joy, Mr. G. C. Joad, &c.
Mr. George Lewis, solicitor, appeared for the prosecution; and Mr. Munton
(of the firm of Munton and Morris), solicitor, for Mr. Slade ; and. Mr. Massey,
barrister, for Mr. Simmons.
Mr. Munton: On the last occasion when I appeared here it was as the soli¬
citor of both defendants; but inasmuch as; the prosecution have thought it
desirable to proceed with the joint case, I have, in the exercise of my discre¬
tion, instructed Mr. Massey, barrister, to appear for Mr. Simmons. There is
no severance upon my part or upon their own part between these gentlemen,
but, as a matter of law, the defendants are entitled to separate representation
here.
Mr. Lewis: I must say, without meaning any disrespect to Mr. Massey, that
on the last occasion when he appeai’ed here on a subpoena to give evidence,
ho applied that the prosecution would not ask him to attend to-day, as it
might be inconvenient to him. I said that as the case might last over to-day,
I should not object to call him on a future occasion.
Mr. Massey : I simply asked if there was any probability of my being called
to-day, but I did not say I would not or could not be present. There was,
however, some confusion in the court at the time, so that I may have been
misapprehended.
Mr. Lewis : It may be inconvenient that Mr. Massey should appear in both
capacities—as witness and advocate.
Mr. Flowers: We may possibly have a witness loss.
Mr. Lewis: I see no objection to Mr. Massey appearing if he does not
see any.
Mr. Massey : If your worship so rules, I "shall retire from the case.
Mr. Flowers : I do not consider it necessary to do so.
Mr. Lewis: If Mr. Massey sees no objection to giving evidence, I see no
objection to his also appearing for the defence.
Mr. Massey : I see no objection.
Mr. Munton : Then, at any rate, he will not cross-examine himself.
(Laughter.)
Professor E. Ray Lankester then resumed his posilion in the witness-box
and his cross-examination was continued by Mr. Munton.
You.stated on the last occasion that I was misinformed as to the date on
which-Professor Barrett’s paper was read in Glasgow—the.paper having been
read on Sopt. 12?—I have not taken the trouble to ascertain that since. I do
net know that the paper was read on the 12th.
Do you know that the Britisli Association meeting cotmnoueed about Sept.
2 |—Yes.
You knew nothing of the presentation or contemplated reading of that
paper ?—No.
You knew of the reading of that paper some time between Sept. 11 and 1(> ?
I am not able to say I did.
If you said you did on the last occasion, I assume I may take it as your
belief still 1—Yes.
And you told us that notwithstanding that, you wore not prejudiced against
Dr. Slade in relation to this question. Is that so ?—Yes.
Will you be kind enough to explain how it is you asserted, in a letter to the
Times on this question, that “ the British Association had been degraded by the
introduction of this subject of Spiritualism ” ?—There is nothing to explain.
1 do .consider tno British Association was degraded by the introduction of that
subject.^
And notwithstanding that opinion you say you were not prejudiced in the
matter ?—I say I was not prejudiced.
Not prejudiced by the proceedings of the British Association ?—No.
I ask you whether your disappointment, or, I think, you said your “ disap¬
proval,” of this paper being read at the British Association did not prejudice
you in the matter of this inquiry ?—I went on the Monday before the paper
was read, so that it is impossible I could have been affected by that paper or
the discussion upon it. I went on the 11th, and the paper was read, I believe,
on the 12th.
You admitted you read the paper between the 11th and the 15th ?—I have
not admitted that at all.
Did you know of that paper being read before you went to the second
meeting with Dr. Slade?—Yes, but that is different from having read the
paper.
. Then you knew that the paper had been read, but you did not read it
yourself ?—Yes.
How was it that, though you had not read the paper, you ventured to write
to the Times and say that the British Association was degraded by having this
paper read ?—I had read an abstract of the paper in the Daily Telegraph.
You wrote to the Times, saying that in consequence of the more than
questionable action of Mr. Alfred Wallace, the British Association had been
degraded by the introduction of Spiritualism, and the public had learned—
possibly not too soon—that men of science were not exempt from the astound-
| ing credulity that prevails in these countries and America.” That you wrote
) i when you read an abstract of the paper ?—Yes.
) | And, having read that abstract, were you, or were you not, prejudiced in
l\ relation to this inquiry ?—No; not in the least by it.
y\ You also wrote to the Times, saying that the first message you got on the
) I slate, which was “ I am here to aid you.—Allie,” or some such message—that
) | that was written by Slade underneath the slate ?—I wrote that to the Times;
(I but I wrote something more than that—namely, that I had the strongest
s j reason to believe that that was the case.
) I Does your belief apply to the abstract assertion that writing took place, or
); merely apply to the mode in which the writing was accomplished ?—I said
/ j that the writing took place underneath the slate.
Did you not distinctly state that the message was written undoimeath the
\ i slate, and can there be now any pretence that the expression “I believe” had
); anything to do with that ?—It qualifies my statement. But it is not a matter
11 of importance.
(i Allow me to say what is a matter of importance and what is not, and don’t
) I argue with me.—I shall not attempt. But the words “ I believe,” qualify the
) I opinion whether the thing was done with one finger or with two fingers.
) | Mr. Lewis : Perhaps if this gentleman were treated with a little more
j j courtesy, it would be better.
)! Mr. Munton : I do not want any lessons in courtesy from you.
) | Mr. Munton: You wrote as follows to the Times of September 16, after
) j describing, as you believe, what took place . “ At the same time I was utterly
j | astounded to feel the strongest reason to believe that, with the exception of
\ i the first message, which was' written by Slade underneath the slate, with (I
j | believe) one finger of the hand which was holding the slate, the rest of the
|) j messages, which were longer and better written, were coolly indited on the
(| slate by Slade while it was resting on his knee, concealed from my view by the
j \ i edge of the table, and that the slate was subsequently placed by him in the
I) I position where the spirit writing was to take place with the message already
:) i written upon it. I was led to form this hypothesis by noting the delay which
j) j always occurred between my being shown the slate with both sides clean and
i \ i the placing of the slate against the table or over my head for the purpose of
| J i receiving the spirit writing, which was then heard proceeding with the usual
i j I sound of scratching on a slate. This delay did not occur when Slade wrote
!/! with the finger of the hand by which he held the slate ” ?—I wrote that.
Now with that subsequent statement in the Times do you venture to assert
!) I that the phrase “as to your belief” had anything to do with the method of
I I writing ?—I do. I had the intention of qualifying the statement on that sub-
i) i ject, because I was by no means certain, although I still think that the writing
i (! was done in that way, and I say I did qualify the statement.
! j j What did you mean by saying; as you did on the last occasion, that you
;) j would not pledge yourself that the writing occurred underneath the slate ?
|) i Had you changed your opinion since you wrote the letter ?—I told you on the
l( | last occasion I had reason, from conversations with other persons, to suppose
j) j that the first message might have been written in a different way.
j j i In other words, you had reason to suppose that you had fallen into an error ?
j) j —Yes ; that I might have fallen into an error.
Do you venture to say now that the writing in question was underneath the
' \ i slate ?—I told you before that I am not able to make a definite statement as
| j i to whether the writing was underneath the slate on the first occasion or on the
j) | upper surface, but I think it exceedingly probable that the writing was undor-
i) I neath the slate.
You are a skilled observer, and you cannot tell on which side the writing
i i i took place ?—Perfectly true.
i) j You say that the slate was so closely applied to the table that no hand or
|) j finger could possibly get between them in order to write ?—I believe that the
j. j writing was not between the slate and the table —that no hand or finger could
i) i get between them to effect the writing.
i) I If so,how do you think the writing was effected ?—I think it may have boon
l) j accomplished whilst the slate was in that position.
i (I What do you mean by the word “ coolly ” in your letter ? — That there was a
A I quietness in the doing of the thing.
You think the wilting must have taken place between the slate and the
11 i table, and that it occurred between the time of the slate’s being applied to the
i j j table and being taken away from it?—1 think it may have been.
You intended, you say, to qualify that sentence—whether you did or not:
words will show—did you explain to Dr. Donkin what your views wore with
i|i regard to the production of the writing?—Which message?
i j i The first message ? —I cannot recollect,
Do you think you did?—I think probably that I did.
Do you know that in Dr. Donkin’s communication to the Times ho endorsed
). your theory—that it was written underneath the slate ?—If I had his cofu-
: 11 munication to the Times I could tell you.
Mr. Lewis : It appeared to be on the surface of the slate which faced
j j: downwards. - - : ,
Mr. Munton: Would you like to have the communication read?—Dr.
!(: Donkin said that the writing appeared to be on the surface of the slate which'
I {] faced downwards.
Therefore on the 11th you were moderately sure—I will not say quite euro,
l( j- because you only intended to state your belief—but you were moderately sure
128
"THE SPlUITtfAtlST,
Oct. 13, 1876.
that that was how the writing was produced on the 11th ?—On the 11th I was
under the impression that it was so. I had not the opportunity of examining
it more than once. My first impression was that the words were written on
the under surface of the slate, but I was not confident about it.
You believe that you told Dr. Donkin that that was how the writing was
produced ?—I do not remember what I told Dr. Donkin. Probably I made
the same statement to him.
Did you believe, up to the 16th, when you had an opportunity of seeing the
writing again, that that was how it was produced?—No; I did noirfeel con¬
fident about it.
Not between the 11th and 16th?—I only felt that amount of confidence
which was justified by my observation.
But, sir, you were a skilled observer. (A laugh.) If your first observation
was that the words were written in that way, why did you not check the
matter off when you went there again ?—I don't understand what you mean
by checking the matter off. (A laugh.)
You heard what I said. Do you mean to say you don’t understand what I
mean ?
Mr. Lewis : He was a skilled observer, you say. (A laugh.)
Mr. Munton: Mr. Lewis is constantly interrupting me. He was good
enough to tell me on the last occasion I was wrong, and now I can give him
the compliment back. These interruptions only prolong the inquiry. We
must get through it, I suppose, whether I am interrupted or not. Now, Mr.
Lankester, having come to the conclusion on the first occasion that the writing
was produced on the under surface of the slate, why did you not, on the
second visit, endeavour to make your mind quite certain upon it ?—I did so.
Then what was the conclusion at which you arrived?—I was not absolutely
convinced as to which side of the slate was used.
Do you not know that the whole point of that experiment was, that the
writing should be produced on the upper surface of the slate ?—No ; I do not.
We have it in evidence that the slate was held with the thumb above the
table, and with the sustaining fingers under it, and you state in the news¬
paper letter that it was impossible for a finger or a hand to get between them.
Now, I ask you if you are in doubt as to whether the writing was on the under
surface of the slate, whether that was not in effect an answer to the assertions
of imposture ?—I do not think so.
Why ?—Because there are other means of writing on the surface of the
slate when applied to the under surface of a table than the finger or the hand.
What other means?—Two means occur to me at this mpment—one is, hav¬
ing a piece of pencil fixed to the table, against which the slate can be moved,
and the other is having a small piece of pencil on a long holder, and inserting
it between the table and the slate. (Laughter.)
Have you ever put forward that theoiy before ?—Not publicly.
Mr. Lewis: I have Mr. Maskelyne in court. He will do it in the presence
of everybody.
Mr. Munton : We do not want to know how it was done.
Mr. Flowers : I don’t think I can allow the experiments to be made here,
though I can hear him give his opinion.
Mr. Lewis: I submit that he would be a perfectly competent witness.
You will see when he comes before you.
Mr. Munton (to witness) : Have you ever publicly put forward your idea as
to the mode in which that particular writing might have been produced ?—I
do not remember that I have.
Then you abandon your theory that it was underneath the slate, as stated
in the Times ?—No; I do not.
You have not abandoned it solely because you have written to the Times'?
I have not abandoned it, because I have not seen anyreason to do so.
Then why did you on the last occasion say that you would not pledge your¬
self to its being correct ?—I will not pledge myself to its being correct. I
am not aware that theory is conviction.
You have said (loudly) in the Times that it was so.
Mr. Lewis: He can hear. You need not bawl out in that way. (Laughter.)
Mr. Munton : These interruptions—
Mr. Flowers: They add to my difficulty a good deal.
Mr. Munton : Any expression from you, sir, will, I am sure, be attended to.
Mr. Lewis must not repeat them.
Mr. Flowers: They lead to excitement in court.
Mr. Munton: Then I will moderate my voice. (To the witness): Have you
asserted that the writing was produced in any particular way ?—It is my
opinion that it occurred in that way at the time.
Dr. Donkin, in his letter, endorses the proposition, and says, “Tie result
was in accordance with the theory of a genuine and minute piece of slate
pencil probably held under the nail of the middle finger.”
When did you first feel any doubt as to the proposition put forward in the
Times ?—I am not able to tell you the date.
You told us that you did not feel it when you wrote on Sept. 15 ?— That is
not what I have told you. I have told you that I put the proposition forward
in a qualified way.
I ask you whether you now say that the parenthesis “ I believe” had anything
to do with the general statement that the message was written on the under¬
neath side of the slate ?—I think it qualifies what I wrote. “ I believe ’’ shows
that one was in doubt as to the exact method.
Notwithstanding that you were in doubt, did you instinct your solicitor to
state here on the last occasion positively that that was how the message was
produced.—You have the letters before you.
You stated on the last occasion that it did not follow because a pencil was
placed on the upper surface that the message was actually written with such
a piece of pencil. I ask you whether you think any experienced conjurer, as
Dr. Slade has been called, would do such a trick as that—to put a piece of
pencil on the top and produce "writing at the bottom ?—I do.
Would not that excite suspicion ?—Not necessarily.
To a “ skilled observer ” ?—I am not here to appear as a “ skilled observer.”
The slate is turned round by sleight of hand, and it is difficult to say upon
which side of the slate it was written.
Did you observe sleight of hand in connection with the slate ?—The nature
of sleight of hand—if there is sleight of hand—prevents you observing it.
(Laughter.)
Did you observe indications of sleight of hand in Mr. Slade’s general manner ?
—I saw his thumb.
Did it move ? — When ?
Mr. Munton : Whilst the slate was pressed against the table ?—Yes.
Then there was no sleight of hand then?—That does not follow. I was
watching as closely as I could. I noticed a movement of the tendons of the
wrist—that wras while the thumb was perfectly steady.
Was not that assertion (the movements of the tendons of the wrist) made to
ij prove that the writing was going on underneath the slate ?—That was the
inference.
Now we will deal with the taps. You say Mr. Slade called attention to his
legs being away from the table, and then you go on to say, “ I would not say
they did not remain.” Do you now say they did not remain so ?—I do.
Did you see his body move ?—It was continually moving more or less.
Do you consider it was possible for him to have moved his legs without
1} moving his body ?—Yes.
Were you not on the watch ?—Yes.
And do you pledge yourself to the fact that his body was continuously
moving ?—Yes.
How many slate messages were there ?—About six.
Were they all on one slate ?—I cannot say that. It was quite possible to
,; have changed the slate.
| j I think you said that this was the kind of slate used by Dr. Slade (an ordinary
(; school slate)?—Yes.
(j Did you say to Mr. Lewis that the slate used by Mr. Slade was three or four
j times heavier than that upon which Mr. Lewis tried the experiment on the
) j last occasion ?—No.
(j Did you instruct your solicitor as to the class of slate upon which the
(i messages appeared?—No.
) i Then I ask you if Mr. Lewis’s illustrations had any relation to this case ? —
)\ Yes.
(I Which of the messages do you assume related to the experiment ?—I dm
(| not say any. The messages I received were not the only messages in question,
j i Now, you told us that the second message consisted of two names, and you
i' | have said, “ He then took the slate, which was clean at the time, and held it in
one hand. Then he commenced raising his hand, and biting the pencil.”
Now did he bite the pencil with his right hand? (Laughter.)—No, with his
| teeth.
I beg pardon. Did he hold the pencil in his right hand when he bit it ?—
No, with his left hand.
In which hand did he hold the slate ?—To the best of my belief in his right,
whilst he bit the pencil with his left. I cannot, however, state definitely at
this moment, but I have probably made an accurate statement with regard
i to it.
Ij Now, when you state that he held the slate with his left hand, was that cor*
| rect ? I am not assuming that you stated it improperly, but was it really
correct?—Whatever I have stated was correct, but at this moment I have not
i so clear a recollection of it as when I made notes at the time.
Tj Have you got those notes ?—No.
(i When did you take notes ?—On returning from the visit.
) | When did you destroy them ?—When I wrote to the Times.
Why ?—Well, I had no further use for them,
f j You did not contemplate these proceedings, I suppose ?—Am I (speaking to
(l Mr. Lewis) to answer the question.
Mr. Lewis: Oh, yes, do so.—Witness: No; I did not.
) j Mr. Munton : You did not contemplate the proceedings, and therefore you
) j destroyed the notes ?
(! Mr. Lewis : He did not say “ therefore.”
(j Mr. Munton: Did you destroy the notes because, having written to the
: Times, you had no further use for them ? At that time you did not contem-
plate legal proceedings. Had you two sets of notes at that time ?—No.
II When did you make a note—was it a continuing note of the two sittings ?—
Yes.
| Now this is very important. I ask you to consider whether or not, when
j this second message was produced, he held the slate with his right hand. You
I have said the left before. Do you think you were mistaken ?—No ; I think
he then held the slate in his left hand.
Do you pledge yourself that Dr. Slade held the slate with his left hand, and
!j the pencil with his right hand ?—On the first occasion, yes.
| j Then why did you express any doubt just now ?—On certain occasions Mr.
(j Slade somewhat varied his proceedings.
Well, having bitten off a piece of pencil, did you see Dr. Slade’s right hand
j move towards the left; that is to say, towards the slate while the slate was on
|i the table, or when it was under the table?—At first it was on the table, sub-
(| sequently it was hidden by the table, but not under it. I am referring to the
(i first message.
j! But we are dealing with the second; did you see Dr. Slade’s right hand
) i move towards the left above the table ?—At first, yes.
(i When Dr. Slade placed the slate in position was he holding it with the right
(| or with the left hand ?—With the right hand. I considered that you had been
i referring to the whole series of messages.
) j Then with which hand do you say he wrote the message ?— He wrote the
/1 message with the right hand.
(| While he had the slate in that hand ?—Possibly he may have done so : ho
11 may have written on his knee.
11 While he was holding the slate ?—While balancing it on his knee. I think
11 he was balancing it on his knee, and yet still writing.
(i You have said that the message was brought slowly up, and that you soon
!i saw words on the upper surface. When the slate was placed in position did
/ i you hear on that occasion what you have said you heard on other occasions—
I a scratching similar to writing ?—Yes, I heard the writing upon the knee.
(i Now having heard the writing on the knee, did you hear the simulated
11 writing or “ scratching” when the slate was placed in position ?—Yes.
I i Well, why not say so in your evidence in chief ?—I don’t know that I did
(| not say so.
(1 Mr. Lewis : He did say so—he even took a slate and scratched it with his
(| finger by way of illustration.
!'| In answer to a reference, the Clerk of the Court read from his notes of the
evidence, from which it appeared that the witness had stated that he heard a
“ scratching” on the slate.
Mr. Munton: That did not refer to the second message.
Mr. Lewis: I did not take the witness through the minute details of the
incidents attending each message; the other messages would bo assumed to
be produced under similar conditions.
Cross-examination continued : Did you from the beginning to the end ab¬
solutely see any writing done ?—No.
Then the expression used here that you “ saw it done” means that the
i motion of his arm was consistent with his doing the writing ?—I did not use
i • the expression “ saw it done.” I saw the doing of it.
Then did you hear your solicitor say that you saw it done ?—No.
Mr. Lewis : I explained how he saw it done—that he saw it done so far as
the moving the pencil went.
Mr. Muntou : 1 ask you now whether you saw any writing from beginning
Oct. 13, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
129
to end done ?—Witness : I conjectured that he was writing from what I saw
and heard, and the delay in pulling the slate away. I did not see the writing
actually done, but I saw it being done.
Do you say that the muscular action was indicative of writing ?—Yes;
under the circumstances.
Might it not have been indicative of his moving the slate about under the
table ?—No.
Did you see him move the slate about ?—Yes.
Do you mean to say that when you saw him moving from right to left it
was not consistent with his moving the slate ?—No.
Do you mean to say that you can pledge yourself that the motion was
caused by writing ?—By the motion of his hand as if in writing.
Now, I point out to you once more whether all this motion might not have
been caused by moving the slate about?—A totally different thing, and at a
different period.
Were both his hands under the table ?—Both hands would be hidden by the
table.
Do you think the writing at any time Occurred when both his hands were
on the table ?—Yes.
How long do you think the longest message took to write ?—Three or four
seconds.
And that sometimes he wrote with one hand under and sometimes with both
hands under the table ?—Yes.
Was not that a most absurd imposture ?—It was most absurd.
Do you think that is the way he has been deceiving people for 15 years ?—
No ; I don’t think it is the only way. There are many other ways.
You have told us you were touched under the table ; where were his hands
then ?—In front of him ; one would be on the table, the right hand might be
holding the slate.
Were you touched when both his hands were on the table ?—Yes.
You sat on Slade’s right?—Yes ; with a corner of the table between us.
You say you were touched when both his hands were on the table ?—Yes.
Was your coat pulled or anything of that kind ? Have you said that ?—
No ; I am quite sure I have not said that.
Have you said that any other garment was pulled ?—Not that I am aware
of. I don’t remember ; but I don’t think I have.
Is it a fact that your clothes were pulled?—They were not grasped. I
could not give it that expression ; but I was touched.
Was the touch such as could be performed bymeans of his legs ?—Yes.
On which leg were you touched ?—On the right leg.
If you were touched on the right leg we have it that in your position your
left leg would have been, so to speak, more or less against the right leg of
Dr. Slade ?—Not against it.
But so to speak ?—I would not say so.
But, in point of fact, your left knee would have touched his right knee ;
your left knee and his right knee would form an angle ?—Yes.
Well, you were touched on the right leg—the off leg of Dr. Slade, if I may
so speak. Were you touched on the right side of that leg or the left side ?—
On the top of it—on the upper surface of the side above the knee.
In the position Mr. Slade was in could he have touched you with his foot ?
—Yes, I think he could.
Was it a light touch or a heavy touch which you received ?—A light touch.
Did you ever make any attempt to look down on Mr. Slade’s knee when
those writings were going on ?—I looked as much as I could without moving
my position—without getting up or leaning over.
If Dr. Slade could have touched you on the off leg you must have been
extremely close together ?—Not at the same moment.
During the time you were sitting with him, was there any appreciable
difference in the positions you occupied?—Yes, there was.
Did you make any attempt, I again ask you, to overlook these writings ?—
I. made no movement in that direction.
You say iu the Times that Dr. Slade coolly wrote these messages on his
knee ; what do you mean by that ?—They were written leisurely.
Yon mean to say that ho actually wrote all these messages leisurely on his
knee ?—I meant to say that ho did not show any heat or excitement. I said
the table was a peculiar one, without a frame, and such as might have been
made expressly for Slade.
Would you be surprised to hear that the table has a very deep frame ?—Yes.
Do you attach any moment to the circumstance of its having no frame ?—
Yes.
What difference do you say it makes ?—It gives greater freedom to the
movements of the hands and legs under the table.
Mr. Munton : Wo will produce the table.
Mr. Flowers: Is it possible to get the table into court ? (Laughter.)
Mr. Munton : One of the officials received it this morning.
Mr. Flowers: Would Dr. Lankester know it again ?
The table was then brought into court amid much amusement, and placed
on the bench. It seemed an ordinary oak “ Pembroke ” table, with “ flaps,”
which, when extended, made it about 4-ft. square. The frame seemed to be of
the usual kind, covering the legs to the depth of about 4-in. A foot rule was
produced by Mr. Bohn, the publisher, one of the bondsmen.
Mr. Munton (to witness): Now, have you any reason to suppose that this is
not the identical table that vou saw ?—T have no reason to suppose that it is.
(A laugh.)
Then look at it attentively, and say whether you have any reason to suppose
that it is not the table you saw.
Professor Lankester inspected the table as it stood by the side of the magis¬
trate, and took its dimensions with the rule.
Mr. Munton: Can you identify the table now?—I can't swear it is not the
table, but this flap is the part which gave me the impression that there was
no frame to it.
Mr. Lewis : You mean there was no frame round the flap.
The table was here examined by a number of the gentlemen in court, and
for a minute or so the cross-examination was suspended.
Mr. Lewis : It is a very peculiar table. (Laughter.)
Mr. Flowers: Certainly it is an extraordinary table. I never saw a table
with the flap supported in that way.
Mr. Munton : Perhaps I had better go on with my examination.
Mr. Lewis : You will observe how the flap is sustained. There is a wooden
bar fixed beneath the centre, which, moving on an axis, supports the flap
when required.
Mr. Maskolyne, who had examined the table, said it was a very uncommon
one, and had been made expressly for the purpose. (Laughter.)
Mr. Mimtou: Really Mr. Maskolyno ought not to be allowed to give an
opinion. I must protest against his giving his opinion in this manner. How-
jj ever, it is not of very great moment. (A laugh.) (To the witness): Assuming
11 the flap now down to be up, is this the place where Dr. Slade sat (the loft-
)! hand corner), assuming the back of the Court as the place where the window
(! was?—Yes ; he sat with his back to the window.
{! And his knees were either against the table-legs, or by the side of them,
j ] against the frame?—They were under the frame,
j j And you were sitting on this side, on the right of him ?—Yes.
r You have said that you consider the absence of a frame very much facili-
■J i tated the movement of his legs. Now, I ask you again, looking at the table
! I with the frame as you see it there, what do you say to it • now ? —That it
| facilitated the tricks he performed. It certainly facilitated the movements of
j his legs on the right-hand side.
i Now do you admit that you were in error ?—What I said with regard to the
; table was that it was a table specially constructed, and that it facilitated the
| general performance.
| ■ Are not all tables with two flaps made as this one is ?—No ; I will not admit
i that.
i Mr. Munton : We will admit that it is a heavy table, and that the ordinai’y
j supports for the flaps are made to swing entirely under the frame. But,
! leaving that matter, now let us go to another point in your evidence. You
| say that Dr. Slade told you to write on a slate, and not to let him see it. Did
i you write so that he could not at the time read your writing?—Yes.
j Did you hand the slate to him with the writing on the upper or the under
| surface, as you handed it ?—On the under surface, so that he could not see it
11 unless he turned it over.
I j What did he do with it when you handed it to him ?—He took it in his right
II hand, took a piece of pencil in his left hand, and put it on the slate ; made
|! some remark to me, clearing his throat at the time, and said, “ I am lowering
) j the slate out of sight.” I did not then see the slate for some time ; but,
) i meanwhile, his hand was going up and down from his mouth to the slate.
(j Did he make any attempt to read what you wrote?—Not when I first
) | handed him the slate, but he kept the slate out of sight,
j | You watched Dr. Slade narrowly ?—Yes,
) i Did you see him read the message with the slate above the table ?—No.
Then he placed it under the table before he read it, if he read it at all ?—
j | Not under the table,
i; Beneath the table?—Yes.
) I In order to read it he would have had to turn over the slate ?—Yes.
)! Did you see him turn it over ?—I believe he turned it over.
He was sitting with his knees more or less against the table. Was his body
) i very much backward, or close to the table itself—I mean, where was the space
) i for him over the slate ?—At his side.
) j He turned it over, looked at it, and then turned it over again in order to
11 get it into position ?—Yes.
(i Dr. Slade, you have said, sat with his back to the light, in order to conceal
j i his movements ?—Yes.
Then he must have been in a pretty dark position when he turned over the
11 slate in order to read what was written on it ?—I do not say so.
Was he not in a dark position ?—There was light a little to his side,
j I Did he turn the slate to the side where there was light ?—Probably he did.
j | But did he ?—I am not able to tell you.
Then you did not watch him very narrowly ?—-Yes; I did.
If the slate was beneath the level of the table, at best he must have looked
j i down to read it ?—Yes.
j | Did he look down ?—Most positively he did.
Did it not occur to you to look over too ?—No; it occurred to me not to look
j j over.
! Was there any movement of Dr. Slade’s arms indicative of his turning the
I ] slate over twice ?—No.
j I You believe that he read it because his eyes were turned down ?—His eyes-
pi were frequently on the slate. He kept moving the piece of pencil, and that
JI was the pretence for looking down on the slate,
j i In which hand did he hold the slate at that time ?—The right,
j; You say that in placing the pencil with the left hand on the slate he took
) j that opportunity of turning it over, reading it, and turning it back again ?—
j i Yes.
j i On what side of the slate was this message ?—On the other side of the slate
) | to the query. I heard the low sound of writing before the slate was got into
j i position. Once or twice on other occasions—not on this—he said that “ the
I i spirits were a long time coming.” (Laughter.)
II Have you heard that the sound of writing on the knee has frequently been
(| heard by inquirers into this subject at times when no writing was subsequently
i j | discovered ?—I have not.
i)| Mr. Lewis objected to questions of that nature as irrelevant to the issue,
iji Mr. Flowers said that the defendant professed that the writing was done by
i j | the deceased Mrs. Slade. (Laughter.)
Iji Mr. Munton: lam not called upon to show-that this was done by super-
i j i natural agency.
I j j Mr. Flowers: I think you are. (Laughter.)
jij Mr. Munton: If the defendant saw the writing of the deceased Mrs. Slade,
i j j I don’t kuow that I am bound to show that it was her writing. The defendant
! 11 believed it, and that is enough for me.
i (| Mr. Flowers: The question is simply, did tho defendant fraudulently induce
iji people to come, by pretending to do a thing which he did not. I do not wish
ij| to say too much on the matter, for this matter may be called almost a now
I) i religion, and I do not want to hurt the feelings of any one who believes in it.
i j] Mr. Munton : I am sure, sir, you will appreciate the position in which I am
I ji placed.
Mr. Flowers: I never knew an advocate in a more difficult position,
iji (Laughter.)
i) i Mr. Munton: Wo will endeavour to get on. (To the witness :) You held the
iji slate yourself on the first occasion?—Yes, on Sept. 11th.
iji Did you get any opportunity on that occasion of seeing the writing when
iji it was not supposed to be there ?—I had a very good opportunity.
i)i Did you avail yourself of it?—I did not.
iji Quite sure?—Yes ; quite sm‘e.
iji Have you ever said you did?—No.
II will take your answer for the present. Was not the edge of the slate,
j when the defendant was moving it, more or less under the table, occasionally
i seen by you ?—Yes.
You have told us that the slate was being frequently moved under the
table, sometimes touching your knee—did you see that ?—No ; I think not.
Now I will ask you whether the slate ever touched your knee when under
i the table ?—Once it did,
Was tho slate frequently moved by tho defendant underneath the table ?—Yes.
130
Oct. 13, 18?6,
Was not one of the edges of the slate frequently seen projecting beyond the
. table, so that you sitting there could see it ?—Yes.
Mr. Munton: You held the slate yourself on the first occasion ?—Wit¬
ness : Yes.
Had you an opportunity of seeing the -writing on that occasion when it was
not supposed to be there ?—No.
Was not the slate occasionally seen by you as it was being moved about by
the defendant under the table ?—Yes*
But when the writing was taking place, according to you, you say that
ceased ?—Yes.
How many words did the longest message contain ?—Eight or nine, I think,
was the greatest number.
You say the message was deliberately written on his knee ?—Yes.
Now, coming to the message written -when Dr. Donkin was present; but I
must ask that if Dr. Donkin is present he should leave the court.
Mr. Flowers: He will read every word in the papers, so that unless you
are going to examine him to-day, it is not woi’th while sending him out of
- court.
Mr. Munton thereupon waived his request, and going on with the witness,
said:.Now, when you snatched the slate away, you Say you said to Dr.
Slade, “ We will try again ; ” then he got the slate under the table, and said,
“ The spirits are a long time coming; ” that you said, “ Yes; ” and he said,
“ If you hold the slate, perhaps they will write more distinctly.” Was the
slate before that in position under the table ?—No ; it was not in position on
that occasion.
Then how do you explain his remark “ that the spirits were a long time
coming ? ”—I am not called upon to explain that, but my explanation is that
he does not place the slate in position until he is aware that the spirits are
present.
Did you hold the slate ?—I met it as he placed it in position at the corner of
the table, and snatched it away.
Was that not, according to your evidence, after it had been there the frac¬
tion of a second ?—As it came to the corner of the table I met it and snatched
it away.
That was not after it was assumed that writing had commenced ?—No. -I
mean it was in the position where he ordinarily places it, and that it had not
been there the fraction of a second.
I ask you whether the slate was not in position for some space of time
before you thrust out your hand and seized it ?—It depends on the construc¬
tion of the words ;<in position.” He merely put the slate in position, and I
put out my hand and withdrew it.
When you said the slate was in position a fraction of a second, did you
mean to say that it was in position at all ?—I meant to say that it was in the
position at which he ordinarily placed the slate.
It had not been brought up to the table ?—He had not squeezed it against
the table.
Will you pledge yourself that the slate was not absolutely in contact with
the wood of the table, though not squeezed against it ?—Assuredly the slate
was not, though part of the frame of the slate might have touched the table.
Well now, if you are to distinguish between the frame and the slate, will
you pledge yourself that the slate was not against the table before you seized
it ? ~ I say the frame of the slate did touch it, in all probability.
Do you know, or have you heard, that inquirers into this subject of slate-
writing have publicly and privately certified that long messages occur in a
very short space of time?—I have heard so. I also know it is commonly
asserted by persons who have inquired into the subject that Dr. Slade changes
the slate, and thus produces long messages. (Laughter.)
Mr. Flowers: Do you admit, Mr. Munton, that there was no writing or
message on that slate before it touched the table ?
Mr. Munton: No; I do not admit that. (Laughter.) It may be that
writing was produced 
Mr. Flowers: The course of your cross-examination -would seem to indicate
that the slate was perfectly clean when it went under the table, but that in
the short time which elapsed before it was seized a message was produced by
the spirits, who, of course, can do a great deal when they do come. (Laughter.)
I should like to know whether that is the case for the defendant. I should
like to know whether I am going to try that issue. (Laughter.)
Mr. Munton : I understand the contention to be that the writing occurred
on this occasion between the time when Dr. Slade commenced to move the
slate towards the table and the time when it was snatched away from him by
Dr. Lankester. The question which the Court has really to decide is whether
this is an imposture or not.
Mr. Flowers : That is the point; that is the proper way to put it.'
Mr. Lewis: Possibly I may remind the gentlemen who have placed their
hats upon Mr. Slade’s table of what they are risking. (Laughter.) They had
better take their hats off the table. (Great laughter, which was increased by
the quick movements of one or two gentlemen, who took the joke seriously,
to seize their hats.)
Mr. Flowers: Here the spirits are tranquil. (Laughter.) i i
Mr. Munton : This is another interlude of Mr. Lewises. ■ ! (
Mr. Flowers : Never mind, Mr. Munton ; you have your speech to make yet. i (.
Mr, Munton: Well, I think we have too many of these from Mr. Lewit?. | (
Mi-. Flowers: Oh, I think Mr. Lewis has kept very quiet. (Laughter ) 1)
Cross-examination resumed.—Have you given any attention to the study of j)j
psychology ?—Yes. ; •'ll
Were you aware that the Dialectical Society had a committee to inquire into | \\
the phenomena of this order?—I am awave of that. I know that a report ijj
was published by them. I never read it. I have read extracts from it. I )j
Do you know that there are a very large number of journals published in j (i
England and America which are entirely devoted to this subject ?—Some half- i y|
dozen. , ! ji
Oh, five times as many as that? —I did not know that. I know of a work ; )l
by Mr. Serjeant Cox on psychic force. I never read it. I have never read any ! )i
extracts from it. ; (j
Do you know, as a matter of common report, that in that work various
opinions are expressed on this subject  | V
Mr. Lewis objected to this line of examination. i)|
Mr. Flowers: We are going to another issue now, but, assuming that all jfi
that is true, the question is, is the defendant an impostor or a real Spiritualist ? i (j
Mi1. Munton : My object is to show that the witness has not given any great ||?i
attention to tbis^subject which he went to investigate. .ivj
Mr. Lewis : But don’t talk of “ common report.” I should be stopped at jfi
once if I spoke of the common report with reference to the spirit masks and j (;
miracles in America. • jji
Mi-. Munton : I ask him whether ho knows from any source that the question j/|
of the causes of that phenomena has been much discussed in that work ?—I
don’t know that.
Do you know that the phenomenon of writing other than by the ordinary
agency has occurred in many private families for many years ?
Mr. Flowers : Surely this is going farther than is necessaiy. Are we not
making a great case out of a little one ?
Mr. Munton : I want to show that this gentleman went there without any
knowledge of the subject, and therefore, being prejudiced, might have
distorted the facts; but, if you say I am out of order, I will not pursue the
matter further.
Mr. Flowers: For many reasons I think you should keep to the issue.
Mr. Munton : It is difficult to do so, considering the nature of the opening
speech.
Mr. Flowers : Everybody forgets the opening in this world. (Laughter.)
If I were to send the case for trial, or deal with it under the Vagrant Act, I
should not take the least notice of what the opening was, unless in so far as it
was pertinent.
Mr. Munton: If you think I should not pursue that kind of cross-exami¬
nation any further, I will not do so. I shall bring before you certain wit¬
nesses, and I don’t want the objection to be taken that I gave no idea of what
I was going to do.
Mr. Flowers: I think you have done that.
, Cross-examination resumed : You say you attach little importance to the
phenomena except the slate-writing ?—Yes.
You say the chair which was raised in the air might be done by the de¬
fendant, and you added that, when that was done, the defendant leaned for¬
ward ?—Yes.
Do you say that leaning forward would enable him to project his leg to tho
other side of the table ?—Yes; easily. He drew my attention to the fact that
his legs were to the right of the legs of the table; then he moved a little
farther away from me, then he made me put my hands on the table to join
his, and then he leaned on to the table obliquely, so as to give a straight line
to the whole length of his body and his left leg, the chair being at the
corner.
If a man were in a sitting posture does it not make him less able to lean
forward ?—No ; it gave him the support of his arms on the table.
Well, if the large majority of people who go to Dr. Slade find things dif¬
ferent to what you describe, does that not lead you to think you may be
mistaken ?—No ; not with regard to that special matter.
But you admit you were mistaken on one point ?—No ; I have never ad¬
mitted anything of the kind. I have said I might be mistaken.
Then you wrote to the Times to say that it is high time that persons not
insane should have these things explained to them ?—No ; I did not use those
words.
Well, you say it is extraordinary there should be such credulity amongst
persons apparently sane ?—I may have used those words.
Who are these “ apparently sane ” persons to whom you referred in your
letter to the Times on this subject ?—Well, Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace for one.
Did you include Lord Lindsay in that description?—I have never had Lord
Lindsay’s acquaintance, and I cannot say I include him.
Do you know that Lord Lindsay has taken an active part in the discussion
as to the causes of these phenomena 
Mr. Lewis: Is not this really going beyond the record ?
Mr. Flowers : I do not think the question is at all relevant to the issue.
Mr. Munton: This gentleman says, in his letter to tho Times, that all
experience and history show that all this is wrong; and I have been desirous
of getting at his authority for that statement, but, in deference to you, sir, I
will not pursue that line of examination further.
Mr. Flowers: The issue here is not whether Spiritualism is true or false,
but whether the defendants conjured on this occasion.
Mr. Munton: Or believed that what they said was true.
Mr. Flowers : The question is what they did. If they were conjurors they
could not believe it.
Cross-examination resumed: When you left the room after your visit with
Dr. Donkin to Dr. Slade, you found several persons waiting in an anteroom ?
—Witness: Yes.
And, if I recollect rightly, Dr. Slade came, out and said that if any two
gentlemen would come in he would explain that you were wrong—that lie
would explain your accusation away ?—Yes.
Did you know the gentlemen who went in ?—No.
You say that you remained some twenty minutes to see if Dr. Slade would
come out of his room again, and then left, Dr. Slade not having come out of
his room ?—Yes. I have heard what the result was. I said I did not stay lo
see. I heard the result about an hour afterwards from Mr. T. J. Allman. He
went there shortly after my interview. I may have said that there was a par¬
ticular result or no result, but I did not say it as though I had seen it myself,
or knew it at first hand. ^
Did you write your letter, dated September 21, which appeared in the
Times, before or after you took out the summonses in this case ?—I think it
was on the same date. Possibly the letter was written before I took out the
summonses.
Was that a fair or just proceeding?—I think so.
Do you consider it a fair and just proceeding?—Yes.
Did you communicate, before you took proceedings, with any public
authority, either with a body of gentlemen or a newspaper ?—I do not remem¬
ber doing so.
Will you pledge yourself that you did not?—Yes.
Can you account in any way for the notice that appeared in an Edinburgh
paper ?
Mr. Lewis : I must object to this. It is going very far beyond the question.
Mr. Munton: Are you responsible either directly or indirectly for tho article
that appeared in the Scotch newspaper, stating that before it was published
proceedings would be taken against Dr. Slade and Mr. Simmons ?—I have
never heard of it before. This is the first time it has been brought to my
notice.
Did you communicate with your friends and toll them that you were going
to take these proceedings ?—No.
How soon did you discover that you had been defrauded ? Was it a week ?
—Yes, before it came under legal cognisance.
Did you take out the summons before you consulted your solicitor ?—Yes,
one. There were two summonses. The second was taken out after.
Did you act in concert with the several gentlemen whose names are men¬
tioned in the summons ?—No.
Did you use their names without their authority?— No. I will swear that I
did not use the name of one without his express consent.
THE SPltllttJALlST.
Oct. 13, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
131
A letter was handed to witness, which he announced to be from Dr.
Carpenter.
After looking at the letter, do you pledge yourself that you did not use the
name of Dr. Carpenter against his express wish?—I do. Dr. Carpenter never
communicated with me on the subject until long after the proceedings were
commenced, and he made the same statement in his letter to me.
Then, notwithstanding that letter of Dr. Carpenter, which I have placed in
your hands, do you say that you did not uso his name without his authority ?
—I say it is absolutely not the case.
Well, then, I will not put any more questions to you.
Cross-examined by Mr. Massey : There was nothing in the letter of Simmons
to me beyond making the appointment to see Slade.
On either occasion was there any attempt on the part of Simmons to engage
you in conversation, to extract any information from you ?—No, nothing I can
remember. I think we said a few words about the weather, or something of
the kind.
May I take it that you do not suggest that there was any attempt on the
part of Simmons to get round you ?—You may take it so.
Did you know that Mr. Morton, Maskelyne and Cooke’s manager, is quite
unaware of how their feats are perfonned ?—I have heard it said he professes
it as part of his performance—as part of the conjurer’s repertoire.
Many people believe in Dr. Slade—I do myself—(a laugh)—would you con¬
ceive it possible that Mr. Simmons might be one of those persons, for all you
can tell to the contrary ?—I think it highly improbable.
Did you observe anything in Simmons’s conduct which would lead you to
say that if there was a fraud on the part of Slade Simmons was a participator
in it?—What struck me particularly about Simmons was his manner when I
came out of the room.
You have stated that Simmons said, after you had denounced Slade, that it
would do them no harm, and that huncLreds of people would come back again ?
—Yes.
Did Simmons say that if this thing were true you would only do yourself
harm ?—He did not say “ If this were true,” but he said that in six months I
would regret if I wrote to the newspapers.
What did you understand him to mean when he said so ?—That it would
lead to trouble, and that Slade might continue to defraud the public.
(Laughter.)
Why should that be a subject of regret to you?—It is a subject of regret
to me.
Was what Simmons said to you said out loud, in the hearing of persons
whom you have elsewhere described as dupes ?—He was sitting away from
them. The persons referred to were engaged in their own conversation at the
time. He was talking to Dr. Donkin and myself.
You had been exposing the doctor to all those dupes. But there had been
a sensational incident; and am I to understand that they went on with their
conversation and paid no attention to what was going on between you and
Simmons?—Two of them would be taken in to the next room by Slade, and
the others were discussing the statement I had laid before them.
Did Simmons lower his voice at all when he spoke to you?—No.
Did you say that in visiting Slade you parted with your money without
representation ?—If there had not been a representation I should not have
gone to the performance.
What representation ?—That the thing was done by spiritual agency.
By whom was that representation made ? —Made by Slade, as reported to
me. I did not consider when I got into Slade’s apartments that I was bound
to pay him the stance fee. I should not have considered the message from
“ Allie” worth a sovereign. (Laughter.) I went to Slade’s on the represen¬
tation that the writing was effected by spiritual agency. That representation
was not made to me by either Slade or Simmons. I know that among Spirit¬
ualists the untrustworthiness of spirit messages is recognised. I know that
to be a fact which they cannot evade.
Did you know that there are many people who admit the phenomena, but
don’t attribute them to spiritual agency?—No. I never knew precisely the
difference between the two classes of persons. Putting aside tho hypothesis
of trickery, I do not consider the subject of these phenomena worthy of in¬
vestigation.
You say you were not at all prejudiced?—Prejudiced is an uncertain word.
I formed the hypothesis that spirit-rapping was done by conjuring, and I
went to test it. I cannot say that I was prejudiced. I have arrived at no
conclusion, having had no opportunity of testing the matter.
Then you rather went to detect what you considered to be a conjurer’s
trick than to investigate what might possibly be the result of an unknown
force?—You may take it in that way.
Throughout that stance you were on a sharp look-out for any indication ?
—-Yes.
A s regards one of the messages, you said that Mr. Slade slowly and delibe¬
rately placed the slate on the table ?—Yes.
It was not on the first message ?—No. .
Did you observe the way in which Mr. Slade placed the slate on the table
after the first message ?—I could not say what he did with the slate. It was
on the table, and brought to my view, but I do not know whether he turned it
or not.
Would you say there was no sleight of hand in placing the slate upon the
table ?—I would not say that, because it would be a dangerous thing to say
that a conjurer was not using sleight of hand at any particular time. You
can only state your impression. Of course, you may sometimes detect him,
but when he is successful you cannot expect to know anything about it.
I would ask you if you are aware that invitations have been extensively
addressed to scientific men to investigate these phenomena?—I am not; but
I have heard since that a large sum of money has been given by a gentleman
of Manchester to Mr. Slade for the purpose of giving seances to journalists,
with the object of puffing the performance.
You don’t suggest that the gentleman who did that was not a sincere
believer ?—No.
Then do you think puffing is a right expression to use towards people who
are sincere ?—No, I don’t think it involves that..
Are you aware that the invitation has been extensively acted upon ?—I have
heard that some accepted it, and some did not.
Do you think that invitation is the conduct of a stupid conjurer to invite
men the best able to detect him ?
Mr. G. Lewis : That is a question of argument, it is obvious.
Professor Lankester: I think it is the conduct of an impostor to invite
people the least able to detect him.
Mr. Massey: You don’t suggest that Dr. Slade and Simmons were in the
habit of inviting anybody ?—Indeed! (Laughter.)
You don’t suggest they invited you?—No.
Then I don’t think I can make any more of you. (L*aughter.)
Re-examined by Mr. Lewis: I paid my money in consequence of the state¬
ment that the phenomena wore produced by spiritural agency. I should,
not havo paid my sovereign if Slade had previously informed me that it was
produced by conjuring. I used the names of no one in the summons as prose¬
cutors, though I mentioned as being amongst the defrauded the names of some
of those who I know had visited Slade.
During the performance was there any spirit hand produced ?—Yes ; an
assumed spirit hand.
Mr. Munton : That does not arise out of the cross-examination.
John Nevil Maskelyne was then called, and being sworn, was examined by
Mr. Lewis as follows :
You carry on tho profession of a conjurer at the Egyptian Hall, Piccadilly?;
—Yes.
What do you call yourself?—Jeweller, watchmaker, and conjurer. (A
laugh.)
How long have you been a conjui’er ?—Something like fourteen years profes¬
sionally ; but, more or less, I have interested myself in tho profession all’
my life.
Oh! you were born a conjurer ? (Laughter.)—Well, not exactly. I did
not inherit it.
Havo you ever visited a stance of the defendant’s ?—I have not.
Have you examined the table that has been produced here as that which
Mr. Slade uses?—I have glanced at it.
Is there any peculiarity in it?—It is a very convenient table for the busi¬
ness. (Laughter.)
What do you mean by very convenient for the business ?—Oh, it has one or
two peculiarities. It appears to me to have been slightly altered since it was
brought into court; at least since it was last used.
Mr. Munton : This is too bad. How do you know that ?
Witness : I say from my knowledge of the trick that it was. altered. For
producing the spirit writing under the table it is necessary to have something
more than the leaf of the table to support the slate. That something has
undergone some modification. I have not seen the pei'formance, but  
Mr. Munton : I object to this evidence.
Mr. Lewis: I am going to show how this thing can be done.
Mr. Munton: The question is not how you could do it, but how Slade does.it.
The witness then shewed what he meant by means of the table which had
been placed upon the bench, and which was stated to be that used by the
defendant. At one side was a movable bar to support the falling leaf rising
out of the framework, of which it seemed to form part, and working on a
pivot in the centre of the side part of the frame. Witness showed how this i
worked, remarking that its end seemed to have been recently altered.
Mr. Lewis: What is the use of that support ?—Witness: To enable the .
slate to be supported against it while the writing is being done.
As an ordinary observer, may I ask you did you ever see a table like that ?
No ; I never saw one having a bar swinging that way.
That would explain the evidence of Dr, Lankester when he said that, the
slate might not have touched the leaf of the table, since it probably touched
the edge of this support. Now, with that exception, do you see any pecu¬
liarity at all in the table ?—Well, it is a sort of arrangement I myself should
adopt to facilitate the doing of the trick. But the end of the bar shows that
something must recently have been cut off of it—some little apparatus to
detain the slate. The end is cut in a way a carpenter would not do, and is
rubbed over to conceal what had been done.
A good many tricks are performed with slates ?—Oh, yes, in a variety of
ways; they are very useful for conjurers.
Have you had experience of writing on slates?—Yes, ten or twelve years
ago I practised a little slate writing.
Is it possible for a message or some writing to be on a slate and yet invisible?
—Quite possible.
Have you a clean slate there?—Yes (holding one up), a perfectly clean
slate.
Mr. Flowers: I do not see the relevancy of this.
Mr. Lewis: The evidence I am giving you is the most conclusive it is pos¬
sible to produce. I am going to show you the things done by the hand of the
the witness which the defendant Slade pretends were done by spirits. Yon
are aware that in courts of law, from time to time, all sorts of scientific
matters are inquired into, the inquiries being constantly illustrated and
elucidated by experiments made in the court, such as the mixing of chemicals,
the exhibition of forces in the case of machinery in action. Suppose there
was a question of murder, alleged to have been done in a certain posture. In
that case evidence would be called to show that the commission of murder
and the posture were incompatible. And we must recollect that the course of
the examination was to show that Dr. Slade could not, under the conditions
described, do the things in question by mere physical agency.
Witness : I could not do them with that table now.
Mr. Lewis : On the other side it was contended that in the position occupied
by Mr. Slade he could not write with a slate-pencil on a slate.
Mr. Munton: Mi1. Lewis’s own client has withdrawn from the suggestion as
to the writing being produced with the fingers or under the slate.
Mr. Lewis: I am used to contradictions, and one more or less won’t matter.
(Laughter )
Mr. Munton : If Mr. Maskelyne had been at Dr. Slade’s, and could speak to
i the exact conditions of what had been done, then possibly he might give
i evidence ?
i Mr. Lewis: It does not follow that because he was not there his evidence
| is inadmissible.
Mr. Munton: It does not follow that if the witness stands there and does
certain things, therefore Dr. Slade does them in the same way.
Mr. Lewis : The objection is not to the evidence, but to its quality.
Mr. Flowers: Better let us have it. It won’t, I hope, take long.
The Witness then continued : It is a very good trick—(laughter)—but the
point is that it seems impossible that a slate can be held under the table by
the performer’s hand. It is, however, easy, especially if there is a slight pro¬
jection or peg beneath the table, or if you have a cross-piece such as there is
in the table that has been produced. You push the slate, against that, and
thus gain support for it, the greater support if the slate can touch both the
framework and tho cross-piece. The slate can in this way be supported by
the thumb, and the fingers loft free to write. The best way, however, to do
this trick is by means of a small appliance (produced), a sort -of thimble or
cap of indiarubber, with a thimble fixed in it, and when you have done with
it it is easy by a little frippery—(laughter)—to shoot it unperceived up the
sleeve. Writing with the pencil under the finger-nail is impracticable. [Wit-
132 THE SPIRITUALIST. Oct. 13, 1876.
ness then held the slate against his breast, keeping it in position by pressing
■with his thumb while he wrote with the appliance attached to his finger, and
then handed the slate to the Bench, when Mr. Flowers read from it * The
spirits are present.” (Great laughter.) Witness further described how an
operator, by shuddering and other movements, could draw off the attention of
the visitor while a second message was written on the other side of the slate,
which being held to the under side of the table by the visitor, would of course
appear when the slate was turned up. Mr. Maskelyne proceeded to write
upon the slate the words “ The spirits are present,’* and then to rub them out
with a damp sponge. He then carefully dried the slate, which appeared free
from any writing whatever; but in the course of a few minutes the message
which he had apparently obliterated, distinctly reappeared. Mr. Maskelyne
explained, by the way, that he had not written upon the slate with a common
slate pencil, but with what some of the comic journals called a “ Slade pencil.”
(Laughter.)
Mr. Simmons, one of the defendants, asked witness to show him the slate.
Mr. Maskelyne : Oh, sui'ely, sir, you know all about it.
Mr. Munton: I hope some restraint will be put on Mr. Maskelyne perform¬
ing in public.
Mr. Lewis: He performs in public, but your client in secret.
Examination resumed: As to the long messages ?—Oh, that is rather old,
but no doubt Mr. Slade has improved upon it. It is easy for him, with only
two persons by and a table to help him—(a laugh)—but with a conjurer it is
different, for he must do everything in the face of the people. (Witness pro¬
ceeded to illustrate the writing on the slate).
Mr. Massey: I object to this ridiculous exhibition.
Mr. Lewis (holding up a slate to which the witness had applied a damp
sponge): The writing is now gone? Witness: Yes, for evermore; and I
should be glad to do anything that would stamp out this pestilence of Spirit¬
ualism. I have seen writing when the hands were tied. That was done by
writing with a piece of pencil tied in the mouth.
• Mr. Munton : I do not think this evidence worth cross-examination.
Cross-examined by Mr. Massey : Suppose I brought you a slate from a shop
and never let it go out of my sight, and that you put your hands upon it and
I mine upon it, and that you found it covered with writing, what would you
say to that ?—It is very well to be told a thing of that kind, but I should say
a medium would not do that.
If I sat with you or Dr. Slade, and the slate became covered with writing
•—a slate just brought from any shop, what would you say ?—That it is a great
pity that Mr. Slade does not always do that. (Laughter.)
Would you say that such a thing would be impossible to be produced by
your art ?—I say I could not do it as you describe it without any physical
interference.
Do you believe any mortal man could do it?—I believe that a man who be¬
lieved he saw such a thing would be labouring under a deception.
To Mr. Munton : You were served with a subpoena ?—Yes.
After that did you insert an advertisement in the Daily Telegraph stating
that until the court had decided whether Dr. Slade was guilty or not you
would not perform his tricks ?—I did.
Did you consider your proceedings respectful to justice, or decent?—I
thought, under the circumstances, it would not be proper for me to give an
exhibition of the proceeding.
To Mr. Lewis: I simply advertised that the seances would be given, and
then that, pending these proceedings, they would be deferred.
You have been asked if it were possible for writing to appear on both the
inner sides of a double slate when closed ?—There may be incidents which a
visitor could not discover.
Mr. Lewis (addressing the magistrate) : I should like to know how much
longer you intend sitting to-day. It is now five o’clock.
Mr. Flowers: How many more witnesses have you?—Mr. Lewis: Five or
six, and every one of them will take some time in examining. The cross-
examination of Professor Lankester has been so long that I have had scarcely
five minutes for the prosecution.
Mr. Flowers: I suppose there will be no long cross-examination after this ?
Mr. Munton: Well, if they give their evidence at the same length that
Professor Lankester has, I shall feel bound to cross-examine them.
Mr. Lewis: Probably I shall be able to complete Dr. Donkin’s evidence in
chief to-day.
Mr. Flowers: Very well; proceed'.
Dr. H. B. Donkin (examined by Mr. Lewis) : Are you assistant-physician
to the Westminster Hospital ?—I am.
Mr. Massey (to the magistrate): When do you, sir, propose to sit again ?
Mr. Flowers: Friday and Saturday.
Mr. Lewis: Those would be inconvenient days. Any day next week
would suit me better.
Mr. Massey: A long adjournment will be a serious loss to the defendants.
Mr. Flowers : That is why I wish to shorten the adjournment. Say Friday
week, then.
Mr. Lewis: That will meet my wishes.
Examination continued: You are an M.B. of Oxford?—Yes.
Did you, on Sept. 15th, accompany Professor Lankester to a house called
ft The Spiritualists’ Home ” ?—I did.
A house in Upper Bedford-place ?—Yes; No. 8.
Mr. Lewis (to the magistrate) : I must ask, sir, that the table be impounded
pending these proceedings.
Mr. Munton : I must object to that, except that you are willing to give us
the money for a new one. (A laugh.) Pay us what the table cost, and we
will consider it a bargain.
Examination continued: Were you shown into a front room ?—Yes; on the
first floor.
The defendant and others were sitting in the room ?—Yes. There were
three others, I think. Mr. Slade took me into a back room. The front room
was the lighter of the two. Almost immediately after we were shown in
Slade asked us to sit down. He tilted up the table to show us underneath.
Then he asked me to sit opposite to him, and told Professor Lankester to take
a chair on his right hand. Next he asked us to put our hands on the table
which we did. He placed his hands also on the table, his left hand touching
mine and his right Professor Lankester’s.
Was there anything upon the table ?—Nothing but a slate and a piece of pencil.
Whilst you were sitting there did Slade speak ?—He made a few short
remarks. He asked whether I had been at seances before, and what was my
name. He kept me in a little conversation.
Did you see any peculiarity in his manner ?—After a short time he shivered,
and said, “ I don’t feel her yet.” He then said he would see -whether any
writing, was to be obtained, and he asked a question, “Can you write?'” to
some invisible spirit.
j (i Then when happened ?■—There were three distinct raps, which appeared to
i(| proceed from beneath the surface of the table. He then took the slate into
|)! one of his hands, and with the other he broke a piece of slate-pencil,
nj Mr. Lewis here asked that the case might be adjourned, and a conversation
i(| again ensued between the magistrate and the legal gentleman as to the day
111 when it should be proceeded with. Ultimately the further hearing was ad-
| (j journed until Friday week, at eleven o’clock.
The request was also repeated by Mr. Lewis that the table should be im-
|1| pounded by the Court; but Mr. Munton again objected, unless £1 :5s., its
! (| value, was handed over to his client.
i (I Mr. Lewis said that the table had heen handed in, and was as much a part
i j j of the evidence as any document could be.
jn Mr. Flowers thought that under the circumstances the table had better be
I (! detained, and all parties then loft the coui’t.
I THE RELATIONSHIP TO SPIRITUALISM OF THE LATE
PI DR. ROBERT CHAMBERS.
i(i . BY JANE H. DOUGLAS.
| I The Cock-lane ghost story has become proverbial as an
| | instance of detected fraud, where invisible agency has been
j j simulated; how often is it cited as such in the now con-
j j stantly recurring controversies on the spiritual phenomena ;
I but whoever will look into the introduction to Mr. Home’s
1Incidents of My life, by no less a person than the author of
jy! Vestiges of Creation, now known, as he was long believed to
| ! be, the late Dr. Robert Chambers, will see in what—to use
I;! his own words—“ a clumsy, foolish, and utterly unsatisfac-
I I tory manner, the Cock-lane ghost was detected.” I have
! | often heard my lamented friend speak of the supposed im-
| ;| poster, poor little Anne Parsons, as a victim to materialistic
ill prejudice.
Had Dr. Chambers been now alive he would doubtless
i I have come forward more openly in support of Spiritualism.
I 1 For some time before the illness which ended in his death,
| | he had meditated a work on the spiritual phenomena; when
I j his health began to give way, feeling hardly equal to the
I f task, he offered me the materials he had collected, but he
Ilf was then in appearance still vigorous, and I urged him to
j I continue the Opus Magnum of which he showed me a sketch.
I i I remember he expressed in it the conviction that Spirit-
| j ualism was the beginning of an immense revolution of
(I thought, and the opening up “of a more extended view of
j the Cosmos.” I now deeply lament not having accepted the
j offered treasure.
(j '81, South Audley-street, W.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Ip MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
I (j Last Tuesday night, at a meeting of the British National Associa-
! | tion of Spiritualists, Mr. Alexander Calder presided, and fourteen
II j other members were present.
jj i Eleven new members were elected, among whom were Mr. George S.
|) i Thompson, M.D., Mrs. J. P. Turner, Capt. F. G. Irviu, Mr. Brinsley
j(j Nixon, Mr. William Newton, Mr. George Kemp, Mrs. Kane (Maggie
It. Fox), Mr. William G. Johnson, Mrs. Tyndall, and Mr. G. Tommy.
| After the consideration of several personal matters,
I A letter from Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, Mexico, was read,
asking that the Mexican Society of Spiritualists should be enrolled
as an organisation allied to the British National Association of Spirit¬
ualists. It was then agreed to enter into the proposed alliance,
j Presents from Messrs. Blackburn, Martheze, Coleman, and Harrison
were accepted with thanks.
The Secretary said that Mr. Blackburn’s gift consisted of a slate, in
I a glass frame, filled with Greek writing, obtained on the top of a table,
I in daylight, in the presence of Dr. Slade.
The Secretary reported that at the close of the hearing of Dr.
Slade’s case at Bow-street last week, two of the gentlemen whose
names had been entered, without their consent, on the summons by Mr.
Lankester, as having been defrauded by that medium, met the com¬
pany of Spiritualists assembled on the premises of the National Asso-
r ciation of Spiritualists, and entered their names as subscribers to the
library. Those gentlemen were Mr. Henry Sidgwick and Mr. Gurney,
j; Steps were agreed to be taken to accelerate the sale of the Prize
Essays, and the desire was expressed that the members of the Associa¬
tion should exert themselves in this matter,
j Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E., reported that the Scientific
I Research Committee had obtained direct spirit writing, under absolute
| test conditions, through the rnediumship of Mr. Eglinton. He also
j moved that fortnightly meetings, beginning next month, be held by
members of the Association and their friends, to consider scientific and
j other questions connected with Spiritualism.
| Mr. Algernon Joy, M. Inst.C.E., seconded this, and it was passed
unanimously.
I It was resolved that a national conference of Spiritualists should be
held early in February next, and a committee was appointed to make
i the needful preparations,
i; The proceedings then closed.
A brisk discussion on Spiritualism is now going on in the Newcastle
Weekly Chronicle.
Ill
Oct. 13, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
Loodon, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author's views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, t by William Crookes, P.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism. 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, P.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles." It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given, os.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, US. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author acunits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M, King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man m the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rale, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supernaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and .Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo„
500 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals Iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
Inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in " The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.: or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a'trimipery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. "The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. Od.; cheap edition,
7s. fid.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
5s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance weaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABIL IT Y, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Do<L 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 16s.
THE TWO WORLDS,by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. Aninteresting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Take. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Bov. Canon
Callaway, MD., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
5s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists, is. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record of Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2:'HISTORY
OF A COMET —3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD'S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 5s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. 6d.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiment relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gamed the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Sicouragement of Arts
and Sciences, (Pub. at 7s. 6d.) 4s..
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. lames Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. „ III, „
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . , .
The Thinker. „ V. „ . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis .
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest .
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . . .
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health .....
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and N erves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures .....
s. d.
15 0
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
3 6
7 6
6 0
7 6
2 0
3 .6
3 6
7 6
3 6
7 6
2 6
3 6
7 6
. 6 0
7 6
7 6
5 0
5 0
2 6
3 0
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) ....
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . . 2
Keys of the Greeds . . . . . . . 5
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . , .5
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . .18
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . .12
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . .15
Threading my Way, an Autohiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (460 a.d. and 518 A.n.j. Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A;, Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of tiie Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . io
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske. M.A. . 10
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . , 2
The Dervishes • or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . '12
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B.A. . . . 3
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Gennany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... . . . , 18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . .10
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S.
Special edition for Schools . , , . l
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1 Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten: 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conaut.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard,
fid.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman ol Education and Religious Culture, is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Ado!v bus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Augell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sensi, and deep thought.” 6d. _
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. 6d.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young 6d.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d-
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometricaliy' through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
■by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. 6d.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D. Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. E. T.
Hallock. 2s.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Oct. 13, 1876.
BOOKS ON'SPIRITUALISM. PSYCHOLOGY,
• MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BlOfOBf,
Kepresentibg the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of "W. H. Harrison, Spritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, £18, Great Kussell-slreet, Bloomsbury,
London, "W.O.
[For purposes of mutual conyenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists. but the Association and 'She Spiritualist Newspaper and
'publishing business, are not in any way connected with each
other.]
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
. LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a- trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the,world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrajed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S.: Colby and Rich. London Spirit-
uali*t Office.
Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berlio, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvojance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about arn'inal
magnetism, which has always eUcited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for ns to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
oho as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, 4d.- Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
ANNALI BELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1 st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme,!. Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK; OR, GUIDE FOR
MEDIUMS AND FOR EVOCATION. Containing the
Theoretic Teaching of Spirits concerning all kinds of manifes-
tations, &c., &c. By Allan Eaedec. Translated by Anna
Blackwell. Crown 8vo, pp. 4ic, cloth, 7s. 6d.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.-; post free Is. Spiritualist Newspaper
Brancn Office.
The debatable land between this
WORLD AND THE NEXT. By Robert Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive proof,
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
w e of to-day have the mme evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, j et which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This book affirms thatthestrongest
of all historical evidences for modem Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
of Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
The religio - philosophical
JOURNAL is a large eight-page weekly paper, an
able exponent of Modern Spiritualism. Established in 1805.
Nowin its twentieth volume. Published every Saturday by
the Religio-Philosophical Publishing House, Chicago, Illinois.
The regular price is 15s. per year, at which price thousands of
old subscribers welcome it each week as the best visitor they
have. Sample copy, 3d. Address, S. S. Jones, Editor, Chicago,
111.
■OEFLEXIONEN aus der geister-
WELT. A Monthly Record of Trance, Spoken, and
Written Communications given at the meetings of the Buda-
Pesth Society of Spiritual Inquirers. Price Is. monthly. Buda-
Pesth: Jotefstadt, 23, Erzherzog Alexandergusse. London
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly—Leipsic: Oswald Mut/.e. London: 7'he
Spirilualisi Newspaper Branch Office., i
NEW WORKS OF M. CHARLES GOUNOD.
PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,
39, Great Marlborough Street.
ON THE SEA OF GALILEE. Arranged by E. Tin el as a
Pianoforte Duet and Vocal Solo. Price 6s.
LA VENEZIANA. Pianoforte Solo, 4s.
FETE DE JUPITER. Grand March, 4s.
OFFERTOR1UM. For Organ, 4s.
JOAN OF ARC. French Vocal Score, 10s.
BALLAD OF THE PAGE, English and French words, 4s.
Also A SERIES OF SEVEN DUETS containing the Prin¬
cipal Music, arranged by the composer expressly for Her
Majesty the Queen and H.B.H. Princess Beatrice. Nos. 1
and 2, price 2s. 6d. each. Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7, price 6s.
each.
ILALA, May, 1874. Words by Lord Houghton, written in
commemoration of David Livingstone, 4s.
My True Love hath My Heart, 4s.
Chidiock Tichborne, 4s.
Go, Lovely Rose, 4s.
A Series of 12 Part Songs, 6d. each. Special arrangements
made to Choral Societies.
NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION.
MISS TREHERNE (MRS. WELDON).—The Brook, words
by Tennyson, 4s. Hier au Soir, words by Victor Hugo
(English words by Mrs. Eric Baker), 4s.
ALFRED RAWLINGS.—Lullaby, words by Bradwyn Brad-
. wen, 4s. Beware, words by Longfellow, 4s. Part-song,
To the Cuckoo, 6d,
JOHN URICH.—Bagatelle, words by T. Hood, 4s. Venetian
Barcarole, 4s. Pity the Wives at Home (sailor song), dedi¬
cated to Samuel Plimsoll, Esq., M.P., 4s. Mazurka, 4s.
F. CLAY.—Enid’s Song. 4s. Elaine’s Song, 4s. Vivien's
Song, 4s. Guinevere’s Song, 4s. Mary’s Song, 4s. There
is no Flock (Resignation), 4s. Sands of Dee, 4s.
HAMILTON CLARKE.—Serenade for Pianoforte, 4s. Ditto,
arranged as a Duet for Pianoforte, 5s. Two Voices: a Song,
4s.
ALFRED CELLIER.—Flower Girl: a Song, 4s.
K.TERULF.—On the Heather; Danish Melody.
Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Quadrilles, with Portrait of Mrs.
Weldon, arranged from Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book, by
Mrs. Weldon, 4s.
Subscribers’ Names received for Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme
Book—Subscribers, us.; Non-Subscribers, 7s. 6d.
All the music published by the Music and Art
Association, 39, Great Marlborough-street, is sold for the
benefit of Mrs. Weldon's Orphfmage.
A List of Works sent post-free on application.
THE MANAGER, MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,
39, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.;'post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions op the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
these of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.'-—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduct1 on, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for¬
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmat'ses, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a lemarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. HarrUon has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task iiself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
"W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
TO INVALIDS AND OTHERS.
N EXPERIENCED PHYSICIAN, prac-
ticahy acquainted with all systems of Medicine, offers
a comfortable RESIDENCE to a Spiritualist, on moderate
terms, in a most salubrious locality, combining the advantages
of town and country, with view of the sea and p’easing inland
scenery. Apply to Dr. William Hitchman, 47, South-road,
Ayaterloo .near Liverpool.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
President.
HENRY D. JENOKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
(Barrister-at-Law, Membet' of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Laic of Nations.)
V ice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton. Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Bi.ytox.
Rooms—74, Nayarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts aflecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The lasf Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus¬
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particular's of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members:
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations,- directions “ for
formation of circles and conduct of seances,” and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarteily 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
C^ARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
y and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of books, and having placed for this purpose the whole of hi a
private library, consisting of 100 hooks and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by the
gift or loan of books, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the popu'ation is nearly 80,000, and very little
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism. Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
East London spiritual meetings^
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’a
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter's-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances, &c.: Sundays, Healing, at 11 a m.,
Serviceat 7 p.m. Tuesday, Seance at 8 p.m.; Is. Friday, Seance at
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class at
8 p.m.; subscribers only.
Taken away by mistake from the
Ladies’ Cloak Room, at 38, Great Russell-street, on
Wednesday Eveniug, October 4th, a DOUBLE-GLASS SMEL¬
LING-BOTTLE, with Gilt Stoppers, much valued by the
Owner. If found, it is requested that the same may he left in
charge of the Secretary, at the Reading Room, 38, Great
Russell-street
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PI,ACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C.
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of tie Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Iti arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance.
Manager—Mrs. A. O. Burke.
The FOOD QUESTION. — Manifesto and
Publications of the Vegetarian Society sent free to any
address on receipt of post card. Secretary, 91, Oxford-strier,
Manchester.
By Royal Letters Patent.
“KRINE COSMETIC.” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GRCWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holboru,
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr. London, and published, by E, W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
