[BEGISmED AS A NEWSPAPSa.
SK© joifiiN^© ^dis{K^5<.
#Ifre£i ft|cr^p||. tamterf^b SpmiwaHsm In (fiximt ^xxtmx.
THE “SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: 246, Boulevard
des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
No. 204.—(VOL. YIII.—No. 29.)
LONDON: FKIDAY, JULY 21, 1876.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
foments.
Spiritualism and Scientifle Research    ... 837
Clairaudience. By Eugene Crowell, M.D.:—Swedenborg
on Clairaudienee—The Clairaudienee of Cowper—The
Voices of Spirits—A Touching Story—Sensations of a
Clairaudient Person—Spirits cannot always Hear us 337
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Meeting of the
Council ... ...    ; 340
The Council of the National Association of Spiritualists
and the Press... ... ...  341
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Meeting of the
Experimental Research Committee 342
Spiritualism in Dalston ...       342
Spiritualist Lectures in Liverpool 342
Dr. Slade’s Arrival in EnglandDr. Slade's first Stances
in England—Mr. Joy on Dr. Slade’s Medinmship ... 344
Spiritualism in Paris. By Algernon Joy, M.I.C.E ?44
Correspondence:—Facts in Spiritualism—A?‘t Magic —
Spiritualism and Conjurors—Remarkable Visions—
Experiences of an Inquirer into Spiritualism—Clair¬
voyant Visions of Assassinations in Tuikey—Healing
Medinmship     345
Paragraphs:—Marvellous Disappearance of Pigtails, 339;
Mr. J. J. Morse's Provincial Engagements, 342; Re-
cepton at Mrs. Gregory's    .;.  342
RS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“Grannie’s Nuisery Rhyme Book” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Cb. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “ Souvenir,” Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie”
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, W.C.
CARDIFE.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of books, and having placed for this purpose the whole of his
private library, consisting of 100 books and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by the
gilt or loan of hooks, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the popu’ation is nearly 80,00o, and very little
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism. Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
East London spiritdal meetings.-
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’fi
Lecture Rooms, 16, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BIKKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampti n-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated per iods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT-LAND.—Being
Life-Experiences, Scenes, Incidents, and Conditions
illustrative of Spirit-Life and the principles of the Spiritual
Philosophy. Of practical value to any who are anxious to
study the theories of Spiritualists and Mediums, for the purpose
of deducing a consis'ent system of faith concerning the
future, its rewards and punishments, &c., as it establishes a
basis in reason for its propositions, and asks no blind accep¬
tance of statements, but enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Given inspRationally through Mrs. Maria M. King. Cloth,
6s, 6d. Spiritualist newspaper branch office.
The trapped medium ; or, the two
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This 'brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F R S., X.Y.Z.. B.l.G.A.S.S.,and hisasshtant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis-
bel'evers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post free, Gjd. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
T>EVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The
\y Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.
Respectfullv announce that they execute ALL descriptions of
Printing. Estimates forwarded on application.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
President
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Council
Mrs. C. Ada Blyton, Mr. Jonathan Tozeland,
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. Thomas Wijks,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. John Rouse.
Honorary Secretary and Treasurer :—Mtt. THOMAS BLYTON.
Rooms:—7i, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
Extracts from Prospectus.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by Various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. to which Members are admitted, as well
as members of similar Associations which reciprocate similar
privilege. Strangers can only he admitted to the ordinary seance
held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted
to special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions,
reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to
which strangers are admitted under the same regulations as are
enforced on the .first Thursday evening in each month. Tickets for
such ordinary meetings as may be of general interest, in connection
with the “ Brixton Psychological Society,” are also placed at the
disposal of Members of the Association by that Society in reciprocity
of the privilege granted by the Association to similar organisations.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending the public seances ot
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can he ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines ar
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
The alliance existing between this association and the “ British
National Association of Spiritualists ” will greatly assist the mem¬
bers in their inquiries, as amongst the objects for which that
Association was established in 1873 are the following., viz.:
“ To aid students and inquirers in their researches into certain
phenomena, known as Spiritual or Psychic: to assist in giving
publicity to the results of such researches: to afford information to
inquirers into these subjects, by correspondence and otherwise: and
to collect statistical facts respecting Spiritualism.”
All communications to he addressed to the Honorary Secretary,
at the Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A
stamped addressed envelope should be enclosed in all letters re¬
quiring replies. Copies of the prospectus, rules, circle regulations,
directions “ how to form spirit circles,” and catalogue of books in
the library, with any further information, can be obtained on appli¬
cation.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payablein advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
'VTOTICE IS HEREBY GIYEN that the
-Ll TWELFTH HALF-YEARLY GENERAL MEETING
will be holden at the Association’s Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Driston, London, E., on Thursday, the 27th day of July, 1876,
at eight o'clock in the evening precisely, when the report of
the Council and statement of accounts for the half-year ended
30th June, 1876, will be submitted to the members forapproval
and adoption, officers for the current half-year will be elected,
and motions, in respect of which notice in writing has been
given to the undersigned on or before Thursday, the 20th
inst. will be discussed.
THOMAS BLYTON, Hon. Secretary.
Rooms, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
13th July, 1876.
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire
SPECIAL SEANCES FOR INYES-
GATORS. A series of seances are to he held on the
Tuesday afternoons of every week until further notice at the
residence of Mrs. Woodforde, 90, Great Russell-street. Usual
phenomena. Movement of obj< cts in the light. Medium, Mr.
Arthur Coleman, who has kindly offered his services for this
especial purpose. Seances will begin at 3 p.m,, punctually.
Fee, 5s.
PRIZE ESSAYS.—BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.—The Prize Es¬
says on the Probable Effect of Spiritualism on the Social, Moi'al,
and Religious Condition of Society are now on sale, and may
be obtained at the Rooms of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, and of Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria lane, price Is., .
post, Is. IJd.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.,
Entrance in Woburn Street.
THE HEADING BOOM AND LIBEAEY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one took from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, but not of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers hive been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained thiough any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spii Dualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 88. Great Russell-street, W.O.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING.
■VTOTICES OF MOTION for Amendments to
_L v the Constitution and Rules of the Association having
been given. in, such amendments will be considered at a
meeting of the Council on Tuesday, August 8th, which will be
made special for the purpose. Members of Council having any
further motions to propose are requested to send in notice
thereof to the secretary without delay, in order that copies of
the same may be fumished to every member of the Council
seven days previous to the meeting.
NEWCASTLE SPIRITUALISTS’ SOCIETY.
LECTURES.—JULY, 1876.
Mb. J. J. Mokse:—
“ Trance Address ” ... Sunday, July 2, at 3 p.m.
„ „ ... „ „ 2, at 7 „
„ ,, ... Monday, „ 3, at 7.30 „
Mb. W. G. Simpson:—
•f The Existence of God
as Illustrated by Poets” Sunday, July 9, at 7 p.m.
Me. Wkstgaeth :—
“ Inspirational Address ” Sunday, July 16, at 7 p.m.
Mb. Thomas Pattison:—
“ Swedenborg's Heaven
and Hell ”   Sunday, July 23, at 7 p.m.
Mb. Jorn Mould:—
“Conflictbetween Science
and Religion ” ... Sunday, July 30, at 7 p.m.
Admission Free. Collection at the close.
NEWCASTLE SPIRITUALISTS’ SOCIETY.
A PICNIC
Under the auspices of the above Society (in aid of the fund
for re-decorating their Lecture Hall) will be held in the
GROUNDS of Mr. W. R. Armstrong, at HIGH-CROSS
LODGE, BENWELL, on Monday afternoon, August 7th, 1876
(Bank Holiday). Tea will be provided in the Grounds at 5
o’clock.
Tickets, including admission and tea, Is. 6d. each, may be had at
Mr. JS. J. Blake’s, Grainger-street. For admission to grounds
only, 6d. each, pay at gate; children, 6d. each.
In the Evening a
TRANCE ADDRESS
Will be delivered by Mr. J. J. MORSE, of London, under the
Trees, (subject to be announced), at the close of which a collec¬
tion will be made.
A cordial invitation to all.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances, &c.: Sundays, Healing, at 11 a m.,
Service at 7 p.m. Tuesday, Seance at 8 p.m.; Is. Friday, Seance at
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class at
8 p.m.; subscribers only.
11
THE SPIKITUALIST,
July 21, 1876,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION ON .
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-aquare.West Brompton, S.AV.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex^
N.W.
Eltz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambi-idge-stroet, Hyde-park, 'W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W-
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hlil, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, WiUiam, M.K.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington.sq.„
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, War wick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry 1)., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C. ' _
Ramsay, Mrs., 40, Bryanston-square, IV.
Rogers, E. D., Rose-villa, Church-cnd, Finchley,N.W
Smith, Martin it., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Tempieman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
' road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-builcllngs, Liverpool.
, Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binncy, F. A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, AY.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thosy 11, Belle Yue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth,
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall, Richmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K., Nightingale Hall,Itichmond-hlU.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Orosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath; S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, AY.
Dodd, J. 1'., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Liliau-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.AY.
Fitton, It, 34, AYalnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Oerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.AY.
Fltz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.I)., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Hook, C. T„ Snodiands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-erescent, AVestbourne-square, AY.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, 11. T., 3, AYest-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, AY.
Joy, Algernon, M.I C.E , Junior United Service Club, S.AY.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Baysivater, AY.
Lament, John, 199,.London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell,-Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. Jolm’s-wood, N.W.
Mansell, F. W.. The Hawthorns, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place, AY.
Mawson, AYm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
road,S E
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, South Ken- .
sington, S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G.N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Stock, St. George AY., M.A., St. Paul’s.College, Stony Stratford.
Tapp, G. It., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackhealh, S.E.
Tredwen, It. Pomeroy, 40, CIaverton-street, Pimlico, S. vY.
AYalhouse, M.J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
AAredgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, AY.
AVJjite, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
AV||son, D. II. iM.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S W., and 8, Altenburg-terrace,Clapham Junction, S.AY.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswatej:, W.
AVithall, Miss H., 1, 'I he Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
AVlthall, 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
AVood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.AY.
1 Honorary Treasurer.
Martin It. Smith, Esq., Heatblands, AVimbledon-common, S.W.
Mr. J. H. Andre.
Auditors.
Mr. H. Cook. 1
Resident Secretary.
Mr. Morell Theobald.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Nieder AValluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden.
Ahmed Itassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha aBahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Yon A’ay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Gregor C. AVittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
General Don Joaquim Bassols aMaranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmleld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co„New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea. East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyermah, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. AYittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse, 35, Gartenhaus,
Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Ley marie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
- -U.S.A. . . -
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson,Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
AY- L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street. Phlladelplua.U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., 5, Rue de la Terrasse, Paris,
j Rev. Samuel AYatson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
,i Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
|j M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
1 M. A. Antheime Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
j Brussels.
j Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels,
j Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
j Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de I'Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. AY. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Mrs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, AY.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Strath, Modling, 18, Bruhier-strasse, near Vienna.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—George Browne,
Esq., 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—-M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
' Esq.,r22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 28,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.- -
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi-
. dent—El Yisconde de Torres-Solanot.
THE LIYEEPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for Midsummer, 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M R.C.S.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs.
Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, Dr. Hitchman, Mr. Richard Nos¬
worthy, Mr. Vaughn, Mr. John Lamont, and Mr. Meredith.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charlton, and Mr. Vaughn.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
I.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
instruction, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
July, 1876.
STRANGE YISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Oolby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
npHE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
X GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having, now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the liierature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row. i
Just Published.' Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
Loudon Simpkin, MarshaI'Ii & Co.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
TO HER MAJESTY’S
MILITARY AND NAYAL FORCES,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK
LONDON, N.W.
THE DUPLEX FUNERAL CAR,
With silvered floral ornaments, violet mouldings, &c., used
(open or closed) at funerals conducted in accordance with the
views of Spiritualists, by
S. HATOHARD AND CO.,
Furnishing Undertakers, Carriage Proprietors, &o.
Chief Office: 47, Crawford street, Bryanston
Square, W,
Personal attendance at any address on receipt of letter or
telegram.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to fi p.m.
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenings (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
'RS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE, HEALING,
AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing, Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship French spoken. At
home Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays.
Private Seances attended. Address 90, Great Eussell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.O.
Notice.—Physical seances, with first-class mediums, held on
Thursday and Saturday evenings of each week. Admission
on Saturdays by special invitation; on Thursdays by introduc¬
tion. No one admitted after eight, o’clock. Fee, Js. Mrs..
Woodforde is also open to engagements for private physicaT
seances at her own residence; previous notice required; fees
upon arrangement with medium.
JT. RHODES, MEDIUM, is willing to help
• in the formation of Private Circles, and give every
information to Inquirers, within a radius of twenty miles of
Newcastle. Address, 30, Tynemouth-road, Newcastle-on-
Tyne.
TSS CHANDOS eradicates Consumption,
Cancer, Insanity, Dypsomania, Nervous and Infantile
Diseases. £1 per visit (within three miles), including specifics.
By post, monthly, £2 2s.
Full instructions in Mesmerism and Electro-biology, postal
and private, 17, Brunswick square, W.O.
SPIRITUAL HEALING.
RS. OLIYE has a FREE SEANCE fox
the above on Mondays, 11 a.m. Treatment by clair¬
voyant. Prescribing and spirit mesmerism. Many have been
cured or relieved. Testimonials may be seen. Test medium-'
ship by trance and writing. Development and other phases as
usual. Public Seances at 7 p.m. Tuesdays, and 3 p.m. Fridays.
Admission, 2s. 6d. Private consultations should be previously
arranged, hut Mrs. Olive is generally at home from 1 to 4 p.m.
15, Ainger-terrace, King Henry’s-road, N.W. (close to Chalk
Farm Station).
R. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
R. WILLIE EGLINTON, MEDIUM,
can be engaged for seances, morning or evening. Ad¬
dress, Mr. Willie Eglinton, St. James’s House, Waltham¬
stow.
LOTTIE FOWLER, the Great
American Somnambuli it, Spiritual Clairvoyante, and
Test Medium, whose reputation is well-known throughout
Europe and America. Horn s, 1 till 8 p.m. Terms, one guinea.
Physical seances for Spiritualists only on Thursday and Saturday
evenings at 8 o’clock, 5s. Miss Fowler does not reply to
correspondence, nor see visitors on Sunday. Address—2,
Yernon-place, Bloomsbury-square, London, W.O.
RS. BURKE is about to hold PUBLIC
SEANCES at her Boarding House for Spiritualists every
Friday evening at 8o’clock; to commence on Friday, tne 35th
inst. E. W. Wallis, medium for trance communications. Other
seances are in process of arrangement. Fee, 2s. 6d.
A seance lor refined physical manifestations, with a first-class
medium, will be held on the Wednesday evenings of each
week, for a few weeks only. Fee 5s.
PROFESSOR JAMES REGAN, Psychopathic
Healer, 37, Hart-street, Bloomsbury-square, London,
W.C,
Attendance given personally from 12 to 4 daily, Saturdays
excepted. No attenoauce given on that day. Terms in ac¬
cordance with patient’s means. Patients attended at their
own residences by appointment.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Psychopathic institution for the
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6d.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
A LADY of Culture, having passed a hospital,
is anxious to obtain an engagement as MONTBLY
NURSE, where no menial work is required. Reference to
Medical man. Terms five guineas a month, or according to
circumstances. Apply to the Secretary, Briti-h National
Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
WANTED by a Young Lady a situation as
COMPANION to a Lady Medium and Clairvoyant.
Would not object to trance.—T.Y., 16, Stafford-street, Maryle-
bone-road, W.
mo LET, FURNISHED, a Pretty Semi-
I detached Villa, with drawing, dining, and fine bedrooms
and dressing-room, kitchen, scullery, beer-closet, and pantry ;
water up and down stairs; bed and table linen and plate. 6$
guineas a week for four, months. References given and re¬
quired. A. B., Post-office, Sandown, Isle of Wight,
jL \ttmb xit ||| ntfo 0
VotU/4E E^HT. Kumber Twenty-nijme/
LONDON, FRIDAY, JULY 21st, 1876.
SPIRITUALISM AND SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH.
Professor Wagner has published in the St. Petersburg j
Journal a severe critical reply to the report of the Eussian j
Scientific Committee on Spiritual Phenomena, in vindication | ?
—to use his own words—of the truth which they have de- ||
graded, and of a lady whose good name they have assailed.” j (
After detailing the manner in which the committee dealt j
with the phenomena which really took place in their presence, j)
Professor Wagner proceeds to give the reasons why more \l
did not occur. He says : “ In order to procure strong medial j j
phenomena, only one spiritual {psyckische) condition is j)
necessary, namely, that those present should desire to see j]
them, and to observe in what manner they occur. The ||
members of the committee, on the contrary, wished posi- jf
tively that the phenomena should not occur.” Still, they j
witnessed a few. In conclusion, Professor Wagner expresses j
his conviction of the importance of a speedy, thorough, |
scientific investigation of the subject, and his belief that ere j j
long societies will be formed whose whole time it will occupy j (
during the lapse of many years. . 1)
Professor Wagner has not overrated the importance of the ! |
part which science has yet to take up towards this matter, j |
and no doubt he will hail with gladness the recent formation j j
of an Experimental Kesearch Committee by the British
National Association of Spiritualists as a step in the right j <
direction. That committee has already admitted the principle | j
that, while endeavouring to seek and impose tests which shall j j
be unassailable by the sceptic, they can only do so success- | \
fully while giving the medium such conditions as will allow j
full play to the manifestations; in other words, that they j
must comply with the laws and conditions which govern the |
phenomena, and under which they can best be produced, in- i |
stead of trying to force their own chosen manifestations j
under conditions which they may think proper to impose, j
and which the spirits may not choose to give when they I
are able. j
CL AIR AUDIENCE.* j
i)
BY EUGENE CROWELL, M.D. ! (
“ And he fell to the earth, and heard a voice saying unto him: Saul, Saul, why per- i (
secutest thou me? . . . And the men which journeyed with him stood speechless, hearing j (
a voice, but seeing no man.”—Acts is. 4, 7. j )
The natural or material sense of hearing is not the means j
by which spirit-voices are ordinarily heard. In the presence j
of mediums possessing powers or qualities which spirits can j
avail themselves of for the purpose of materialising more or j
less perfectly their organs of speech, their voices are com- j j
monly heard with the natural organs of hearing, and it is j
probable that Saul, unknown to himself, was a medium of j
this description, and that Jesus—then a spirit—availed him- j
self of the mediumship of the former to cause his voice to be j
heard, not only by Saul, but by the men who journeyed with j
him. Speech was here effected in the ordinary manner, the j
atmosphere being the medium of transmission of sound to I \
the natural ears of Saul and his companions. j j
It is thus that spirits vocally communicate at Moravia, in 11
the presence of Mrs. Hollis, of Louisville, of Mr. Mott, of 11
Missouri, the Eddy brothers, and others. Hearing spirit- j
voices independently of the agency of mediums—with the j)
spiritual sense of hearing—implies a higher development or j v
preponderance of the spiritual faculty; but this is less 11
uncommon than is generally supposed, though perhaps in a |)
majority of instances, where the faculty is developed, its j
exercise is without results, from want of knowledge of its true j
character. There are those who, interposing no obstacle to j
the natural and successful exercise of this faculty, have it |
developed to such an extent that, as Whittier expresses it: |
* From Primitive Christianity andModern Spiritualism, Yol. 2. iu
“ Himself to nature’s heart so near,
That all her voices in his ear
Of beast, or bird, had meanings clear.”
They grow into closer rapport, not only with disembodied
human spirits, but with the spiritual world, and necessarily
with spiritual influences that pervade all nature.
Narrations of cases of clairaudience are freely scattered
through the Bible. It was a heavenly voice that bore testi¬
mony to the pure character and divine teachings of Jesus,
when He and the three apostles were on the Mount of Trans¬
figuration.
“And behold, there appeared unto them Moses and Elias talking with Him.
... And behold, a voice out of the cloud, which said: This is my beloved
Son, in whom I am well pleased; hear ye Him.”—Matt, xvii. 3, 5.
John the Eevelator says :
“ I was in the spirit on the Lord’s day, and heard behind me a great voice
as of a trumpet ”—Rev, i. 10.
And the prophet Samuel was told by u the Lord V of the
coming of Saul, and instructed what to do.
“ Now the Lord had told Samuel in his ear a day before Saul came, saying,’
&c.—1 Sam, ix. 15, 16.
Just as the approach of certain persons is now often made
known to mediums.
Job, as related in chapter iv. 12 to 16, was addressed in
the night by a spirit that passed before his face; and of the
Israelites, David in Psalm xcix. 7, says :
v He spake unto them in a cloudy pillar.”
In this instance, as in the case of Saul, the organs of
speech of the spirit must have been materialised, for a mul¬
titude seems to have heard his words.
Then again Samuel, when a child, heard the voice of a
spirit, which the priest Eli mistook for that of God, calling
him by night. See 1 Sam. iii. Peter, as related in Acts x.
19, was also addressed by a spirit:
“ While Peter thought on the vision the spirit said unto him,” &c.
I have here substituted a small “ s ” for a capital a S ” in
the word Spirit, in the above passage, and with this change
of form of letter we have a definite statement of a human
spirit announcing the approach of three men to Peter, as
spirits have announced the visits of persons to me ; only in
my case it was through mediums that the announcements
were made, and in one instance, in my presence, the visit of
a person on a certain day was announced, it being supposed
at that time that he was three thousand miles distant. On
the designated day he entered my house, where his wife was
visiting, to the amazement of us all. This was through Mr.
Foster, to whom I had introduced the lady upon her request,
after I had related to her some of my experiences with him.
She had not the slightest expectation of her husband return¬
ing at that time.
SWEDENBORG ON CLAIRAUDIENCE.
Of hearing spirit-voices through the unsealing of the
spiritual faculty, Swedenborg, who is good authority upon
such questions, says in his Heaven and Hell:
7 The speech of an angel or a spirit with man is heard
as sonorously as the speech of a man with a man, yet it is
not heard by others who stand near, but by himself alone ;
the reason is because the speech of an angel or spirit flows
first into the man’s thought, and by an internal way into his
organ of hearing, and thus moves that from within; but the
speech of man with man flows first into the air, and by an
external way into his organ of hearing, and moves it from
without. Hence it is evident that the speech of an angel
and of a spirit with man is heard in man, and because it
equally moves the organs of hearing that it is also equally
Sonorous.”
And again, in Arcana Celestia, 4652, he says:
p What is the nature of the correspondence between the
338
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 21, 1876.
soul and the body, or between those things which are of the
spirit which is within man, and those which are of the body
which are out of him, may appear manifestly from the cor¬
respondence, influx, and communication of the thought and
apperception which are of the spirit, with the speech and
hearing which are of the body. The thought of a man
speaking is nothing but the speech of his spirit, and the'
apperception of speech is nothing but the hearing of his
spirit; thought when man speaks does not indeed appear to
him as speech, because it conjoins itself with the speech of
the body, and is in it, and apperception when man hears
does not appear otherwise than as hearing in the ear.
Thence it is that most people who have not reflected, do not
know otherwise than that all sense is in the organs which
are of the body, and consequently that when those organs
fall to decay by death nothing of sense survives, when yet
man, that is, his spirit then comes into his veriest sensitive life,
that it is the spirit which speaks, and which hears, was
made manifest to me from conversations with spirits. Their
speech communicated to my spirit fell into my interior
speech, and thence into the corresponding organs, and there
terminated in an effort closed into a conatus, which occa¬
sionally I have manifestly perceived. Hence their speech
was heard by me as sonorously as the speech of man. At
times when spirits have spoken with me in the midst of a
company of men, some of them have supposed because their
speech was heard so sonorously, that they would be heard
also by those who were there present; but reply was made
that it is not so, inasmuch as their speech flowed into my
ear by an internal way, and human speech by an external
way. Hence it is evident how the spirit spake with the
prophets, not as man with man, but as a spirit with a man,
namely, in him. Zech. i. 9, 13; chap. ii. 2, 7 : chap. i. 4, 5 ;
chap. v. 5,10; chap. vi. 4, and in other places. But I know
that these things cannot be comprehended by those who
do not believe that man is a spirit, and that the body serves
him for uses in the world ; they who have confirmed them¬
selves in this are not indeed willing to hear of any corre¬
spondence, ' and if they hear, inasmuch as they are in the
negative principle, they reject, yea, they are also made sad
that.anything is taken away from the body.”
And the following remarks, taken from the A. C., 1634,
of Swedenborg, apply equally well to the same error now
prevailing as to heaven having once been open, .but being
now closed.
11 It is known from the word of the Lord that many persons
formerly conversed with angels and spirits, and that they
heard and saw many things which exist in the other life, but
that afterwards heaven was, as it were, shut up, insomuch
that at this day it is scarcely believed that spirits and angels
exist, still less that any one can converse with them, from
an idea that it is impossible to converse with those who are
invisible, and whom in their heart they deny. But whereas
by the divine mercy of the Lord it has been granted me now
for some years, almost continually, to hold discourse with
spirits and angels, and to be in their company as one of
them, it is permitted me to relate what it has been given me
to know concerning their speech among themselves.”
Fortunately this prevalent unbelief in spirit presence, and
in the pervading presence of the spirit world, does not affect
their reality, and millions of converts to the belief in their
existence are in perfect accord with Henry Ward Beecher,
when he says: “ I doubt not that every day there are
choral praises unto God over our heads; and who hears
them ? I believe that there are near to us that which would
be equal to the Mount of Transfiguration; but who sees
them! ”
THE CLAIRAUDIENCE OP COWPER.
The biographer of the poet Cowper asserts that “the
most important events of Cowper’s latter years were audibly
announced to him before they occurred. We find him writing
of Mrs. Unwin’s approaching and sudden death when her
health, although feeble, was not such as to occasion alarm.
His lucid intervals, and the return of his disorder, were
announced to him in the same remarkable manner.”
There are persons whose natural sense of hearing is in
such perfection that it would seem to be blended with the
spiritual faculty. Of such a one the Hartford Post, of
! jj October 2, 1872, relates the following story, which illustrates
i j my meaning :
a One of the most remarkable illustrations of the power
! | which a telegraphic operator acquires to distinguish indi-
| | viduals by their touch upon the instrument, has just been
! | afforded by Mr. Hempstead, one of the operators in the
|)| Western Union Telegraph Company’s offi.ce in this city.
I { About a fortnight ago Mike W. Sherman, formerly an
| ] expert and well-known telegraph operator here, escaped
j j from the Middleton Insane Asylum, where he has been con-
j | fined, and though thorough search was made for him, he
l|j successfully eluded the people who were on his track until
| i Monday night. While Hempstead was at work in the office
| j here that night, he suddenly recognised among the clatter
I | of a score of messages passing over the wire a sound which
| | he at once declared was the touch of the missing Mike. It
| | proved to be a message from Wallingford, and an investiga-
| j tion showed that Mr. Hempstead was quite right in ascribing
I jj it to the insane man, who was found there yesterday, he
| | having dropped into the office in the former place Monday
I I night and taken a hand at his old business.”
i !
!(! THE VOICES OF SPIRITS.
The voices of spirits, when issued from materialised vocal
j >| organs, do not generally closely resemble their former natural
| ! voices; at least I never have been able to recognise any
jj|. marked resemblance, and the proofs of identity I have had
| | to seek in other evidence. Whether similarity in tone,
I | accent, and mode of expression generally characterises voices
| | heard clairaudiently I am unable to say, as very little, if any,
j I attention appears to have been given to this question by
I'j narrators, and my own experience has been limited to a few
I instances in which my spiritual ear has been opened to the
|j hearing of spirit voices, and in these instances the spirits
| who were presumed to speak had passed away in early
| childhood, and when they thus manifested they must have
| | attained the maturity of man and womanhood in spirit life.
| |j The voices were soft and low, and expressive of kindness
| | and affection not in anywise different from the voices of
j mortal friends. I here speak of voices clairaudiently heard,
| not of voices naturally heard in presence of mediums.
| ( A TOUCHING STORY.
| | Mr. Owen, in his Footfalls^ &c., p. 459, quotes from a
| j work on the Supernatural, by Rev. Dr. Edwards, a very
| | touching story of a spirit child addressing words of con-
| | solation and assurance to its bereaved mother, and with
I | such effect that the tearful eyes were made to sparkle with
j j joy, from the suddenly acquired faith in the presence,
| j safety, and happiness of the child whose absence (or, per-
| | haps, it would be more correct to say whose loss) she
| | mourned. Mr. Owen says:—“He (Rev. Dr. Edwards)
|j| communicates it in the shape of an extract of a letter from
|j| an enlightened and learned divine in the North of Germany,
f | The incident occurred, he tells us at Levin, a village be-
i jj longing to the Duchy of Mecklenburg, not far from Demmin,
| | in Prussian Pomerania, on the Sunday before Michaelmas,
|jj in the year 1759. The extract referred to is as follows:—
| i “ I will now in conclusion mention to you a very edifying
ij] story of an apparition, for the truth of which I can vouch
| I with all that is dear to me. My late mother, a pattern of
| j true piety, and a woman who was regular in prayer, lost,
| | quite unexpectedly, after a short illness arising from a sore
j j throat, my younger sister, a girl of about fourteen years of
I j age. Now, as during her illness she had not spoken much
I j with her on spiritual subjects, by no means supposing her
| I end so near (although my father had done so), she reproached
jj| and grieved herself most profoundly, not only on this ac-
jjl count, but also for not having sufficiently nursed and
j I attended upon her, or for having neglected something that
j I might have brought on her death. This feeling took so
HI much hold on her that she not only altered much in her
ijl appearance from loss of appetite, but became so monosyllabic
I j in speaking that she never expressed herself except on being
I I interrogated. She still, however continued to pray diligently
ijj in her chamber. Being already grown up at the time, I
I i spoke with my father respecting her, and asked him what
I I was to be done, and how my good mother could be com-
ijl forted. He shrugged his shoulders and gave me to under-
|j| stand that unless God interposed he feared the worst.
“ Now it happened some days after, when we were all one
Sunday morning at church, with the exception of my mother,
who remained at home, that on rising up from prayer in her
closet, she heard a noise as though some one was with her
in the room. On looking about to ascertain whence the
noise proceeded, something took hold of her invisibly, and
pressed her firmly to it as if she had been embraced by
some one, and the same moment she heard—without seeing
anything whatever—very distinctly the voice of her departed
daughter, saying quite plainly to her, Mamma, Mamma,
I am so happy; I am so happy. Immediately after these
words the pressure subsided, and my mother felt and heard
nothing more. But a wished-for change did we all perceive
in our dear mother on coming home. She had regained her
speech and former cheerfulness, she ate and drank, and re¬
joiced with us at the mercy which the Lord had bestowed
upon her; nor during her whole life did she ever notice
again with grief the great loss which she had suffered from
the decease of this excellent daughter.”
And not only sweet utterances, whispered by angel lips,
often fall upon the clairaudient ear, but strains of celestial
music sometimes are reflected upon and charm the senses,
and give a foretaste of the sublime harmonies of the spirit
world, as heard and appreciated by glorified spirits.
SENSATIONS OF A CLAIRAUDIENT PERSON.
I will here relate an incident that occurred to me, an
incident which many may consider of so trivial a character
as to be unworthy of recital; but unimportant as it may
seem it nestles amid the flowers of memory, and it is never
recalled without shedding a tender influence over my mind.
On the morning of Sept. 23, 1872, as I was waking, I
heard and felt some one blow into my ear. I was aroused
by the occurrence, but felt impressed to remain quiet. In a
moment the name Eugene—being that of my eldest de¬
ceased son—was clearly whispered, and the next moment a
hand clasped mine, and in the most affectionate manner re¬
peatedly and in different ways pressed it. I returned the
pressure perhaps an equal number of times, and the sense of
materiality was perfect. The hand appeared to be that of an
adult.
I noticed, and reflected upon all that occurred as sensibly
as I ordinarily do, and comprehended the meaning clearly,
and fully realised that a perfectly passive state on my part
was necessary to the success of the attempt to thus manifest.
I also knew from the manner in which the name was intoned
that it was my son’s, and not my own, and this conviction
was confirmed by the natural, yet indescribable way in
which my hand was clasped immediately after the utterance
of the name.
SPIRITS CANNOT ALWAYS HEAR US.
It may here be proper to say something respecting the
power of spirits to hear our conversation, as there are erro¬
neous views prevalent, even among Spiritualists, upon this
question.
I have devoted considerable time and attention to this
subject, and as the result I find that most spirits, unless on
low planes, cannot distinctly hear us converse ; they more
generally perceive our thoughts ; while, on the contrary,
spirits on the lower planes cannot read our thoughts, but can
more readily hear our conversation.
Old John and Big Bear say their ability to hear mortal
voices (when not in control) varies in every house they visit.
In my house they can understand our conversation best when
a certain member of my family is present, and they can else¬
where hear best when some person present is mediumistic.
In the presence of their medium they can always hear dis¬
tinctly what is said by others. When they are in control of
the medium they cannot hear as well.
One evening Mr. S visited me, and while conversing
with him in my library I felt upon my head the usual signal
of the presence of a spirit friend, and thinking it'might be
Mrs. S  (my sister-in-law Kate), I addressed her in a
clear, full voice, requesting her to meet her husband the next
day at a certain photograph gallery for the purpose of ob¬
taining her likeness on a plate with his.
The next day, Dr. Kenney visiting me, Old John con¬
trolled him and said Big Bear, Mrs. 0 and others were
present. I inquired of Mrs. S whether she had met her
husband as I had requested. She replied that she knew
nothing of such request. I asked if she had not been pre¬
sent the previous evening when her husband and I were
engaged in conversation, and I had addressed her, requesting
her to meet him. She replied yes, she was present, but
heard nothing of this beyond my mention of her name. Big
Bear said he also was present, and heard me speaking to
Mrs. S , and from what he could understand thought an
appointment was intended for some purpose, but could not
comprehend more than this.
Other of my spirit friends then engaged in the conversa¬
tion, and said that ordinarily it is with difficulty they can
hear us converse and read our thoughts, and we appear like
apparitions to them, they only dimly perceiving our material
bodies, and not perceiving our spiritual bodies at all, but in
the presence of a good medium they can plainly hear us
converse, and see us nearly as we appear to each other, and
can then generally read our thoughts without difficulty.
They perceive all material objects very imperfectly apart
from a good medium, and even with this assistance they see
clearly only in his immediate vicinity. They assured me
they cannot read a word of a written page, or print of ordi¬
nary size, unless by the aid of a medium.
My father corroborated this testimony, and added that
when we were apart from a medium he could often detect
the meaning of certain words or sentences, and his ability
to understand us was greatly influenced and determined by
the conditions of our atmosphere. He can hear us best in
mild, clear weather. Sometimes in bleak, boisterous weather
he cannot hear a word we utter. He depended more upon
reading our minds, but even this is not always possible. He
also said that although they encounter these difficulties, as
most spirits do, there are certain spirits who can both hear
us speak and read our minds, perhaps at all times; but such
spirits are especially endowed.
Through other reliable mediums what is here stated has
been confirmed. It will no doubt startle others, as it did
me, to hear it asserted that spirits cannot perceive our
spiritual bodies, and it was some time, and only after
thorough investigation, before I accepted the assertion as
truthful, it being at variance with my preconceived opinions,
and I hope others will further pursue this investigation.
Another fact, perhaps equally interesting, I am able to
state, which is that spirits at all advanced have great diffi¬
culty in conversing with each other in our earthly atmo¬
sphere. They often are able to utter but a few sentences, or
even words, when their voices sink to whispers, and then
utterly fail them. Those who are in the habit of visiting
our earth can converse with each other more readily than
those who are not, and as it is with them in hearing our
conversation, their ability to converse with each other is
influenced by atmospheric conditions, and in the presence of
a good medium they can converse more easily than in his
absence.
Public physical and trance seances are now given regularly at Mrs.
Burke’s, 8, Upper Bedford-place, W.C.
The Chinamen in California, in the expectation of being driven from
the country, are sending home the remains of their dead. In cases
where only the bones are left, scrupulous care is taken :to miss none, as
they believe that to leave one behind would imperil the soul of the dead
person. A paper is spread by the grave, and upon it the skeleton is
laid, piece by piece, until it is complete.
Marvellous Disappearance of Pigtails.—A recent number of the
North China Herald says:—The phantasy that has been lately preva¬
lent in the cities of Soochow-Chinkiang, Yangchow, and Nanking,
touching the pranks of mischievous sprites, who have taken to cutting
off the lieges’ tails, has spread to Shanghai. The sprites are of paper,
cut by magicians to resemble the human figure, and despatched after
certain incantations to create annoyance. On this occasion they have
been directed to cut the queues of numerous persons in large cities.
They always presage trouble in the State. As an instance of the ex¬
citement which the tail-cutting mania is causing among the Chinese, we
may mention that the circulation of the Shenpao has increased by
several hundreds since it began. One man relates that he was walking
near the North Gate, and suddenly he heard a sound as rushing wind,
when lo ! his tail was gone. Another case related is of a child who went
out to play, when in a moment his tail was gone, and he came home
crying to relate his loss. However all this may be, there is no doubt
that a number of tails do get cut off, and that great alarm exists in
consequence. What heightens the panic is a saying that a man only
lives one hundred days after the catastrophe has happened to hun«
July 21, 18f6. THE SBlklTUALIST. 339
340
THE SPIRITUALIST,
July 21, 1876.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING OP THE COUNCIL.
On Tuesday, last week, the usual monthly meeting of the Council of
the British National Association of Spiritualists was held at 38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.C., under the presidency of Mr. Alexander
Calder. There were also present Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. and Mrs.
Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. Makdougall-Gregory, the Rev. W. W.
Newbould, Mr. R. Pearce, Mr. E. P. Ashton, Mr. Morell Theobald,
Mr. T. H. Edmands, Mr. D. H. Wilson, Mr. E. T. Bennett, Mr. E. D.
Rogers, Miss Houghton, Mr. Gray, and Mr. Glendinning.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed.
The following were then elected ordinary members of the Associa¬
tion :—Mr. A. B. Kitchener, Mr. Henry Hales, Signor Enrico Rondi,
Miss Mary Mackay, Mrs. G. Weldon, and Mrs. Green. Mr. G. W. F.
Wiese, of Wiesbaden, was elected an ordinary foreign member.
Mr. Dawson Rogers said that there had been a suggestion afloat that
no honorary secretary should be appointed; also, that he had a personal
feeling against Mr. Joy. He had, therefore, much pleasure in asking
that the Council should show some respect to Mr. Joy, whom he
believed to be a gentlemanly member, who had given time and trouble
to the work of the Association, both on the Council and elsewhere.
The Council had unanimously decided that it was best there should be
no honorary secretary. He, therefore, proposed that Mr. Joy should be
appointed a vice-president.
Miss Houghton seconded this, and it was passed unanimously.
Mr. Rogers said that he was glad that the Council had done a good
deed in less than five minutes, without a month’s notice.
Mr. Fitz-Gerald said that he thought that Mr. Rogers made a
mistake in saying that the Council had unanimously done away with
the honorary-secretaryship of Mr. Joy, because—
Mr. Rogers: I protest against Mr. Fitz-Gerald speaking. This is not
in order.
Mr. Fitz-Gerald: No vote was taken for the dispensing with the ser¬
vices of Mr. Joy; and I, for one, should have voted against it. I
think that my protest against the inaccurate statement just made should
be regarded.
Mr. Rogers read the names of the proposed members of the Com¬
mittees for the ensuing year; he said that as he read them they
would be put, and the members could propose any additions or
alterations they pleased. Mrs. Everitt had declined to serve on any
committee, and he had had no reply from Mr. Everitt on the point.
He then read the following list:—
Offices and House Committee: Mr. Joy, Mrs. Maltby, Mr. Calder, Mrs. D.
Fitz-Gerald, Mr. E. T. Bennett, and Mr. E. D. Rogers.
Soiree Committee: Miss Withall, Mrs. D. Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. Maltby, Mr.
Edmands, Mrs. Edmands, and Mr. E. D. Rogers.
Library Committee: Mr. W. Newbould, Dr. Carter Blake, Mr. D. Fitz¬
Gerald, and Mr. E. D. Rogers.
Seance Committee; Mr. G. R. Tapp, Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, Dr. Keningale
Cook, Mr. H. Withall, and Mr. Edmands.
Finance Committee; Mr. Morell Theobald, Mr. Martin R. Smith, and Mr.
A. Calder.
Prize Essay Committee: Mr. Martin R. Smith, Mr. E. D. Rogers, and Dr.
Keningale Cook.
Correspondence Committee: Mr. Martin R. Smith, Mr. A. Calder, Mr. E. D.
Rogers, and Mr. E. T. Bennett.
'1 he Experimental Research Committee would remain as lately appointed.
Mr. Morell Theobald then read the report of the Finance Com¬
mittee, which showed a balance in hand of ,£'102 6s. 5d., and recom¬
mended payments amounting to Is. 6d., including rent. The
outstanding liabilities of the Association were estimated at £5.
Mr. E. T. Bennett remarked that the members of the National
Association of Spiritualists were indebted to Mr. Martin R. Smith
for the presentation copies of the Prize Essays. He moved that a
vote of thanks of the members of the Association be presented to
Mr. Martin Smith for his generosity.
The Chairman said that the cost of the books had been about
£58, and that Mr. Martin Smith had guaranteed the Association
against loss on their sale. The members of the Association should,
therefore, try to assist the sale, and the booksellers perhaps would do
something.
A special vote of thanks was given to Mr. Whitear for the large
number of valuable books which he had presented to the library of the
Association. A vote of thanks was passed to Mrs. Hallock for the pre¬
sentation of books, also to Mr. Wilson for the loan of a large number of
valuable works,
The Secretary announced the presentation of the cast of a spirit child’s
hand by Mr. Eglinton, and of some photographs by Mr. Collen.
Mr. Fitz-Gerald suggested that a vote of thanks for these should be
deferred, until inquiry had been made into all the conditions under
which they had been obtained. The Council should first know their
value and understand their nature.
Mr. Rogers remarked that it had been said that Miss Kislingbury had
had “ the offensive question publicly, unnecessarily, and illegally raised
at a Council meeting, as to whether she was to be permitted to retain
her appointment.” He had never heard of anything of the sort at any
of the Council meetings. He had never heard a breath to that effect;
but now that the matter had been mooted, he moved that she be dis¬
pensed with altogether by giving her a month’s holiday. She had
worked hard, and although she and he had not always put their horses
together, he despaired of getting a better secretary. As Abraham
Lincoln once said, he did not want to quarrel with the ferryman until
he had reached the other side. He moved that she be granted a month’s
leave of absence from July 29th to August 28th.
This was seconded by Mr. Gray.
Mr. Rogers said that during the first fortnight of her absence he
|| believed that an efficient person could be found to take her place, and
during the second fortnight he moved that the rooms of the Association
be closed, it being a season in which there would probably be few appli-
j cations for admission.
| This was carried unanimously.
Mr. Rogers moved that the next ordinary meeting of the Council be
made a special one, for the purpose of revising the rules and constitu¬
tion of the Association, and putting right small discrepancies to be
i found therein. He said that any suggestions that anybody might wish
I to make on this head had better be sent in to the Council in the mean-
| (i time, and he had given in some himself.
|) i This was agreed to.
Mr. E. D. Rogers next remarked that he had to ask the Council to
|( | adopt another resolution, in regard to the press, in the place of that by
j )| Mr. Everitt, who was absent. In this matter he was in the hands of the
j( | Council, for except by consent of three-fourths of the Council, he could
! i not bring on his motion without a month’s notice. He wished to move
|) | “ That in consequence of the unsatisfactory reports which had been
I ( | published of the proceedings of the Council, the secretary be instructed
j | 1 to furnish reports, which shall be revised by the Correspondence Com-
j) | mittee, and sent to The Spiritualist, with a respectful request for
j( j insertion.”
Mr. Morell Theobald remarked that as it was a very important
i) | matter the Council ought to have a month’s notice to allow time to
j l | consider the question.
! j i Mr. Rogers stated that remarks had been made in the press about the
j) ! proceedings of the Council which were absolutely without foundation,
i ( i and that its intentions had been actually misrepresented ; if this matter
i | i stood over they would run the same risk again. He knew that this step
| / | had Mr. Martin Smith’s approval.
| ( I Mr. Gray: You must give your reasons for what you say.
Mr. Morell Theobald said that there was a grievance, but that time
j) i should be given to consider the question.
Mr. Rogers remarked that if they did not consider it at once, he
j) | should decline to come to any Council meeting until it was settled.
|) | Mr. E. T. Bennett said that he thought the matter was urgent, and
i \ | that the more rapidly it was decided the better.
j | j Mr. Rogers continued that he asked the Council that they should
| (i report by the secretary their own proceedings. He was too old a news-
j\ paper hand to enter into a controversy with any newspaper, knowing
|) ! that it was bad policy, for any person who did so was sure to get the
j( i worst of it. He wanted some plan by which he could have a fair
I (| statement of what took place laid before the public. He had never
|) i raised the question about the continuation of the appointment of Miss
i Kislingbury ; it might have been unintentional, but what had been said
and intended had been most grievously perverted. If anybody else
j there had had ideas put into their mouths of an unpleasant nature, and
; which had never entered their minds, they would feel that they wanted
a remedy. The secretary’s reports might be referred to the Corre-
| spondence Committee.
The Rev. W. W. Newbould remarked that Mr. Rogers had made his
] statement in such a way that he did not know what he meant, or what
his grievance was.
Mr. E. P. Ashton said that The Spiritualist newspaper was not their
property, consequently, they could not print reports in it. If any of the
reports were inaccurate, the remedy was to point out the inaccuracies.
| (j Mr. Glendinning thought that the duty of drawing up regular reports
1) I ought not to be thrust upon the secretary.
11 i Mr. Fitz-Gerald saw no objection to the proposition of Mr. Rogers,
I (i but, at the same time, did not see that it met any useful purpose. If a
i) | meagre report were sent in to The Spiritualist it would force the reporter
I (j to give one of a more ample nature. He thought that the remedy was
| \ | the admission of several reporters, as was the case at the House of
, ) | Commons, where the reports in various papers checked each other. He
| (| must say that whilst, on the one hand, the reporter could hardly fail to
11 j be a partisan, he was quite sure that if anything had been done in The
| /1 Spiritualist which required rectification, the rectification would be forth-
j j coming when any error was pointed out, as had always been the case,
j) | He was sure that any letter pointing out any inaccuracy would be put in
j} j if sent to that journal; but if the original statements were well-founded,
(j of course those who felt aggrieved were unable to send rectifications,
i j | He did not think that they could be in better hands than the editor of
j) i The Spiritualist, but that the more representatives of the press they had
K ji at their meetings the better.
j) | Mr. Glendinning asked, could The Spiritualist be requested to agree
K j; to submit its reports to the Council under some financial arrangement,
n | whereby the reports could be made official, and printed in that journal
|) | as coming from the Council ? Such contracts for the publication of
| (| authorised reports were sometimes entered into between public societies
i S j and newspapers.
j) j Mr. Rogers remarked that his motion had not been seconded,
ijj Mr. Fitz-Gerald moved that the Council permit Mr. Harrison to
fS | make any statement he pleased upon the subject matter before them,
i) | Mrs. Makdougall Gregory seconded this.
i < i Mr. Rogers said that he would oppose the proposition, because he
jS 1 would have to show how the reports had perverted what had taken
i/j place; indeed, nobody could read them without perceiving it. He would
jc I point out one instance. A criticism had been made upon a part of the
{j | proceedings, which part had not been reported, as in the instance of the
i; i remarks made about the abolition of the post of Mr. Joy, which had not
KI been recorded. If these questions were raised, every point must be
i) j answered. , He did not care what was said in articles; he only wanted
jh fiair reports... .
■ |y Mr. Bennett thought it would be unwise and unprecedented to adopt
j / \ Mr. Fitz-Gerald’s suggestions.
|)! Mr. Morell Theobald thought that the report was most mischievous,
1 and that the right plan was to request that it should be corrected.
July 21, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST. 311
Mr. Rogers contended that it had tended to damage their cha¬
racter and their honour in the eyes of their fellow-members.
Mr. Bennett seconded the motion of Mr. Rogers.
Mr. Fitz-(Jerald said that he did not see why the resolution should
not pass, as it was a very harmless one.
The Chairman suggested that the words u In consequence of the un¬
satisfactory reports which have been published,” be taken out of the
resolution.
This was done.
The Chairman then made a complimentary speech about The Spirit¬
ualist newspaper and its management, after which the resolution was
passed unanimously.
Mr. Rogers remarked that he had no ill-feeling towards Mr. Harrison.
Until they got into party questions he had seen no paper on Spiritualism
to compare with The Spiritualist.
The Council then adopted the recommendations of the Research
Committee, that all gifts of a scientific nature presented to the Associa¬
tion should be subjected to the examination of that committee before
they were placed on public view under the auspices of the Association.
The proceedings then closed.
THE COUNCIL OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS AND THE PRESS.
The internal business of the National Association of Spiritualists
is but indirectly connected with Spiritualism, consequently not much
space is given to the recording, and still less to the criticising, thereof
in these pages, but for historical purposes some details relating thereto
are published now and then to serve either as a guide or a warning
to organisations of the future. It is not a fact, as several Spiritualist
periodicals in all parts of the globe have asserted, that Spiritualists
cannot organise. Good organisation, as we have often stated, depends
wholly upon an advanced state of education and culture among those
who try to band together; intolerance, a censorious nature, and too
much self-assertion—in other words, want of gentle and retiring man¬
ners, are disintegrating elements in attempts at organisation.
The report of the meeting of the Council of the National Association
of Spiritualists, published on page 299 of The Spiritualist of June 23rd,
gave considerable dissatisfaction to Mr. Rogers and some of the mem¬
bers of the Council, in consequence of which a resolution was passed
at the last meeting (reported in the present number of The Spiritualist)
that the Council should draw up official reports of its own, and request
that they should be published in this journal.
The following letter has been sent to the Council on the subject
The Spiritualist Newspaper Office, July 18th, 1876.
Ladies and Gentlemen,—At the last meeting of the Council you resolved
to ask me to publish official reports of your proceedings, to be furnished by a
Committee of the Council, so that, in addition to the regular Spiritualist
report, another should be printed in the same journal about the same meeting.
The ground on which the publication of two records of the same meeting
has been thus requested, is that the report in The Spiritualist of June 23rd, page
299, contains “ misrepresentations,” is “ unsatisfactory,” and is a “ grievance.”
None of the speakers, however, pointed out a single inaccuracy, nor have I
been able to discover one, or to obtain precise information as to the existence of
a just cause of complaint. Further, I believe that the whole report is entirely
accurate.
On these grounds I respectfully ask the Council to point out in writing any
of the errors or misrepresentations alleged by Mr. Rogers to exist, and on
which you based the resolution passed without the usual one month’s notice.
If the report contains anything which is not accurate, the public ought in
the interests of truth, to have the error distinctly pointed out. If, on the
other hand, the report is entirely accurate, and Mr. Rogers and others are
unable to point out anything wrong, an unjust slur has been cast, and
it remains for you to say what you will do in reference to the censorious and
unchecked speeches made at the last meeting, also to say whether you intend
to adhere to the resolution founded upon Mr. Rogers’ assertions about inac-
curacies which do not exist.
I will print this letter in The Spiritualist weeks before you receive it, to
give members of your Council ample time to discover inaccuracies.
The report contains no opinions of the recorder'. It contains only resolu¬
tions passed by the Council, and speeches made by members of the Council—
nothing more. I assort that every remark reported was actually made ; that
every resolution recorded was actually passed; and that no member of the
Council can deny these points. Why then blame the reporter ?
Yours respectfully, William H. Harrison.
On looking through the report in the attempt to discover why Mr.
Rogers and some of the Council do not like it, the following appeared
to us to be the objectionable portions, to which we have added a word
or two within brackets
Mr. Rogers remarked that the paid secretary had now to be elected.
Mr. Morell Theobald said that he had never heard of anything of the kind
before in any public body. It was a thing that was never done. At the
time the rules of the National Association of Spiritualists were drawn up it
was not done.
Mr. Rogers said that the rules demanded it.
Dr. Gully doubted whether such a thing had ever been heard of anywhere
else, where the secretary was not a member of the Council, but as Mr.
Rogers said that the rules demanded it, time would be saved by compliance
therewith. He therefore moved that Miss Kislingbury bo re-appointed.
Miss Houghton seconded this, and it was carried unanimously.
* * # # #
Mr. Rogers said that when the paid secretary was re-appointed he had in¬
tended to move a rider, but had forgotten to do so,- therefore asked permission
to do so now. She had voted [N.B.—Against hini\ at the annual meeting, a
thing which he had never before known a secretary to do, so he moved, “ That
the Council deems it in the highest sense inexpedient that the secretary should
vote at any meeting of the Association.
A discussion followed—in which Messrs. Theobald, Gully, Everitt, and
Martin Smith took part—as to whether it was expedient that the seoretary
ill should exercise the right of voting possessed by her as a private membei of
I j the Association. The general idea was that it was inexpedient,
| j Mr. Glendinning said that the resolution, as worded by Mr. Rogers, would 1
]) be construed by the public as a vote of censure upon Miss Kislingbury, and
II this he was certain the Council did not intend.- He thought that Mr. Rogers '
j ( had better withdraw his motion, now that the secretary knew what the opinion ■
II j of the Council upon the subject was.
j Mr. Rogers demurred to this unless some reference to the discussion which
) 1 had taken place were entered on the minutes.
J | This latter suggestion was agreed to.
Naturally the Council do not like a record that a rule intended to
j | apply only to honorary officers was hastily applied to a paid officer,
|)| who was further re-elected without having ever been out of office,
j Secondly, that without the usual month’s notice the question of right
ill of voting was decided, and that all these moot points were settled in
) opposition to the customs which experience has taught to be good in
j! all old-established organisations. But if the Council, under the guidance
I i of Mr. Rogers, does such things, why blame the reporter ?
|j All of a sudden, without the month’s notice usually required before
j{ bringing on important business, or giving the absent members of the
|1| Council an opportunity of knowing what subjects were to be brought
|)j forward, the relations of the National Association of Spiritualists to
j{| the press were last week altered. , A “Correspondence Committee”
III has been appointed, consisting of Mr. Martin Smith, Mr. Alexander
j)| Calder, Mr. E. D. Rogers, and Mr. E. T. Bennett, in whose hands the
j j revising of the secretary’s official reports for the press will be left
j|| This committee also has the great power of deciding what correspond-
j) i ence sent in by the public to the Association shall be laid before the
jjl Council, what letters shall be summarised, and what communications
Iji shall not come before it at all. The committee is so unfairly consti-
] ! stuted as to threaten inharmony in the future. As Mr. Martin Smith
j ! pointed out, at a recent meeting of the Council, the Offices Committee
II j during the last year hassometimesbeen at variance with the whole Council.
! j Two of the members of the old Offices Committee—Mr. Rogers and Mr.
| | E. T. Bennett—have been placed upon the new Correspondence Com-
j | mittee, consisting of but four persons, so the two just mentioned, and
j) who in times past have been at variance with the Council, have suffi-
Ij cient power to nullify some of its behests in the present committee,
j Further, if, as is very probable, Mr. Martin Smith, from pressure of
H business, should frequently be unable to attend, those who have been
I j at variance with the Council will be in the majority on the Cor respond-
|| ence Committee, and be able to say what public correspondence shall
) | come before the Council and what shall not, and will be able to give
II their own version of the proceedings of the Council in public reports,
ji The probable danger of future inharmony does not end here. Mr.
j I Dawson Rogers visits the Rooms of the National Association almost
/1 daily, whilst the other members of the committee are almost constantly
j j away; therefore, as a member of the committee, he may have the right
ji to claim that he shall see all the correspondence from members and the
i | public sent in to the National Association, and to offer his advice
j thereupon to the secretary, in which respect he will find himself in the
1 ] former position of Mr. Joy, with the sole difference that he will not
i j possess the power (which Mr. Joy had) of answering the letters sent
j | in by the public. Everybody will agree that Mr. Joy is the right
| | man for such a post, and Miss Kislingbury—who, like himself, was
I | not consulted about the abolition of his post—-looks upon his removal
lj| as a loss. It is not a loss, perhaps, of such very great importance ;
jl the position was as a general rule merely ornamental, but in times of
! j difficulty, useful.
To return to the report published on June 23rd, the only point, we
|ji think, at all open to just criticism is the circumstance that we did not
I i record the speeches of Mr. Bennett and Mr. Rogers about the abolition
ill of Mr. Joy’s post. But that work only occupied a few minutes. Mr.
| | Bennett’s very fair argument was that having two secretaries was ob-
ili jectionable on account of divided responsibility, and in an article we
j|j mentioned that this argument had been brought forward, but omitted
iji to state that it was advanced by Mr. Bennett. Mr. Rogers merely
i i asserted that Mr. Joy was a partisan ; he did not produce the evidence
i | upon which he founded the charge, on the ground that he wished to
iji avoid personalities. Mr. Martin Smith was understood by many to
|j| say that Mr. Joy was a partisan, but he has since stated that he
iji only said or intended to say that “ Mr. Rogers and others alleged him
|ji to be a partisan.” That was all that took place. If we had printed
| | Mr. Rogers’ assertion, unsupported by proof, that Mr. Joy was a
iji partisan, it would have also necessitated our pointing out on what
|ji grounds we believed that charge to be based, namely, that when Mr.
|j| Rogers and one other member of the Association quietly collected so
iji many proxies that it was expected that they would have had the
|ji annual meeting and the whole of the National Association of
| | Spiritualists under their thumbs, Mr. Joy, as in duty bound, by
!j| word of mouth gave warning thereof to many Spiritualists, and not a
Iji few ladies and gentlemen came to the meeting at great inconvenience
!|i to themselves, in order to serve the public interests by voting to upset
|j| the electioneering manoeuvre. Their displeasure at the inconvenience
|j| to which they had been subjected was great, and was increased when
iji they found the time of the meeting so much occupied by personal
|j| charges emanating from the same source, the result being that some of
| | them have had under consideration whether they shall send in their
|j| resignations on the Council, or whether they shall hold on for a time
iji to see whether the ungentle and censorious line of action introduced by
I one or two members will die out. Before the last annual meeting, some of
ij| those who were interested in the proceedings acted upon the principle
|j| that it would be wrong to attempt to influence the election, ei'her by
iji asking or by thanking anybody for their proxies, and‘the valuable
| j | opinions of those who were working upon such an honourable basis,
| | were consequently in danger of being outvoted by those who canvassed
]j| for votes. Only a few days ago, when Sir E. Watkin complained to
July 21,1876.
M THE SPlUlTtJALIST.
the House of Commons that an unproved charge had been brought
against him of influencing legislation by canvassing for the votes of
members, “Mr. Disraeli said that ‘ private canvass’ was a very vague
phrase, but he thought that anything like a gross or obvious canvass for
votes in favour of a private bill was a practice which certainly ought
to be deprecated. It would be remembered that some few months ago,
when a similar question was brought before the House, the moral
feeling of the House manifested itself in no mistaken manner that it
disapproved such a custom.”
Mr. Joy, instead of being considered a partisan for upsetting
electioneering sharp practice against people unaccustomed to the idea of
such things, deserves the warmest thanks from the whole of the Associa¬
tion for nullifying the doings of the collectors of proxies, because if they
had succeeded in carrying out their own desires, another meeting would
have had to be called to reverse the plans of two individuals, and the
amount of consequent inharmony would have been incalculable. We
did not want to drag these things into print, believing that the strong
feeling raised at the annual meeting was alone strong enough to stop
such manoeuvres for the future ; but the forcing upon us the publication
of a letter, recording the charge of partisanship against Mr. Joy, made
it necessary to record that he merely did his inalienable duty.
Mr. Rogers means well, and does not act from low motives, despite his
aggressively censorious ways; at the same time it is our conscientious
opinion that in working so actively to abolish the post of Mr. Joy, also
in silently collecting proxies with a friend so as to nearly get the annual
meeting under their thumbs, likewise in forcing important motions upon
the Council without allowing the month’s notice thereof required by
the rules; lastly, in getting the Council to apply to a permanent officer a
rule intended only to apply to those who held honorary positions, he
has unintentionally not furthered, but somewhat damaged, the public
interests of the National Association. Further, if he should, in our
opinion, act against those interests in the future, we have no intention
either of being silenced or intimidated, but mean to point out on public
grounds anything which we believe to be to the detriment of a great
movement.
There are no dissensions of any importance on the Council of the
National Association, but the small ones that once existed called at last
for press criticism, after a long period of unexampled forbearance. Any
shades of grievances that remain are more of a sentimental than a real
nature, and are likely to be dissipated by weather too hot to permit con¬
tention. During the autumn everybody will have leisure to think over
the errors of the past, and to return to work in the winter wiser if
sadder men.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING OF THE EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCH COMMITTEE.
Last Monday evening a meeting of the Experimental Research
Committee of the National Association of Spiritualists was held at
38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, under the presidency of
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, member of the Society of Telegraphic Engi¬
neers. The other members of the committee present were Mr. D. H.
Wilson, M.A., Dr. Carter Blake, the Rev. W. W. Newbould, and Mr.
J. W. Gray.
Mr. W. H. Coffin, who was unable to attend, had sent in a plan sug¬
gested by the sub-committee for the ventilation of the seance-room, but
in his absence, and that of another member of the sub-committee, the
consideration of the subject was deferred.
The Chairman reported that the experiment with the electric bell had
not been attended with success; and, after discussion, it was resolved
that the sittings in future should not be devoted to one particular
experiment, but rather to testing such phenomena as occurred most
frequently and powerfully with the respective mediums.
The next seances of the committee with Miss Fowler were fixed for
Friday, 21st, and Friday, 28th inst., at 8 o’clock p.m.
Mr. Fitz-Gerald remarked that it would be well to propose some
preliminary arrangements for engaging mediums after the holidays,
when the members would have returned to London. The first necessity
was a fund to meet expenses.
Mr. Gray moved, and Dr. Carter Blake seconded, the following reso¬
lution, which was carried unanimously:—
“ That this Committee, having the consent of the Council to raise a fund
for the purposes of the Committee, hereby instruct the Secretary to request
such members of the Association as may desire to aid them in their researches,
to send in contributions to a fund for the use of the Experimental Research
Committee,”
The subject of spirit-photography was then discussed, and it was
resolved that a sub-committee be formed to thoroughly investigate the
subject; the sub-cdmmittee to consist of the following members, with
power to add to their number:—Messrs. W. H. Harrison, D. H. Wilson,
J. W. Gray, and H. E. Frances; and that the following gentlemen be
recommended for consultation with the sub-committee:—Messrs. T.
Slater, Parkes, and F. Hudson.
Another meeting of the Committee will be held on Friday next, 21st
inst., at 7 p.m., previous to the seance with Miss Fowler at 8 p.m.
Miss Lottie Fowler is still giving trance and clairvoyant seances in
London.
“ They came here,” said Artemus Ward of the Puritans, “ that they
might worship in their own way and prevent other people worshipping
in their’n."
Dr. Slade has taken up his residence at Mrs. Burke’s, 8, Upper
Bedford-place, Russell-square, W.C., where he is giving professional
seances in broad daylight. He rigidly refuses to admit more than two
persons to any seance.
SPIRITUALISM IN DALSTON.
The usual monthly session of the Council of the Dalston Association
of Inquirers into Spiritualism, was held at their Rooms, 74, Navarino-
road, Dalston, London, on Thursday evening last week, under the
presidency of Mr. John Rouse. There were also present Mrs. Amelia
Corner, Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. R. Pomeroy-Tredwen, and Mr.
Thos. Blyton.
The minutes of the last session of Council were read and confirmed.
The decease of Mr. W. E. Bassett was reported, and the hon. secretary
was instructed to write a letter of condolence to Mrs. Bassett.
Letters of general interest, received since the last session of Council,
were read from Mr. Francis K. Munton, hon. secretary to the Psycho¬
logical Society of Great Britain; Miss Anna Blackwell; Mrs. Catherine
Berry; Mr. and Mrs. Thos. Everitt; Mrs. Bassett; Baron C. Dirckinck*
Holmfeld; Mr. John R. Holland; and Prof. R. B. D. Wells.
Presentations received since the last session were laid upon the table
and accepted with a cordial vote of thanks to the respective donors, viz.,
Baron Holmfeld, the British National Association of Spiritualists, and
Prof. R. B. D. Wells.
The hon. treasurer submitted the statement of accounts for the past
half-year, and reported that the auditors had examined the books and
vouchers, and certified as to the correctness of the same. The state¬
ment of accounts was approved, and ordered to be annexed to the
forthcoming half-yearly report.
Miss Thomson and Mr. W. R. Monteith were unanimously elected
ordinary members of the Association.
Notices of resignation from Mr. F. A. Downes and Mr. Lucas de Caux
were submitted, and accepted with regret.
The report and statement of accounts for the past half-year were
drawn up and ordered to be submitted to the members for approval and
adoption at the twelfth half-yearly general meeting, to be held on
Thursday evening, the 27th inst.
Correspondence with Mr. Richard Pearce, as to his proposed paper
upon “Local Spiritualist Societies—what should be their objects, and
how can they be best carried out? ” was read and laid upon the table.
The attention of the Council was called to the present tenancy of the
meeting rooms being liable to be terminated in the course of the current
quarter, in consequence of the property being required for railway
works. The matter was referred to the hon. secretary to report upon
further at the next meeting of the Council.
SPIRITUALIST LECTURES IN LIVERPOOL.
On Sunday last the platform of Meyerbeer Hall, Liverpool, was
occupied both for the morning and the evening services by Dr. William
Hitchman. His first discourse was entitled “ The Science of Prayer,”
and was preceded by a recitation of Pope’s “ Universal Prayer,” by
Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy. Dr. Hitchman’s remarks were mainly devoted
to the consideration of prayer for the departed. He held that prayer
for the souls of the departed was undoubtedly justifiable, intentional,
and highly commendable; it was a natural instinct of the human heart.
He also submitted that prayer to the Almighty should not be offered
for the removal of physical incongruities, the possession of material
health, or the temporal advantages of a mortal career, but rather for the
imperishable graces of the higher life appertaining purely to the spirit.
As a matter of experimental observation, he was fully assured that
earnest prayer had been answered through the agency of “ministering
spirits.”
The evening address was entitled “ Spiritual Culture,” and urged a
general self-dedication to right as against expediency.
Next Sunday Mr. Harper, of Birmingham, will address the public in
the afternoon and evening, and on the following Sunday Mrs. F. A.
Nosworthy will lecture in the evening on the text, “ Of such are the
kingdom of heaven.”
Mr. J. J. Morse’s Provincial Engagements.—On Sunday next,
July 23rd, Mr. Morse will deliver two trance addresses in the Old
County Court Rooms, Halifax, afternoon at 2.30, evening at 6.30,
admission free. On Thursday, August 3rd, at 8.0 p.m., Mr. Morse
will deliver a trance lecture in the Agricultural Hall, Wolverhampton.
His other engagements are Manchester, Sunday, July 30th, afternoon
at 2.30, evening at 6.30; Temperance Hall, Grosvenor-street, New¬
castle-on-Tyne, August 6th and 7th; Ossett, August 13th; Bishop
Auckland, August 19th. Societies desirous of securing Mr. Morse’s
services are requested to write, for terms and dates, to Mr. Morse, at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
Reception at Mrs. Gregory’s.—On Wednesday, last week, a recep¬
tion to Spiritualists and other friends was given by Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, London, W. Among the
guests present were—the Countess Poulett; Miss Vere; Lady Vere
Cameron, of Lochiel; Sir William and Lady Scott, of Ancrum; Lord
Houghton; General Brewster; Commander Beaumont; Commander
Napier; Mr. Mark Napier; Rev. Mr. and Mrs. Haweis; Rev. W.
Stainton Moses; Rev. Mr. Fisher; Rev. Mr. Bayne; Mrs. Limond
Strong; the Misses Strong; Miss Kislingbury; Mr. Buchanan; Mr.
Poyntz Stewart; Le Comte des Essarts; Miss Carleton; Mr. Barber;
Signor Frederici; Mr. Charles Davidson; Miss Lottie Fowler; Captain
Leitenitz; Madame Leitenitz; Mrs. Fitz-Gerald; Mr. and Mrs. Des¬
mond Fitz-Gerald; Mr. W. H. Harrison; Mr. Alcock Stawell Rivers-
dale; Mrs. and Miss Dawkens; Mrs. Loftus Otway; Mr. Harold Otway;
Mr. Ivymey ; Mr. Hood; Mrs.K. Betty ; Mr. George Sutherland ; Mr.
and Mrs. Cholmondeley Pennell; Mr. Wedgwood; Mr. Ward; Mr.
H. D. Jencken, M.R.I.; Mrs. Jencken (Kate Fox); Major Godwin
Austin ; Herr Miller; Miss Hope; Miss Emmet; Mr. Ottley; Mr.
Howard; Miss Rich; Mr. Percival; Dr. and Mrs. S, T. Speer; Mr,
Fuller; and Mrs. Beatie.
JulY 2i, 1876.
THE SPIEITtJAtiST.
343
DR. SLADE’S ARRIVAL IN ENGLAND. j j
On Thursday, last week, the celebrated medium, Dr. Slade, | j
with Miss Agues Slade, also Mr. and Miss Simmons, arrived j j
at Liverpool by the steamer “ Italy,” Captain Webster. As it j j
had been announced that Dr. Slade would come direct to the I |
port of London this was rather a surprise, and Mr. James Hi
Wason, Mrs. Nosworthy, Dr. Hitchman, and some other of |||
the Liverpool friends were not able to meet and receive them jj
on their arrival, as had been intended. They came to H
London the same day, and in the evening, after a short call jj!
of ten minutes’ duration at the office of The Spiritualist, | |
38, Great Russell-street, proceeded to their hotel in Hanover- j j
square. On the following day they took up their abode at j
Mrs. Burke’s, 8, Upper Bedford Place, Russell-square, W.C. j
Last Friday morning Dr. Slade and Mr. Simmons went over i(I
the establishment of the National Association of Spiritualists, j j
with which they were much pleased. Here they met Mr. m
and Miss Blackburn, Miss Kislingbury, Mr. Reimers, and j j
other friends. While Dr. Slade was on the premises raps j j
were heard occasionally in various rooms, and came upon the j j
crown of his hat which he held in his hand while he was | j
talking. In the afternoon Miss Douglas called upon him to ijj
learn his arrangements in relation to private seances. In the j j
course of conversation, Dr. Slade was entranced, and a Hi
spirit made a few remarks through his lips which we took jj
down in shorthand. The general purport of the address was jj
that it was best for Spiritualists not to be anxious to con- m
vince those who were in no way prepared to receive the ijj
truths of Spiritualism ; it was better to give attention to m
those who were sufficiently interested to come of their own m
accord demanding information. On Friday evening he made jj j
a short call upon Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, j(|
Grosvenor-square. In the course of conversation he placed m
one hand upon the back of her chair as he was sitting near i j
her side, and asked Mr. Harrison, who was sitting in front, m
to rest his hand on the top of her chair on the other side, ijj
The instant the two hands touched the chair, without grasp- Hi
ing it, it rose vertically and steadily, with Mrs. Gregory <
upon it, to a height of about nine inches, and descended jj|
with the same precision. This was in broad daylight.
DR. SLADE’S FIRST SEANCES IN ENGLAND.
Last Saturday, at half-past eleven o’clock in the morning, |jj
Dr. Slade gave his first seance in England, to Mr. Charles j
Blackburn and Mr. W. H. Harrison, at 8, Upper Bedford- jjj
place. The amount of light was strong. Sunlight was jjj
streaming into the room during the whole of the sit- j j
ting. The medium and the two sitters sat at three of the j(j
four sides of an ordinary table, about four feet square. The jj!
fourth side was unoccupied, and there a chair was placed, j j
Dr. Slade remarking that the spirits might do something jjj
with it in the course of the sitting. He then placed a crumb j j
of pencil, about an eighth of an inch long, upon a slate, j j
and held the slate by one corner with one hand under the Hj
table, flat against the leaf. The other hands—five in all— jjj
of those present, were clasped in the centre of the table, jj
The slate was moved about with some violence, as if some <
force were tugging at the other end of it, and after a delay ijj
of about three minutes, caused by the spirits making prepa- j i
rations to control the power, the pencil was heard writing jjj
on the slate, which was then brought up from below the jj
table, and found to have a short sentence of seven or eight jjj
words written upon it. Several other messages, of no par- jj
ticular import in themselves, were given in the same way, jj!
after which Dr. Slade cleaned the slate, and, holding it by jjj
the corner with one hand, rested it upon the top of Mr. jj
Blackburn’s head. Everybody was seated at the time, so jjj
that the upper surface of the slate could not be seen, but jjj
had any object three inches high been moving on the top of jj
the slate, the upper part of that object must have been visible, jjj
Nothing, however, was visible, except that Dr. Slade, who is jjj
probably clairvoyant, said that he saw a moving luminous jjj
haze there. Then, in broad daylight the slate moved about jjj
as if pressed upon Mr. Blackburn’s head from above, jjj
and the pencil could be heard writing. Some ordinary jjj
remark, nine or ten words in length, was then found to be jjj
written on the slate. jjj
The following is a copy of one of the messages :—
Dear Friends,—We are pleased to liave our medium j(my dear husband)
with yon. We will try to lift the clouds that seem to hide the light of this
beautiful gospel, and we can see that a good work can be done in this city.
We will do all we can to help you in your noble work. Many friends are
present, but cannot yet control.—I am truly your friend, A. W. Slade.
During the first part of the seance the slate often moved
about as if something were tugging at the other end of it,
and once it jerked out of Dr. Slade’s hands to the other side
of the room. Dr. Slade said that he had known the slate to
burst to pieces at a seance. The small pieces of pencil
pressed heavily on the slate when writing, so that their
motions could be readily heard.
Mr. Blackburn next held the slate under the table flat
against the leaf, and writing was done upon it while Dr.
Slade’s hands were both upon the top of the table. Throughout
the seance Dr. Slade’s spirits, as a general rule, instructed
the sitters to lay their hands flat upon each other in the
centre of the table, and usually Dr. Slade’s left hand was
placed on the top of the other four, while he held the slate
in various places with his right. Under these conditions, when
he raised his left hand from contact with the table or with
the hands of the sitters, the writing stopped, and began
again the moment he touched them once more ; this experi¬
ment was repeated several times, and subsequently we have
known the loudest rappings to cease the moment Dr. Slade
withdrew his elbow, with which alone he was touching the
table.
Frequently during the stance Mr. Blackburn’s chair was
moved about four or five inches at a time while he was
sitting upon it, and nobody but himself was touching it.
The unoccupied chair at the fourth side of the table once gave
a jump in the air, causing its seat to knock against the under
edge of the table, then it fell to the floor on its back. Dr.
Slade remarked, “ Don’t pick it up; perhaps the spirits will
do it.” They lifted it up several times afterwards to a height
of one or two feet, but did not place it upright again.
Twice a living hand came up and went down again between
Mr. Blackburn’s breast and the table while both Dr. Slade’s
hands were in sight. These materialised hands were of the
same colour and size as those of Dr. Slade, which were some¬
what browned because of his passage in hot weather across
the Atlantic. They did not stay long enough to enable one
to see whether they corresponded exactly.
Mr: Blackburn, who sat at the side of the table next to
Dr. Slade, did not chance to be looking in that direction
when the hands came flitting up and tugged at his vest and
watch chain. Mr. Harrison was therefore asked to change
places with him, that he might get a direct front view of the
hands as they came up. After a little time a hand came up
twice in front of Mr. Harrison’s chest, while Mr. Blackburn
was so sitting as to be able to see it.
Dr. Slade then asked Mr. Blackburn to take the slate
where he could not see it, and to write upon one side of it
the name of some deceased person known to himself; he
was not to let anybody know what was written. Mr. Black¬
burn wrote the name “ Ellen B. ” upon one side of the slate,
then brought the slate—clean side uppermost—to Dr. Slade.
Dr. Slade laid a crumb of pencil on the clean side, and held
the slate with one hand under the table, asking the spirits
if they could fetch the spirit named thereupon. The slate
swayed about, but no writing came. Dr. Slade then placed
a crumb of pencil on the top of the table, and the slate face
downwards upon it. Soon the pencil was heard writing on
the lower side of the slate, and on turning it up, underneath
the words (t Ellen B.,” which had been previously written,
were found the following—“ You feel me by you. Ellen B.”
This proved that some power in the room was able to read
what Mr. Blackburn had written. All the messages given
at this seance were in the same handwriting.
Dr. Slade next took an accordion, and holding it by its
lower end under the table, the spirits drew out and pushed
in the key end, and played very nicely tc Home, sweet
home.”
Dr. Slade then asked Mr. Blackburn to hold the accordion
under the table with one hand. He did so, and the accordion
was drawn out strongly once, one note only being sounded.
Dr. Slade’s hands were on the top of the table at this time.
„ Lastly, Dr. Slade and the other sitters raised their hands
from the table to a height of about one foot. The table
' 344
THE SPIRITUALIST. July 21, 1876.
then rose till it touched the hands. Then it went down
again. This was done twice.
Dr. Slade’s second sitting in England took place on the
same day with Mr. and Miss Blackburn. While Dr. Slade
held the slate by one corner with one hand, and it rested on
the top of Mr. Blackburn’s head, the following message was
written :—
My dear Sister,—Do not doubt again we do and can come to you.—I am,
your loving sister, Ellen.
A chair afterwards rose about four feet, while nobody
was touching it, and Miss Blackburn’s handkerchief was
snatched out of her lap, and quickly tied into knots under
the table, and presented to Mr. Blackburn; it was after¬
wards thrown out from underneath.
Dr. Slade rested one hand on the top of Miss Blackburn’s
chair, and she and the chair were raised about half-a-yard
from the floor.
Materialised spirit-hands were busy also at this seance,
under the table, and Miss Blackburn states that she clearly |
saw one. It was pink, with taper fingers, and bore no
resemblance in any way to the hand of the medium.
When we were speaking to Mr. Simmons, the manager, after
the first seance, about the sunburnt hands like Dr. Slade’s, j,
and the similarity of the handwriting of the various mes- j(
sages as tending to show that these manifestations were more | <
or less connected with those of the Katie and John King I
kind, Mr. Simmons remarked that the handwriting itself |
commonly resembled Dr. Slade’s, but that sometimes other j
kinds of handwriting came, and were recognised to have been ;
pencilled by the deceased persons who professed to com- j
municate. The resemblance was sometimes absolute, so that |
Dr. Slade was obliged to give his slates to those who obtained |
the writings, that they might take them home with them for ;
preservation.
The Countess of Caithness and the Duke de Medina !
Pomar had a private seance with Dr. Slade last Sunday |
night, when similar phenomena occurred to several of those ;
already recorded.
mb. jot on dr. slade’s medidmship.
To the Editor of u The Spiritualist”
Sir,—A short account of a seance Dr. Slade was so kind |
as to give me in New York some ten months since, may I
perhaps be interesting now that he is, as I suppose, in ij
London.
I sat alone with him, with two strong gas burners full on, j
immediately over our heads, at a rectangular table, about j
four-and-a-half feet by three-and-a-half. I sat at one end, I
facing the table, which was of the simplest possible con- j
struction, and without any sort of framework underneath, i
and which I had turned upside down, and carefully examined. I
Dr. Slade sat on my left front, sideways to the table, with his j
face turned towards me, so that his whole body, including ||
his feet, was in full view. His hands were on the table, and |
held by me all the time, except when otherwise stated. ;
Opposite to me was a chair, standing back about two feet |||
from the table, and which I observed Dr. Slade could just j j
have reached at full arm’s length, by leaning over backwards, j |
but certainly not in any other way. Behind me,'about three | j
yards off, was the wall. The room was carpeted, and very | !
simply furnished. I examined it carefully throughout before jj|
the seance began, and again after it was over.
After we had sat for a few moments, both Dr. Slade’s m
hands being under mine, and his feet in sight, and within | j
reach of my hand, the chair opposite to me rose slowly about |||
eight inches in the air. I immediately looked at Dr. Slade’s m
feet, which seemed motionless. The chair then lost its j|!
balance, and tumbled over, away from Dr. Slade, towards j j
my right, and finally lay on the ground, at least three yards j|(
from Dr. Slade. I then examined Dr. Slade, and felt his jjj
legs and feet, which I will swear had never moved, as I saw jjj
them by indirect vision while watching the chair. They jjj
were real legs and feet, and not dummies or duplicates. I jjj
then examined the prostrate chair, without disturbing it, jjj
however; looked and felt on the ground for possible hairs or j j
wires, and then sat down again. Dr. Slade never moved an j j
inch from his seat during the whole seance. By-and-by the j j
chair got up again, and after resuming the perpendicular, j j
returned to its place, in a deliberate and leisurely way. At >v
i intervals all through the seance I was touched on various
parts of my body, but especially and repeatedly on the side
farthest from Dr. Slade, where I could perfectly well see,
and did see, that there was no visible cause to account for it.
The touches were as decided as an average grasp of the hand.
Twice I was bodily pushed forward, chair and all, along the
carpet, once at least six inches. I looked round at once,
before the movement had ceased, but there was nothing be¬
hind ; felt on the floor; nothing in front.
Dr. Slade took up a common slate, which had the usual
wooden frame. He laid a piece of slate pencil, about half
the size of a grain of wheat, upon it, and then put the slate
under the table, pressed it close up against the smooth under
surface, so that the frame fitted close against it. I satisfied
myself by feeling with my hand, that the slate really was in
this position. Moreover, a corner of it projected beyond the
edge of the table, so that I could see that it never moved.
Dr. Slade held it in this position with one hand, the other
remaining on the table clasped in mine. A message referring
to matters not possibly known to the medium was then
rapidly and legibly written on it. This was repeated several
times. I then asked whether I might ask a question, and on
obtaining leave, wrote on one side of the slate, which I held
in such a position that Dr. Slade could not even see my
hand, 11 Is my father, Henry, here to-night ? ” I then
myself held the slate under the table in the same way as
Slade had done, and without giving him a chance of seeing
what I had written. I heard and Jelt the pencil at work,
and on bringing up the slate, found the answer, {t Your
father, Henry, is not present.” Dr. Slade was then entranced
for a few minutes, and made a communication which, though
remarkable, was, however, not of a test character.
A. Joy.
Paris, 16th July.
SPIRITUALISM IN PARIS.
BY ALGERNON JOT, M.I.C.E.
Under the friendly guidance of Mr. Gledstanes, I have
visited or met many of the leading Spiritualists in Paris,
including Mr. O’Sullivan and La Baronne de Giildenstubbe,
Madame Leymarie, Le Comte de Bullet, Mdlle. Huet, Mon¬
sieur Baillent, and Monsieur le Dr. Puet. All expressed
the warmest admiration for the good done to the cause gene¬
rally by the formation and actions of the British National
Association of Spiritualists, and all are looking forward
to Miss Kisliugbury’s visit. La Baronne de Giildenstubbe
remarked, with reference to materialisations, that she thought
we ought rather to aim at spiritualising ourselves than at
materialising the spirits. Mdlle. Huet kindly admitted me
to her Saturday free seance last night, at which I received a
message purporting to come from Mr. Guppy. The greater
part of our time was, however, taken up with listening to a
gentleman whose name I did not ascertain. Still, I saw
enough to prove that Mdlle. Huet had in no way fallen off
as a medium, but rather the contrary, and that, in her line—
raps—she is, I think, the best medium I ever met, except,
perhaps, the Foxes. The raps came at once, were very
distinct and unhesitating, and although the alphabet was
gone over with unusual rapidity, no mistakes were made
which could be laid to the charge of the operating intelli¬
gence. We had, however, nothing exactly of a test cha¬
racter. A Monsieur Henricq, who was present, is, I am
told, a very remarkable healing medium. He acts solely
by mesmeric passes and manipulation, and believes himself
to have cured, inter alias, a case of confirmed and advanced
cancer. He never sends his patients to sleep, though he
used constantly to do so before he began to practise as a
healer. He has practised as now for two or three years, as
I understood him, and has, he says, never failed materially
and permanently to relieve, and very often to cure, any
case he has taken in hand and been allowed to go on with.
Dr. Puet holds a kind of open reception on Fridays, at
which a seance, partly for investigation, and partly for
development, takes place, but the results seem still to be of
a very elementary character.
I did everything in my power to get leave to see Leymarie,
but failed, though it appears that when special influence
can be brought to bear, it is sometimes possible. Madame
July 21, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST. 345
Leymarie tells me that he is cheerful, and still sound in mind
and body, though the discomfort and privations he has to
undergo are very trying. But no intentional cruelty seems
to be practised on him, though the rules, which are severe,
are generally very strictly enforced. Madame Leymarie has
entrusted to me for Miss Kislingbury a very remarkable
spirit drawing, given through M. Fabre, which she wants her
to sell for not less than £8. It is far more artistic than
spirit drawings usually are, and I think very beautiful, and
well worth the money as a mere work of art. On the whole
there seems to be very little doing practically in Spiritualism
in Paris, except by Comte Bullet, who, however, it seems,
never publishes his results.
I also saw Mr. Atkinson at Boulogne, and had some very
interesting conversation with him.
Paris, July 16th, 1876,
Corresponuence.
Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers.']
PACTS IN SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—I have seen much, but I very seldom write. Recently I went
to Newcastle to witness the power of the two boys called Petty, much
spoken of by Mr. Barkas of that town.
One of the youths is about 13 and the other about 17. A cabinet
was formed of green baize at one corner of the room, without any
cover on the top, which was two feet from the ceiling; the two walls
were of solid brickwork, with no possible connection through the floor to
the room below. We began the siance by sitting outside the green baize
curtain, which curtain had a slit from top to bottom in its centre, thus
forming two curtains merely drawn together by rings on a rod. Inside
this triangular cabinet was placed a deal four-legged table, about three
feet long by two feet wide, on which was put a hand-bell, a tambourine,
and a few various toys. I placed myself between the boys, and further
from me was a Mr. Mould and Mr. Petty, all outside the curtain, in
half-gas or twilight. Shortly one of the boys became suddenly en¬
tranced, and spoke in a different tone of voice to his own; then the
other brother became as suddenly entranced, and also spoke in a different
voice. What they said merely imphed that spirit power had arrived.
Then, as suddenly, they both came out of trance. Raps inside the
cabinet then began, and the table, tambourine, bells, &c., kept up a
deafening clatter by flying about, until some came over the top of
curtain amongst us, then all ceased. I gathered the 'things up and took
them inside the cabinet, leaving everybody outside, and drew the curtains
together. I asked the spirits to do the same whilst I was inside, but
they rapped “ No.” I then asked if they would give me one convincing
test by assisting me to lift the table, and they rapped “ Yes.” I then
took hold of the table at one end only, and asked their help at the
other end; in this way that table was lifted three feet from the ground,
and they (the spirits) let go their end when it was in the air, the two
legs coming with a “ whack ” against my shins to my discomfort; this
feat was done twice, and then on my leaving the cabinet the table was
tumbled out after me amongst the sitters.
I recently went to a seance with my daughter and an Italian artist,
viz., Signor Rondi, at Mr. Williams’, of Lamb’s Conduit-street, London.
The medium’s hands were held, and we were touched all over by spirit
hands; then he was told by raps to go into the cabinet for materialisa¬
tions. He did so, and the doors were locked which separated us from
a larger room; the gas was put out, after our examination of every nook
about the place. We three shortly heard the medium shivering and
groaning awfully in trance. Then came with his light “ John King,”
and stood close behind my daughter (who sat next to the locked door);
he spoke with a deep voice; then came “Peter ” with a thinner and
very different voice, who did not show himself, but both spirits were
talking at the same instant, and at that very moment the medium
Williams was shivering and groaning as above stated. Thus three
different beings were acting at same instant of time. Peter then asked
my daughter if she would like a test, and she replied, “ Yes; if you will
fetch my bonnet from the chimney-piece in next room I shall be satis¬
fied.” This was brought and put on her head in a moment, although
the door was locked, and the medium groaning in the cabinet.
Again, at another stance in London with Dr. Slade, at mid-day, with
the sun shining in the room, we held his hands, and witnessed a chair,
four feet from him, jump two feet in the air and fall on its back, and
it as quickly jumped itself up again. “ Sweet Home ” was played on
an accordion whUst he only held the bellows with one hand, and we
held his other hand. My daughter’s handkerchief was snatched from
her lap and tied in knots, and gently placed in front of me by a visible
materialised hand, which vanished instantly, all our hands being on the
table we were sitting round at the same moment. I wrote the name of my
deceased daughter, and asked a question on a slate unseen by Dr. Slade,
and a crumb of slate-pencil was put on the table, which I covered with
the writing on the slate, and although he only touched the slate which
lay before our eyes, still we heard the pencil writing this sentence,
“ You feel me by you. Ellen B.”
I merely write these things to assure your readers of their truth, and
that the world of spirits is not distant but close upon us, and that the force
is governed by intelligence, which proves there are spiritual beings, who
can and do act on matter, and which deserves the investigation of
right-minded and scientific men. Charles Blackburn.
Parkfield, Didsbury, near Manchester,
July 17th, 1876.
|) | “ ART MAGIC.”
jji Sir,—The literature of Spiritualism seems occasionally to demand
|)j similar conditions to those required to eliminate the psychological
Ki phenomena, i.e., darkness, and whether this should be so or not remains
j)j with the Spiritualist community to decide, ere it forms itself into a
] flagrant practice of foisting on credulous minds doubtful matter, at an
|(i exorbitantly overrated value. It seems to me utterly incomprehensible
!)i why this book could justify the mystery with which it was heralded
M forth, and offered as a boon so transcendent that five hundred only were
|)i to be favoured with its secret—if not sacred—intelligence. Then, if
|)| good for five hundred, why not equally so for five thousand, if they
|(| chose to ask for it? I have carefully perused the book, and certainly
i) i expected to find some startling truths which would raise us to a higher
j) platform of knowledge, and I now venture to ask any of its readers
jo whether on reading it they feel their hopes or faith in Spiritualism
ijj either brightened, strengthened, or enhanced thereby? Has it opened
i )| up to our reasoning faculties a surer and brighter mode of dispelling the
| j j mists of uncertainty through which we are all trying to grope our way ?
I (i Does it teach us to strike a higher chord of aspiration, whereby we can
j jj rise to a brighter and purer conception of our being’s end and aim? I
ijj would be glad to think that any of the il bravefive hundred have
n| found it so. That the book gives a very able exposition of the magic
| /1 and mysteries of the early and darker ages will readily be conceded, it
ij| being a work which has undoubtedly cost its author much research,
j)j time, and labour. But the present day is not the time to rake up the
| dry bones of the world’s early superstitions and speculations. We want
u now the living spirit of truth. I regret to say that this work seems to
])| me to be but a stale and unsavoury <c olla podrida," compounded of
j)! the crudest fancies of the heathen ages, taken from Cabbalists, Talmud-
j ists, and Gnostics, blended with the absurdities of Cagliostro, Nostra-
1) damus, D’Abano, and others, and withal flavoured with the mysticism of
j) | Hindoo, Egyptian, and Persian theology. It must not for a moment be
II i supposed that any disparagement is meant towards ancient philosophy,
i ! because out of much dross we obtain much pure gold, from men
I specially gifted with wonderful mental powers necessary to usher in
j (i the dawn of man’s intellectual progress; men who were struggling with
|)| mental and natural phenomena during the darkness of unawakened
j) j science ; and what they failed to prove in the early mystery of life they
|ji supplemented with the subtlest probabilities, and left them to germinate
|)j or die, until time and truth revealed the issue. What with seers, sybils,
|)| and sages, there are no lack, down to Madame Hauffe and the somnam-
iji bulists of Cahagnet; and, if we are to judge from the fact that the
|) mediumistic intelligence of the present day turns out so grossly incorrect
||| that a tithe of it cannot be accepted as valid, is it to be supposed that
1)1 we are to accept the seers of old as having been more virtuous in their
l|j vaticinations; so much so as to warrant us in pinning our faith to their
||i dicta? Nor are we justified in going back to the dark ages for a better
j{ wisdom than time has revealed us, because it were equivalent to saying
|)j that the world was wiser in its infancy than in its accumulated epochs
i I j of experience.
i) | To conclude my remarks regarding Art Magic, I cannot help saying
|)! that it comes to us in a very questionable shape—as a propounder of
I (i metempsychosis and other freaks of fancy; nay, there is no limit to the
I (| omnipotence of will, for the author enters the Divine arcana, and reveals
ijj to us that God is nothing but a great central sun, in the form of a globe,
j 11 ergo, the idea that man was made in the image of his Creator must be
|)j the veriest fable. If this idea can captivate anyone’s belief, they may
ijj as readily believe that man would have been better had he been formed
j j in the likeness of a turnip. And, again, we are told that man was
j j j formed from the elements of matter, fire and spirit, through its own
jji creative energy! What are all the reveries of Jacob Boehmen, or the
jji Rosicrucians and their elixir vitae, compared to this?
But to scan all the incredible fancies of this book would be, as the
j jj French say, “ II a la trier & boire and, since such are its incongruous
jji teachings, it utterly fails in every essential in pointing our path heaven-
j jj ward; and, if so, it comes but as an untimely birth, neither to bless nor
j jj be blest. It is as Christ said of old, “ The children ask for bread, and
[jj you give them a stone.” Finally, I cannot refrain from expressing my
j j j unmitigated surprise, that the much-respected name and unsullied
j j! reputation of Mrs. Hardinge Britten should have been given to gain
j j I this book admittance to public notice ; for, had it been left to its own
j) j merits, it would have been found a dear book at two dollars.
j j J. B. W.
jji July 15th, 1876.
SPIRITUALISM AND CONJURORS.
Sir,—Mr. Maskelyne’s book on Spiritualism is not idly put together,
I i and shows that the author has made a study of the subject, though it
j j | suits his present purpose to ignore all the great phenomenal facts which
j j j have been well established and certified by a host of eminent men and
j j women in all parts of the world. In this vein (of which I do not com-
I j j plain, since it must help on our cause) the author slurs over the state-
I jj ment deliberately made by Mr. Wm. Crookes, F.R.S., of the wonderful
ijj phenomena witnessed by that savant, and says, “The scientist who
j j j writes like this—and clasps the beautiful and substantial spirit in his
j jj arms—is much too far gone for investigation.”
In some such way Mr. Maskelyne treats all that men of undoubted
jji world-wide reputations have affirmed, with a sneer, and so he thinks he
i j i will get rid of them. Not so, Mr. Maskelyne; you and your confrere,
Hi Mr. Cooke, have worked up a world-wide reputation, and it is still a
j j j moot point among Spiritualists whether some of the phenomena exhibited
ijj at your exhibition are those of a superior order of legerdemain, or as
ijj the gentleman, Mr. Benjamin Coleman, whom you designate “an old
jjj friend and the father of Spiritualism in this country,” insists, that they
jj| are produced, as all similar phenomena in Spiritualism are produced,
Hi by the fact that you and Mr. Cook are first-class spirit mediums. I
346
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 21, W6.
however, do not believe so much, for among other reasons you
asseverate in the boldest terms that you are not mediums but only
tricksters, and I am not disposed to contradict you.
Mr. Maskelyne’s book is, as I have said, cleverly put together, and
though bearing too hard against the misconduct of some mediums, it
deals very gently with all those who are presumed to have adopted a
delusion. The author does not descend to personal abuse of any one, he
quotes fairly, giving chapter and verse, and the worst thing I desire to
say is that though it gives some of tire prominent instances of what I
believe to be facts of Spiritualism—modern Spiritualism—it will be at once
condemned as a one-sided and most disingenuous production, which
will deceive no one, whilst I feel sure it will lead many to look into the
subject who perhaps would never otherwise have done so, and I, as an
earnest believer, thank Mr. Maskelyne for the aid he has lent, though
apparently undesignedly, to the propagation of a great truth.
I have made Mr. Maskelyne’s motive a hypothetical point. It may be
that when he and his colleague have surfeited the public with their
“ illusions,” and their entertainment no longer draws, he may be brought
after all to acknowledge that he has been mistaken—of course innocently
so—and that he was wrong in ignoring Spiritualism and its accompany¬
ing phenomena. A parallel instance may be cited in the case of Pro¬
fessor James Taylor, late of the Colosseum, Regent’s-park. He was one
of the best known conjurors who ministered to the amusement of the
metropolis for many years. His wife, who was called Mdlle. Prudence,
was an excellent clairvoyant and thought-reading medium, and through
her means and the clever way in which the subject was handled by Mr.
Taylor, interspersed with his conjuring tricks, their entertainment as an
exposure of mesmerism was daily one of the most attractive of that
celebrated place of amusement.
After the close of the Colosseum, Mr. Taylor took up the exposure of
Spiritualism, and in a handbill dated from Westbourne Hall, June 8,
1863, a copy of which I have, he advertised that he would expose spirit-
rapping in an entertainment—Magic and Mystery—showing how these
mysteries were done by the pretended spiritual mediums, and which
were filling our lunatic asylums, &c., and, like Messrs. Maskelyne and
Cooke, he was able to append a letter, not from a poor clergyman, but
no less a personage than his Grace the Duke of Wellington, who certified,
April 10, 1862, that he and his guests were greatly satisfied by Professor
Taylor’s performance.
The Professor also said in his advertisement, that he had hundreds of
similar testimonials from the nobility and gentry, as well as from scien¬
tific and literary men. Here was an enviable position for a conjuror to
hold ; but it was very transitory, for in a short time after his flaming
advertisements appeared, he called on a well-known Spiritualist, and
said, “ He thanked God he had found out that Spiritualism was true,
he grieved to think he had misled thousands into an opposite belief, and
professed the most earnest intention of repairing, by the most public
announcements, the injury he had done.” I am informed that this
sudden change had come about by finding in his own family that the
most striking phenomena occurred. But though I should be sorry to
deprive Mr. Taylor of any merit of his candid retractation, I am obliged
to admit that he discovered his error after he ceased to draw audiences,
and I trust the moral may not be lost upon Messrs. Maskelyne and
Cooke. P.
REMARKABLE VISIONS.
Sir,—Allow me to say that although the pupil referred to in my letter
in your last week’s number, headed “ Spectres of Animals,” was in a
delicate state of health at the time he saw the dog, the nurse was quite
well, and was the first to say, “ Good gracious, there's Dan ! ”
I am quite sure it is not necessary to be delicate to be enabled to see
visions. God shows Himself to whom and when He chooses. Two
years ago—rather more—I was sitting, about four o’clock in the after¬
noon, by the bedside of an unconscious friend very dear to me, who I
was nursing. Suddenly, without my mind having dwelt upon the sub¬
ject, or indeed ever having heard of anything of the kind before, I felt
that I glowed with light, and that through eyes which were not my
mortal eyes I beheld waves upon waves of light, which was brighter
than any light I have ever seen or dreamt of, formed in clusters of glit¬
tering stars : it was so intense, so endless, so immortal. Something told
me it was Eternal Light. It had no beginning and it had no end. In
each star there was a word, and the meaning of all the words formed a
long explanation of all the words uttered by our Saviour on the cross.
They possessed a personal significance, and had a peculiar comforting
and consoling signification to myself, as though I were in great distress
and that I needed consolation. The vision cannot have lasted two
seconds, but in that instant I was told what would take me months to
write. I was, at that moment, perfectly free from anxiety; I was quite
well, and more free than is usual to me from worries of any kind.
The next day a cause for anxiety manifested itself, to which may,
perhaps, be attributed the vision I saw in the morning of the day after
that one. I was wide awake at 6 a.m., and had just looked at my
watch to see what o’clock it was. I saw a crowd of people (among
whom I recognised many, myself among the rest) come into my room.
Immediately behind me came the funeral car, covered with a very large
pall, of the very friend by whose bedside I had seen my previous vision,
and something told me: “ You will he without your friend all your life."
Almost from that hour, dreading as I did that this vision was a forecast
of my friend’s death, I underwent the most acute mental torture it is
possible for any human being to undergo. My friend died morally.
Death would have been happiness, were it not that ray misery was so
undeservedly inflicted, and gave me life, courage, and faith. I had in my
flesh seen God !
Thus it was, having been given the grace to see with eyes that could
see and ears that could hear, I became, when I understood what the
word meant, a Spiritualist. These were the only two visions I have
ever seen during the whole of my life. I was quite well. I am not
sensitive, and I cannot be mesmerised. My having seen what I did see
would be impossible to account for. I believe it was sent to me to sup¬
port me and console me in one of the deepest sorrows which ever wrung
a human heart, by the Great Spirit and Creator, whose will and whose
power mortals can have no conception of, unless He chooses to lift for
one moment the veil which shuts from us what is so near and yet
so far. Georgina Weldon.
Tavistock House, July 16th, 1876.
EXPERIENCES OF AN INQUIRER INTO SPIRITUALISM.
To the Editor of the North Cheshire Herald.
Sir,—I am encouraged by Mr. Henry G. Atkinson’s notice of my
former remarks to ofier you a few more notions on the same subject.
That gentleman (whose writings I have admired) asks me, “ What is a
spirit ? ” My reply is, I don’t know. And yet I have been a Spiritualist
for some years. Then what have I to say for myself? I have had,
and at intervals still have, certain experiences, many of which may be
described somewhat as follows :—I have sat at niy ease in a room with
one companion—a man somewhat younger than myself (I am near 35).
We two have known each other since we were too young to remember,
and between us there has never passed one unfriendly word. In a common
sense way of speaking, I know that man very well; that is to say, in several
directions I am quite sure of my power to state his present limits. That
power is mine by right of my stronger intellect and better culture, and
has always been recognised by both of us. Sitting talking trivialities
with my companion, he has suddenly lost his “ consciousness ’’ for an
hour or so, and I, being used to it, have remained passive. When he
has returned to his senses, he usually has no recollection of the interval
—no idea, in fact, that anything has happened—but takes up the inter¬
rupted trivialities, quite oblivious to the fact that another hour has
passed away. At times, however, he comes to himself with a vivid
impression that he has, “in the spirit,” been visiting other scenes; and,
in a quiet, thoughtful way, he turns over in his mind what he can recall
of a conversation he has just been having with a sister long since dead,
or with some other “ spirit,” as he calls it, in the “ spirit world.’’ If
you ask him how he knows these things, he is no philosopher, and cannot
tell you anything about that; but he says the people and the scenes are
all quite real to him. He is quite sure they are there as existences
separate from his own personality, and he believes, without the slightest
doubt, that when he dies he will simply pass straightway into this place
which he declares he has so often seen.
Mr. Atkinson says, “ Experience is our sole criterion of truth,” and
“ we must just take matters as we find them.” My friend thinks so too,
and he would say, “ Such and such have been my experiences, and I
frequently find the spirits.” With regard to these Spiritualistic notions
of his, the main certainty in my own mind is that all the philosophers
who ever lived could never in the faintest degree weaken his confidence
in these “ spirits ” as being out-and-out realities. Perhaps it is a pity
he was not better educated. So much for his share of it.
But, during this hour or so, what else has happened ? This. My
friend, immediately on passing into his trance (my friend, that is, so far
as his body is there, which is all I can speak of, for we must just take
matters as we find them), places his hands in a position different from
any habit of his own, and he crosses his legs differently, and some slight
change comes over his features. He begins to speak, and at once I
observe that the voice is not that of my friend, but, as one might say,
another man’s voice altogether. By-and-by the words begin to flow;
they are quite different in their arrangement from the ordinary talk of
my friend, and then it turns out that the subject of the talk is one which
he knows little or nothing about whilst in his everyday senses. If you
were now to ask the speaker to account for this metamorphosis he would
reply something to this effect: “ I am not the individual whose body is
now sitting here; he has left you, but will return shortly. My posture,
manners, and voice, are different from his, simply because he and I are
two distinct individuals. Some years ago I was living in this world now
present to you, and, as you term it, I died. Coming back in this way
to speak with you, I use the body now before you as the instrument or
medium, but I fall naturally into the habits which were always my own,
and the voice you are listening to is such as I had for my own when I
was living my earth-life.” The speaker, under favourable conditions,
and if he be in an obliging mood, will go on in this way as long as you
like, and will answer your questions as to his own present existence
and spiritual surroundings. From beginning to end, however, he will
speak to you as a spirit, or not at all. He will insist upon it that he
has no more connection with my friend (whom he calls his medium) than
he has with you—except as concerns the medium’s body; and, I may
say, these “ spirits” do at all times regard the physical body as being no
more than the vehicle for the real man within. Now, if Mr. Atkinson
had asked me why I am a Spiritualist, instead of asking “ What is a
spirit ? ” my reply would be that experiences, such as I have above so
roughly sketched, have been with me of such quantity and quality as to
have brought about in my mind the conviction that there is a real third
party to be counted in these interviews. That, in short, it has not been
my friend who was speaking to me, but another. I put together a great
deal that has come under my own observations, and I find—or think I
find—a beautiful system running through the whole of it; and this, so
far as it goes, corroborates much in the system that is called Modern
Spiritualism.
To get back to the table again. I should not say a spirit moved it
because the table moved when nobody touched it. I should, probably,
continue to doubt, even if the table spelled out information which the
sitters felt sure they did not know before. But the strange thing is,
that often these movements seem to take upon themselves such a
,., decided style of their own. It is not so much the matter as the manner,
i The table declares itself, as by its own spelling, to be moved by a
July 21, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST. 347
certain spirit, and often its very emphasis and earnestness are such as
almost to compel belief. Intellectually we may resist the hypothesis,
but in course of time—supposing you see enough of it—the facts them¬
selves, being of such a strange character, bring conviction to the mind,
as through the channel of our perceptions. Our intellect, if it rebel, is
shut out in the cold, and told to learn humility.
Mr. Atkinson, no doubt, perceives by this that the present writer is
no philosopher, but perhaps he will bear with me a little longer. He
has used the phrase “ materialised spirits.” In a private way I have
seen a good deal of that sort of manifestation. I don’t know what a
spirit is, and now, as a second confession, I don’t know what matter is
either. In a common way I call a stone matter, and water the same; but
when you come to electricity, and the so-called imponderables, you get
to things which may belong to the same category, but you are outside
any inclination of mine to deal with them one way or the other. The
method with me is this:—Experience, which I could not trace into
language, has forced me, nolens volens, to accept the existence of distinct,
invisible intelligences. It is, all the time, possible that these are but
new manifestations of common physical laws. How do I know what is
not possible in nature ? I know no more than that I have matched
myself against these “ intelligences,” and that they have been too many
for me. They have convinced me. They call themselves “ spirits.” I
will not quarrel with them about names, so spirits let them be. They
teach that they still possess bodies, but of some finer substance than
these present bodies of ours; and they tell us (what I don’t require to
be told) that a good deal of this is incomprehensible to me. One
says, if you make certain arrangements in your parlour, I will, for
a short time, clothe this spirit-body of mine in your coarser kind
of “matter,” and so make it visible and tangible to you. So
I say, that will be worth looking at; let us see you do it.
Then comes an evening for spirit materialisation. A figure shows itself,
usually in a long white garment, the light being turned low to help the
experiment. It moves about and tries to speak a bit. So long as it is
easier for you to think so than to think otherwise, you persist in the
opinion that the figure in white is simply the medium, who all the time
ought to be sitting in a trance behind the curtain. But scientific men
who should be qualified to test the thing, have over and over again
indicated their conviction that there are two bodies, not one body; just
as I have long since settled for myself that there are two minds, not one
mind. And a time arrived when I was made a convert even to this
extravagant point of spirit materialisation. The “spirit form” was
apparently very anxious to show itself clearly to a sitter on the other
side of the little room, and in its efforts in that direction it dragged the
curtain so as to expose the medium sitting hardly four feet from me.
My next neighbour and myself stared very hard, and we could make
nothing else of it than that there sat the medium, and no mistake about
it. I had previously had several faint glimpses of the same thing, but
that particular experience did for me. I was then and there convinced
of the reality of the fact. I was left to philosophise upon it at my
leisure.
So I don’t know what a spirit is, and in fact there is not much that I
do know, for I have had but an ordinary working man’s education. At
any rate, we are not to dogmatise about things as they really are: we
must take matters just as we find them. Spiritualism is not quite the
brilliant affair I once thought it was going to turn out, but it has in my
time brought me some little help and comfort, and until I be led by
further experience to look upon its chief hypothesis as a fallacy, I shall
continue to attach a somewhat high value to the system as affording some
sort of basis for one’s religious sentiments. The “ spirits” tell us that
if we strive to be very good we shall find the next world a better place
than this, so that will not be so bad. They hardly confirm all the
details of Mr. Bracegirdle’s theology ; they seem to teach that even Mr.
Willis Knowles will not perish everlastingly or fare the worse hereafter
for anything he believes or disbelieves now. His happiness will not
depend on his present opinions, but only on his goodness. This idea
will probably shock Mr. Bracegirdle and amuse Mr. Knowles, but if it
turn out to be nevertheless true, those gentlemen will, in course of time,
get used to it; for, as Mr. Atkinson says, experience is our only
criterion. And I say, who can set limits to experience ? Mind and
matter are crabbed puzzles, and so is Experience.
CLAIRVOYANT VISIONS OF ASSASSINATIONS IN TURKEY.
Sir—Your numbers of the 23rd of June and the 14th inst. contain
letters from Mr. Bowman, of Newcastle, giving accounts of visions of
the death of the late Sultan, and of the assassination of the Turkish
Minister, and as it is asked whether these visions are trustworthy, I
venture to reply.
The first letter deals with the alleged murder of the Sultan, whilst
the second gives a vision of an interview, said to have been held just
before the murder, between one of the Turkish Ministers and the hire¬
ling who committed the crime, and then follows an account of the
assassination, in his turn, of the Minister who instigated the first deed.
Mr. Bowman states that everything was described with the most
minute detail, and although on some points a fuller description than
that given would have been interesting, as affording better grounds for
judging to what extent the visions might have been the outcome of the
medium’s own mind, or the result of her having been unconsciously
psychologised by the sitters at the seance, yet there are sufficient
grounds, in my opinion, for deciding that the visions do not give accu¬
rate accounts of the events in question.
I will first deal with the death of the ex-Sultan. The medium
described a person as approaching the Sultan, “and producing a bright
cup, offered him something to drink, which the latter refused ; where¬
upon he drew his dagger, and brandishing it above his head, forced him
to drink the contents of the cup.” After the Sultan had swooned,
“ the other produced a pair of scissors,” and “ commenced to lacerate
one of his arms close to the shoulder. After doing this he drew his
M dagger and stabbed him deeply in the breast.” Now, sir, your readers
{[ are no doubt aware that when the news of the death of Abdul-Aziz was
; j published, the press was unanimous in expressing a belief that the case
(i was one of assassination and not of suicide. Many reasons were given
) | for this belief, which I need not enter into. It was also suggested that
) | he had met his death by poison, and the account that he had taken his
(j life with a pair of scissors was declared to be quite unworthy of
Y\ credence. Doubtless the first published accounts of his death, and the
opinions given thereon, were known to the medium, or at least to the
(I sitters, and to her or their previous knowledge on these points I attri-
s! bute the nature of the statements made. I do not for a moment impute
)! dishonesty to the medium. I have myself known a medium in whose
11 truth and integrity I have the most implicit confidence, describe as
j| visions whilst in the trance, things which would not bear examination,
) i and which were merely a repetition as “ visions ” of incorrect opinions
(j or ideas held by the medium. On the other hand the same medium
) | would give most truthful clairvoyant statements on affairs of which she
had no knowledge or preconceived ideas of her own whatever. In the
j case of Miss Nicholl also, the visions are given some time after the oc-
j currence of the events to which they refer—unlike the prevision of
] Perceval’s assassination recently published by you.
j With reference to the late Sultan, although the newspapers were at
i first sceptical as to his suicide, when letters from their correspondents
! at Constantinople were published, we find that these writers, who were
j I on the spot and could sift and weigh tha facts, made it quite clear that
J it was really a suicide. Such was the opinion of the special corre-
11 spondents of the Times, the Daily News, and the Standard. Amongst
i j other papers, the Lancet threw doubt on the cause of death, basing its
i ] opinion on the loosely drawn up memorandu m signed by the nineteen
'j physicians who held an inquest on the body within three hours after
,1 death. One of those medical men was Dr. E. D. Dickson, physician to
11 the British Embassy. This gentleman has since sent to the Lancet a
11 full and circumstantial account of the whole affair. In this letter Dr.
j Dickson states his decided opinion that the Sultan committed suicide,
i; and records the facts “as observed and appreciated” by himself. After
'j describing other matters, Dr. Dickson says : “ The arms presented two
, I gashes, one at the bend of each elbow in front.” The one on the left
11 was deep, and the other superficial. “No other injury was discovered
I j on his person.” The skin was free from bruises, marks, or spots of any
II kind whatever. There was no lividity of the lips, no smell of chloro-
M form, ether, alcohol, or other volatile substance. This evidence proves
[I conclusively that the vision of the stabbing seen by Miss Nicholl is
fj quite inconsistent with the actual facts. Dr. Dickson also says : Dr.
»| Millingen, one of the court physicians to his late Majesty, was among
[i the first who saw the body of Abdul-Aziz on the morning of his death,
i i and he assures me that the ex-Sultan’s mother, his wives, his eldest son,
• I his daughters, and all the women and eunuchs of the harem, declared to
jj him that his Majesty had killed himself; and, besides, the haznadarusta
Ii (comptroller of the female household) gave Dr. Millingen, who had not
I! yet seen the suicidal implement, another pair of scissors, and told him
[ | they were exactly similar to those with which Abdul Aziz had destroyed
\j himself, and which he had received from his own mother.” Miss
) | Nicholl in her vision saw the pair of scissors taken into the room by the
)] alleged assassin, and placed in the ex-Sultan’s hand after death.
jj Speaking of the murder of the ministers, the medium said that she
j j saw a man in uniform suddenly enter a room, and he “ fired at the man
Ij on the elevated seat.’’ Just previously she spoke of seeing a room in
1 which sat a number of men, “ and on an elevated seat in one part of
! the room, above all the rest, sat the person who gave the weapons to
j the assassin in the former vision.” Here the man who occupied an
| elevated seat, and who was fired at first, is identified as the person who
j bribed the actual assassin in the former vision. And we know without
doubt that the man fired at first was Hussein Avni Pasha, ex-Grand
j Yizier and Minister of War. But no one who knew the character of
i this minister could suppose him capable of such a crime, and no one
acquainted with the customs of Turks of his position and culture could
j describe him as wearing the fantastic dress spoken of by the medium,
but which might probably quite agree with her own ideas of “ Eastern
j costume.”
Hussein Avni also was one of the chief actors in the deposition of
j Abdul-Aziz, and we cannot suppose that he would venture into the
palace where his former sovereign was lodged, surrounded with the
multitude of officials and women who formed his household, and commit
j this crime. Instant-detection must have followed. On the other hand,
immediately an alarm was raised, which was probably before life was
j extinct, Hussein Avni was brought to the palace from his yali on the
j other (the Asiatic) side of the Bosphorus.
The vision of the murder of the ministers is equally inaccurate. It
is implied that the assassin was enabled to identify his victim, on sud-
j denly entering the room, by his occupying the “elevated seat above the
rest.” It was perhaps supposed that his rank would entitle him to such
a seat; but this was not so: if the ministers sat in order of precedence,
j then both the Grand Yizier and the President of the Council would take
priority over Hussein Avni. From the detailed account of this affair
j published in the Levant Herald, I find that the room in which the
j ministers were assembled in council contained two sofas and several
i easy chairs, “not of the Turkish kind, but entirely European.” The
j minister in question sat on one of the fauteuils, next to Midhat Pasha
! (who was on one of the sofas), and did not therefore sit on an elevated
seat apart from the rest; but his seat would be lower than that of those
j who occupied the sofas.
j There is one other striking inaccuracy. The minister is described as
j “ apparently between thirty and forty years of age.” In point of fact,
he was fifty-seven, and looked older. His face bore signs of many
j active campaigns as a soldier, and of much care and thought as a states¬
man, and he wore a thick moustache and beard, which were perfectly
* white.
348
July 21, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
I fear I have taken up far too much of your valuable space, but wish
to again say that, although I cannot look on these visions as trust¬
worthy as to facts, I do not in any degree impugn the personal truth¬
fulness and honesty of Miss Nicholl. it. Pearck
July 17th, 1876.  
HEALING MEDIUM SHIP.
Sir,—Having attended one or two seances at the house of Mrs. Olive,
in Belmont-street, Chalk Farm-road, London, and having at these
seances been much amused, and in some respects astonished, with the
conversation of the spirits adopting Mrs. Olive as their medium, I was
induced to go there on the Thursday preceding Easter, with a view of
having a private stance, and of subsequently amusing my grand-children
with what the spirits had told me. On my alighting from the omnibus
at “ Mother Shipton’s Tavern,” I was suddenly seized with an excru¬
ciating pain on the right side of my chest. The pain was so severe that
I could scarcely draw my breath. I went into the tavern and got a
small glass of spirits, which I drank. I had scarcely time to reach the
door before I began vomiting fearfully and frothing at the mouth. With
considerable pain I walked towards No. 49, Belmont-street, and was
very glad to reach a lamp-post, when the vomiting commenced again,
and the pain in the chest became much worse. Mr. Olive seeing me
from his house in that state, kindly came and asked me to step in, when
I asked him to give me a chair, and let me sit in his back yard until the
vomiting was over. I drank copiously of warm water, and remained
vomiting matter like frog spawn for nearly half-an-hour. He entreated
me to try the spirit doctor that attended on his wife; without the
slightest expectation of receiving any benefit I assented. At this time,
although I had ceased vomiting, the pain in the chest was increasing
so much that I could neither lie down on the couch nor recline on an
easy chair; I really did not know which way to turn for a comfortable
position.
Mrs. Olive shortly appeared, and in a minute or two was in a trance.
Her expression of countenance altered, and her voice became that of a
man. The voice said, “ Well, my friend, I am sorry to see you in this
state; I do not wish to alarm you, but I must tell you that you are
in a state of considerable danger. I will try and give you relief.” I
asked what was the matter with me. The voice said, ‘‘You have
enlargement of the heart, and its action has almost ceased; the
region of the heart is much inflamed.” I said, “Doctor, you
must be wrong, as the pain is entirely on the liver side.” In reply I
was told, “Your liver is quite sound; the pain you feel is the reflex
action of the heart, but I will see what I can do for you if you will obey
my instructions.” I asked what I was to do. I was told to lie down on
the sofa, and get Mr. Olive to foment my side for two or three hours
with towels dipped in hot water, as hot as I could bear them ; that he
would come again in a few hours to see me. I said that it was quite
out of the question my staying there, as I had to be at Hastings in a
few hours. On this I was told “ that if I attempted in my then state to
go to Hastings, that in all probability I should not reach it.” The
medium then recovered from her trance, and, at my request, sent her
husband to me, and he brought hot water and towels and began foment¬
ing my side. This he continued doing for one hour and a half. The
pain in the place instead of getting less seemed to get worse. I ceased the
fomenting, and thought of nothing but how I was to get to my chambers
and get to bed, and send for proper medical advice. As Mr. Olive had
left the room, with considerable difficulty I got across the room and
rang the bell. On Mr. Olive entering the room I requested him with¬
out delay to send for a cab, and as a favour to accompany me, as I did
not feel as if I should arrive there. He entreated me to let him call his
wife down again, and to go on with the spirit doctor, as he was quite
sure I should get relief. To this I somewhat reluctantly assented;
being, in fact, indifferent about anything but getting away. I began to
think what would people say if anything happened to me and I went off
without any medical advice, away from home, in a strange house. I
also thought that if anything did happen that Mr. and Mrs. Olive might
get into trouble for not sending for proper medical attendance.
Mrs. Olive came in again, and was in a trance almost immediately.
The voice of the spirit doctor began to address me. “ Well, my
friend, you are in a very bad way ; I will see what I can do for you.
You must recline in that easy chair; take off your coat and waist¬
coat.” Suiting the action to the word, the medium laid hold of
the bottom of the waistcoat, and, with a smart pull, unbuttoned
it. I drew back a little. The voice said, “You need be under
no punctilio; you are not before Mrs. Olive, but Dr. Forbes.”
The medium then commenced making rapid passes with both hands
across the body, before and behind, from the left side, in a diagonal
direction, downwards, across. As far as I could estimate time, he con¬
tinued doing this for about ten minutes. The pain was much intensified,
so much so that I was compelled to groan, and I pushed the hands of
the medium from my body. The voice said, “ My friend, I am not
giving you more pain than I can help; in five or six minutes I will
relieve you from pain.” Now I may state that the pain I felt was as if
a long butcher’s knife was in my body, and that some one with each pass
gave it a twist. The spirit doctor proceeded with the passes, and in a
few minutes I had a sensation as if the knife was drawn out through
my right side, when the voice said, “ Get up—you are free from pain.”
This I certainly was. The voice told me to go to my chambers as quick
as I could, and have hot linseed poultices applied to my side until
midnight, and to take a mixture of aconite that Mr. Olive would
prepare for me; also to send for the medium at ten the following morning.
I felt so free from pain—although very weak—that instead of having a
cab I walked between a quarter and half a mile to find a telegraph
office, from whence I telegraphed to my family at Hastings, saying that
I could not come that day, and also to an intimate friend (Mr. C ),
begging him to come to my chambers at once.
I then got into first one omnibus and then into another, and reached
I my chambers quite free from pain, but so much exhausted that the
| laundress who saw me enter the chambers exclaimed “ Good God! Mr.
j P , what is the matter with you.” I threw myself back into a
j long reclining Indian chair, and commenced, as ordered, to have hot
linseed poultices applied to my side. My friend, Mr. C , shortly
j after came in, and seeing me looking very ill, pressed me to allow him
to telegraph to my family and to bring in the physician to whom I have
recourse when unwell; I declined to allow him to do either, as I had
| made up my mind that as I had commenced with a spirit doctor I would
see the end of it. My friend pronounced me to be a very obstinate
| wrong-headed man, but he did not shake my determination. Whilst he
was with me I was suddenly seized with a most acute fit of ague, and
although I was for more than seven years in early life a victim to fever
and ague, I never had the cold fit accompanied with so much pain. I
got into bed as quick as I could. From my hips downwards I was as
cold as marble ; I had hot water bottles and hot flannels applied to my
feet and legs, and about midnight the cold fit left me, and I got to sleep.
When I awoke in the morning I felt very weak, and the pain in the
right side returned, although it was by no means as severe as the day
before. My friend Mr. C  came to me, bringing a friend with him
to take notes, and, just at the same time, Mrs. Olive made her appear¬
ance. She put herself into the trance state, and my friend the spirit
doctor again came to the fore :—“Well, my friend, I am glad to see you
better, but you are not yet free from danger. Take off your coat and
waistcoat, and lean back in this chair.” The medium made the passes
as before, and, as before, the passes intensified the pain; again the
imaginary knife was drawn from my side, and with it disappeared the
pain. During the passes my friend, observing me turn a dark yellow,
got up to fetch the basin, thinking I should be sick. I certainly felt so,
but with the withdrawal of the imaginary knife all feeling of sickness
vanished. The voice then said: “ You are under mesmeric influence,
and you must not get any cross-mesmerism for two or three hours. You
must request your friends the moment I leave the medium to withdraw.”
Mrs. Olive then recovered from the trance state. My friends, however,
remained talking for some time, when Mrs. Olive said : “ Obey instruc¬
tions.” I asked what she meant. She answered that she did not know,
but a voice in her ear had said: “Obey instructions.” Upon which I
begged my friends to depart. I was much better, and the pain, with
the exception of a sort of deadness in the region of the liver, had
entirely disappeared. During the course of this day my urine became
intensely red, in fact, a deep garnet colour ; inflammation, in some way,
was evidently passing away through the kidneys.
I had arranged for Mrs. Olive to visit me again on the following day,
and, not knowing what to make out of the affair, I took Reicheribach
from the bookshelf, and commenced reading and making notes, with a
view of having a scientific dialogue with the spirit doctor on subjects
that I did not think within the ken of Mrs. Olive. So on her arrival I
asked her whether she knew the name of Beichenbach, or had read his .
book, or understood the meaning of several new-fangled terms used
therein. To all this she answered, to my mind, in a most satisfactory
manner, “No” She again put herself into a trance. The voice of the spirit
doctor said, “ Well, my friend, I am glad to find you so well, I do not
think you want me very much.” I answered, “ I think you are almost
one too many, to-day.” In reply, the voice said, “ Not quite so—off
with your coat and waistcoat.” Again the passes, and with the passes
a recurrence of pain, although but slightly. After a few passes the
voice said, “ Now you are oft’ my hands, I have done with you.” In
reply, I said, “I have not done with you, I am going to put you through
your facings for half-an-hour, if you can spare that time.” In reply,
the voice said, “ I shall be most happy to give you that time, and to
answer any questions you may put to me.” We then commenced a long
discussion on Reichenbach, I referring all the time to the notes I had
made, and questioning the so-called spirit on the particular subject.
We entered into the subject of the Odylic force generally and particu¬
larly, upon the fact of the difference of effect on the human body, and of
the different prismatic rays.
I then asked the spirit doctor whether he was quite sure that my
heart, not my liver, was in fault. To this he replied, “ Your liver is as
sound as the day you were born; there is nothing the matter with it.
There is in your heart a constitutional tendency to enlarge^ and this has
been the cause of your frequent vomitings of late years.” (I may ob¬
serve that for the last three or four years I have had constantly vomiting
fits, seldom less than twice a week, often three or four times.) “ There
is no immediate danger, but if you come to me every six months or so
I can put you to rights.” I then said, “ I wish you particularly to come
into the next room, and to look at my urine.” The voice answered,
“ There is no occasion. I have seen it. It is highly coloured; a good
deal of inflammation has passed through your skin, but much more
through your kidneys.” I was rather nettled at this abrupt way of
treating my request, and I said I should be much obliged if he would
come and see, but he persisted that he had seen already. I being
still dissatisfied, the voice said: “ If you doubt what I say, I will tell
you that it is all on a lowwardrobe, or chest of drawers, just behind me.”
This was the fact. Mrs. Olive had never entered that room. All that I
have written above is quite true, at the same time it is almost too won¬
derful to be believed. I believe every fact stated, as I was ciired in
three days of an attack similar to one which about thirty months ago
laid me on my back for seventeen days. I took no nauseous medicine,
and I have only had three attacks of vomiting since, instead of twelve
or fourteen in the same time before the last cure. If it can be of any
service to Madame Olive, I place this narrative at her disposal, and if
she thinks fit she may publish it. I do not sign my real name, simply
from a desire to avoid importunate questions from incredulous friends,
and from that class of doubters who, without taking the trouble to see
and investigate for themselves, give the lie to everything said or told by
others, if the something told should happen to be beyond the horizbn of
theix own intellectual capacity or their experience in life. A, T. P.
July 21, 1876.
THE SPIEITUALIST.
m
BOOKS ON spiritualism:, psychology,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
uilism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News-
piper Branch Office, 38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists. but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. Vs. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, i by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
, published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of.
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANOHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practicaby useful work
i for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums ,:.also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man m the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion ; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and .Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens • these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinh/li that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a'trumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala," published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth, Best edition, gilt, IQs, fid,; cheap edition,
7». fid., „
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM. MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
5s '
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d. t
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PfiYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. Cd.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d. *
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. Cd.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7g. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. Cd.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS,by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. Cd.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, MD., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
. Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. Cd.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Yol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. Cd.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, Cd.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ol Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. Cd.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. Cd.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. Cd.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M, Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By O. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer. 1765. 2s. Cd.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub, at 7s. Cd.) 4s.,
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Yols.) 10s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . .
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . .
The Teacher. „ II. „ . .
The Seer. „ III, „ . ,
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . » •
The Thinker. ,, V. „ . . ,
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis .
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . .
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .
Death and the After-Life . . .
History and Philosophy of Evil . . .
Harbinger of Health , . . . .
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age .
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) .
Philosophy of Special Providence . .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . .
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers .
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . .
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves .
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . .
Morning Lectures • . . . .
s. d.
. 16 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 2 6
. 3 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 2 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 6 0
. 2 0
. 3 0
. 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
t. d.
24 0
Oriental Religions (Johnson) ....
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spibitualisi Newspaper . . 2
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . ,6
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .6
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . .18
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . .12
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . .16
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.AV Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge D.D. . . .... .10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Talcs and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fisko, M.A. . 10
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an jaileged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . . 2
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . '12
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B.A. . . ,3
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . .18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . , . io
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S.
Special edition for Schools . , , . 1
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE-
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
3 Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White: 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. WilUs; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR, HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM ? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative cf
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas E.
Hazard. Cd.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
Cd.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman ot Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE 'PROVINCE _OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “There is in it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” Cd.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. Cd.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young Cd.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALT. ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrieally through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. Cd.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. K. T.
Hallock. 2s.
IV
THE SPIKITTJALIST.
July SI, 1876.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spritualist News-
£sper Branch Offioe, 88, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury,
ondon, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business, are not in any way connected with each
other.]
Price 7s. 6cL, cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful' experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a 'trai ce medium and public speaker. Her
platfprm labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have, ex¬
tent: ed her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiebces, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion is pourtray ed. The bopk is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S.: COLBY AND BiCH, London Spirit-
uali Office.
SPIRITUAL SCIENTIST, of Boston, Mass.,
IO U.S.A. The most faithful and impartial exponent of
Spiritualism in America. The title, Spiritual Scientist, clearly
indicates the character of the paper. Unlike all other
Spiritual journals, It gathers f'om the great anthers of ancient
time the fruits of their researches into the secrets of nature
and the laws of the Pp ritual Universe. On the Occult
Sciences it has many able contributors, and solicits correspon¬
dence.
Published weekly. Sci-ntist Pub. Co., publishers. E. Gerry
Brown, Editor. Offices. 18, Exchange-street, and 24, Pevon-
Bhire-;street. The Scientist is now in its fourth volume Terms
of subscription, in advance, 18s. per annum, including postage.
Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 38, Great Bussell-street,
London, W.O.
Price 5s,
IRELAND: UR OF THE CHALDEES.
London: Trtibner and Co., Ludgate Hill,
Bevikwers’ Criticisms.
“Irishmen ought to lead this work and he proud. It is
crammed with learning which dots credit to the research of
the writer.1'—Christian World.
“The somewhat startling proposition contained in the title
Of this woik can hardly fail to'interest a considerable number
of i cadet s, and for those who may be inclined to take the wot k
in hand, we may briefly state that the line of argument pur¬
sued is intended to show that, the Cbaideat s, the Hebrew s,
and the Celts are identical, the summary given ac the close
being that ‘the Arphaxadite Chaldeans were the progenitors
of the Hebrew Chaldeans, and differ only in name from the
first Gaels.’ The subject is carefully dealt with. The various
arguments are well arranged, and a large amount of corrobora¬
tive evideice is adduced in support of them, the value of which
many will be glad to test.”—Rock.
Published at 7s. Gd. Beduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustia.tive instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Boyal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berliu, Munich, Brussels; Madrid, Turin;
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Bugby. that he
said:—"I should like to hear something fresh about an’mal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Beduced in price to 4s,
Inland Postage, 4d. Spiritualist Newepaper Branch Office.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND
EFFECTS, by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. A review
of this pamphlet appeared in the March number of The
Spiritual Magazine of this year. May he had of W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O. Price
Gd., post free, 7d.
ANNALT DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Bivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
n the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
THE HOME FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPEE BEDFOBD PLACE, BUSSELL SQUARE, W.O.
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
withe lit the inconvenience cf a public hotel, has, b.v the
generous efforta of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Borne, on the principle of a private
Boarding House. It is conveniently located for the principal
railways, and is in the very, area of the spiritual movement.
Its arrangements have been designed with a special view to
the requirements of Spiritualists.
Applications should he made as far as possible in advance
Manager—Mrs. A. 0, Burke,
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. BENJAMIN
COLEMAN.
COMMITTEE
The Counters of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Welwyn, Herts.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
William Howitt, Esq., Borne, Italy,
S. C. Hall, Esq , F.S.A, 50, Holland-street, Kensington.
Alaxander Crider, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington
Charles Blackburn. Esq., Didsbury, Manchester. '
W. M. Wilkinson, E-q., 44, Lincoln’s-inn-fields.
A. A. Watts, H'sq., 119, Lansdowne-road, Notting-hill, W
S. Chinnery, Esq., 142, Strand, London, W,C.
J. Enmore Jones. Esq., Eomore-park, 8.E.
C. Townsend Hook, Esq., Snodland, Bochester, Kent. —
G. N. Straw bridge, Esq., Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Cornelius Pearson, Esq., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury.
William Tebb, Esq., 7, Albert-road, ulouoester-gate, Eegent’s-
park.
A. Leighton, Esq., 16, South Castle-street, Liverpool,
Jame« Wason, Esq., Wason’s-buildings Liverpool.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Queen-street, Grosvenor-square.
Mrs. Tebb, 7, Albert-road, Begent’s-park, N.W.
Thomas Hayle, Esq., M.D.. The Cresi-ent, Eochdale.
Thomas Shorter, Esq.. 23, Prince of Wales-road, N.W.
Jacob Dixon, Esq.. M.D.. 8 Great Ormond-street, W.O.
W. H. Harrison, Esq., 38, Great Bussell-street, W 0.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq.. Junior United Service Club, S.W.
W. C. Coppertb waite, Esq., Malton, Yorkshire.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., F.B.S., 2, Great Winohester-street-
buildings, E.C.
The Hon. J. O’Sullivan, late U.S. Minister to the Court of
Portugal, 10, Eue Kepler, Paris.
Hay Nisbet, Esq., 219, George-street, Glasgow.
Mrs. Hamilton, York-place, Ponman-square
John Lamont, Esq., Finfleld, Liverpool.
Thomas Slater, Esq., 19, Leamington-road-villas, Westboume-
park.
Andrew Glendlnning, Esq., 4. Castledine road, Anerly, S.E
W. J. Williams, Esq., Clarence Club, Waterloo-place, S.W.
Epes Sargent, Esq, Boston, U.S.A.
Subscriptions, which will be duly acknowledged, maybe
forwarded to the non. Treasurer, Alexander Calder, Esq , 1,
Hereford-square, South Kensington, S,W.; or to the Hon
Sec., A. Joy, Esq., 69, Great Bussell-street, W.C. -
The follow-in sums have been already subscribed:—
Charles Blackburn, Eso       £60 0 0
A. v. H ; I   30 0 0
Martin E. Smith, Fsq    25 0 0
Alexander Calder. Esq.       25 0 0
William Tebb, Esq .'   25 0 0
A. L.-Elder, Esq ;...      25 0 0
W. M. Wilkinson, Esq     20 0 0
O. v. Hoffmann      20 0 0
James Wason, Esq H   20 0 0
Friends at St. Petersburg   .:  19 7 6
Friends at Glasgow, per H. Nisbet, Esq.    10 16 0
Thomas Grant, Esq    10 10 0
A Friend %   10 10 0
Mrs. St. Claire        10 0 0
W. J. Williams, Esq.    10 0 0
Two Friends and Neighbours   10 0 0
W. C. Oeppert.bwaite, Esq....,','.,  10 0 0
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq    10 0 0
Alexander Tod, Esq.,......    10 0 0
J. Bidley, Esq     10 0 0
Mrs. Hamilton   10 0 0-
Mrs. Daun       10 0 0
T. J. Allman, Esq  10 0 0
Mrs. Hennings   i  5 5 0
Mrs. Berry     6 5 0
J. Y. Vernon, Esq @   5 5 0
W. H. Harrisrn, Esq:   5 0 0
C. Townsend Hook, Esq  5 0 0
William Howitt, Esq   5 0 0
Enmore Jones, Esq i      5 0 0
A. A. Watts, Esq.   ?    5 0 0
Mrs. Watts      500
Waiter Weldon, Esq    5 0 0
P. G.      5 0 0
M. G. S      5 0 0
C. F. Valley, Esq     5 0 0
J. H. D......... ;    5 0 0
F. Griffin, Esq. ‘ '. I    5 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart       6 0 0
J. S.Law, Esq.       5 0 0
Friend per Mrs. Vtraon....     3 3 0
G de Liagre  '..... 3 3 0
C. Pearson, Esq   3 3 0
Miss Clark  t   3 0 0
S. O. Hall. Esq    2 2 0
John Marshall, Esq      2 2 0
C. Stephens, Esq    2 2 0
Dr. B. Baikie .*  '...   2 2 0
F    2 2 0
Bev. W. Whitear   2 2 0
Miss Whitear      2 2 0
Thomas Scott, Esq       2 2 0
D. G.-Fitzgerald, Esq  2 2 0
Miss Watts       2 2 0
T. Skinner, Esq., M.D.      2 2 0
L. J      2 2 0
T. Shorter, Esq  2 0 0
M. DeVeh ..'  :     2 0 0
John Lamont, Esq.    2 0 0
C. McLean, Esq  2 0 0
Miss Douglas ....'         200
J. Hare, Esq, and Friends I    2 0 0
Bev. J. Manners   ’.   2 0 0
B. B   | |    110
D. H. W    110
A. Glendinning, Esq.   '.  110
W. Glynes, Esq    110
J. T. Peele, Esq  110
Dr. C. L. Bobertson    |  110
Mrs. S. Dickson : ;.  110
Begnum   110
Friend, per T. Hajle, Esq    110
F. A. Binney, Esq      1 10
W. W  110
J. Swinburne, Etq.    110
J. Gledsianes, Esq      10 0
Mrs. M. Gregory     10 0
Dr. Hayle..........     10 0
C. P. Carter, E sq.      10 0
Mrs. Wiseman......'.     10 0
A. B. Wallace, Esq    10 0
J. C. Eno, Esq     10 0
Col. H. S. Olcott.,...    10 0
Baronin v. Vay   0 18 4
O. Parsons, Esq    0 10 6
C. C. G     0 10 0
D. S.Vt,,..        0 0
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
The Second Volume of The Identity of Primitive
Christianity and Modem Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CEOWELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth
completes the work.
CONTENTS.
I.—Spirit Writing.
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power
HI. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV,—Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
V.—Clairaudience
VI.—Dreams and Visions
VII.—Trance and Ecstacy.
VI il.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Contentions. ->
X.—Prayer.
XL—The Ministry of Angels.
XII.—Death.
XIII. —The Spirit-World.
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI.—Conclusion.
The above work has just been issued in America, and copies
are now on sale, price 10s. Gd. each, post free 11s. 6d., at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
By Royal Letters Patent.
“ KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PKOMOTES THE GEOWTH OF THE HAIB, AND
IMPABTS TO IT A HEALTHY BBILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
EESTOBES TO GBEY HATE ITS OBIGINAL COLOUE.
It is a Preventive of Cold in thfi Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KBINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Betail by Fikid and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. JOHN Bouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK; OR, GUIDE FOR
MEDIUMS AND FOE EVOCATION. Com aiding the
Theoretic Teaching of Spiri's concerning all kinds of manifes¬
tations, &c., &6. By Allan Kardec. Translated by ANN A
Blackwell. Crown 8vo, pp. 4:6, cloth, 7s. 6d.
X> EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d etudes psycho-
JL-Vi log!quos, f on de par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme. 7, Eue de Lille. Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
The religio-philosophical
JOUBNAL is a large eight-page weekly paper, an
able exponent of Modem Spiritualism. Established in 1866.
Now in its twentieth volume. Published every Saturdav by
the Beligio-Philosophical Publishing House, Chicago, Illinois.
The regular price is 15s. per year, at which price thousands of
old subscribers welcome it each week as the best visitor they
have. Sample copy, 3d. Address, S. S. Jones, Editor, Chicago.
111. .
THE FOOD QUESTION. — Manifesto . and
Publications, of the Vegetarian Society sent free to any
address on receipt of post card. Secretary, 91, Oxford-street,
Manchester.
The debatable land between this
WOELD AND THE NEXT. By Robert Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive proof,
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, jet which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This book affirms thattbestrongest
of ail historical evidences for modern Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
of Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. 5 •
Cjrs Spntalbt U-efosppir,
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS r-Half-a-
crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word, i Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium lor advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for. the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Bussell-street,
London; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the first post on ..the previous Wedtetday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. ‘‘ The Spiritualist ’ will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s 10d.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.C.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St: Andrew above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O,
