[Registered as a Newspaper.
S]^f). joil^KSi< f^YdSo^o^ica^ 0d'i5<Ke^
Clje #Ibxst gttosjjapr mnitK^b toHIj Spirilwalism m feat gritarir.
No. 180. (Yol. YIII.—No. 5.) LONDON: FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
foments.
Experiments in Mesmerism  49
Physical Society of London:—Photographic Invisible
Drawings—Discovery of a Supposed New Force '  49
A Seance with Mrs. Kate Fox-Jencken. By Professor But-
lerof, of St. Petersburg University   49
Startling Spiritual Phenomena confirmed by the testimony
of Non-Spiritualists. By David H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.
(Cantab)    50
DalstonAssociation of Inquirers into Spiritualism:—Alli¬
ance with the National Association   50
Spiritualism in Australia. The Personal Identification of
Spirits    51
Blood-marked Crosses on the Human Arm  51
Mrs. Kimball's Seance at the National Association of
Spiritualists. By J. M. dully, M.D  51
The MacMahon Memorial in America    52
A Seance at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s  52
Newcastle Mediums in London    52
The Presentation of the Harrison Testimonial:—The Pre¬
sidential Address—Mr. Jencken on The Spiritualist
Newspaper—Mr. Harrison’s Reply—The Sensations of a
Drowning Child—Mr. Harrison’s Early Career—Reli¬
gious Speculations—Early Literary Efforts—The Poly¬
technic Ghost—More Early Experiences—The Rise and
Progress of The Spiritualist Newspaper—The Rapid Ex¬
tension of Spiritualism—Spiritualism and Science—
Spiritualism and the Press—Spiritualism and the Evolu¬
tion of Morals—Joan of Arc in Prison—The Ballad of
Babie Bell ... '     53
The Mediumship of Miss Lawrence  58
The Power of Caricature in the Spiritual Movement  58
The Harrison Testimonial Fund  58
Correspondence:—Forewarning of an Assassination—
“Prayers for the Dead’’—Difficulties of an Inquirer
—The Spiritual Origin of Myths—Spiritualism in Dais-
top—The Nature of the Spirit—Mr. Morse at Salt-
^urn-by-the^Sea,  58
Dr. Slade's Anticipated Visit to England   59
Provincial News:—Birmingham, Spiritualism in Birming¬
ham—Newcastle on-Tyne, Lecture by Mr. Barkas—Mr.
Morse in Newcastle—Meeting at Weir’s Court—Liver¬
pool, Sunday Services in Liverpool   60
Paragraphs:—Dr. Hallock on the English People   60
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Half-a-
crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street,
London; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
N o notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London,
W.O City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
London, E.C.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29
and 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds
Stocks Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on
Saturdays from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager,
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, & GENERAL OUTFITTER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including
hats, shirts, and umbrellas.
Will shortly be published,
DR. MONCK’S ALMANACK and truth-
SEEKERS’ GUIDE TO THE INVESTIGATION OF
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.” Over forty closely printed pages.
Price 3d. Contains original articles on “Scientific Spiritual¬
ism," “Cui Bono,” “The Healing Power,” “Rules for the
Spirit-circle,” &c., &c., by S. O. Hall, Dr. W. Hitchman,
“Fritz,” T. P. Barkas, &c. Will be found very useful among
Sceptics and Investigators. Quantities supplied to societies or
for free distribution at a great reduction. Single copy, post
free, 3d. Address, Geo. Tommy, 7, Unity-street, Bristol.
Agents wanted.
’ll) EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
JaLV logiques, fondS par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7. Rue de Lille. Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
The Second Volume of The Identity of Primitive
Christianity and Modern Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth,
complete s the work.
CONTENTS.
I.—Spirit Writing.
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power.
III. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV, —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
V.—Clairaudience
VI.—Dreams and Visions.
VII.—Trance and Ecstacy.
VIII.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Cortentions.
X.—Prayer.
XI.—The Ministry of Angels.
XII.—Death.
XIII. —The Spirit-World.
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI.—Conclusion.
The above work has just bet n issued in America, and copies
may be had in a week or two, price 10s. 6d. each, at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.C.
T E MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, pub-
JLi lished on the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36. Rue
de la Cath£drale, Libge, Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Danner is a first-class,' eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, <fcc., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Now Ready, pp. 592, demy 8vo, handsomely bound, extra
cloth, 10s., by post, 11s.
HAFED, PRINCE OF PERSIA. His expe¬
riences in Earth-Life and Spirit-Life, being Spirit
Communications received through Mr. David Duguid, the
Glasgow Trance Painting Medium, with an appendix, contain¬
ing communications from the Spirit Artists, Ruisdal and
Steen.
Illustrated by Fac-similes of Forty-five Drawings and
Writings, the direct work of the Spirits.
From numerous eulogistic expressions of opinion by sub¬
scribers, the publisher has much pleasure in giving the
following from S. C. Hall,_Esq.:—
Avenue Villa, 50 Holland-street, Kensington, W.
December 27,1875.
DeAH Mr. Nisbet,—You have sent me a most wonderful
book. It has given me intense delight. I cannot exaggerate
if I say I have never yet read a book that has given me such
deep and delicious joy—with only one exception, The Book,
which this book so thoroughly upholds. Surely it will be so
with all who believe in and love the Lord Christ. . . . Blessed
be the God of love and mercy, who sent him to reveal and to
elucidate the great truths of the Gospel. Mrs. Hall is reading
it now. But I must read it again, and yet again. It will
companion the New Testament that stands' at my bed-head,
and in which I read a chapter every night. Send me two
more copies.. . . Burns says it is cheap: it is worth its weight
in diamonds. But I wish it had been in two volumes.—Ever
truly yours, S. C. Hall.
The following exp- essions of opinion are taken from letters
of subscribers:—“The most remarkable book of the age.”—
“Mosthighly spoken of on all sides.”—A clergyman of the
English Church says: “ I have never read a volume with such
absorbed interest, so deeply suggestive and fertile in good
thoughts.”—“An enchanting volume. Send me other five
copies.”—“Does infinite credit to yourself and the cause of
Spirituahsm.”—“ A book so much to enlighten, and so much to
cheer.”—“ I am delighted with your beautiful book.”—“ Hafed
is a miracle. I have never done admiring it or dear David, the
medium.”—A rev. doctor says: “ I have read it with the
deepest interest.”—“It is wonderfully interesting.’’—“I never
read a book on Spiritualism half so interesting and calculated
to do good as Hafed is.”
London: J. Burns, 15, Southampton-row. Glasgow: Hay
Nisbet, 219, George-street.
BOARD and RESIDENCE, Upper Norwood.—
A lady, of liberal views, and Nonconformist, desires to
establish in her own house a friendly family party of two or
three ladies. Young orphan ladies would find this a pleasant
home, and those who wish to study will have advantages in
joining the classes now so popular at the Crystal Palace
Schools of Art. Terms—130 guineas per annum, or propor
tionately less for a shorter term. Address—Alpha, 1, Bemard-
villas, Upper Norwood.
COMMITTEES OF THE BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Offices and Library Committee:
Mr. Thos. Everitt, Chairman.
Mrs. Everitt, Mrs. Kislingbury, Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, Mr.
E. T. Bennett, Mr. J. Freeman.
Soiree Committee:
Mr. E. Dawson .Rogers, Chairman.
Mrs. Everitt, Mrs. Maltby, Mrs. Kislingbury, Mrs. Desmond
Fi'Z-Gerald, Miss H. Withall, Mr. Thos. Everitt, Mr. J.
Freeman.
Provincial Societies Committee:
Mr. H. Withall, Chairman.
Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, Mr. Algernon Joy, Mr. E. T. Bennett,
Mr. R. Pearce, Mr. J. J. Morse.
Lecture and Discussion Committee:
Mr. Geo. King, Chairman.
Mr. Martin R. Smith. Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mr. H. T.
Humphreys, Mr. E. P. Ashton.
Seance Committee:
Me. E. Dawson Rogers, Chairman.
Mr. Martin R. Smith, Mr. T. Everitt, Mr. Desmond Fitz¬
Gerald, Mr. S. Chinnery, Mr. Keningale Cook.
Finance Committee:
Mr. Morell Theobald, Chairman.'
Mr. Martin R. Smith, Mr. Alex. Calder, Mr. Geo. King.
BRITISH
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
WINTER MEETINGS.
A continuation of these meetings will be held at the Rooms
of the Association for reading and discussing papers on
Spiritualism and kindred topics. They recommenced on
Monday, January 24th at 7.30 o'clock, and will be held fort¬
nightly until the end of April. Friends having papers to
communicate are requested to send them at an early date to
the Secretary, at 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W O.
ANNALT DELLO SPIRTTIbMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
East London spiritual meetings.—
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
AS I am compiling a work of Psychological
importance, I would be exceedingly grateful to any
one who will furnish me with well attested Facts of Mania
of any description aiising from and disticctly traceable to
Spiritualism. I also wish for written or printed cases of
Imposture in connection with the same object as regards
public or private mediums. In this momentous and most
important undertaking, I ask the assistance of every honest
Investigator and Truthseeker. In any instance where books
or pamphlets treating this subject are forwarded to me, I will
readily pay the market value of such. All letters, manuscripts,
books or pamphlets, to be addressed to me, “D. D. Home,
Nice, France, Poste Restante," till May 1st, and after this date
to “ Paris, France, Posle Restante.'’ D. D. Home,
Nice, January 9th, 1876.
QUEBEC HALL, 25, QUEBEG-STREET,
MARYLEBONE-ROAD.
PUBLIC MEETING will be held at above
address on Tuesday, Feb. 15th, at eight o'clock, for the
Purpose of Reorganising an Association of Inquirers into
Spiritualism.
All the late members and friends of the Marylebone Society,
and Spiritualists generally, who, by their counsel or otherwise,
can assist, as well as persons anxious to inquire into the
subject, are cordially invited to be present.
Admission Free. No Collection.
BIRMINGHAM. — Local Spiritualists are
earnestly invited to attend the Ordinary Meeting at the
Athenaeum, on Sunday, the 6th Feb., when after the Lecture
there will be explained to the meeting a co-operative scheme
for blending the material interests of Spiritualists and others,
and for saving out of the profits otherwise paid to shopkeepers—
a Fund for the building of the Spiritual Hall.
Clairvoyance, and healing by spirit
MESMERISM.—Test Communications through Trance
and Writing. Seances by Mrs. Olive, the well-known Spirit-
Medinm, on Thursday (other days by appointment only), from
two to four p.m. for Private dbnsulcation, and four to five for
Public Seance, at 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury. Mrs.
Olive also holds Public Seances at her residence, 49, Beimont-
street, Chalk-farm-road, N.W., on Tuesdays, seven p.m., and
Fridays, three p.m. Terms—Private Seances, one guinea;
Public ditto, admission 2s. 6d. Mrs. Olive’s Healing Powers
are now well established, and testified to by many who employ
no other medical aid. Special terms for courses of treatment
on application. Single visits for consultation, &c., within ten
miles, two guineas inclusive.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London;—Simbkin, marsh ail & Co.
ii
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1878.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Dklsbury, Manchester.
Cahler, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Liliaii-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex,
N.W.
Fltz-Oerald, Mrs., l<), Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gresory, Mrs. Makdougall,21, Green-street, Grosvenor-sqnare, W.
Gully, J. M.,M.I>., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hlll, lialham, S.W.
llitchman, William, BE.K.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Isliugton-sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., .'52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.lt.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 48, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin It., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Helper.
Armfleld, W. N., Kden-villa, Catrns-rd.,New Wandsworth, S.AV.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., I, King Edward-st., Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F. A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 183, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Yue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury.
Cooper, R., Vieuna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrngh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. II.;7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.W.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheatham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 8 Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamerc-crcscent, Westbourne-square, AY.
Hudson, Geo., Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-efid, Doddington-grovc, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, AY.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton;
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, AY.
James, Capt., 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.AY.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, A\r.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.AAr.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswcll-road, E.C.
Meers, AY. D., Aylsham, Norfolk.
Morse, J. J. AYarwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Rlchmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C.T., M.R.C.S., 19, Nottingham-place, York-gate, Regent's
Park., N.AY.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, E. Dawson. Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs.E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
road,S E
Shepherd, J.,29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. AY. F., J. House,"iAVoolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, AAr.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper
Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G.N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Yersailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 80, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 28, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheatlt, S.E.
AA’edgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Aune-st., Cavendish-square, AY.
AVhite, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
AVilson, D. II. M.A., LL.51., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham J unction, S.AY.
AViseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
AVithall, Miss II., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.AV.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.AV.
AVood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.AV.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Ileathlands, AYimbledon-common, S.AV.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
kliss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, AV.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile deSayn AVittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General 'de S 5I.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Nieder AYalluf
on the Rhine, near AViesbaden
■Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Kassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Aray, Gonobltz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2c, Leipsic, Gennany.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, 5Iadrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg. •
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmield, Pinneberg, Holstein.
51. Gustave de Veh,26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
51me. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, AtlanticCo„New Jersey,U.S.A.
5Irs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, ]3, RueLauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand 5Iittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne; Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
5Irs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 206, West 38th Street, New York,
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Alolstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
51. C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 4, Via 5Iorone, 51ilan, Italy.
Dr. 5Iaxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, AVurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, 51.D., care of 5Ir W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Numberger Strasse, 85, Gartenhaus,
Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
51. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq ,51D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
tA Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-ayenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 4, 1876.
51. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., 5I.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
AV. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Slount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
5trs. J. 51. Spear, 2210,5Iount Vernon-street, Pliiladelphia,U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 18, Rue d’Acnieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9,5Iontgomery-plnce, Boston, U.S.A.
51. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St.Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
51. A. Anthehno Fritz, President de i’Union, 67, Rue du 5Iidi,
Brussels.
Lteut.-Col. P. Jaeoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, CayugaCo., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O'Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
5Idlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
AV. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, AVaitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9,5Iontgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, AV.
5Irs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, AV.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—5Ir. Lewis
Roberts, 68, Oxford-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—II. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, 51. Anton
Prochaszka Josefstadt, Erzherzog, Alexancler-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The British Nation At Association of Spiritualists is formed
to unite Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid
and benefit; to aid students and inquirers in their researches, by
placing at their disposal the means of systematic investigation into
the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic; to make
known the positive results arrived at by careful research: and to
direct attention to the beneficial influence which those results are
calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual con¬
duct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class, whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers
into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in
the year 1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liver¬
pool, at which all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the
Spiritualists of the chief towns in the Unitea Kingdom, were re¬
presented. The amount of the annual subscription to the National
Association is optional, with a minimum of live shillings a year.
Each member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is
eligible for election to all offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wish¬
ing to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss
Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association. 38,
Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, AV.C.. of whom copies of the Con¬
stitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Woburu-street.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM & LIBRARY
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and
periodicals connected wi'h Spiritualism, from all
parts of the world, and various high-class journals, are regu¬
larly supplied. The library contains, in addition to the best
writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, speculative, and
scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes
membership; Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d.
To non-members, annual tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.;
Monthly, 5s.
A Seance room can be engaged under special arrangements,
to be learned from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on
Saturdays.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., 51.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. Aits worth.
Secretary.—Mr. Lewis Roberts, 68, Oxford Street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Knox.
Committee of Management.—Mr. J. Smith, Mr. James Monk,
Mr. J. Chapman, Mr G. Brown. Mr. J. Haslam, Mr. Jonos,
Mr. William Meredith, Mr. Ainswoitb, Mrs. Ainsworth, Miss
Hilton, and Miss Dickson.
Trustees.—James Wason, Esq., Mr. John Lamont, Mr. Joseph
Shepherd.
Auditors.—Mr. P. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritnal culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
instruction, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
February, 1875.
In the Press.
Dr. monck’s almanack and truth-
SEEKERS’ GUIDE TO THE INVESTIGATION OF
MODERN SPIRITUALISM. Over fifty closely-printed pages,
with Uiustratioos of direct drawings through Dr. Duguid's
inediumship Comains original at tides written expremly for
the almanack by S. C. Hall, F.'LA., Dr. W. iditchman,
“Friiz,” T. P. Barkas, F.G.S., W. Oxley, T. Shorter, Sirs. Mak-
dougall Gregory, A. Oalder, J. N. Tredman Martheze, Mrs.
Tyndall, &c., &c. Subjects—“Scientific Spiritualism,’’ “ Cu.i
Bono," “The Healing Power,” “Spiritualism in Every-day
Life," ‘ The Bentflcent Aspect of Spiritualism,” On Mediums,’
"Rules for the Spirit Circle.” Will be found very useful
among seepties and investigators. Orders should be sent in at
once to Geo. Tommy, 7, Unity-street, Bristol. Single copy, post
free, 3d. Quantities supplied to societies or for free distribution
at a liberal reduction. Agents wanted.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home dally, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m.
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Public Seances at Cl, Lamb's Conduit-street, on Monday and
Thursday evenings ; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists
only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance, healing,
AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship. Disorderly Influences
removed. French spoken. At home Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended. Ad¬
dress, 10, New Ormond-street, Bloomsbury.
PROFESSOR REGAN, PSYCHOPATHIC
HEALER, wishes to make known, by desire of his
Spirit Physicians, who cure through him, in his normal
ttato, that having been developed by them into a powerful
healing medium, and at the same time, by a course of deep
study, acquired a practical knowledge of the philosophy of
disease, and its ration ile of cure, he is now prepared to ex¬
amine, treat, and cure patients, suffering from ail kinds of
acute, chronic, nervous, and organic disease of long years’
standing. Consultations and invaluable treatment given at
bis own honse, or at patient's residence, by appointment.
Visitors received at his Consulting-rooms from 12 to 4 daily.
Fee. One Guinea. Address, 59, Finborough-road, Bedcliffe-
gardem, South Kensington.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST
AND RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT,
1, Robert street, Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen
by appointment only. Terms on application by letter.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
Notice.—monsieur adolphe didier,
Professor of Curative Mesmerism (80 Years Estab¬
lished), attends patients daily from 2 till 5, at his own resi¬
dence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden Hill, Kensington. Som¬
nambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases, indication < f
their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can consult
by letter.
THE BOY MEDIUMS.—Bamford Brothers,
Physical Mediums, will give Seances as follows:—On
Monday and Wednesday evenings, at 7 o'clock p.m., admission
2s. (id ; on Saturday evenings, at 7, Is. 26, Pool-street, Sutton,
Macclesfield.
MR. S. R. REDMaN, Professor of Animal
Ma; ;netism, begs to inform inquirers and othe s that
he is prepared to attend Public or Private Seances at the houses
of investigators or otherwise, and give his unique illustrations
of Mesmeric and Psychological Phenomena, as recently given
by him before the members of 1 The Brixton Psychological
Society.” For terms, etc., apply by letter to Mr. S. It. Redman,
Brixton-hill, S.W.
MR. ROBSON, TRANCE MEDIUM, is pre¬
pared to hold Seances or give Addresses on subjects
connected with Spirit Communion. He is also desirous to
obtain active employment in the daytime with a Spiritualist or
Spiritualists. Good references. Age 30 years. Address—
35, Edmund-place, Aldersgate-streat, London, E.C.
Mediumship , its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Pi ice Id.; post free for l£d.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Mesmerism and electro- biology.—
Complete Instructions in Mesmerism and Electro-
Biology, with lull and explicit directions for the production of
all the different phases of these marvellous and mysterious
Psychological Phenomena. Private Instructions personally or
by Post. For terms, address, Mr. E. H. Valter, Claremont-
villa, 51, Belgrave-road, Birmingham.
Psychopathic institution for the
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6d.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
psychopathic institute
1710R the CURE OF NERVOUS AND MUS-
? CULAR DISEASES, opposite St.Chrysostom’s Church,
74, Queen's-road, Everton, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Ope¬
rators sent to all parts. Terms per arrangement.
J. Coates, Principal.
Mesmerism, electro-biology,
IL FASCINATION.
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological
phenomena.
How to know Sensitive Subjects.
How to develop Clairyo yant Media.
How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DR. MOSES RIGG can teach any person efficiently by post.
P-mphleis and testimonials gratis, or by post, Id. stamp.
Address, 9, GranvLle-square, London, W.C. At home daily
from 10 till 5.
ENGLISH AND AMERICAN BOOKS
ON
Spiritualism, Psychology, Mesmerism, Anthropology,
Mental Physiology, and Kindred Subjects,
Are on sale at the Branch Office of The Spiritualist News¬
paper, 38, Great Russell-st: eet, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
Booksellers and others who have Works upon these • objects
are requested to forward their Lists by post to the Manager.
tax tax mb tal ^ptijiltmlbttt*
VOJLUJVIE fJlQHT. KuMBER FlVE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4th, 1876.
EXPERIMENTS IN MESMERISM.
As it is probable that the Winter Meetings Committee of
the National Association of Spiritualists will take steps to
bring all the varied phenomena of mesmerism practically
under the notice of members, and as one mesmerist with his
sensitives is able to exhibit phenomena different from those
presented by another mesmerist, various operators will pro¬
bably occupy the platform in succession. Our present object
is to suggest that these gentlemen should be recommended
to present their facts only, and to abstain, as much as pos¬
sible, from theories; otherwise intelligent visitors may be
repelled rather than attracted by what is said to them. For
instance, some of these speakers have invented terms of their
own not generally recognised, and possessing no well-defined
meaning, and they do not always state what is the fact when
they quit the field of their own experience to speak upon
matters of science. For instance, we once heard a mesmerist
say that six or seven different kinds of electricity can be
obtained from different kinds of batteries, which of course
displayed an utter want of knowledge of the subject. Elec¬
tricity possesses a positive and negative character, and varies
in intensity; but, fundamentally, it is the same, whether
obtained from the Leyden jar or from the galvanic battery ;
in fact, by means of modern appliances, galvanic electricity
can be transformed into electricity having a tension like that
evolved by frictional machines; this experiment has often
been performed by Mr. Varley by means of very remarkable
apparatus invented by himself. If mesmeric lecturers are to
make known their facts from our platforms, they should be
requested to abstain from theories, and from speaking upon
subjects with which they are not acquainted, otherwise intel¬
ligent visitors will be prejudiced against the meetings.
PHYSICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON.
PHOTOGRAPHING INVISIBLE DRAWINGS.
At the ordinary meeting on the 29th ult., the president,
Dr. Gladstone, exhibited experiments on the relation of
photography to the phenomena of fluorescence. Writing,
on white paper, made with colourless solutions of acid sul¬
phate of quinine, tesculine, or chlorophyl, and visible only
as blue and self-luminous when illuminated by mono¬
chromatic violet rays, or invisible ultra-violet rays, was
photographed while apparently a blank sheet, in the rich
electric light; and the negative so obtained, after fixing and
development, was shown by the lantern as a picture of dark
figures. A striking illustration was a case in which the
photograph of white figures, painted with fluorescent solution
on a dark blue ground, was interpreted by the camera as
dark figures on a light ground. After a variety of experi¬
ments, in which colourless solutions in bottles were shown to
photograph as bottles of black ink, Dr. Gladstone explained
the results as due to the property of fluorescent bodies, of
lowering, in reflection, the rapidity of vibration of the invi¬
sible but chemically active actinic rays of the more refran¬
gible portion of the spectrum, and bringing them within the
limits of vision, though reducing their photographing power.
He called attention to the anomalous results in photo¬
graphing pictures, fabrics, and decorations, owing to the
frequent occurrence of fluorescent properties in the pigments,
oils, and varnishes used.
DISCOVERY OF A SUPPOSED NEW FORCE.
Mr. Thomson read a paper on the results of researches
made at the Science Schools, South Kensington, upon the
so-called Etheric Force, a new force, alleged to have been
discovered in America. The arrangement of electrical appa¬
ratus by which Messrs. Edison and Batchelor detected an
unexplained modification of electricity, provisionally termed
Apolic or Etheric force, is illustrated in the Chemical News,
Ij | and Mr. Thomson’s experiments confirm the observations of
i j those investigators. The salient feature of the manifestation
111 is a spark, unaccompanied by any appreciable current, or
\\\ galvanoscopic, chemical, heating, or physiological effect,
i 11 which may be obtained from a body, insulated in the pre-
\)\ sence of an electro-magnet excited by an interrupted
i \ \ current. No circuit is required to produce the spark, which
i)| appears on make or break of contact between different parts
m of a conductor attached, or between the earth and the insu-
; (I lated body, which is apparently in some condition of static
j?| charge. In the opinion of Professor Houston and Dr. Beard,
! there is an unexpected production of an unrecognised force,
i or modification of known forces.
| i
A SEANCE WITH MRS. KATE FOX JENCKEN.*
BY PROFESSOR BCTLEROF, OF ST. PETERSBURG UNIVERSITY.
In London I had a sitting with Mrs. Jencken, formerly
jj Miss Kate Fox, in whose presence the well-known rapping
H\ phenomena took place at Rochester, in the United States.
> Mrs. Jencken is not a professional medium; her time is
is] now entirely devoted to domestic life, and the care of her
cl two little sons. She remains almost always at home, and
i)j those interested in Spiritualism are heartily welcomed by
I) her and her husband, the barrister-at-law, Mr. H. D.
: c I Jencken. Their private life is pervaded by medial pheno-
l>| mena, and while one is sitting in ordinary conversation, by
Is: daylight, the most decisive raps come quite spontaneously
\ and enter into the discourse. These raps are extremely loud
11 i and clear, and have a peculiar character; they come in
> l pairs. M. Aksakof and myself heard them for the first
| time when we were paying a morning call. The sounds
I ; came upon the floor ; but when Mrs. Jencken laid her hand
upon the half-opened door of the room, and expressed a wish
II for the raps, they resounded on the door, and even close to my
; 11 ear, which I held close against the wood. A few days later, we
i j spent an evening at the house, in company with one or two
| i gentlemen already known to us. During tea the raps were
]|| numerous; but when we afterwards sat at the table, we
I were directed to turn out the gas, and to form a chain by
holding hands all round. Almost immediately I felt a pull
at my left coat pocket. Presently Mrs. Jencken invited me
to leave the circle, and to go with her near the door, while
the rest of the company remained at the table, from five to
seven feet distant, holding each other’s hands. I now took
\)\ both Mrs. Jencken’s hands in mine, and was again pulled by
i i the coat, and distinctly touched on the left knee with
I j ] fingers.
After this little seance Mr. and Mrs. Jencken were so
]j] kind as to invite myself and M. Aksakof to spend another
I evening with them, which we were very glad to do. On that
)j occasion we four sat at a square table, on which a lamp
i \ j was burning. A newspaper happened to be lying on the
If ground under the table. While Mrs. Jencken was
j j j engaged pouring out the tea, and we were not sitting
j j formally, the raps were again audible; they came
jj] from the table and from the floor, and were sometimes
j j j so strong that the table trembled, and they continued to be
j jj felt even when they were no longer heard. During tea I
ijj felt gentle fingers touching my leg, Mrs. Jencken being at
] j! that time quite passive. Shortly afterwards we heard the
i i newspaper being torn up, and I could feel my hand, which
; I was below the table, touched with a folded piece of the same
jjj paper. By means of the raps and the alphabet, partly also
I ] by the help of Mrs. Jencken’s medial writing, we were
i j I directed to lay a sheet of paper and a pencil under the table.
I : It is well to explain that Mrs. Jencken’s medial writing is
* Translated from the January number of Psychic Studies (Leipsic).
50
THE SPIRITUALIST.
of a peculiar kind; she writes with the left hand, and gene¬
rally backwards, so that the writing can only be read before
a mirror, or through the paper when held up before a light.
Everything followed according to promise. The pencil under
the table was red at one end and blue at the other. Al¬
though I had not expressed any doubts, Mrs. Jencken
showed me her feet, which she divested of her slippers for a
moment. She wore white stockings, and sat quietly near
the table, and remained the whole time so passive that one
could have no suspicion that she was taking any direct part
in the manifestations. The lamp was burningall the time upon
the table. For a few minutes, after the paper had been laid
under the table, we heard the sound of writing; on one piece
of paper was written in blue, on the other in red, quite dis¬
tinctly, the words, “ God bless you!”
One more opportunity was granted me of hearing the
extraordinary sounds which take place in the presence of
Mrs. Jencken. It was on the occasion of the soiree of the
National Association of Spiritualists, already described in
this journal.* In a brightly-lighted and well-filled room
loud raps were produced at the simple wish of Mrs. Jencken.
These raps were also heard on the thin partition doors of the
so-called cabinet, which is nothing but a large cupboard, in
which the mediums are seated when seances are held for
what are called materialisations. From all that I was able
to observe in the presence of Mrs. Jencken, I am forced to
come to the conclusion that the phenomena peculiar to that
medium are of a strongly objective and convincing nature,
and they would, I think, be sufficient to the most pro¬
nounced but honest sceptic to cause him to reject ventrilo¬
quism, muscular action, and every such artificial explana¬
tion of the phenomena.
STARTLING SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA CONFIRMED BY
THE TESTIMONY OF NON-SPIRITUALISTS. |
BY DAVID H. WILSON, M. A., LL.M. (CANTAB.)
At a private dinner table I heard Mr. W narrate the i
following experience of himself and wife : Mr. and Mrs. !
W were in their drawing-room one afternoon, when they i
heard several raps at the door. Upon saying “ Come in,” |
the door opened a little way, and an old lady’s head, in a jj
very large bonnet, appeared for a moment, was then "with- I
drawn, and the door closed. Mr. W immediately went !
to the door, opened it, and was surprised to see no one there. |
He called his servants and asked who let the old lady into })
the house, and who she was. All the servants declared that jj
no lady had been there. Both Mr. and Mrs. W had j
seen the old lady’s head, and had seen and heard the door j
open and close. They had not time to scrutinise the face; !
but the large bonnet reminded them both simultaneously of :
a certain old lady friend. They subsequently heard that that j
friend had died at or about the time they saw the mysterious jj
apparition in the large bonnet. Mr. and Mrs. W are jj
intelligent people, and have been intimately acquainted with I
my family for many years. j
Miss L tells me that she was awakened one morning j
by a terrible shriek. It was a cry that seemed to pierce and !
appal her, and is never to be forgotten. She looked at the j
hour. On that very day and hour (allowing for the difference j
of time) her brother met with a violent death in Australia, j
Miss L is one of my best friends. j
Mrs. S , a Catholic, and very excellent woman, says !
that one day when she was at Liverpool, u it came into her j
mind ” that a lady friend of hers had just died in New York, j
and she was so sure that this impression was true that she i
thereupon read the “ prayers for the dead ” in favour of that j
lady. Nor was she mistaken. A letter afterwards from jj
New York showed that her impression accorded with facts, j
I have long enjoyed the friendship of Mrs. S , and have I
heard the foregoing from herself. jj
Mrs. W n told me one morning, when I called upon j
her, that in the previous night she had had a startling ex- j
perience. She was awakened by feeling a heavy weight on j
her feet, and on sitting up saw the form of her husband !
(Mr. W n was then thousands of miles away) seated on j
the bed, in his night-shirt, and having the appearance of a jj
* The entire report of the meeting in question was republished from The
Spiritualist in the Psychic Studies for December, in the German language. R
Feb. 4, 1876.
corpse. After a few moments the form vanished. I recom¬
mended Mrs. W n to record this experience in her diary,
and she did so. In due course she was informed by her
husband that on that particular night he was in a state of
coma, having been delirious for some days, and his life was
quite despaired of by the doctors. I have known Mrs.
W n all my life. She was of a materialistic turn of mind,
with sound common sense, and of unimpeachable integrity.
Miss R , with whom I am well acquainted, and who
commands my respect, tells me that one evening, having
lost her way in a lonely part of the country, she became
much alarmed at the prospect of not reaching her home that
night. So she knelt down and prayed for safety and com¬
fort. She was then in the centre of a field. On rising she
was startled somewhat at seeing a little girl by her side.
Inquiring of this child the way home, the little girl led
Miss R across the fields, gave her directions as to the
road she should take, and suddenly disappeared.
Mr. B——is a gentleman I have knownfor more than fifteen
years. He is practical, shrewd, and very trustworthy. I am
indebted to him for the following narration :—One morning
a few months ago, at five o’clock, he was awakened by a
noise outside his room, but near the room door. He attri¬
buted it to his children playing in the passage, and was
annoyed with the nurse for allowing them to disturb him so
early. Opening the door in order to reprove her, he was
surprised to find that neither the children nor the servant
were yet awake. He returned to bed, and had scarcely com¬
posed himself when he was very disconcerted by seeing the form
of a lady friend of his glide or flit across the room. He
thereupon awoke Mrs. B and informed her of the fact.
This was Saturday, and at the end of the week Mr. B 
called at the house of his friend, the subject of his vision,
and was informed that the lady had thrown herself out of
the window the previous Saturday, at about five o’clock in
the morning, and was thereby instantaneously killed.
Algiers, Jan. 21st, 1876.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
ALLIANCE WITH THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
The eleventh half-yearly general meeting of the Dalston Association
of Inquirers into Spiritualism, was held on Thursday evening last, at
the Association’s rooms, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, under the
presidency of Mr. Edwin Dottridge. The honorary secretary having
read the notice convening the meeting, the chairman read the report of
the Council and statement of accounts for the half-year ending 31st
December last. They were considered to be generally satisfactory, and
on the motion of Mr. Thomas Wilks, seconded by Mr. G. R. Tapp, were
unanimously adopted.
In accordance with the decision of the Council, to recommend the
adoption of a resolution for alliance with the British National Association
of Spiritualists, Mr. Thomas Blyton moved, and Mr. Thomas Wilks
seconded—“ That the Council be, and is hereby authorised, to make an
application on behalf of this Association for alliance with the British
National Association of Spiritualists, and that in the event of such appli¬
cation being granted, the Council be also authorised to elect half-yearly
from amongst the ordinary members a representative to be, ex-officio, a
member of the Council of the British National Association of Spirit¬
ualists.” An amendment was moved by Mr. George W. Forbes
Playfair, and seconded by Mr. Henry W. P. Makeham, to the effect
“That the Association do not make an application for alliance with
the British National Association of Spiritualists.” A spirited discus¬
sion ensued, in the course of which Messrs. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Robert Nelson Dawson, Thomas Wilks, Charles Lee, John Rouse,
G. R. Tapp, Henry Cook, and Thomas Blyton canvassed the
subject pro and con. At length on the amendment being put to
the vote of the meeting only two hands were held up, and on the resolu¬
tion for alliance beirfg submitted it was carried with an overwhelming
majority.
Some proposed alterations of the rules were discussed, and it was
resolved that all meetings of the Association be held in future on
Thursday evenings.
The following were then elected to serve in office during the current
half-year :—Mr. Henry D. Jencken, M.R.I., President; Mrs. C. Ada
Blyton, Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mrs. Corner, Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mr.
John Rouse, Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen, Mr.
Thomas Wilks, and Mrs. Wood, Council; with Mr. Thomas Blyton,
Honorary Secretary and Treasurer.
A vote of thanks to the officers for their services during the past half-
year, and a vote of thanks to the chairman for presiding over the
meeting, brought the proceedings to a close.
Next Monday night Dr. J. M. Gully will preside at the discussion
on Mesmerism, at 38, Great Russell-street.
Feb. 4, 1876,
51
THE SPIHITTJALIST.
SPIRITUALISM IN AUSTRALIA.
THE PERSONAL IDENTIFICATION OF SPIRITS.
The Harbinger of Light, which, arrived by the last mail, con¬
tains the following statement by its editor :—
The following particulars, accompanied with communica¬
tions and letter from the long-lost sister, were furnished to
us by a respectable Scotch family residing in one of the
northern suburbs. Mrs. M  has been a believer in
Spiritualism for some time past; her husband, though
somewhat interested in what transpired at the circles, was a
consistent materialist until this test of the truth of the com¬
munication was received, but it, he informed us, swept away
all doubt from his mind. To use his own expression, u there
was no getting over it.”
Mr. and Mrs. M left Scotland for Australia over thirty
years since, Mrs. M  leaving behind her a brother and
sister. Shortly after their arrival here, the correspondence
with this brother and sister ceased, and nothing more was
heard of them until the early part of this year, when, at a
circle at Mrs. M ’s house, a spirit purporting to be her
brother communicated, stating that he had been in the spirit
world sixteen years, and that the sister was still in the body,
living in America, writing in answer to their request what
purported to be the name of the place, but this, after re¬
peated attempts, they were unable to decipher. It appeared
like a Chig ” or (t Chigo,” and not knowing any place with
a similar name, was pronounced by Mr. M to be hum¬
bug. Mrs. M nothing daunted, and having more faith,
pursued her inquiries, and was told if she wrote to the post¬
master at Burreltown, in Scotland, enclosing a letter for
her sister, the said postmaster knew the address and would
forward it. This was done, and, to the surprise and gratifi¬
cation of the whole family, a reply from the long-lost sister,
“dated Churchville, Monroe Co., U.S.A., July 8th,” was
received by last mail. Most of the letter is on family
affairs, but we extract from it those portions which bear upon
the test:—
“ My Dear Brother and Sister,—
“ Your letter dated March 12 has just come to me, it was made
welcome indeed, it seemed as if it came from the dead. We were all so
glad to hear from you; we never met but we talked about you. The
last letter we received was when Sister Ann died, from William. I
answered it. Brother Thomas wrote after that, but his letter came
back. Dear sister, I have so much to say to you that I hardly know
where to begin, but now when the communication is opened we can
exchange our feelings frequently. We are all in North America, and
all well. It is 31 years since James, Helen, Thomas, and family came
here, and 25 since Margaret and myself came. Brother John died about
16 years ago. They did not come to America. ... I never would
have got your letter, but Jas. Brodie is postmaster at Burreltown, and
he is brother to Helen’s husband, so he knew our address and sent it on
to me. ... I think some time to go to Chicago to live this winter.
I lived there before the great fire.”
From the foregoing extracts it will be seen that the in¬
formation given by the spirit brother (John) as to the period
of his death was correct. It also throws some light upon the
word they were unable to decipher, which was probably
“ Chicago,” where it appears the sister had lived, and is
living not far from now. We are often asked for the good of
Spiritualism. Is it not exemplified here ? A long-sundered
family united, and a knowledge of immortality brought to
one who had failed to find evidences of a future life in any
other direction. In reference to the communications handed
to us with the letter, one of them appears to be a remon¬
strance with Mrs. M  or some member of the circle,
who, from something unsatisfactory having been communi¬
cated, had hastily accused the spirits of falsehood. The
communicating spirit, a female, says, “ We wish to give you
all the information we can, but if we do make mistakes, it is
not because we do it for malice, but because I am not de¬
veloped enough yet for giving quite such intelligent com¬
munications as perhaps I should, but believe me, I don’t
wish to deceive you.” The other communication is from the
brother “ John,” subsequent to receiving the letter. After
expressing his pleasure at the results of his former com¬
munication, he says, “ Dear sister, you should have been
there when they got the letter ; you would have laughed, for
they looked as frightened as if your ghost had appeared
before them. Sister Janet ran over to Thomas with the
letter in her hand; she was so glad, for they made quite
(
(
(
<
t
(
<
<
<
(
(
(
<
(
<
<
<
(
(
(
(
<
(
<
(
(
t
(
(
{
(
<
sure you were in the spirit world. I was there when the
letter arrived, and was very glad to see them so happy about
it.” The communication concludes with an exhortation to
the sister to persevere.
BLOOD-MARKED CROSSES ON THE HUMAN ARM.
Froin “ Evelyn's Diary."
5th August. There was sent me by a neighbour a servant-maid,
who, in the last month, as she was sitting before her mistress at work,
felt a stroke on her arm, a little above the wrist for some height, the
smart of which, as if struck by another hand, caused her to hold her
arm awhile till somewhat mitigated ; but it put her into a kind of con¬
vulsion, or, rather, hysteric fit. A gentleman coming casually in,
looking on her arm, found that part powdered with red crosses, set in
most exact and wonderful order, neither swelled nor depressed, about
this shape
X
X X
XXX
X X
X
not seeming to be in any way made by artifice, of a reddish colour,
not so red as blood, the skin over them smooth, the rest of the
arm livid and of a mortified hue, with certain prints, as it were,
of the stroke of fingers. This had happened three several times
in July, at about ten days’ interval, the crosses beginning to
wear out, but the successive ones set in other different, yet
uniform order. The maid seemed very modest, and came from
London to Deptford with her mistress, to avoid the discourse and im¬
portunity of curious people. She made no gain by it, pretended no
religious fancies, but seemed to be a plain, ordinary, silent, working
weTich, somewhat fat, short, and high-coloured. She told me divers
divines and physicians had seen her, but were unsatisfied—that she had
taken some remedies against her fits, but they did her no good ; she had
never before had any fits ; once since she seemed in her sleep to hear
one say to her that she should tamper no more with them, nor trouble
herself with anything that happened, but put her trust in the merits of
Christ only This poor wench was willing to submit to any
trial, so that I profess I know not what to think of it, nor dare pro¬
nounce it anything supernatural.
MRS. KIMBALL’S SEANCE AT THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
BY J. M. GULLY, M.D.
Mrs. Kimball gave a seance at the rooms of the British National
Association of Spiritualists, on Friday evening, 27th inst. There were
twelve ladies and gentlemen present, that number having been ex¬
pressly chosen by the medium; these were:—Mr. A. Calder, Dr.
Keningale Cook, Mr. G. R. Tapp, Mr. J. H. Gledstanes, Mrs. E.
Dawson Rogers, Mrs. Maltby, Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald, Mrs. Burke,
Mr. and Mrs. Everitt, Miss Kislingbury, and myself.
The medium soon passed into a trance condition, and seemed per¬
plexed by the vision of the spirits, who, she declared, were somewhat
disputatious as to what kind of manifestations they should make, whilst
the company being appealed to, left the matter entirely in her hands.
Some of the spirits she saw desired to* materialise ; but after some con¬
siderable pause the medium decided to reveal what she saw about the
spirits present with reference to the sitters. She then proceeded to
describe what appeared to her attached to each sitter, and in several
instances the spirits were recognised from such description, but through¬
out the seance the medium protested that some condition of the room
prevented her from seeing as clearly as she desired to do. In answer
to my questioning she proceeded to describe the character of the aura
which surrounded the individual sitters. That of Mrs. Everitt she de¬
scribed as exceedingly bright and particoloured, lilacs and pink with
silvery spots ; that of Mr. Tapp as very light blue, with a bright white
light falling on the crown of the head ; that of myself as delicate pink
spotted with gold, and an aureola round the brain composed of blue,
white and pink in lines one above the other. She dwelt for some
time upon what she saw near me, and made some curious revelations of
what her spirit observed. My daughter (who had been frequently seen
near me by various mediums) she declared was near me and kissed me ;
that she was pouring quantities of half-opened roses into my lap,
symbolical of a number of spirits in the other life, spirits, as it were, in
childhood, tender and loving ; these were handed with her, and all of
them influenced me, so that I seemed to be doing here what they were
doing there. The sphere of this band was the sphere of love, and she
stated that they would aid much in future sittings, at which she indicated
in detail the sitters. The sittings were to be in a cabinet for materialisa¬
tion, and herself and Mr. Eglington were to be the mediums; if per¬
severed in, and conditions kept, the results would be great. She laid
her hands on mine and said after a pause : “ You have strong spiritual
power and yearnings, but your spirit seems as if it had been indolent
for many years, as if you had not made it supreme ; but now you have '
much to do in the matter, and you must and will do it; you have
lived on earth before, thousands of years ago, in some long past Eastern
civilisation—Hindoo ; I see you dressed quite differently from the pre¬
sent ; but you are now in your last earthly body; you will live on earth
no more after the present life.” The medium then spoke under the
control of a cheerful spirit named “ Silverlight,” and referred again ot
the projected seances, speaking hopefully of the higher intelligences
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 4, 1876.
2
which would come to them, and of the certainty that the spirit of man
was undergoing one of those changes of opinion which in their vast
results on this earth, could only be effected by extra worldly spirit in¬
fluences. The whole sitting was most pleasing in character and testified
to the clear incorporeal state of the medium’s mind. Numerous dis¬
tinct raps were heard during the evening in various parts of the room,
especially near the end at which Mrs. Everitt was sitting.
THE MA.CMAHON MEMORIAL IN AMERICA.
To Miss Emily Kislingbury, Secretary British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Madam,—I am directed by Luther Colby, editor in chief of the Banner
of Light, to inform you that the memorial to Marshal MacMahon for the
pardon of M. Leymarie—forwarded by yourself—arrived at the office
in safety, and will appear on the eighth page of this paper for
January 15th.
Mr. Colby also directs me to state that he and his partner, Mr. Rich,
will do all in their power to place copies of this instrument before the
various Spiritualist societies of the United States, and to obtain as many
signatures in this country as possible, to the end that the friends of the
cause in America may not be behind those in Europe in expressing
both their protest against the injustice impending over M. Leymarie,
and their earnest desire that President MacMahon will make use of his
high prerogative and pardon this worth}'- man, exemplary citizen, and
fearless advocate of what to him appears to be truth.
In my own behalf allow me to extend to yourself and the organization
you represent as secretary, my sincere thanks for the compliment con¬
ferred on me by my election on December 14th as an honorary corres¬
ponding member of the Association, a certificate of which I received
from you in your note of December 23rd.
With best wishes for yourself, the Association, and all friends of the
cause, I remain, yours respectfully, John W. Day.
Boston, Jan. 10, 1876.
A SEANCE AT MRS. MAKDOUGALL GREGORY’S.
On Thursday evening last week, a private seance was held at the
house of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square.
The medium was Mrs. Kimball, who has recently arrived in this coun¬
try from America. The friends present were the Rev. Maurice Davies,
D.D., Miss Katherine Pbyntz, Lady Yere Cameron, of Lochiel, Miss
Stafford, Mrs. Wilkes, Mr. J. H. Gledstanes, Mr. Ward, Mr. Bennett,
Miss Rhondda Lawrence, Mr. W. H. Hanison, and the medium through
whom the “ Spirit Teachings,” occasionally published in The Spiritualist,
are given.
Mrs. Kimball passed into a partially entranced state, in which she
was not wholly unconscious, and said that near Mrs. Gregory she saw
a dignified clergyman of the Church of England, he was a little taller
and stouter than Dr. Davies, and she thought that he had departed earth-
life when Mrs. Gregory was a little girl. He spent much of his time
in the house.
Mrs. Kimball next said that she saw a young lady apparently about
eighteen years of age, near Lady Yere Cameron ; she was a friend of hers,
and she thought that she was her daughter. Had she such a daughter
once ?
Lady Cameron replied “ Yes.”
Mrs. Kimball continued that the spirit said to Lady Cameron “ God
in his wisdom has given us power to return to communicate with our
friends.” She saw alongside the young spirit, an elderly gentleman and
an old lady. She could not see very clearly, but the daughter appeared
to her to have a fair complexion, blue eyes, and blonde hair; she had
a free sweet nature, she was artistic and giaceful in her movements.
She (the medium) felt strange to those present, and to the house, as it
was her first visit, and she did not see clearly, but she felt sure that
the spirit would give absolute tests of identity if opportunities were
given to her for doing so ; she would also bring about a more tranquil
state in Lady Yere Cameron’s mind, for the spirit informed her that
she was not tranquil in her mind ; that she was trembling in spirit; that
she wished to know what the truth was, yet did not like to think that
her opinions upon such subjects were not firmly fixed. Her race was
very fixed and unchangeable in its ideas, but in the case of Lady Cameron
there had been a slow process of development which had fitted her to re¬
ceive that wealth which belonged to spirit life; indeed she had a refined
nature which was covered up by her exterior life, but which spirits were
able te see. She was very receptive of truth and quick in her intuitions;
she had an almost masculine brain, with an analytical power of sifting
and taking the purest of everything. Hers was also a religious mind,
free from the lower conditions of the earth. She mingled with people
who did not understand her at all; they could not see below the outer
shell, but the spirit world realised the truth. The increasing prayer of
her daughter was that she might learn something of God’s wondrous
beauty through the manifestations of the spiritual world. She (the
medium) could not help saying this, since she was not uttering her own
thoughts at all.
The medium next turned to Mr. Bennett, saying that she saw a lady
over him, and from his brain went a shaft of light which reached as far
away as the vision could travel; it was a white light, not very large,
but clear ; mixed with it were some golden hues. The lady was as tall
as she (the medium) was; she was not stout, she was graceful, had
dark hair, and chestnut eyes. She grasped in her hand a beautiful
garland of flowers. She thought that she was a person whom ho had
known, and that she had left earth many years ago, for she looked like
I a spirit who was free from earthly conditions. The name of “ Robert ’’
was given to her.
All the time Mrs. Kimball was saying this Mr. Bennett uttered not a
| word, and the medium had never seen him until about ten minutes
before she began to speak on this point. He said, “ I know who you
mean, her maiden name was ■ Roberts.’ Until you mentioned the name
1 did not know who she was, and was thinking of somebody else with
j blue eyes ; but when you mentioned the name ‘ Robert ’ that explained
I the chestnut eyes which had puzzled me.”
j The medium next said that round Mrs. Gregory she saw a band of
i beautiful little children united to each other by a tissue of lace. She
also saw, and had seen several times before during the evening, a very
I stout gentleman with grey hair; he was in uniform; he had heavy
| side whiskers, clear blue eyes, and a clear face. Did she know him ?
! Mrs. Gregory replied that she thought that he was an uncle of hers
I Avho had been a naval officer.
Mrs. Kimball said that the spirit informed her that he saw something
I in Mrs. Gregory’s outward life which distressed her, but that she need
] not be under any anxiety ; she would have compensation for the great
work she had done in earth-life in very many different directions,
j Everywhere she had been sowing seeds of truth of tlielrighest kind, and
| that in a way in which very few persons were able to do. She had a
!>! way of getting at people’s hearts, and seemed always to leave there
Ui something better than they had had before ; she always acted up to her
hi highest conceptions of what was right and true. Her power for good
Li had been a silent, and not a noisy7 one. She saw her head and neck
]< covered with pearls. They were emblems of truth, purity and gentle
hi deeds, all through life. Her spirit did not seem to live in her body
j(i half its time, but clung to it simply in order to carry on earth work.
!(i She was self-sacrificing; she diffused too much, and did not attend
sufficiently to herself.
|)j Shortly afterwards the seance closed.
i<
H
l:(
I
I
ii
!(
|(
j(
i {
K
!(
{
if
l(
i(
H
it
j]
jt
it
it
It
it
it
i t
it
it
it
it!
hi
it!
it!
hi
hi
j);
in
j I
(j
I [
it
NEWCASTLE MEDIUMS IN LONDON.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist?
Sir,—On Wednesday, the 26th of January, 1876, Misses Fairlamb
and Wood gave a ghost sSance at No. 15, Southampton-row, London.
Having a strong desire to see, I availed myself of the opportunity, and
so avoided the expense and toil of a journey to Newcastle.
No strict test conditions were attempted, and the audience (consisting
of about thirty persons) had to take for granted that the mediums were
simply mediums, and the ghosts really ghosts.
The cabinet was the back parlour of the upstairs room, and curtains
were across the folding-door opening. The two mediums simply went
into that room, and sat on chairs; they were hidden from the audience
by the curtains. The room door was locked, but of-course there was no
preventative to the use of a duplicate key. There was no need for
using that door, because all the adult manifestations could have easily
been produced by the mediums in or out of biological conditions.
The front room, where we were sitting, was all but dark. Faint gas¬
light came in through the windows from the street, and made the
curtains visible. The observers were sitting in a kind of horse-shoe
shape. A delay of about half an hour arose before the seance com¬
menced. A great deal of “ Gather at the River,” “ Ring the Bells,
Watchman,” and other hymns and songs were sung. Having thus
given the surroundings, I come to the ghosts. I saw nothing to prove
they were or were not ghosts ; I took all as possible, and therefore, for
the purpose I had in view, as true.
Just as the first ghost came up to the curtain, I felt the cold current
of air I have been accustomed to feel at genuine light seances, when
physical manifestations were about to begin. The spirit then opened
the curtains, and we saw a dark face; the figure wrapped in white. He
then closed the centre curtains, and opened the side one where I was
sitting; placed his hand on my head, took off my spectacles, patted me
caressingly on the head, then put on the spectacles, and withdrew.
Shortly after, when the audience were singing a Scotch song, he came
up to me, and I saw and heard him singing, and the words were uttered
distinctly. Shortly afterwards, a female spirit in white, with ample
folds round the head and arms, opened the curtains beside me, and put
out her hand. I took it in mine. The hand felt delicate; the fingers
were distinct; she carried my hand to her lips and kissed it, and I
returned the kindly greeting. After caressing me on the head, she
retired.
Now came a new phase. The centre curtains were opened, and an
adult ghost figure, called, I think, Geordie, appeared; and down, stand¬
ing on the floor, appeared a mannikin in white, about, say, 18 inches
high, who spoke, laughed, answered questions; shook hands with me
and others in the circle ; took up a parasol, and playfully hit several of
us. The room was so dark, and as the opposite side of the folding-
door opening was in use, I could not see the face. Mr. Williams and
Miss L. Fowler, the mediums, were sitting behind me, and as they
expressed a great wish to shake hands, the little spirit invited them,
and when they came, said, “ Get down on the floor and see me.” They
did, and stated that they saw the tiny face, and shook hands as I had
done. To me this was the most puzzling part of the scenes at the sitting.
Some delay now arose, and Geordie attempted to come out into our
circle, but could not, “ as the power was almost exhausted.”
So ended the seance. I went into the back room, saw Miss Fairlamb
rubbing her eyes, and Miss Wood still in trance. The hour was past
ten. I heard some stating their pleasure—some stating their regret
that, being in the rear of the room, they had seen so little. All were
thoughtfully orderly. I sped home by omnibus and rail and cab, and
reached here after the ghosts’ asserted hour of power—twelve.
J. Enmore Jones.
Enmore-park, Norwood, Jan. 28th, 1876.
Feb. 4, 1876,
THE SFlHlTtfALlST,
53
THE PRESENTATION OF THE HARRISON TESTIMONIAL.
Last "Wednesday night, at the ordinary monthly soiree of the British
National Association of Spiritualists, held at the Cavendish Rooms,
Mortimer-street, Regent-street, the testimonial, in relation to which much
has been printed in these pages, was presented to Mr. W. H. Harrison, as
a mark of recognition of his scientific and literary labours on behalf of
Spiritualism.
The hall was crowded to the doors, every seat being occupied.
Among the friends present were: Mr. Martin R. Smith, who presided j
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Mrs. Kate Fox-Jencken, Mrs. Ross-Church,
Mr. Alexander Calder, Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Mr. Stanhope Temple-
man Speer, M.D., Captain J. James, Mr. James, Mrs. George Neville,
Miss Clemes, Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D., Mr. Charles Carleton Massey (the
banister who recently visited the United States to investigate spiritual
phenomena), Mr. Peele, R.A., Miss Ella Dietz, Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe,
Dr. and Mrs. Carter Blake, Mr. Ivimey, Dr. and Mrs. Keningale Cook, Mr.
Bennett, Mr. E. T. Bennett, Miss Houghton, Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, Mr.
and Miss Rogers, Mr. and Mrs. Earl Bird, Mrs. Tebb, Mr. Percival, Mr. H.
Withall, the Misses Withall, Mr. Dufour, Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald,
M.S.Tel.E., Mr. Algernon Joy, Miss Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. Kislingbury, Miss
Kislingbury, Miss F. J. Theobald, Mrs. Maltby, Mr. and Mrs. Arthur
Maltby, Mr. W. H. Coffin, Mr. Percival, Mr. J. Frederick Collingwood,
Secretary to the Anthropological Institute, the Misses Williamson, Mr.
and Mrs. Bullock, the Rev. Mr. Newbould, Mr. and Mrs. Cogman, the
Misses Young, Mr. and Mrs. Towns, Mr. Haxby, Mr. John Haxby, Mr.
and Mrs. T. Everitt, Mr. F. Everitt, Miss Everitt, Mr. Selwood, Mr. Charles
Beveridge, Mrs. and Miss Sexton, Dir. Sexton, jun., Mr. and Miss Shorter,
Mr. Potts, Mrs. Stokes, Mr. A. L. Henderson, Miss Lottie Fowler, Miss
Godfrey, Mrs. Olive, Mr. Thomas Ely ton, Mr. Andre, Mr. and Mrs.
Edmands, Mr. Gledstanes, Mr. and Mrs. Bassett, Mr. E. Parkinson
Ashton, and many others. The early part of the evening was devoted to
general conversation, and the business proceedings began at eight o’clock.
THE PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS.
Mr. Martin R. Smith, who rose amidst loud applause, saidLadies
and gentlemen, as my remarks must extend, to so n 'cngth, and as my
time of late has been too much occupied to permit of my making any¬
thing like the preparation of my “ speech,” I must ask you to permit me
to read what I have to say upon the main topic of interest this evening—
viz., the presentation to Mr. Harrison of the testimonial which he so well
deserves.
I am not going to bespatter Mr. Hamson with indiscriminate praise, or
to set him up before you as in any sense a faultless individual; I am sure
he would be the last to wish that I should say one word of the truth of
which I was not fully convinced. I will not dilate, then, very fully upon
Mr. Harrison’s good qualities, and will pass on at once to the circum¬
stances which led to the conception of this testimonial.
For some years past Mr. Harrison has been carrying on among us a
work of the highest importance as editor of, I believe, the earliest
Spiritual newspaper in this country.
Speaking generally, I think I am justified in saying that Mr. Harrison
has carried on his work to the satisfaction of the main body of Spiritual¬
ists. I do not, of course, venture to assert that no mistakes have been
made, no toes trodden upon, no one’s special fancies irreverently handled,
but I would ask what sort of newspaper that would be which was con¬
stantly debarred from taking an independent course out of deference to
individual views or by the foolish, because hopeless, endeavour to please
everybody. What I do say, and I hope you will all agree with me, is
that Mr. Harrison has conducted his paper with intelligence, thoughtful¬
ness for the feelings of others, and capacity. Indeed, 1 consider it a high
proof of Mr. Harrison’s good sense that he should have made so few mis¬
takes as he has, considering the novelty of his subject, its abstruse nature
and characteristics.
For some years, Mr. Harrison, carried away by the intense interest of
his subject, and doubtless by the conviction, which we have all of us at
one time cherished, that Spiritualism, being a fact and a truth, must gain
rapid acceptance, conducted his paper at a heavy loss to himself both of
time and money, and without asking for assistance or co-operation. As
time, however, wore on, he was forced to recognise the fact that the
believers in Spiritualism were but few, and that their numbers increased
but slowly.
He saw another paper published treating on the same subject, and
thus necessarily rival to his own, but supported on a wholly different
principle, viz., by the subscriptions of Spiritualists. I do not for an
instant blame the editor of this newspaper that he boldly asked for and
obtained this assistance. On the contrary, I think he was fully justified
in so doing • but I am bound to point out to you how immensely Mr.
Harrison’s difficulties were increased by the sums of public money thus
subscribed to establish a second newspaper among a community very
limited in numbers, and which would barely suffice for the successful
existence of one.
A few friends then alive to the exceptional difficulties of Mr. Harrison’s
position, guaranteed for three years an annual sum of £200. £200 per
annum is a considerable sum no doubt; but it is not a large item in the
yearly expenditure of a newspaper like The Spiritualist. Nevertheless,
with this subscription Mr. Harrison has until now carried on his work
contentedly, and without any public appeal for assistance. Those who
knew him Well, however, had little difficulty in perceiving that he was
overworked and depressed, and it occurred to some of them that a public
expression of confidence in him, and approval of the good work he had
done for Spiritualism would act as a most opportune encouragement
to him.
A few days sufficed to form a committee for this purpose, and the list
of subscriptions to the testimonial which was suggested, and which you
have since read in the outer page of The Spiritualist prove how widely-
I spread was the feeling of regard and esteem which Mr. Harrison had
earned for himself.
| It has been remarked to me several times in the course of the last few
weeks, “ I am sorry that The Spiritualist newspaper has not been a financial
success, but after all, that is no business of ours. Mr. Harrison went into
/1 it as a commercial speculation—if it succeeds, so much the better for him—
h if it fails, so much the worse.”
Now, apart from the fact that a well-conducted newspaper is the life
(\ and soul of such a movement as this, I maintain that under the especial
>i circumstances of the present case, these words present the matter in a
)! wholly false light.
(i No doubt Mr. Harrison hoped in due course of time to meet with some
|i financial success. No one in his senses would undertake such a task as
the editing of a newspaper without some such hope in prospective; but he
)| could not foresee that a rival paper would be soon after started on entirely
(j new financial principles, viz , “ co-operative ” as regards its expenditure,
Si and “ proprietary ” as regards its receipts. As I have said, the small com-
>j munity of Spiritualists m England is barely sufficient for the successful
(i support of one paper. What hope, then, what possibility is there of one
(| paper maintaining its ground as a mere “ commercial speculation ” in com-
j! petition with another established on the ingenious financial principles I
>! have just mentioned.
) | What sort of justice is there in subscribing to the one, and treating the
| other on the basis of a “ commercial speculation.”
Forgive me for occupying so much of your time with The Spiritualist
j newspaper; but it is so closely identified with its editor, that I am in
(j reality confining myself closely to my topic, which centres in Mr.
(| Harrison.
(i Now take The Spiritualist paper all round, and I think you will acknow-
i ledge that it is one of which the movement may well be proud—well
(: satisfied with the independent, straightforward tone it assumes. The
(j courage with which it has always unmasked and denounced imposture—•
ji the forbearance with which it has met the acrid criticism of its rival—the
; tact with which it has excluded from its columns the questionable, I may
(1 say, the very questionable doctrines to which American Spiritualism has
i given birth. I think a fair criticism will find much to admire, and little
i to find fault with, in the general conduct of this paper, and I say, there-
ji fore, that it is difficult to over-estimate the importance to the movement
(| of such an organ. It cannot, it must not, be considered as a mere “ com-
mercial speculation.” We are all interested in its being maintained in its
11 present efficiency, all interested in assisting Mr. Hamson in still further
11 developing it, and rendering it still more worthy of the great cause of
) i Spiritualism.
I wish to take this opportunity of publicly contradicting a statement
which has of late been widely circulated; viz., that Mi1. Hairison is in
j: some mj'sterious way closely connected and identified with the British
): National Association of Spiritualists. This has already been publicly
(| contradicted by our secretary in a letter addressed to all the Spiritualistic
j publications in this country, but it cannot be too widely known that Mr.
I Harrison’s sole connection with the Association consists in his being an
| i ordinary member thereof.
It is true that The Spiritualist newspaper may, in some sense, be called
(i the “ organ ” of the Association, but it is also true, that if it were not, the
\\ Association would be deprived of all means of giving publicity to its
(! sayings and doings, for The Medium newspaper has uniformly declined to
(; publish any advertisement or information emanating from it.
11 As an instance, I may mention, that although this newspaper has week
r after week given publicity and countenance to the assertion that Mr.
(i Harrison and the Association were one and the same thing, it has not had
(■ the manliness or courtesy to publish, for the information of its readers, the
) j letter in which Miss Kislingbury, the secretary, distinctly and emphatically
Y\ denounced the assertion as wholly without foundation. I am sure Mr.
/ Bums’ best friends must regret and condemn his action in this matter,
( and while the Association regret Mr. Bums’ hostility, it enables them more
| fully to appreciate Mr. Hanison’s loyal and generous support.
And now, Mr. Harrison, it is with unmingled pleasure that I present to
)! you this evidence of our confidence and esteem. I hope, and believe, that
( it will be of some assistance to you in your undertaking, and I know
|: well that it possesses, in your eyes, a value entirely unconnected with its
j i amount.
It is a proof to you that your past labours have been appreciated by a
j very large section of English Spiritualists. English, do I say, not English
| alone, for the subscription list embraces contributions from many foreign
j countries. It is a proof to you that you have earned for yourself the
( goodwill and respect of those for whom you have laboured. (Applause. 1
As regards myself, I wish to express to you my conviction, which I trust
is shared by the majority of those present, that the newspaper with which
you are identified was not originated, and has not been carried on by you
h solely as a “commercial speculation.” I believe you are actuated by
higher, worthier motives.
In the name of all the subscribers to this testimonial, I wish you heartily
h success and prosperity, and we trust that you may be long spared to
promote the true interests of Spiritualism as fearlessly and efficiently as
i you have hitherto done. (Applause.)
MR. JENCKEN ON “THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Mr. H. D. Jencken said:—Ladies and gentlemen, I am taken slightly at
a disadvantage in following my friend, but as the duty has devolved upon
: me, I will venture to make a few remarks, not by way of comment, but to
indicate what are ray sentiments in following the remarks of our President.
I heartily concur with him in what he has said. There are two essential
|j elements of success in every movement: the first its inherent merit, the
(i second is that the merit should have the means of publicity. Now, un-
I fortunately for Spiritualism—I do not say it with any feeling of anger, I
say it with regret—the friends of Spiritualism have not paid particular re¬
gard to this principle, or to the good effected by the invaluable ser¬
vices rendered by Mr. Harrison by stepping out of his course and sacrific¬
ing his professional career—because to a gi eat extent he has done so. He
has given to Spiritualism a journal which is conducted with all the skill
of an experienced editor, and the consequence is that we have tor- the first
time in the English language, as far as I know, a solid and well-con¬
ducted journal, which is all-important to the interests of Spiritualism,
and which is the more important for this reason, because the
very inquiry we have to make, like the subject matter we have to deal
54
Feb. 4, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
with, is so difficult to handle that unless we soberly set to rectify our¬
selves as we proceed, we go into error’s which not only mislead us, but
would raise an outcry which would be pretty prevalent all over the land
against the movement. I believe it is a real but astounding fact that there
are actually unseen beings communicating with men and women on earth;
and therefore for my own part I heartily indorse the sentiments and ex¬
pressions of our President, and I wish Mr. Harrison in the course he may
pursue with his paper every success, and every success to those who have
supported him in the noble efforts he has made for many years past, and
to which he has given the best years of his youth. (Loud applause.)
The Chairman—A letter has been sent to me by Mr. Markley, of Peter¬
borough, who is undoubtedly well known to many Spiritualists here, and
which I may as well read :—
3, Crawthorne-street, Peterborough, Jan. 31st, 1870.
To the Chairman of the Harrison Testimonial Presentation Meeting.
Dear Sir,—I regret my inability to be in London on Wednesday evening—
the date of the Soiree, and the attractive occasion when Mr. W. H. Harrison
is, in some measure, to be rewarded according to his literary, journalistic, and
personal merits. However, I beg to state my personal appreciation of his
character and abilities as illustrated in the editorial management of The
Spiritualist—a journal of high-class and well-sustained pretension : at once
able, accurate, and scientifically “ cautious ” in dealing with a subject which
cannot be approached fairly or tested wisely under those trembling conditions
of exaggerated feeling and faith, which excite and control the pardonable
enthusiasm of the popular beliefs of the day. In writing thus, I would not in
any way under-estimate the characteristic excellencies of the many other
periodicals devoted to Spiritualistic inquiry. But all impartial observers
must, I think, agree in opinion that Mr. Harrison is honest in his dual respon¬
sibility as a journalist: defending and explaining every phase of genuine
“ mediumship: ” never—as far as we can judge—allowing The Spiritualist to
deceive the anxious “ outside public ” by making that journal a “ city of
refuge ”, for impostors, no matter how eminent, active, or previously well-
beloved in the movement. The inquiry is too serious to be played with as a
toy; albeit that some rogues almost deceive the very elect. Hence the need
of scientific reliability in dealing with phenomena affecting the most profound
question of the age—the continuity of man’s spiritual being. Therefore, as a
practical journalist, dealing with a most perploxiug subject, I think Mr.
Harrison is a safe, truth-seeking chronicler of psychological events, and
worthy of encouragement. Somewhere—in his latest poems, I think—Swin¬
burne speaks of—
“ The light that outlasts the lightnings.”
Such a light—in matters of psychology—modern criticism and research
demand. If The Spiritualist as yet cannot point to a fact so pleasing
and poetic, it at least tries honourably to “ conquer the clouds,” and make such
an ideal summer day possible.—Faithfully yours, J. T. Markley.
MR. HARRISON’S REPLY.
Mr. Harrison (who on rising was greeted with loud and continued ap¬
plause) said:—Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen—I rise to return
thanks for the very handsome testimonial which has been presented to
me this evening. I rejoice to see so many kind friends whose faces have
been well known to me for many years past, present on this occasion, and
I am equally thankful to those friends who have been unable to attend
to-night.
A testimonial of this kind is of necessity personal in its character, and,
although I have always avoided presenting anything relating to myself
to tlie notice of the public, except where connected with subjects of
general interest, friends have told me that on the present occasion
a little of a personal nature would be acceptable. Perhaps my
own relationship to Spiritualism is typical, and represents that of
many other individuals, consequently, if the experience of the one
represents the experience of the many, something more than personal
ends will be served by giving the desired particulars. I will therefore
state some of my religious experiences in relation to Spiritualism, those
relating to its phenomena having already been published in the little book.
Spirit People, and in the pages of The Spiritualist. Next I will speak of
the present position of Spiritualism, also of its relationship to the scientific
world, and to the press; lastly, the possible course to be taken by
Spiritualism in the future, with some statements relating to new and un¬
considered questions now looming upon the horizon of this great move¬
ment. All these points I hope to deal with in so short a time as not to be
wearisome to you.
THE SENSATIONS OF A DROWNING CHILD.
My story will begin at an earlier date than I originally intended, in
order to state an incident bearing upon a subject recently brought under
the notice of the Psychological Society, namely, the sensations of drowning
persons. Some curious facts were made known there as elsewhere, about
drowning persons having few sensations of pain, and seeing all the events
of their lives passing before their eyes in a few moments of time, but I
am not aware of the sensations of a drowning child having ever been re¬
corded. At about the age of six or eight I lived with relatives at a farm¬
house at Kenton,near Harrow-on-the Hill; a large garden, abounding in
flowers and fruit trees, adjoined the house, and in one part of it was a
rectangular pond, of about the area of the floor of this hall, with high
banks, and rich in water-lilies and gold-fish. One bright sunshiny day,
while alone in this garden, I fell into the pond with a splash and an
intense but momentary shock of fright; I rose to the surface on my back,
and remember thinking that if I kicked or sci earned any more, the more
likely was the water to find its way into my mouth, which it did to some
extent, nevertheless. I remember being pleased with the bright clouds
overhead, with the rich bending trees around laden with blossoms, and
with the green dragon-flies flitting about, as I sailed quietly on my
back along the surface of that pond, until I became insensible.
No mortal ever faced death more happily. The sensation was one of
perfect repose, and total absence of fear or anxiety. Young as I was I
remember that for weeks afterwards I wondered that I had not been more
frightened. There was no vision of the deeds of my past life, perhaps
because there were no deeds in particular to remember, beyond sundry
attempts with a hook and line upon the lives of the gold-fish, and perhaps
some of the local butterflies might have been found with pins through
Ii them, I hope attached to cards in strict scientific fashion, and not to
H pieces of cotton that their attempts at flight under new conditions
might be observed, for children, like savages, are sometimes very cruel,
at other times very kind. My grandmother saw me from an upper
window; aged and unable to swim as she was, she rushed across the
garden into the pond, which chanced to be shallow, where I was then
floating far from the bank, and she carried me out. Owing then to one
of those heroic deeds which women will do when necessity requires it,
I am here to address you to-night. (Applause.)
MR. HARRISON’S EARLY CAREER.
My father died while I was a boy at school. He had given me a good
English education, and above all things had benefited me by taking care
that I should learn the elements of experimental natural philosophy;
fortunately my last schoolmaster, Mr. Albert Pennington, of Stoke
11 Newington, whom I shall always remember with gratitude, had a taste in
the same direction, so a special class, well provided with apparatus,
was formed to give attention to science. A good classical education
Ij should by no means be undervalued, but a knowledge of the laws and
principles governing the great world around us, is at least as valuable
as acquaintance with the languages of dead and buried Pagans. I do
not see why either should be neglected for the sake of the other,
n j Directly after my father’s death I obtained an appointment in the
i i service of the Electric and International Telegraph Company, and after
| I learning my duties at Paddington Station, received rapid promotion,
I i chiefly in consequence of my previous scientific education having made
i i me acquainted with the principles of construction of the apparatus placed
! I in my hands, consequently the best means of using it and keeping it in
! i order. For a time that Company placed me in charge of Trowbridge
i J i Station, in Wiltshire, and afterwards of Chepstow Station, in the centre of
| | the exquisite scenery of the Valley of the Wye. Having always had
i i much natural spirituality of character, I was accustomed to take solitary
1(1 walks in the woods about Tintern Abbey, pondering over religious,
j | political, and social questions, and expressing my thoughts in poetry, as I
Kj suppose everybody does at one time or another during life. From
I'i Chepstow I received promotion to Haverfordwest Station, at the western
11 extremity of South Wales, the last telegraph station on this side of the
Irish Channel, in communication with Wexford on the other side of the
water. My duties in Haverfordwest consisted chiefly in testing the cable,
ninety miles long, between Abermawr Bay and the opposite coast, and
: >! this work was sometimes difficult when faults appeared in the line; yet
i | electrical methods have been brought to such perfection that once, when
IJ | two wires came into contact with each other between Haverfordwest, in
Wales, and Wexford, in Ireland, I tested the line, and telegraphed to
!|! Wexford that the fault was in the land-lines between that town and the
|(j Irish coast, at a certain number of miles from their office. They
iji accordingly sent out a man on horseback, who found the fault at exactly
i | the place indicated by the tests made in Wales. It was while engaged in
| | work of this kind that I first became acquainted with Mr. Cromwell
i(i Varley, who came one day to Haverfordwest with Mr. J. B. Saunders,
Ml and the result of a few hours’ conversation with him was that he offered
i (i me a higher appointment in his office, which I did not accept, for I had
| j made many friends in Haverfordwest, and for other reasons was
;(i disinclined to leave that town; in fact, I was so thoroughly comfortable
I (i there that for several years I aeclined all further offera of promotion.
i j
j(i RELIGIOUS SPECULATIONS.
While at Haverfordwest, I first began to speculate earnestly upon
| | religious problems. I felt not the slightest antagonism to any of the
i j i orthodox creeds of the day. I saw that persons whom I assumed to be
i(| better than myself adhered to them, and thought that probably there was
i j i something wrong in my own nature which rendered me unable to endorse
| j i their views. Still, if this were the case, I felt it very hard to suppose tha
iji I might be condemned hereafter to an eternity of punishment, hanging to
it| the sides of a bottomless lime-kiln, for opinions I was really unable to
iji escape. My paramount perplexity was—and be it remembered that,
II in stating this, I am committing nobody but myself—that if there were
really a life beyond the grave, and if evidence to that effect had been
given to mankind in the days of old, why was not such evidence given
now? Scientific experiments had practically proved to me that the
laws governing this beautiful universe were invariable and unchangeable in
their action. Whj then, if spirits appeared and spoke to men in the days
of old, did they not do so now ? As they did not do so, I came to the
I conclusion that many of the tilings taught from the pulpit—-and which the
preachers threatened my young mind to disbelieve at its peril—were not
true. At the same time, had I been compelled to give a casting vote as to
the reality of a life beyond the grave, I think that the vote would have been
given in favour of such being the case, and foi this reason—seeing the
glory, the majesty, and intelligence displayed in the wonderful works of
creation—and none understand these so thoroughly as those who are
acquainted with the laws of God as revealed by science—remembering also
the utilitarian plan on which the universe is built up, nothing being lost,
but everything economised, I could not see why man should be placed here
tor threescore years and ten, more or less, constantly gaining experience,
axd that, at the close of life here, his experiences should be dissipated.
Further, deep in the heart of man there is implanted the desire for
immortality, indeed, I have met but one exception to this rule—only one
instance where the individual wished for extinction at the end of earth-
life. Now, if we have within our breasts the fundamental desire for
immortality, which desire can never be gratified, it seemed to me that the
Power which would so create us must be unjust ^and, looking abroad
upon the face of nature, the beauties of hill and dale, and the evidence of
the perfect powers of conception which first designed the summer flowers,
there seemed to be no proof that God was unjust. Thus the problem of
a future life was a perplexity to me. I was rather more in favour of its
| reality than against it, but knew of no absolute evidence that it was true,
since my mind could not rest alone upon metaphysical speculations. This
inbred love of the beauties of nature, which in some persons'—Sir Hum¬
phrey Davy to wit—has been entirely lacking, comes out strongly in
some of my poetical effusions written at that time.
EARLY LITERARY EFFORTS.
At Haverfordwest I first began to write for the press. My first lucubral ion
appeared in the pages of the Haverfordwest Telegraph, under the signature
! of “Anthony Wobblejaws.” Afterwards I began to write forthc Cambria
Feb. 4, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
55
Daily Leader with sufficient effect to materially increase its sale in Haver¬
fordwest ; as any result of this kind goes straight to the heart of a new spaper
proprietor, the consequence was that Mr. David Morgan Thomas, who
then edited it, came down to see me, and offered me an appointment on
its staff as reporter, which I declined on the ground that I was financially
much better off where I was. Mr. Williams, one of the. proprietors, then
wrote to me that in coming to Swansea as a reporter, it did not neces¬
sarily follow that I was always to remain in that capacity, but that I
might be given some of the editing if I were found competent. This
turned the scale. I went to Swansea, where I gained my first real experi¬
ence in newspaper work, and after a time the editing of the paper was
left in my hands for months together. Here, of course, I saw men and
things from all points of view—at a colliery explosion one day, at the
opening of a railway another, and at a prize fight, perhaps, the next.
There is nothing like life in connection with the daily newspapers for
seeing men and things from all sides, and the experience gained in such a
career is of great value. Nothing occurred at this period giving me any
clue as to the reality of the invisible world, in fact the only record I have
been able to find of my mind having turned-itself to supernatural
subjects consisted in some verses upon Pepper’s ghost, which was then
first produced at the Polytechnic, and caused considerable sensation
throughout the country, for during the first few weeks the method of its
production was a puzzle to the general public. These are the lines:—
THE POLYTECHNIC GHOST.
Dark tales of the mysterious, the gloomy and the dread,
From days of early childhood my wildest fancies fed;
A lone peculiar mortal with visions high and wild,
A dreamy young enthusiast—Sir Walter’s ‘‘ spectre child.”
The placarded advertisements I read not for their lore,
Yet they told me of a spirit, by Pepper kept in store;
Of a grim and ghastly phantom, with lips as cold as clay,
Who walked the Polytechnic stage, by night and eke by day.
I paid my shilling quickly at the check-taker’s stall,
With heart so wildly beating, I sought the darkened hall;
And there with twice five hundred I sat in silent dread,
With straining eyeballs watching for the spirit of the dead.
The study of the alchemist was there revealed to view,
With giant bats, and crocodiles, and bottles green and blue,
Alembic, still, and crucible—and He so pale and wan.
The centre of each earnest gaze—it was the Haunted Man.
And as the tale grew wilder, still deeper grew the dread,
And straight the hairs ’gan bristling on every Cockney’s head,
A still, unearthly silence reigned throughout the trembling host;
They knew the ffian beneath the stage was lighting up the ghost.
Its eyes they glared all haggardly, and fulsome was its shroud,
Yet a thrill of stifled laughter ran through the waiting crowd,
And bright-eyed little children, their parents’ pride and boast,
Were raised in arms all lovingly, to see the “ pretty ghost.”
It knew that it was patented—that the shadow which it cast
Was far from being orthodox—it felt that it was “ fast.”
Ghosts of respectability are always thin as air,
And when they quit their coffins they leave their shadows there.
The lady ghost was prettier, with eyes so full of love,
As she fondly gazed on Pepper, and eke her white kid glove,
Which she pm-chased at a ghost shop, most likely down below,
Though Cruikshank says she didn’t—but how came he to know ?
Ladies will keep the fashions, in spite of ancient tales,
Yet laugh not at the ghostess ye modern bards of Wales,
For I saw you meet in Swansea—Druids in Ion"-tailed coats.
With knickerbockers round your legs, and “Byrons” round your
tliroats.
The ghost will own these rambling lines are spun out long enough,
Perhaps he’ll move a vote of thanks for such a glorious puff.
So long life to Her Majesty, and Pepper long live he,
If he write some gratis orders and send them down to me.*
MORE EARLY EXPERIENCES.
To cut a long story short, from Swansea I went to Merthyr, after a i<
short residence in Cardiff, and was appointed secretary and manager to K
the Merthyr Newspaper Company, Limited; on behalf of that company ||
I started the MerthyrExpress, now a flourishing journal recognised by the ;)
authorities of the county of Glamorgan. While there I wrote a ghost I
story which created no little excitement. Mr. G. T. Clark and Mr. Bruce, !
the late Home Secretary, now Lord Abcrdare, were trustees to the Dowlais i
Iron Works, which are about the largest in Wales, and the former gentle¬
man, in his capacity of Chairman of the Board of Health, suggested that |
in order to improve the approaches to Merthyr from the TaffYale railway hi
station a slice should be cut off the churchyard. The Welsh are a some- |j
what superstitious people, and slicing a churchyard like a cheese is, in ij
Wales, a very diffc rent thing to doing the same in London, as in the in¬
stance of circumscribing the churchyard of St. Martin’s in the Fields. I i
doubt whether any local authority could cany out any such plan in j
Merthyr. I remember writing a story which some day I may search out
and reprint, telling how the ghosts rebelled at having their tombs inter¬
fered with, how they held a public meeting at midnight in the church, at :
which they testified their dissatisfaction by groans, rustling of shrouds, :
and rattling of bones, and how they finally appointed adeputation to wait i
upon Mr. Clark, warning him of the legal steps they would take if he \
persisted in desecrating the churchyard. The ghost who cairied the ij
message appeared to Mr. Clark with a livid face, his mouth covered with ij
blue mould, and with coffin nails on his coat instead of buttons. An
ordinary man would have been frightened, but Mr. Clark politely invited ij
his visitor to take a chair, and fired off so many jokes at him that the ij
ghost, who couldn’t bear jokes, was made ill, and finally being helped ij
libci ally to glasses of wine, staggered away in a state of intoxication. The ij
interest this story excited in Merthyr caused the rapid buying up of all ij
the obtainable copies of the Merthyr Telegraph in which it appeared; ij
moreover, the inhabitants of the town found out who the departed per- ij
sons in Merthyr were whose ghosts had made the speeches in the church, i j
and their surviving families were exceedingly annoyed because their de- ij
* The Cumbria Daily Leader, September 12, 1808,
ceased relatives had thus been brought on to the stage. All I can say is
that I did not know who the people were when I wrote the story • the
ghosts were entirely personified by Mrs. Grundy; it was a case on a large
scale in which the identity of the spirits depended entirely upon the
imaginations of the living. I have seen many such cases since.
From Merthyr I returned to London as Mr. Cromwell Varley’s private
secretary, he being at that time engineer-in-chief to the Electric and
International Telegraph Company. While there I obtained various
engagements upon the scientific press as a reviewer and leading article
writer, and after a time I gave up my appointment with Mr. Yarley in
order to take another on the permanent staff of a powerful London daily
paper. Although I had known Mr. Yarley long, he had never forced his
religious opinions upon me, and I did not know for some time that he
was a Spiritualist, but when I discovered this he gave me facilities fox-
seeing certain of the phenomena for a long time in his own house, as fully
narrated in my little book, Spirit People. That was about eight years ago,
and from that day to this I have given about half my time to Spiritualism,
unbiased by any theories or prejudices, consequently all my energies
have been devoted first of all to the learning of what the actual facts are,
by attending two or three seances per week, then having ascertained what
are indisputable facts, drawing conclusions from them that cannot be
denied, this being the established scientific method of properly investi¬
gating any subject whatever, and proved by experience to be the only
safe one.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OP THE “SPIRITUALIST’’ NEWSPAPER.
In the year 1869 complaints were made by the speakers at the Gower-
street conferences, that no newspaper existed in the Spiritual movement
in which the utterances at public meetings were recorded ; the result of
that was that towards the close of that year I started The Spiritualist
newspaper, and from that day to the present, regular records of all
important Spiritualistic meetings in this country have been made, which
was not the case before. Afterwards other journals came into the field,
and introduced for the first time the subscription system, in order to keep
themselves alive. I had never had anything to do with any newspaper
which was a burden to the general public, and I believed in self-
supporting principles rather than in asking for money, consequently for
three years I kept aloof from the subscription system, while some
thousands of pounds of the public money of Spiritualists were spent in
competition with my journal. I do not say this by way of complaint,
for it was my own fault that I did not publicly mention the harm that the
subscription system was doing to me, but I thought Spiritualism too
sacred a thing to have money matters of this kind mixed up with it.
Some few private friends, however, saw the injury which the subscrip¬
tion system and my silence were inflicting upon me, and more especially
in this matter do I remember with gratitude the acts of Mr. Charles
Blackburn, of Manchester, After my mind was thoroughly interested in
subjects connected with Spiritualism, I had still, as I do at present, to give
a large portion of my time to scientific literary work, and it is a weari¬
some thing to shift the attention from one subject in which an interest is
felt, to another of a less attractive nature. If two persons partial to the
bad habit of practical joking were by preconceived arrangement to
alternately question a friend upon entirely different subjects, so that his
attention would have to be given to one thing at one moment and to a
totally different subject the next, he could be thoroughly tired out in a
short time, without perhaps knowing the cause of his weariness. My
double duties had somewhat the same effect on me. Mr. Blackbui-n
resolved to carry out a series of experiments, to determine whether or no
the odic flames alleged by Baron Reichenbach to come from magnets
would act upon photographic films, and I was engaged by him to carry
out the experiments at his expense, thus he devised a means of freeing
me for a long time from literary work of which I had grown tired, in
order to do other work intimately connected with Spiritualism, conse¬
quently less wearisome. Mr. Yarley also took part in those experiments.
To Mr. Varley I am also specially indebted for the great facilities he
gave me for many years to observe the phenomena of Spiritualism.
Lastly I must not forget to mention Mr. Thomas Blyton, one of the most
hard-working and disinterested Spiritualists in London, and to a large
extent the life and soul of the Dalston Society. His great ability as an ac¬
countant, and his acquaintance with routine work connected with public
offices, he has freely placed at my disposal during his spare hours for seven
years. W ere I to enumerate the numberless acts of friendship towards me
on the part of Spiritualists, I should scarcely ever get to the end of the
catalogue. I therefore particularise only these three cases, because they
have extended in an unvarying manner from the day The Spiritualist first
appeared in 1869, until the present moment. There are friends who
have contributed valuable articles to The Spiritualist, others who have
subscribed heavily to the guarantee fund, others who have done the
same to this testimonial; amongst the smaller amounts in connection
with the latter I know are some made at no little self-sacrifice, the true
measure of generosity.
THE RAPID EXTENSION OP SPIRITUALISM.
Of the progress of the Spiritual movement, and of its present position, I
will say little; with the main facts most of you are familiar. For the
benefit of those present who are strangers to the subject, it may be stated
that modern Spiritualism took its rise twenty-seven years ago at Hydes-
ville, in the United States, through the mediumship of Miss Kate Fox,
now Mrs. Jcnoken, who I am exceedingly pleased to see here to-night.
Raps and mysterious noises were heard in the house, to the fright of both
children and parents, who were all good Wesleyans; after a time these
noises were discovered to be governed by intelligence, for little Kate Fox
said to the noises one fine morning, “Now then, old Splitfoot! Rap three
times 1 ” Tlu-ee raps were given, upon which the intelligence was asked
to spell out a message by rapping when the right letter was reached while
the alphabet was being called over. He said that he was a pedler who had
been murdered in the house. When these facts set the little village of
Hydesville in a blaze, and a committee of investigation dug in the cellar,
some human bones were found. Instructions were given by the intelli¬
gences how to form spirit circles, and from that day to this the pheno¬
mena have spread in a social way from house to house, until
Spiritualists arc numbered by millions, and are to be found in every part
of the civilised globe. We have three weekly papers in America, two in
England, one in Australia, and monthly periodicals by dozens—probably
some fifty or sixty altogether.
56
THE SPIRITUALIST. Feb. 4, 1876.
SPIRITUALISM AND SCIENCE.
The action of the scientific world in relation to Spiritualism has been [)i
peculiar. The professors at Harvard University witnessed some manifes- :):
ta'ions through the mediumship of the Davenport Brothers, and, after i(j
finding fault with»the first tvo or three things which occurred, they ob- Kj
tained some phenomena which were absolutely inexplicable, then had the i)!
moral cowardice to withhold from the public the report which had been 11 i
promised. If any report was ever drawn up it has never seen the light of i <]
day. In England the Boyal Society rejected a paper by Mr. Crookes con- |
taining simply a record of physical facts observed by competent witnesses, i) |
and the British Association for the Advancement of Science did the same. I);
Dr. Carpenter told a public audience at Chelsea that one of Mr. Crookes’ j c j
papers had been rejected because it contained certain mistakes; he further j 11
went to tlie expense and trouble of fitting up apparatus to show the hi
listeners the mistakes which Mr. Crookes had made, and in consequence |)!
of which, so it was asserted, the Royal Society rejected his paper. The ■ j
truth of the case was there was no such mistake in Mr. Crookes’ paper, or (i
anything bearing the slightest resemblance thereto; this was pointed out ) |
to Dr. Carpenter, but I believe he has never apologised for the bogus j>|
experiment, or informed the Chelsea Society that it had no foundation in | )\
fact. The Royal Society, by a formal resolution, disclaimed all connec- C i
tion with Dr. Carpenter in regard to his doings in this matter. Professor \ i
Tyndall once went to a stance, and afterwards wrote a sensational article j) |
about it, saying how most of the raps heard were produced by himself \ \
by “nipping his muscles,” whatever that may mean, and that a peculiar i (j
buzzing noise which was heard was caused by his whiskers rubbing ) j
against the edge of a wine-glass, an explanation which, as might be i)j
expected, was not well received by the other persons present. It was a if!
bold thing to say that a buzzing noise, which several persons ascribed to ; (j
some abnormal cause, was caused by his whiskers rubbing against a wine- ) I
glass, nor has he ever repeated the experiment in public. On the morning ) j
before he delivered his presidential address to the British Association at :) j
Belfast, the Belfast News Letter, the oldest paper in the north of Ireland, (j
called upon him to prove his case by making this buzzing noise with (j
a wine-glass during his visit to Belfast, but in this matter he appears to ) j
shrink from experimental proof of the possibility of his words having an :) I
accurate foundation. In Colonel Olcott’s book, People From the Other (i
World, are several cases of cruelty practised by so-called scientific men \ \
upon mediums, and the general result of all this is that among Spiritualists j i
men of science are not held in high estimation. To such an extent has ) i
this feeling grown, that the committee appointed by the St. Peteraburg j i
University to investigate Spiritualism has had the very greatest difficulty | (j
in getting mediums, for the mediums care nothing for the opinions of | j i
scientific men Spiritualism has a natural growth of its own, and no j )i
body of men can force it upon the world before its time. If a scientific (i
society said it was true, kindred societies would say its members had gone i (j
mad, and Spiritualism would gain little. In fact, Spiritualism spreads i j I
socially, and is quite independent of the sayings or doings of its would-be ) j
judges. In the meantime the public are greatly perplexed by the great ! (i
evidence in favour of Spiritualism, and they turn to science, whose duty \ |
it is to give the explanation, but can get no information in the slightest i > i
degree trustworthy from that source. Professor Huxley on the spur of ) i
the moment once wrote a very contemptuous letter about Spiritualism to (;
the Dialectical Society, but it should not be forgotten that after his more : \j
serious attention was called to the subject, he wrote a second letter, in > i
which he spoke like a philosopher and a gentleman. In that second ) i
letter he said: “ For the present year my time and energies are so fully ; l\
pre-occupied that it would be little short of madness for me to undertake | (j
an investigation of so delicate and difficult a character, the only certain \ i
result of which would be an interminable series of attacks from the side j j i
from which I might chance to differ. I hope that I am perfectly open )\
to conviction on this or any other subject.”
The Royal Society has not only disowned connection with Dr. Carpenter I > i
in ihe line of action already stated, but has elected Mr. Cromwell Yarley | I
as one of its members, notwithstanding his Spirituafism • further, it has not 11 i
allowed its prejudices to prevent the presentation of its Royal Medal to
Mr. Crookes for his recent great discovery in relation to light. Another (i
instance of absence of prejudice has been shown by Nature, the chief | )i
organ of scientific men, and edited by Mr. Norman Lockyer; this journal i )|
has never printed one word against Spiritualism, its only article on the j 6
subject, written by Dr. Balfour Stewart, having been of the most im- 111
partial and thoughtful nature, as might have been expected from the I):
high character of its author.
SPIRITUALISM AND THE PRESS.
The relationship of Spiritualism to the press demands but brief com- ! )i
ment. The actual phenomena of Spiritualism being of an unbelievable \l\
nature, not in accordance with ordinaryexperience.it was natural that Ml
they should not be readily accepted; in addition to this there is a rooted )|
habit among ordinary people of opposing that which they do not under- : )|
stand, instead of advocating unbiased investigation. Thus, years ago, j)i
there was an unlimited amount of abuse of Spiritualism issuing I (I
from the jaws of the press; nevertheless, those journals which ;) |
represented the cultured sections of society have never com- •; ji
mitted themselves to a false position to any great extent. Nature, j)i
the organ of the scientific world as I have already stated, has l]
never committed itself at all, and The Times, which represents as thought- I (|
ful and cultured a class of readers as it is possible for a daily paper to | ji
have—for any daily paper must bend itself more or less to the level of the I )|
populace, if it is to have any sale at all—has always dealt honourably j (j
with Spiritualism. For instance, in the year 1874, it gave a special Mj
correspondent a commission to examine the facts. Two or three weeks I ji
v ere spent in the work, and a very full and fair report of what was i )|
observed was published in The Times to the extent of five or six columns 11
in length, with no misrepresentation or abuse; the commissioner admitted (|
that he had seen at one of the seances an untouched lath rise from the table I j j
before him and float about in the air. I doubt if any other daily paper i j j
in this country has had the moral courage to state a fact like this I ji
officially. Many years ago when Foster, the celebrated medium, came to | j i
England, the editor of The Times also printed a truthful account of what j|
was witnessed, but the account appeared to readers to contain such |ji
improbable statements that many of the other newspapers, of course, i) |
began to howl at the narrative. Punch took up the matter and remarked I j I
that—
r Whilst mysterious taps and remarkable raps
Caused the editor’s nerves to jar,
The imperturbable Foster sat,
Smoking his mild cigar.”
The Athenaeum, which also represents readers of a high class, has not
committed itself much against Spiritualism, if it has done so at all; as fir
as my memory serves me, I think it has published one abusive article, the
passages in which will read very awkwardly if hereafter they should
be placed side by side with passages quoted from the same journal, when
it sets forth the truth about our controverted subject. At the present time
newspaper abuse of Spiritualism is confined chiefly to country journals,
and to some of the smaller fry of the London press, which have not the
means of learning much about the real influences going on in society.
I may here state that my work in connection with Spiritualism has not
prejudiced my connection with the general press in the slightest degree.
Although I am now working regularly for powerful journals, the propri¬
etors and editors do not mind my giving attention to Spiritualism so long
as I do my duty to them; indeed I think they like me all the better for
sacrificing some of my prospects in life by taking up with an unpopular
movement—in which, moreover, they do not much believe—before its
time. (Applause). I am glad to be able to bear this testimony. Had I
been connected with purely commercial people, or with small journals
worked on trade principles, I believe I should have been peraecuted as
some other Spiritualists have been. I once knew a bookseller who had a
newspaper, and if anybody offended him in talk, he went behind his
counter and wrote a pai’agraph against him for the next issue. (Laughter).
Small people are always more tyrannical and self-important than others,
and the whole secret of my freedom from persecution is that I am con¬
nected with journals conducted by gentlemen. (Hear, hear).
SPIRITUALISM AND THE EVOLUTION OF MORALS.
In America, Spiritualism has had a longer and larger growth than in
this country, consequently by carefully studying what is going on there,
we may gain wisdom by their experience, instead of painfully buying the
knowledge for ourselves. Mr. Epes Sargent, Dr. Crowell, Mrs. Hardmge,
and other good authori ties connected with the movement have latterly raised
their voices against the wild theories mooted in the United States in the
name of Spiritualism,somei of which are felt so to disgrace it that respectable
people will not join the movement, and Mrs. Hardinge, for the same
reason, has withdrawn from the public rostrum. What is the real mean¬
ing of all this ? A critical examination of spirit messages given by writ¬
ing and by trance, will very commonly show that the same phraseology
and the same grammatical construction of sentences, are to be found m
different communications given by different spirits, through the same
medium. This can be seen in almost any book containing messages given
by writing mediumship, and is evidence that the mental nature of the
medium unconsciously impresses its character upon most of the messages
passing through it. Thus in many cases, but not in all, what are called
spirit messages, consist of say sixty or seventy per cent, of the thoughts
of the medium, the remainder only being due to the spirits. Thus it may
be assumed that at many spirit circles held regularly, the spirit teachings
obtained are slightly higher than the highest ideas of the members of that
circle, and have been evolved from their own inner consciousness without
spirit aid. Hence if Spiritualism progresses rapidly among low type
people, or among people with strong animal proclivities, it follows that no
very high system of morality will be evolved, nor can such elements pro¬
duce as their outcome a religious system calculated to meet the require¬
ments of people of a higher order. Hence I think the weakness of the
very large growth of Spiritualism in America, arises from the movement
having progressed more rapidly among uneducated than educated
people, and that to avoid bringing about a similar state of
things here, more time, money, and energy should be spent
in experimental research, and a thorough investigation of such
facts as we have, rather than in proselytising, or courting the attention of
the public until our present facts arc well proved and classified. If the
preceding ideas be true, it follows that nobody can form a clear idea of
the course Spiritualism will take in the future, without first studying the
laws which govern the evolution of morals and of new religious ideas.
Philosophical moralists are divided into two classes, into evolutionists,
who believe that men have no innate sense of right and wrong, but gain
such ideas from experience, certain acts producing suffering in a com¬
munity, and certain other acts happiness, consequently as experience is
gained in these matters a system of morals is gradually evolved. As an
illustration in point, they say that a savage who lives in a tribe where
there is community of goods, of necessity does not think theft to be a
crime; under such conditions there can be no theft. The other school of
moralists holds that within man is implanted an innate sense of right and
wrong, and that systems of morals are not built up by the process of
evolution in the way just described. This question of the relation of the
growth of Spiritualism to the growth of morals, is, I believe, now raised
for the first time, and it seems to me to be well worthy of attention.
Mediums vary in transparency to spirit influence much as different
specimens of glass vary in transparency to light, some being almost
opaque, and others as clear as crystal. In what I have just stated, I have
spoken of the large number of cases in which spirit messages are un¬
consciously coloured by the mental nature of the medium; still it must
not be forgotten that there are not a few spirit messages which come to
us free from the thoughts of the medium, and of the opinions of any
of the members of the circle. In authenticating some of the spirit mes¬
sage s given in England, it has been found necessary to search the records in
the War Office of the United States to establish their accuracy, and in
several instances laborious searches have been made in the British Museum
to verify the messages which have been given, yet, after passing through
such an ordeal, the said messages have been proved to be true.
In conclusion, sir, allow me to thank you as the original suggester of
this Testimonial, and as Honorary Secretary to the committee, for the
interest you have taken in this matter; nor must I forget to thank Miss
Kislingbury, the Secretary to the National Association of Spiritualists, for
carrying out much of the actual work of this matter during her spare
hours. I have likewise to thank the British National Association of
Spiritualists for their kindness in allowing the Testimonial to be pre¬
sented at this, one of their usual monthly soirees. (Applause).
Mr. H. D. Jencken rose and said :—I have to propose a vote of thanks
to the chairman. No one has been so uncompromising in his efforts for
Feb. 4, 1876,
57
THE SPIRITUALIST.
the benefit of Spiritualism than my friend on my right, being as he is in i/j
a position in life which generally retards men from going to the front. I \h
will mention this incident. About six years ago he called upon me. He i (i
knew nothing about Spiritualism, and rather hesitated about it, but haying | (|
communicated to him the facts, and having satisfied himself that Spirit- 111
ualism was true as a fact, with the true genuine earnestness of an English i >!
gentleman he went to the front, and he has been the leader of many of \h
our advanced movements. To him we are indebted for the occasion which | (|
has more immediately called us together, and to him we are indebted also \Y\
in a great measure for the existence of that much abused institution called ; i
“ The British National Association of Spiritualists.” I will not say more; i i
our president is known to you all, and I trust you will heartily follow me ; |
in proposing a vote of thanks to our worthy and honest and energetic i j
president. (Loud applause.)
Mr. Alexander Calder seconded the resolution, which was carried with i i
acclamation. i j
The President: I am sure the kind expression of opinion which you i j i
have just given is sufticient to repay me for any little trouble I may have i)|
taken. Some six years ago I was reading a little book upon Spiritualism, i I
I was then a perfect unbeliever, nay, a scoffer, at the very idea of j j
Spiritualism being true. As I was reading this book it flashed through i i
my mind—as I honestly now believe from the outside, without any j|j
previous conviction on the subject—that Spiritualism is not possible, but i||
it is probable. I was astounded at the strange thoughts that flashed into m
my mind, and I was immediately determined to investigate whether !(j
Spiritualism were true or false. I may mention that some of my family | |
had been believers in it, but their belief had very little effect upon me; !)!
on the contrary, I think it rather prejudiced me against it. Mr. Jencken j j
mentioned what I meant to have done myself, namely, that I called upon i i
him; I think he was the first gentleman that I called upon; and now I \(\
look upon him as my father in Spiritualism. He received me very kindly, i j j
and when I came to him red-hot in my disbelief of Spiritualism the jji
first thing he did was to calmly damp me as much as he could, and to tell i i i
me as much as he could to the prejudice of Spiritualism. He did it with j j i
a kind and good object, and he did me a great deal of good, and sent me jjj
into the investigation far more calm and cool than I otherwise would i / j
have been. The first two or three seances I went to I found myself very in
sceptical indeed, and looked upon the whole thing as an imposture; but j(i
to my great astonishment it was brought home to me in certain jjj
medial powers I found developed in myself. I could not therefore \Y\
remain much longer an unbeliever; in fact I very soon had the strongest j | j
possible proof that the facts of Spiritualism were true. Having made jjj
up my mind to that, I need not tell you that I very soon ceased to care jji
for any scoffing or laughter that fell to my lot. One remark fell from jjj
Mr. Jencken—that Spiritualists were indebted to me for the formation of jjj
the National Association of Spiritualists. I wish it had been; but I j(j
cannot lay the smallest claim to such an honour. I had not anything to jjj
do with it. I did not like the idea when it was first mooted. I attended i jj
none of its earliest meetings, and it was only when it was thoroughly well jjj
established that I took any part in it. Now I do take the most intense jjj
interest in it. I believe that, abused as it has been, it is the main strength j j
of the Spiritual movement in this country. (Hear, hear, and applause.) jjj
Doubtless we have made many mistakes, but I think those who take jjj
the trouble to read our rules and regulations will in justice acknowledge jjj
that they are wisely and carefully drawn, up, with a special view to avoid j (j
the formation of anything like a clique of a body of men who sieze upon jjj
and hold power. Our Council is formed annually under certain con- jjj
ditions, the greater part of which I believe you know, by which one- jjj
third of the Council must retire annually, so that every three years you j(j
have an entirely new body of members of the Council. That alone I jjj
think is sufficient to make it certain that no clique can be formed; or.if jjj
it is formed, it cannot retain any permanent power. I cannot myself jjj
understand why the Association should have attracted the amount of hard j (j
words that in some quarters it has. I think it arises from misapprehen- jjj
sion, and instead of being angry at it, I think our better course is to bear jjj
it very quietly and gooduaturedly, and wait until our opponents shall take j jj
the trouble to criticise us fairly, and judge for themselves, and ascertain jjj
what our intentions are. I believe when they gain the necessary informa- jjj
tion, then their criticism will be kinder. As regards myself, I can only jjj
thank you most sincerely for the very kindly and genuine expression of jjj
feeling that has come from you, and to tell you that all I can do for ijj
Spiritualism I will do. (Loud applause.)
Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat), Editress of London Society, then jjj
sang, with much ability and spirit, the following song by Henry F. jjj
Chorley. Mr. Hollingshead accompanied on the piano:—
JOAN OF ARC IN PRISON.
Tis midnight dark,—all lonely in my sorrow,
Helpless, abandon’d, hope within mo dies ;
Not only visions of the fearful morrow,
Trac’d as by light’ning gleam before my eyes,
But dreams come o’er me of a day more golden,
Fond memories of a happy poasant-time,
Sweet as the melody of ballad olden,
The tune of birds, the cheerful hamlet chime.
0 mine own fountain, in the glade up-springing,
For ever cool beneath the tender loaves,
Amid the murmur of thy waters ringing,
The voices talk’d with mo on summer eves;
No more, no more to bathe my burning brow,
How much I love thee now ! how much I love thee now!
No more of dreaming in the leafy forest,
The scaffold and the pile are set for mo ;
No more kind smiles, when my heart needs them, so rest;
The mocking crowd is all I now shall see !
Can I not ’scape and hide me ? can I not scape and hide mo ?
Will no eye pity my youth ? no oar receive my cry ?
Hark! I am heard ? hark ! 'I am heard!
Hark ! mine angel voices near mo!
With seraph clarions through the darkness cheer me !
They bid me once again the armour wear
Of faith immortal, won by lowly prayer.
And I will triumph o’er my great despair,
Aud lift mine eyes to heaven, and nobly die!
Thou gavest me the battle-sword by which the foe did fall
Thou gavest me the crown, 0 Lord, to crown my King withal!
And now thou givest me the chain my feeble frame upon,
Because the mortal was too vain of deeds thine hand had done !
But Thou wilt give me, soon, the palm of triumph o’er despair,
That, safe in Thine eternal calm, Thy glorious angels wear;
Wilt stand beside me in the fire, though keen its torture be,
And, when the curling flames aspire, take up my soul to Thee.
At the conclusion of the above song there was an overwhelming shower
of applause.
Miss Ella Dietz next gave the following recitation with admirable
effect S—
THE BALLAD OF BABIE BELL.
Have you not heard the poets tell
How came the dainty Babie Bell
Into this world of ours ?
The gates of heaven were left ajar;
With folded hands and dreamy eyes,
Wandering out of Paradise,
She saw this planet, like a star,
Hung in the listening depths of even—
Its bridges, running to and fro,
O’er which the white-winged angels go.
Bearing the holy dead to heaven.
She touched a bridge of flowers—those feet
So light, they did not bend the bells
Of the celestial asphodels !
They fell like dew upon the flowers,
Then all the air grew strangely sweet!
And thus came dainty Babie Bell
Into this world of ours.
She came and brought delicious May ;
The swallows built beneath the eaves;
Like sunlight in and out the leaves,
The robins went the livelong day;
The lily swung its noiseless bell,
And o’er the porch the trembling vine
Seemed bursting with its veins of wine,
How sweetly, softly, twilight fell!
0, earth was full of singing-birds,
And opening spring-tide flowers,
When the dainty Babie Bell,
Came to this world of ours !
0 Babie, dainty Babie Bell,
How fair she grew from day to day !
What woman-nature filled her eyes,
What poetry within them lay !
Those deep and tender twilight eyes,
So full of meaning, pure and bright;
As if she yet stood in the light,
Of those op’d gates of Paradise.
And so we loved her more and more,
Ah! never in our hearts before,
Was love so lovely born;
We felt we had a link between,
This real world and that unseen,
The land beyond the morn.
And now, the orchards, which were white
And red with blossoms when she came,
Were rich in Autumn’s mellow prime,
The clustered apples burnt like flame.
The soft-cheeked peaches blushed and fell,
The ivory chestnut burst its shell,
The grapes hung purpling in the grange;
And time wrought just as rich a change
In little Babie Bell.
Her lissome form more perfect grew,
And in her features we could trace
In softened curves, her mother’s face!
Her angel-nature ripened too.
We thought her lovely when she came,
But she was holy, saintly now;
Around her pale angelic brow
Wo saw a slender ring of flame!
God’s hand had taken away the seal
That held the portals of her speech ;
And oft she said a few strange words
Whose moaning lay beyond our reach.
She never was a child to us,
We never held her being’s key,
We could not teach her holy things ;
She was Christ’s self in purity.
It came upon us by degrees,
We saw its shadow where it fell;
The knowledge that our God had sent
His messenger for Babie Bell.
We shuddered with unlanguaged pain,
.. And all our hopes were changed to fears;
And all our thoughts ran into tears,
j j Like sunshine into rain,
jj We cried aloud in our belief,
(j “0, smite us gently, gently, God!
jj Teach us to bend and kiss the rod,
And perfect grow through grief.”
:jj Ah, how we loved her, God can tell;
(j Her heart was folded deep in ours,
jjj Our hearts are broken, Babie Bell!
jjj At last he came, the messenger,
jjj The messenger from unseen lands ;
jjj And what did dainty Babie Bell?
jjj She only crossed her little hands -.
jjj She- only looked more meek and fair!
58 THE SPIRITUALIST. Feb. 4, 1876.
We parted back her silken hair ;
We ■wove the roses round her brow,—
White buds, the summer’s drifted snow,—
Wrapt her from head to foot in flowers !
And then went dainty Babie Bell,
Out of this world of ours !
This was followed by the singing of “ The Dawn of Day ” (Reay), and
“ Good Night, Beloved,” by the Winter Soirees Choir of the National
Association of Spiritualists, consisting of the Misses Withall, Mrs.
Keningale Cook, Miss Rogers, Mrs. Edmands, and Mr. Andre, and the
listeners evinced their warm appreciation of the quality of the entertain¬
ment thus given.
Finally, Miss Ella Dietz recited “ The Romance of the Swan’s Nest,”
by Mrs. Browning, and the proceedings came to a close.
During the progress of the meeting such strong raps were frequently
made by the spirits, through Mrs. Kate-Fox Jencken’s mediumship, as to
be heal’d nearly, if not quite, all over the hall.
THE MEDIUMSHIP OF MISS LAWRENCE.
Miss Rhondda Lawrence, of Cardiff, a young lady well-
known in that town as an excellent non-professional trance
medium, has been, during the past few weeks, on a visit to
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, at 21, Queen-street, Grosvenor-
square, London, where some interesting seances have been held
in consequence. A few days ago a curious incident occurred.
An evil spirit, who professed to be one who had been tor¬
menting a gentleman now in a lunatic asylum, took posses¬
sion of the medium, causing her considerable pain, and
making her give utterance to sentiments for which she had
no sympathy. The problem was, how to get rid of him, and
this, under spirit direction, was done several times, partly by
increasing the amount of light in the room, a strong light
being well known to be unfavourable to spirit control.
Prayer was resorted to, also sacred music and the exercise of
will-power. On every occasion the spirit was driven off by
one or other of these influences, and at the moment of his
departure the medium fell to the ground as if shot. The
better spirits were asked why these evil influences had the
power to take possession of the medium, and the reply was
that she was free from anything of the kind before she came
to London, because previously she lived a simple life, subsist¬
ing almost entirely upon vegetable food, and never touching
flesh—a kind of diet which it is not an uncommon thing for
spirits to cause their mediums to adopt. They added that
when she came to town she began to eat flesh food, and that
was the chief reason why she had become subject for the
time to the occasional power of spirits of a lower order.
Sometimes when she was in great pain, she was controlled by
a friendly spirit for an hour or more, who purported to have
come to take possession of her body, in order to feel the
pain for her for a time, and to give her the relief of in¬
sensibility.
THE POWER OF CARICATURE IN THE SPIRITUAL
MOVEMENT.
The little sixpenny pamphlet by Mr. Christian Reimers
(London : Harrison) of which we have already spoken, was
published yesterday, and it is of interest not only because of
the true genius displayed by the author, but because it is the
first instance of the introduction of the skill of the carica¬
turist in behalf of Spiritualism. The author, in a series of
roughly executed but forcible pictures, sets forth the astound¬
ing adventures of Dr. Molecule, F.R.S., B.I.G.A.S.S., and
Professor Protoplaster, while testing a medium in order to
explode Spiritualism, and after a series of exciting scenes,
the spirits get the better of the professors, who, in the last
picture, are revealed ill in bed with bottles of physic by
their sides. There is nothing personal in the story, but it is
a hard hit at bigoted men of science.
Mrs. Hardinge writes to us from New York, under the date of Jan.
12th, to the effect that the book Art Magic was then just going to press,
an 1 she hoped that copies would be ready in five or six weeks, although
of course there might be unexpected delay with printers and binders.
Spiritualism in Islington.—The annual meeting of the Islington
Society of Spiritualists will be held on Sunday, the 13th inst., at the
Spiritual Institution, 19,- Church-street, Upper-street, Islington, Lon¬
don. A service will be held in the morning at eleven o’clock. In the
evening, at five, tea will be provided; afterwards a conference of
Islington Spiritualists and others from various parts of London will
assemble, at which several well-known Spiritualists have promised to
give short addresses. A large gathering of friends is anticipated.
THE HARRISON TESTIMONIAL FUND.
As announced by Mr. Martin Smith last Wednesday, the subscrip¬
tion list of the Harrison Testimonial will be kept open another week,
some further sums being expected from the Continent, and to give an
opportunity to friends in this country who may yet wish to contribute.
Correspouueuce.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers.]
\h FOREWARNING OF AN ASSASSINATION.
ij! Sir,—Taking much interest in Spanish affairs in the year 1870,1
iji thought deeply over the circumstances which retarded the free develop-
! r ment of liberal principles in the administration. That the nation did
m not desire an occupant of the throne I firmly believed. I inwardly
j/i lamented the policy adopted of placing there an alien, however worthy,
i (i and felt satisfied that should Marshal Prim continue at the head of
111 affairs, comparatively few obstacles would long exist in the line of pro-
|)| gression. Pondering the display of his energetic will, surveying his
!(; popularity, I was brought into rapport with spirit intelligences, also
i)j deeply interested in the subject of my thoughts, but I was unprepared
| | for the result. One morning in November, while contemplating the
i(j difficulties of Marshal Prim’s position, I was astonished by hearing the
v words “Write to him to beware of assassination.” These words were
repeated. It seemed to me as if the words were addressed to my spirit,
(i and inaudible as external sounds. I was alone, except that my child
lay asleep in the room. Where did those words come from? Who
uttered them? I felt perplexed and sorrowful, but had no fear, only
(! doubt as to the necessity for the message being transmitted to him.
One so popular, who could desire his death ? I wrote the words, in¬
tending to send them, without comment.
I feared to create doubt in the mind of Marshal Prim regarding the
integrity of men around him, who, perhaps, were his friends. I was
unhappy in the commission given to me; I looked too much on myself
and my lowly position. I reasoned when I should have acted, nothing
doubting. “ Take this note to the post-office; it is for Spain,” I said to
my daughter.” When she offered to take it, my fear of arousing a false
alarm became too powerful to be withstood; the warning was retained.
I could not destroy the note. I laid it aside, and took it forth one month
afterwards in great distress, to look on the few words that might have
saved a valuable life if the wish of the unseen intelligence had been
fully carried out. “ E. B.,” Member of “ London National
Society for Women Suffrage."
Edinburgh, January 24th, 1876.
“ PRATERS FOR THE DEAD.”
Sir,—The practical nature of such “ Spiritualism at Home ” as that
given in your number of January 21st, which is said now to be preva¬
lent, appears to be of a very important and useful character, as it not
only sets forth the comfort and hope which honest and charitable
mediums are frequently able to give to unhappy spirits, but also the
powers which they likewise most fortunately seem to possess, of setting
them in the way of progress through sympathy and prayer. The
advice, “You must have done me good had you prayed for me, and
talked to me without fear,” given by a spirit in the above-named article,
“ Spiritualism at Home,” is well worthy of being laid to heart by many
a devoted medium desirous of finding a useful field for his or her faculty ;
and, if entered on with due earnestness, judgment, and forethought, he
must be amply repaid by the results, even supposing that the identity
of the spirits communicating can only be proved in but rare instances.
There appear to be some mediums in France who give themselves
especially to this work, carrying out a system of what may be called
“ Prayers for the dead ;” and (while seeking for such spirits as they
imagine may most need their prayers, advice, and sympathy) these same
mediums also find many spirits coming to them spontaneously, who
have learned of their mission through other spirits, or by some other
means. And what an extensive, what a beneficial mission of good
works may this become! Of this surely it may be said, “ It blesseth
him that gives, and him that takes.” And, moreover, these prayers for
the dead in particular, unlike public general prayers (commendable as
they doubtless are), bring personal satisfaction in many ways, as well as
knowledge and experience, both to the giver and to the receiver.
M. Kardec’s del et VEnfer (Heaven and Hell) is full of examples of
this description, and I venture to send you extracts from one, in which
the idiosyncrasy of the spirit communicating is well defined. In the
present instance the medium invoked the spirit of a deceased acquaint¬
ance, doubtless with the view of serving her; he knew her character
well when on earth, and, on his renewing his acquaintance, he does
not seem to have been surprised at the way in which his advances were
at first met, although the final result of his communion with this spirit
proved a satisfactory one. I will here give the three first graphic com¬
munications of this spirit, who, it will be seen, took with her some
earthly ideas about eternal punishment.
(P. 331) 1.—“Here I am, the unfortunate Clara, what do you desire
me to teach you ? Resignation and hope are but foolish words to one
who knows that her sufferings, which are as innumerable as the stones
■on the sea shore, will endure for ever. You say you can mitigate them,
do you? What empty words yours are ! How, I pray, are you to set
about it ? Try, then, blockhead, to comprehend what eternity means.
Is it a day, a year, an age ? What do I know about that ? It is not
divided by hours; seasons do not change it; time eternal and slow like
water dropping from a rock, this execrated time, this cursed time,
Feb. 4, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST. 59
weighs upon me like a lump of lead. How I suffer! I see nothing
around me but silent shadows who have no care for me. I am in pain.
“ Nevertheless, I know that above all this misery God reigns, God
the father, the master, He towards whom all "bend their steps. I will
turn my thoughts to God; I will implore Him.
“ My mind is all at cross purposes, and I crawl along like a cripple
grovelling on the road. I cannot tell what power it is that draws me
to you; can it be, perchance, that you are to be the saving of me ? I
leave you a little calmer than I was, little warmed up and like a
shivering old man comforted by the rays of the sun, my icy soul gains
new life by coming to you.”
2. —“ My misery increases daily; it increases in proportion as the
knowledge of eternity grows on me. 0, misery! how do I curse those
sinful hours, those hours of egotism and forgetfulness; when, scorning
all charity and devotion, I thought only of my own comfort! Curses
on ye human conventionalities! On time vainly spent in material
gratification! Cursed be ye who blinded me and brought me to
perdition ! I am gnawed by unceasing regrets for time lost. What can
I say to you who hear me ? Keep unremitting watch on self, love others
more than yourself; do not idle on the road that leads to happiness; d®
not fatten your body at the expense of your soul. ‘ Watch,’ as the Saviour
said to His disciples. Pray do not return thanks for these counsels;
they are merely the conception of my spirit, my heart has never
hearkened to them. Fear makes me cringe like a skulking dog, but I
have not learned (libre) true free love yet. Its divine aurora is wondrously
tardy in arising! Pray for my withered soul, it is so miserable.”
3. —“ I am come even here to seek you, since you have forgotten me.
Do you suppose that a prayer now and then, merely pronouncing my
name, will be sufficient to appease my misery ? No, a hundred times
no, I roar with agony; I wander about without rest, without a place of
refuge, without hope ; while I feel the eternal piercings of my chastise¬
ment running right into my rebellious soul. How I laugh when I hear
your complaints and see you downhearted. What are your petty
trials! What are your foolish tears! What are your torments all
forgotten when you sleep! Do you suppose that I sleep ? I ? It is
my will, now attend to what I say! I insist upon it that you put aside
all those papers on philosophy and give up your time to me. I can find
no words to express the agony of this time that runs on without hours
to mark the time; I can hardly see one feeble ray of hope; but such as
there is, it is you who have aroused it; do not then abandon me.”
It seems that the medium, although fully aware of the character of
his former acquaintance, was nevertheless surprised at the deplorable
spiritual state in which he found her; and referred to a spirit, with
whom he was frequently in communication, for some elucidation on the
subject. To which question, the following answer was received :—
“ This picture is only too true, it is exaggerated in no way. You may
perhaps ask what this woman can have done to cause her such great
misery. Did she commit some horrible crime ? Did she steal? Was
she an assassin ? No; she did nothing to merit punishment from man.
Ou the contrary, that in which she placed her delight was what you call
earthly happiness; she had beauty and fortune, pleasure and flattery,
the world smiled upon her, nothing was wanting, and those who saw
her said what a happy woman! and they envied her lot. What has
she done ? She was an egotist, she possessed everything except
a kind heart. If she did not violate human laws, she violated
God’s laws, for she eschewed charity, the first of virtues. She
loved herself alone, now she is loved by none; she gave nothing,
and she receives nothing; she is solitary desolate, and abandoned; she
is, as it were, lost in space where no one thinks of her, no one takes
notice of her ; that is her punishment. Since she only sought worldly
joys, and since now these joys no longer exist, all around is as a voice;
she has not one single interest, all is as nothingness to her, and this
Seems to her eternity. She suffers no physical tortures, no devils come
to torment her, but there is no need of them—she torments herself, and
she suffers very much more on that account, for these devils would be
still beings who would think about her. Egotism was her joy on earth ;
it follows her ; it is now the worm that eats into her heart, and is her real
demon.’’
Encompassed as we ourselves are here with flesh and infirmities, and
difficult to account for as the fact appears, yet there is, perhaps, no
general asseveration in Spiritualism more commonly alleged by spirits,
than the power of men to relieve suffering spirits by their sympathy,
advice and prayers. Scrutator.
DIFFICULTIES OP AN INQUIRER.
Sir,—Just a few words. I would willingly believe in Spiritualism,
and I conceive it quite possible that God might see fit, at this remote
day, to give us further assurance of our destiny. I have conscientious
scruples, however, which I cannot dissipate. Is it right to investigate
these things?
I have seen many earnest Christian men, who went into the investi¬
gation of the subject, losing health, energy, and even character,
through connection with the matter. I have seen more than one per¬
sonal friend even become a monomaniac thereby.
These I know to be the feelings and experiences of a very large
number. Perhaps you will give us, therefore, as full an answer as is
convenient, S. L.
Belfast.
[We have seen scarcely any such eases as those mentioned by our corre¬
spondent, hut think that credulous and weak-minded people had better abstain
from dealing too much with the exciting facts of Spiritualism. Spiritualism
will do them no good if it causes them to neglect any earthly duties; men were
sent to the earth plane to do their work upon it. The question whether it is
right to investigate the facts of nature never arises for one moment in minds
of a scientific order; had such fears been paramount in past times, astronomy,
geology, and the rest of the sciences which have so much improved the con¬
dition of mankind would have been nipped in the bud.—Ed.]
the spiritual origin of myths.
Sir,—I have just come across the following passage in the introduc¬
tion to the Tales of the Teutonic Lands, by G. W. Cox, M.A., and E. H.
Jones:—
“ The Sagaman adds simply that in old time folk trowed that men should
be born again, and at that side was he called Ilelgi the scathe of lladding,
and the Kara the daughter of Half dan."
It is the fashion of comparative mythologists now-a-days to interpret
all ancient myths by the operations of nature. The Day chases the
Dawn, and slays the monster Night, or Spring exults in his victory
over Winter, and destroys the parent from whom he sprung. The
repetition of the same legends in various forms among all nations is
looked upon as evidence that they all had the same natural origin.
Why should they not have had their origin in Spiritual truths, since
children realise untaught the presence of unseen beings, even more
readily than they observe the facts of the external world, and if children,
why not peoples in their infancy ? E. Kislingbury.
spiritualism in dalston.
Sir,—Kindly grant me a few lines in your columns to intimate that
intending applicants for admission to any of those meetings of the
Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, which are open to
visitors, are requested to note that the day of the ordinary weekly
meetings and seances has been changed from Tuesday to Thursday.
The meetings or seances open to visitors are those held on the first and
last Thursday evening in each month. Thomas Blyton, Hon, Sec,
74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
the nature of the spirit.
Sir,—-Errors uncontradicted perpetuate themselves. I ask you,
therefore, to be so good as to allow me to explain what, standing alone, is
erroneous. M. A. Cantab alleges that in Spirit I'eachings it is said that
“ men are sparks struck off from Deity itself.” This is not exact. The
theory put forward in Spirit Teachings is this.
Man is a tripartite being composed of body, spirit, and soul.
The physical body is that which is taken on at incarnation and put
off at death, “ a fluctuating mass of atoms ” held in attraction round the
spirit-body.
The spirit body, the real man, is that which animates and vitalises
the physical body. It is perpetuated after death in such soil as it exists
now; and lives in the realm of spirit a life not unlike that which it leads
here. By its daily life in this world, it is moulding its character and
preparing its future home.
Within this spirit-body dwells the soul, that temporarily segregrated
portion of the divine mind, by virtue of the possession of which man is
immortal, and is a potential sharer in the attributes of Deity. This
soul is given at incarnation; and not till it becomes possessed of it is
spirit immortal. In accord with this is the statement of Genesis, “ God
breathed into man’s nostrils the breath of life, and man became a
living soul.”
The Occultists assert that elementary sph’its having no souls are not
endued with the divine gift of immortality, and are inferior to and the
natural servants of man, if he knows his own power, just as they are
his tormenters if he does not.
The question is worth looking into, even though it cost much
trouble. M. A., Oxon.
MR. MORSE AT SALTBURN-BY-THE-SEA.
Sir,—On Wednesday evening, the 26th, Mr. J. J. Morse delivered an
address in the Ruby-street Hall here, on “ The condition of Spirits in
the Spirit-world, and the laws to which they are Subject,’’ a subject
which was chosen by the audience, and handled by the speaker in
a masterly manner. On Thursday evening a meeting was held, to
which only Spiritualists were admitted, and an enjoyable evening was
spent in conversation with Mr. Morse’s spirit-guides.
On Friday evening the members and friends of our Society had a
social tea meeting, after which Mr. Morse narrated his American
experiences, then under the control of his guides entertained and
instructed his hearers to a late hour. Altogether Mr. Morse’s visit to
Saltburn has been beneficial to the cause. J. Summers,
13, Lune-street, Saltbum-by-the-Sea.
DR. SLADE’S ANTICIPATED VISIT TO ENGLAND.
We have received a letter from Dr. Slade, who has left
New York on a visit to Philadelphia, and he states that he
has written to the St. Petersburg Scientific Committee,
expressing his willingness to sit for it as a professional
medium, provided it agrees to his terms; thus the obtaining
of a first-class medium by that Committee is now only a
question of money. Dr. Slade says that if he comes to
Europe he purposes remaining in England for two or three
years, and of breaking up his well-established business con¬
nection in New York. As he is about the most celebrated
test physical medium in America, his residence in Europe
for a prolonged period would tend to accelerate the progress
of Spiritualism on this side of the Atlantic.
The Banner of Light of Jan. 22nd, says that Messrs. Colby and Rich
have forwarded to various parts of America for signature petitions for
the liberation of M. Leymarie.
60
THE SPIKITUALIST. Feb. 4, 1876.
lirribtncial
BIRMINGHAM. ||
Spiritualism in Birmingham.—Mr. Aaron Franklin writes: “ The j
independent course of action taken by Mr. Mahoney in the cause of I
Spiritualism is winning for him good audiences and respectful attention.
His forcible and convincing arguments, delivered in the most gentle- ■:}
manly manner, appear to silence his most bitter opponents, and they |
treat him with respect, because they believe him honest, more especially |
when they reflect that he has sprung from the depths of materialism, | /
and was even one of its acknowledged lecturers. He was once a i
staunch supporter of the Holyoake school of secularism. The Tern- j>
perance Hall he secured for his second lecture, and, as was the case |
with his first one, at the Athenaeum Hall, several hundreds of persons j
were unable to gain admission. The Temperance Hall, which is ||
capable of accommodating a thousand people, was well filled, with an ;
attentive audience. The discussion which followed was of a lively |
character, and an organised opposition made its presence felt. The |
lecture lasted quite an hour, and its peroration was greeted with |
enthusiastic and long-continued applause. Mr. David King, of evan- :
gelical proclivities, who on a previous occasion exhibited some anta- I
gonism, did not rise to oppose, but his friend, Mr. T. H. Aston, was i
voluble in his denunciations; he inveighed against Spiritualism, and j
considered it the work of devils. Some forty or fifty of the sect called i>
Christadelphians were present, and appeared to take deep interest in i (
the lecture. A large quantity of Spiritualistic literature was dis-
tributed.”
N EWCASTLE-ON-TYNE.
LECTURE BY MR. BARKAS. |
On Thursday, January 27th, Mr. T. P. Barkas, F.G.S., delivered the ||
last of a course of twelve scientific lectures on “Open Questions in |
Physics, Biology, and Psychology.” After explaining Mr. Crookes’ I
recent experiments on the motive power of light, he asked who would K
have imagined fifty years ago that it would be possible to bring up from I
the bed of the ocean at a depth of two miles, at which the pressure of | (
water was many tons to the square inch, living creatures of perfect i(
organism? In regard to man being an automaton, he showed that n
watches and steam engines were automatic; that hearts and lungs were j (
so likewise; that the motions of the lower forms of animal life were j
purely so; and, after quoting experiments by Professor Huxley, and j)
cases of persons with injured vertebral columns, he passed rapidly to i
the subject of the brain in its abnormal conditions, and gave an account H
of a mesmeric seance held in Newcastle in which the operator and patient I
were separated by a blanket which was held up; the persons present i (
wrote on a paper what they each required to be done, and the consequence i:
was that as the mesmeric operator did anything by silent gesticulation, :
the patient did exactly the same. The position occupied by Mr. Barkas i
was such that he could see each side the blanket, and if his audience |
had any doubts as to the truth of it, the only conclusion they could |
come to would be that all concerned were in collusion; if so, there were i
nineteen or twenty persons assembled for fraud, for that was the number :)
present. He asked—Were there any other unseen agencies in the world ; (
acting in a similar manner ? / For his part he believed there were, and i (
he would invite his audience to investigate that matter for themselves; i j
it was easier to laugh at a subject than to examine it, and he could \\
assure them that many things that he had laughed at he had ultimately i (
had to cry for. These remarks were greatly applauded by the audience, i >
which was larger than usual.
Dr. Jeaffreson occupied the chair, and at the close of the lecture made j(
a few observations regarding the general want of the merest elementary i)
knowledge of scientific matters among the working classes. He thought !(
that they were much indebted to Mr. Barkas for taking up the matter i |
as he had done, and he proposed that a vote of thanks should be given |)
to him. This was unanimously accorded. K
MR. MORSE IN NEWCASTLE. j,(
Mr. Morse gave two lectures at the Freemasons’ Old Hall last Sunday, I j
the one in the afternoon on “ Religion, Science, and Spiritualism,” and I j
in the evening the subject was “After Death.” i jo
On being controlled he commenced his discourse by stating that if we jv
canvassed the majority of mankind in regard to this latter question, both | (
in their thoughts, lives, and actions, we find them almost entirely indif- : >
ferent; but let them become shattered in health, then it became with i (
them the most important question of all. The orthodox teachers of the K
day gave but little consolation; at the best, perhaps, the barest outlines ij
of the life to come, without details, and in the end could give no rational it
idea of that future state of existence to which Death, that thorough and is
complete democrat, introduces man. Before raising a superstructure a i>
good foundation was necessary; it was therefore necessary for man to it
build a good foundation on which to raise a superstructure that would ; s
exist after death. That the consciousness of man continued after death i /
he endeavoured to logically prove by analysing man’s sensations, in- i(
stincts, and intelligence, he said that his powers of perception, reflection, i \
and execution separated man the rational from man the animal, giving | /
him consciousness and identity. The expression of consciousness de- !(
pended upon organisation; man died, and was that consciousness main- i)
tained ? A man who had lost his consciousness could hardly say that he i)
still existed, but if conscious he must have the machinery for expressing K
it, and must therefore have personality and identity. Man was the
triumph of creation, and death could only be considered a doorway; |
nature having done so much was capable of carrying on the conscious-
ness controlling and governing him, and of supplying him with proper i>
machinery suited to his new conditions. The spirit circle with its j<
phenomena proved such to be the case, but many an orthodox Christian \ {
did not feel quite sure, and it showed a vast want of confidence in the
goodness of God when he went sorrowing, as was often the case. On
being educated up to the point, he would trust nature, and think that
whatever transpired would be in harmony with the Divine will. The
concluding portion of the discourse went to show that evil in any form
was insanity or disease ; that men made their own hells, and could not
run away from themselves; that practical goodness was the only pass¬
port to happiness hereafter. All this might be considered Utopian ; it
was considered so in the days of Jesus, when He opposed the money
changers in the temple; but these were truths based upon eternal
principles.
Mr. Hare occupied the chair on each occasion, and in the evening he
made an earnest appeal to Spiritualists to join him and others in
inaugurating a fresh effort to carry on the work of Spiritualism, as the
result of Mr. Morse’s Newcastle lectures. Mr. Morse is announced to
lecture again next Sunday at the same time and place. There was a
very full attendance; in fact, too crowded, as it was uncomfortably hot.
Meeting at Weir’s Court.—On Wednesday evening, January 26th,
a developing circle was held at the rooms of the Newcastle Spiritualists’
Society, and about a dozen members attended—all of them except one
exhibiting some form of mediumship. At one time three of them while
entranced were talking to each other in some foreign language. The
influence controlling another medium showed with what force and power
the spirit could automatically govern the bodily organism against the
will of the sensitive, yet leave him perfectly conscious of all that was
going on, and his inability to resist the superior power acting upon him.
On Sunday afternoon, at the Lecture Hall, Nelson-street, Mr. Charles
Watts, the secularist lecturer, made the theme of his address “ Spirit¬
ualism and Immortality.” Discussion was invited, in which Mr. T. P.
Barkas and other prominent Spiritualists took part.
LIVERPOOL.
SUNDAY SERVICES IN LIVERPOOL.
Dr. Hitchman’s lecture before the Liverpool Psychological Society
last Sunday afternoon was a criticism of the philosophy of the “ Ethical
Moderns,” a school of philosophers whose modes of thought and intel¬
lectual seriousness at present excite considerable attention amongst the
savans of Germany. He endeavoured to show wherein these German
free-thinkers agreed or disagreed with modern psychology or Spirit¬
ualism. Like modern Spiritualists these sturdy thinkers manifested
nothing like slavish book-worship, or belief in the interpretation of it
given by parsons, “ who paint man worse than a beast and God worse than
a devil.” These “Ethical Moderns’’ were, he said, closely allied in
thought to the principles enunciated by Mr. Arnold. De Bussy argued,
1st—That the existence of a moral order in the universe is a postulate
of our moral nature, but not a fact that can be proved by observation,
inasmuch as a man whose moral nature does not make such a postulate
will not discover moral progress or moral order in the world, and will
deny the existence of anything in the “ not ourselves ” that makes for
righteousness; 2nd—That the postulate of the existence of such a power
is barren unless the intellect deduces from it certain concrete represen¬
tations of God which cannot pretend to absolute value, but which
certainly correspond to some reality. Dr. Hitchman interspersed his
lecture with quotations from Comfort for the Heterodox, by Professor
Blackie, of Edinburgh.
Mrs. Butterfield is expected to occupy the platform next Sunday, and
on Friday night an interesting discussion on mesmeric and spiritual
phenomena will take place. Mr. J. Coates, who is now and has been
for some time past deeply engaged in the investigation of mesmeric
phenomena and the relationship it bears to Spiritualism, will probably
be present. All large societies should have lectures on this subject with
illustrations, with plenty of facts and as few theories as possible.
Friends are requested to send in the lists of signatures to the
Leymarie MemoriaJ, for transmission to Paris at an early date.
Dr. Hallock on the English People.—Dr. Hallock gave a fare¬
well address at Doughty-hall prior to his departure for America, and in
his concluding remarks said :—“ My reception among you has been all
that I desire, and a great deal more. Both publicly and privately I have
found the warmest friends, and I am indebted to them for many hours
of useful and interesting converse and association. I feel that I have
been received with more cordiality and attention than I deserve, and I
thank you for it. My visit to London has opened up a great many prob¬
lems interesting to me, and which it will be some time before I solve
entirely to my satisfaction. It is a very curious place, this London.
There is nothing like it on the other side of the water—nothing at all.
It is so ponderous. I do believe that in the area which you call London
there is more brain matter, whether you measure it by avoirdupois
weight, 16 ounces to the pound, or by solid measure, 1,728 inches to the
cubic foot, than in any other place on the habitable globe. It is a
tremendous brain—the brain of the world is here; I am satisfied of it—
judged physically, as so much matter, thought, and action. It differs
from the American brain in this particular, it is not quite so inspirable,
not quite as active, but it has weight and momentum, and when it
moves the world moves. I shall take this problem home to America
and try to solve it. I am satisfied that nothing goes to waste in this
world, no brain work at least. I see the direction in which it is being
utilised, and it will be more so, for it must play its part in the great
economy of the universe. It is good to have a child bom in London; it
is a grand place, and it is good to be born in this, the metropolis of the
world. You feel an interest in the common cause of humanity, and
whether here or in any other part of the globe, let us always be ani¬
mated with the same spirit, for that means the progress and happiness
of the world.”
Feb. 4, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iii
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
ON SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “THE SPIRITUALIST"
NEWSPAPER,
33, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
LONDON, W.C.
(Entrance in Woburn-street).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, afterwhich they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.: moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “ Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic! Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Yols., crown 8vo„ 15s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M, King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man m the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted hecause uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion ; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
500 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6cl.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in Amenca, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens; these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals Iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will he by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made.by dishelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. "The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this hook, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote Muring the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. Cd.; cheap edition,
7s. (id.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. fid.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s Cd.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. (id.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), (id.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABIL IT Y, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
ARCANA OF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vols.,
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. cs.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. (id.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. (id.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DU VIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." *■ d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . .15 0
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . . .76
The Seer. „III, „ . , . .76
The Reformer. ■ „ IV. „ . , . . .76
The Thinker. „ V „ . . , . .70
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis . . .70
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology. . . .50
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .70
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . . - .20
Death and the After-Life I . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . ..36
Harbinger of Health , ' . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . . , .20
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .36
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .70
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .60
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .50
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims ... 20
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . . ,30
Morning Lectures . . . . . . • . 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recom¬
mended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .50
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A hook containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .50
History of American SocialismsJNoyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yuu, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 10 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske. M.A. . 10 6
A iiTor. T TJT 7,1 /-I . A 4-1,I..-.,,, / \rn  r t.
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges,by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by‘James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . ;
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life. Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. ....
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . • ;
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B.A. .
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ........
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . .
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S.
Special edition for Schools . , ,
translation.) 7s. 6d.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. 6d. _
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Doten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS,by Brevier. 9s.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
•Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Orosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
' giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three narts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM,
by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM ? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Iract .for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
6d.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record of Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d,
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
5s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 5s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. 6d.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. 6d.) 4s.
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “There is in it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” 6d.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND (JURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
THEODORE PARKER IN SPIRIT LIFE. Given
inspirationally through the mediumship of Dr. F. L. H. Willis.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young. 6d.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrieally through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. 6d.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. R. T.
Hallook. 2s.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Ebb. 4, 1876,
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. W. H. HARRISON.
Committee.
Martin B. Smith, Esq.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Sir Chas. Isham, Bart. ■
Baroness Adeima yon Vay.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
II. D. Jeneken, Esq. M.R.I.
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq, M.S.
Tel.E.
N. F. Dawe, Esq.
Miss Douglas.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.
Mrs. Hcnywood.
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgen-
stein.
Alexander Calder, Esq.
Alexander Tod, Esq.
Mrs. Kate Fox-Jeneken.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq.,
F.R.S.
James Wason, Esq.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
James Mylne, Esq.
Secretary and Treasurer.
Martin B. Smith, Esq., 38, Great Bussell-street, London, W.C.
Since the year 1869 Spiritualists have been indebted to Mr.
Wm. H. Harrison for the excellent journal of which he is the
editor. This journal has been a credit and strength to the
movement in every respect. It has been printed in clear type
and on good paper, and has been conducted with ability,
caution, courage, and public spirit. It is hardly necessary to
say that up to the present time the paper has been by no
means self-supporting; indeed, during the first three years of
its existence it entailed upon Mr. Harrison a very heavy loss,
which he bore single-handed. This loss was aggravated by
the fact that, in order the more completely to devote his
attention to the Spiritualist newspaper, Mr. Harrison volun¬
tarily relinquished a considerable portion (estimated, upon
reliable information, at an average of not less than £200 per
annum) of the income which he was deriving from literary
work on the Engineer newspaper and other journals. Mr.
Harrison has indeed done more than this, for during the past
eight years he has given up one or two evenings every week
to a practical observation of spiritual phenomena at seances.
By his unwearied and intelligent observation he has been
enabled to collect a mass of reliable information as to the facts
and principles of Spiritualism, which fits him in the highest
degree to be the editor of a newspaper devoted to the religious
and scientific aspects of the subject.
It is a matter of notoriety that the Medium newspaper,
which was inaugurated the year after the appearance of the
SpiHtualist, has been annually subsidized by large subscrip¬
tions, which its editor, Mr. Burns, has always called for as
justly due to his exertions. Whilst we fully acknowledge the
services which have been thus rendered to Spiritualism, we
would call attention to the fact that no appeal to the public for
help has ever, except upon one occasion, and that for a special
purpose, appeared in the pages of the Spiritualist for six years.
The work was done, and the whole expense borne for three of
those years by Mr. Harrison alone; during the last three years
an annual sum of about two hundred pounds has been privately
subscribed by a few friends, which has, doubtless, greatly
relieved the burden upon the shoulders of Mr. Harrison, but
this in no way touches the fact that Mr. Harrison has for years
cheerfully submitted to a heavy pecuniary loss in order to
supply to the movement a paper in many, if not in all, respects
worthy of it.
The undersigned ladies and gentlemen are of opinion that
it is not to the credit of the movement that this pecuniary
loss should be borne alone by Mr. Harrison.
Had he appealed to the public for subscriptions, they would
doubtless have been forthcoming, as they have been for some
years past in answer to the appeals of the Medium ever since
its establishment—but he has not done so.
It is proposed, therefore, that a subscription, in addition to
the existing Guarantee Fund, shall be opened, which shall take
the form of a testimonial to Mr. Harrison, and ‘which, it is
hoped, may to some extent, relieve him from the heavy
sacrifices which he has made in money, time, and work in the
interests of Spiritualism.
Friends desiring to contribute to this fund are requested
to send in their names to Martin B. Smith, Esq., care of Miss
Kislingbury, 38, Great Eussell-street, London, W.O.
List op Subscriptions to January 5th, 1876.
Mr. Martin B. Smith £50 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn  60 0 0
Mr. J. N. T. Martheze   50 0 0
Mr. James Mylne   40 0 0
Mr. Alexander Calder     20 0 0
A Friend     20 0 0
Mr. Alexander Tod       20 0 0
Comte de Bullet       20 0 0
Mr. N. F. Dawe  15 0 0
Friends at St. Petersburg     12 15 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart   10 0 0
Mr J. M. Gully, M.D  10 0 0
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgenstein  6 0 0
F. S. A  5 5 0
Mr. C. F. Varley, F.E.S.  5 0 0
Mr. Eugene Crowell, M.D  5 0 0
Mrs. Louisa Lowe  5 0 0
Mr. Charles Massey   5 0 0
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald    5 0 0
A Friend      5 0 0
Mr. A. Tod   (Second Subscription) 5 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn  >> „ 5 0 0
Mr. C. C. Massey    „ ' „ 5 0 0
Mr. A. Calder   „ „ 5 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart  „ „ 5 0 0
F. S. A.     „ „ 6 0 0
Signor Damiani  3 3 0
Mrs.Honywood    2 2 0
Mr. Morell Theobald    2 2 0
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S...?:  2 2 0
Mr. S. Chinnery ;    2 2 0
Mr. S. Templeman Speer, M.D  2 2 0
“ Ennesfallen ”   2 2 0
Three Friends       2 2 0
Mr. A. L. Henderson     2 2 ,0
Col. Olcott  2 0 0
-Mrs. Makdougall Gregory   2 0 0
Mr. Epes Sargent   2 0 0
Dr. Baikie *..    2 0 0
Miss Douglas  i     2 0 0
M. H. C    $  2 0 0
M. Gustave de Veh   2 0 0
Mr. Geo. Sutherland  2 0 0
Miss Anna Blackwell   2 0 0
Mr. Keningale Cook :  1 11 6
Mr. Geo. King    110
Mr. F. A. Binney      1 1 0
Mr. J. Coates '....    1 1 0
Mrs. Maltby  1 1 0
Mrs. Kislingbury   1 1 0
Mr. B. W. Pycodk   1 1 0
Mr. B. Coleman     1 1 0
Mr. B. Fitton   1 i 0
Major Menars    110
Mr. John Lament   110
Mr. Archibald Lament    110
Mr. T.B. Griffin 110
Mr. J. B. Stones       110
Mr. G. W. F. Wiese  110
Bev. W. Whitear     110
Miss Whitear  ....’  110
Mr. C. E. Williams      110
Mr. A. Glendinning   110
Mr. H. Withall   110
Captain James     110
Mr. F. W. Percival ’.  110
Mr. Christian Beimers  110
Mr. Thos. Hinde    110
Mr. Thos. Grant  110
Mrs. Geo. Neville     110
Mr. G. B. Tapp   110
Mr. J. Clark Ferguson  1 1 0
Mrs. Woodforde  1 1 0
Mr. T. M. Simkiss   110
A Friend   110
A Friend, per Miss Williamson  110
Mr. W. P. Adshead   110
Mr. D. H. Wilson   110
Mrs. M. T. Wood  1 1 0
Mr. John Scott   1 1 0
Mr. C.T. Hook...    1 1 0
Mr. W. White i  1 1 0
Mrs. F. A. Nos worthy  1 1 o
Dr. W. Hitchman    110
Mr. E. D. Bogers     10 0
Mr. B. Corbet  10 0
M.B ;  10 0
Baroness von Vay  10 0
Dr. W. M. Buchanan     1 0 0
Miss E. D. Ponder ;  10 0
A Subscriber   10 0
Amicus    1 0 0
Mr. A. C. Swinton  10 0
M.A. (Oxon.)   10 0
Mr. J. H. Gledstanes  10 0
Mr. Geo. Lee   0 10 6
Mr. W. E. Bassett    0 10 6
Mr. T. H. Edmands    0 10 6
Mr. Aaron Franklin   0 10 6
Mrs. Aaron Franklin     0 10 6
Mr. J. S. Crisp   0 10 0
Miss F. J. Theobald   0 10 6
Mr. St. George Stock     0 10 0
Mr. Geo. Blyton  0 10 0
Mr. G. H. Potts    0 10 0
J. F. C  0 10 0
Mr. Ei Storey   0 10 6
Mr. J. Deane   0 10 6
C. S. S  0 10 0
A. B. O      0 8 6
Mr. Algernon Joy  0 5 0
Miss Kislingbury     0 5 0
“Peterboro”   0 5 0
A. O. W  0 5 0
Miss Emily FitzGerald   0 5 0
A Clergyman    0 5 0
A Beader of The Spiritualist ‘ 0 5 0
Mr. Wm. Bobinson   0 5 0
Mr. E. Pearce    0 5 0
“Mercy”   0 5 0
An Old Friend.... '.  0 5 0
Miss Mackay   0 5 0
The Misses Young  0 5 0
V  0 5 0
Small sums  0 5 3
Just published in one volume, handsomely got up, and printed
on toned paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY
OF THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an
Angel in the tenth state.
Contents.
Chap. 1.—TheTJnity of God. Incarnation of Deity.*
v 2.—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
,, 3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences
in the Spiritual world,
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God.
„ 5.—The purpose of God in creation.
„ 6.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
, 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
,, 8.—The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
„ 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
„ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
„ 11.—The Lost Orb. Parti.
„ 12.—The Angelic Society of Aaron’s Bod.
„ 13.—The Lost Orb. Part II.
„ 14.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ 15.—The Lost Orb. Part III.
„ 16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an ac¬
count of the Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby,
with her experiences in the other life, up through the states
to the tenth in which she is now in, and communicates as the
Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Becorder, who gives a
full account concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo-
printed, of the Angel, the original of which was produced by
the direct operation of Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjects treated of are
of such thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense
to make it a handsome volume, and not being published with
any regard to profit, it is hoped that a large circulation may
be obtained.
Price of the volume 6s.
On sale at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38,
Great Eussell-street, London, W.O.
SPIRITUAL SCIENTIST, of Boston, Mass.,
IO U.S.A. The most faithful and impartial exponent of
Spiritualism in America. The title, Spiritual Scientist, clearly
indicates the character of the paper. Unlike all other
Spiritual journals, it gathers from the great authors of ancient
time the fruits of their researches into the secrets of nature
and the laws of the Spiritual Universe. On the Occult
Sciences it has many able contrioutors, and solicits correspon¬
dence.
Published weekly. Scientist Pub. Co., publishers. E. Gerry
Brown, Editor. Offices, 18, Exchange-street, and 24, Devon-
shire-street. The Scientist is now in its fourth volume. Terms
of subscription, in advance, 13s. per annum, including postage.
Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 38, Great Bussell-street,
London, W.O.
PARIS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist
may obtain it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque,
246, Boulevard des Capucines, Paris.
THE ALPHA ; OR, the first principle
OF THE HUMAN MIN D; A Revelation, but no Mystery,
with Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait of the Author,
E. N. Dennys. “We can call to mind few books fit to be its
fellows.”—Athenxum. “It contains more truth, poetry,
philosophy, and logic, than any work we have ever read;
it is a new revelation, and one of the most remarkable produc¬
tions ever given to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
Also just published, wltha beautiful Engraving of the Author
470 pages, on toned paper, handsomely bound, price 3s. 6d.
rPHE RELIGION OF LIFE, AS EXEM-
JL PLIFIED BY THE MAN JESUS CHRIST, a Series of
Lectures, by the author of “ Alpha.” A synopsis of the topics
may be obtained free on application.
CONTENTS:—What is Evil? Charity; Poverty—its Evils
and its Mission; The Divinity that Dwells in Man; The Church
of the Future; “Stand up! I myself also am a Man;” The
Path of Righteousness; Trust in God; Self-Trust; What is
Christianity ? Thy Kingdom Come! What is Man ? The “ one
thing” desired by the Psalmist; Pure Religion; Philosophy;
The Childhood of Jesus; Religious Liberty; Election and
Grace; Time; Sin; Law the Regenerator; The Last Judg¬
ment; God is not Mocked; The Unchristian Character of
Riches; Peace; Religion Consists in Action; The Millennium,
and how to obtain it.
The work is also published in nine parts, eight at 4d. each
and one at 6d., done up in neat wrappers.
“THE UNCHRISTIAN CHARACTER OF RICHES” and
“RELIGION CONSISTS IN ACTION” are also published
separately at Id. each.
*** The cordial aid of the friends of education, intellectual
progress, and religious liberty is earnestly solicited to make
these works as widely known as possible. They contain the
most important of all knowledge, by a deep and original
thinker, and will be supplied at cost price for extensive circu¬
lation. They have been brought out in a variety of forms to
suit the means of all classes of readers.
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
First Edition.
IMPORTANT NEW PUBLICATION.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS INTO SPIRIT¬
UALISM.
A PAMPHLET, the full size of The Spiritualist, containing a
large amount of information, compiled especially for inquirers,
will be shortly issued from The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office at 38, Great Bussell-street, London, for sale at public
meetings,
PRICE ONE PENNY.
There has long been a demand for some such publication
as this, the current spiritual newspapers not always containing
the most suitable or most condensed information for persons
to whom the subject of Spiritualism is a strange one.
Many thousands of copies of the publication will be printed,
and kept on sale by vendors of spiritual literature, and at
spiritual meetings throughout the country.
From the large circulation thus secured, it will be a
VALUABLE CHANNEL FOB ADVERTISEMENTS
To Mediums, Mesmerists, Authors of Spiritual Books, and
others. The charge for advertisements will be One Shillicg
for the first twenty-five words, and Sixpence for every addi¬
tional twenty-five words, or portion thereof. Displayed adver¬
tisements Five Shillings per inch.
All advertisements should be sent in as soon as possible, as
the publication will come out in a few weeks’ time.
Special arrangements will be made to supply local societies
with copies at' a cheap rate, if ordered in large quantities; the
said societies may thus considerably increase their income by
the profits on sales.
All communications on this subject should be addressed to
the Editor of The Spiritualist, 38, Great Bussell-street, Blooms¬
bury, London, W.O.
“THE SPIRITUALIST,, NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics o»
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe: it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E, F.B.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, hut has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wies¬
baden) : The Countess of Caithness; the Duke of Leuchtenberg;
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent; (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross -Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adeima Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edin.);
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn ; Mr.
St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. :H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United;Kingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States, ‘4 dols. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to “ The Manager,
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C.”
[December, 1876.]
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Avo
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
