AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE,
[BEGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 89.—(Vol. IV.—No. 19.) LONDON: MAY 8, 1874. Published Weekly; Price Threepence
Contents.
Schools for the Children of Spiritualists      ... 217
Spirit Teachings. No. XI   ...    218
Mr. Epes Sargent on “The Spiritual Body”   219
Poetry:—A Little One’s Prayer ... ...'   ...     ... 220
Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spiritualism  220
The National Association  ...     221
Paragraph—Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism  221
The last illness of Judge Edmonds   222
The Funeral of Judge Edmonds         222
Private Seances :—Miss Lottie Fowler’s Mediumship—Appearance of
a Spirit to Miss Fowler—Remarkable Psychological Experiences—
A Seance in Glasgow—Mr. David Duguid’s Painting Mediumship—
Spiritldentity—SeanceatMr. Vernon's—Spirit Identity—MissCook’s
Mediumship—Further Evidence relating to Spirit Forms—Mr. Black-
bum’s Experiences—Seance at Mr. Bird’s—Trance and Clairvoyant
Mediumship—The Reward of Infamy ...  '  223
Correspondence:—On Internal Respiration, No. II., 226; Signor
Damiani      228
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing to
become affiliated, are requested 1o communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. Thomas Blyton, 12, High-street, Bow, London, E., of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.)
President.—Mr. Alfred E. LoveU.
Mrs. C. A. Blyton,
Mr. George Blyton,
Mrs. Amelia Comer,
Mrs. Theresa Wood,
Council.
Mr. T. Blyton.
Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
A. M. Greene, Eon. Secretary.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London: Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1873.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.
Mr. John Davidson, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. G. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. R. Casson.
Mr. D. Gay.
Mr. T. B. Griffin.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd
Mr. Bretherton.
Mr. Riece.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Casson.
Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.
| Mr. John Lamont.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
| Mr. H. J. Charlton.
A DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on hear¬
ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, and in¬
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might be
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 15th September, 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter careful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modem Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations {vide Rule IX). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordi¬
nary seance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on the first Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Rooms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelope
should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
THE DALSTON ASSOCIATION, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E.—MR. E. DAWSON ROGERS will LEOTURE before
the Association upon “ Mesmerism,” on the LAST THURSDAY EVENING
in MAY.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy 8vo.,
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel swedenborg : his life and
WRITINGS. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the
Doctrines and the other-world Experiences of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav¬
ings, by C. H. Jkens—I. Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
BEYERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 8, 1874,
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING- of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Association are:—
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of. all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tem., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
BichAbd Fitton, Secretary pro tem.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. E. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, 1 Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Eanger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Eichard Pearce.
ERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
into England the subject attracted attention in Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assocciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Booms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISTS.—Sunday Evening Services aee Held at Goswell Hall,
86t Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o’clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members -only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
R. PeAbCe, HonA Sec.
ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
THE following are tlie Speakers at Goswell Hall on
Sunday Evenings up to the end of May:—
April 19—Mr. R. Harpeb, “Reasons for being a Spiritualist.”
,, 26—Miss Keeves.
^ay 10} ^p"s- Bullock.
. „ 17—Miss Kebves.
„ 24—Revj F. R. Young, of Swindon.
.Whit Sunday—“ The Day of Pentecost and its Spiritual Phenomena.”
Db. Sexton in the Chair.
R. Peabce.
NEWCASTLE SOCIETY
FOB
PROMOTING ENQUIRY INTO MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
OLD FREEMASON’S HALL
(WEIB’S COUBT),
NEWGATE STREET, NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE.
President.—Mr. Armstrong.
Treasurer.—Mr. John Miller. Secretary.—Mr. F. Pickup.
Seances are held for Members and Friends on Sunday Evenings, doors
open at 6.30, to commence at 7; and on Tuesday and Thursday evenings,
doors open at 7.30, to commence at 8.
On no account will anyone be admitted after the time announced for
commencing the meetings, except on special occasions, when permission
must be obtained from the sitters who form the circle at the time of
application.
Tickets of Admission may be had of the Committee.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRIT DALISM.
Presidents.
Mr. F. Cowper. ' | Mr. C. Hunt.
Treasurer.—Mr. Whitley.
Librarian.—Mr. Maynard, 103, Lisson-grove.
Secretary.
Mr. C. White, 4, Gray-street, Manchester-square, W.
The Membership Subscription is Is. per Quarter, which admits to full
fellowship, including use of books from the Progressive Library. Seances
are held weekly, to afford members an opportunity of becoming acquainted
with the Phenomena. Members are assisted in the formation of new
circles. A public meeting is held every Wednesday evening at the
Hall of Progress, 90, Church-street, Paddington, at 8 o’clock.
D ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. {Established 1870.). Rooms, 74, Navarinp-road,
Dalston, E. Stances oh Thursday evenings. Library for use of members
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly ; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 6s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
A. M. GEEENE, Hon. Secretary.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
Treasurer.—HssiB'ER'r N. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane.
Offices.—64, BERNERS STREET.
Hon. /Sec.—Mrs. Lowe (Louisa).
Mrs. CORA L. Y. TAPPAN’S INSPIRATIONAL
DISCOURSES.
The Committee, encouraged by the support given to their former Course,
have much pleasure in announcing that they have made arrangements for
the delivery of a further Course of SIX LECTURES, extending from the
5th of April to the 17th of May, to be held at Cleveland Hall, as hereto¬
fore, at 7 p.m., on Sunday Evenings.
Tickets for the Reserved Benches will be 12s. each for the Course, and
for the Chairs 6s. each for the Course. Applications for Tickets to be made
to Mrs. Henywood, 52, War wick-square, S.W., enclosing Post-office Orders.
The Committee hope that some friends of the movement will feel dis¬
posed to assist, by forwarding small donations at the same time.
Single Tickets Of Admission j or Tickets for the Course, can be purchased
at the doors.
A large portion of the Hall is reserved for the Free Admission of In¬
quirers and the General Public.
Price 2s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND.—
vU" Showing the harmony of things spiutual with things material.
“ The tone of the book is exceedingly pure and good.”—Christian Spiri¬
tualist.
*** A list of spiritual and mesmeric works on application.
London: Bailliere and Co., King William-street, Strand.
EVERY THURSDAY MORNING
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS,’’
A Weekly Record of Spiritualism, Scientific and Ethical.
And contains articles by Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton, “Fritz,’'
Rev. Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes, Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, and other
general it formation.
16 PAGES—ONE PENNY.
F. Pitman, 20, Paternoster-row, London, E.C., and can be ordered of any
bookseller.
CHILDISH FANCIES.
Twenty short pieces in various keys for the pianoforte, composed by
CHARLTON TEMPLEMAN SPEER (iEts. 13).
Dedicated to Mrs. Denis, Fairbrook House, Rathfamham, Dublin.
PRICE THREE SHILLINGS.
London: Published by R. Limpus, at the College of Organists, 41, Queen-
square, Bloomsbury.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBEBAL DISCOUNT FOB CASH.
TO OWNERS OF HOUSE PROPERTY.
E. BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
ii, PARK GROVE, SHEPHERD’S LANE, BRIXTON,
ESPECTFULLY solicits the patronage of Owners of
House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixton
Road, and near the Railway Station—offering special facilities foe the
prompt letting of Houses of every description.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
VOJLUJVtE FOUR. j\fU]V[BE]^ JMINETEEjH.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MAY 8th, 1874.
Spmtalisf
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADYERTISEMEHTS -.—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch,
fieduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a -mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Oorrespondenoe.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters • containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should b'e
directed to Mr. E. W» Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions':—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
Will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of 11 The Spiritualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen. 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
1 he Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals
UNITED STATES.
Bochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver; Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old LeveC-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Bichard Boberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTBALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Kussell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &e., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr H. G. Wynne bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elixabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. B. C. Thornton, 19, Queen sherry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A.. Durham, news agent, &c., 118 Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78. Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Bruaswick-street.
Bichmond.—Mr. J. Gary, news ag. nt, Bridge-road,
Sandridge.—J. T. Sch >les, news agent, Bay-street.
Oastlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thomfeldt, Main-ttreet.
Taradale.—J. T. Eiley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher.
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny,
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 10s., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
TJIEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
SCHOOLS FOR THE CHILDREN OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A pboblem of the most vital importance, which sooner
or later will have to he solved, is that of schools or
colleges on an improved system for the children of
Spiritualists. Already, among thinking people, there
is a widespread dissatisfaction with the present general
order of schools and schoolmasters^ especially among
the leading members of the learned societies, who in
gaining the knowledge they had to acquire after leaving
school, have become painfully conscious how much of
their time in early life was unnecessarily wasted. Mr.
Francis Galton, among others, has been collecting in¬
formation upon this point, and has some letters from
many of the leading philosophers of the day, expressing
the utinost disgust at the nature of the system under
which they were educated. A leading source of com¬
plaint against the present system is the vast amount of
time spent in hammering Greek and Latin, the languages
of dead and buried Pagans, into the heads of youths
who in nine cases out of ten have no love for the acquisi¬
tion of those languages, aud find the knowledge thereof
to be of little or no use in after life. As Mr. Farrar,
one of the masters of Harrow School, once told the
members of the Royal Institution, the boys generally
leave college knowing little or nothing, but wonderfully
satisfied with their own acquirements. He said that in
many cases, from natural dislike to the study, they do
not get anything but an imperfect knowledge of the
dead languages over which so much of their early lives
are comparatively wasted, and in those instances where
they actually become good Greek and Latin scholars,
they are turned out into the world armed with the
weapons of a gladiator of old, to battle with all the
forces of modern artillery. There are now in London,
to our. knowledge, many barristers and gentlemen who
have had a good university education, who are starving
with all due gentility and respectability, who are glad
to get the smallest fraction of work on the newspapers
or in any literary capacity, and who, in these days of
the recognition of the great principle of the dignity of
labour, wish that they had been taught more valuable
acquirements in their early days, and that they had been
brought up to lead useful lives. But the tide of public
opinion on the subject of education has for some years
past been rapidly on the turn; even private school¬
masters feel the demand on the part of a proportion of
the parents for the teaching of science and other sub¬
jects to children, in the place of dead languages, except
when the child has a special aptitude for the acquire¬
ments of the latter. The study of the laws of nature
is ennobling in itself, and eminently useful in life, now
that steam and the electric telegraph are developing
their powers in all directions, and are gradually
extending their empire all over the habitable globe;
now that new discoveries in chemistry are constantly
218
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Mat 8, 1874.
revolutionising important branches of industry, with
proportionate benefit to the students. It has recently
been discovered how to manufacture alizarine artifi¬
cially, and alizarine being the colouring principle of
the madder plant, so largely used in dyeing, millions
of pounds, which once went to the Continent for madder
are now expended at home. Colossal fortunes also
have been made in connection with the recently-
discovered coal-tar dyes. The true man of science,
the real lover of nature and nature’s God, cares
nothing for money; but, as people must live unless
they wish to rival the Welsh fasting-girls or the
living skeletons occasionally exhibited at country fairs,
it is well in early days to pursue studies which are not
only ennobling in themselves but which may at any
time be turned to useful account.
Although many a man who fails as a footman, a
railway porter, and everything else, sets up as a school¬
master at last, to educate the children of intelligent
Britons, there are some few teachers of the young who
see and desire to remedy the evils of the present sys¬
tem. We met one recently in whose school was a large
minority of boys whose parents had refused to allow
them to spend their time in learning dead languages;
he said that he himself wished Greek and Latin “ at
the dogs,” and so did the majority of the parents of
his pupils, only some of them demanded the teaching
of these languages simply to enable their sons to pass
certain University examinations, and examinations for
Government appointments.
If thinking people who are not Spiritualists feel the
need of better schools, how much more are they needed
by Spiritualists, who, in addition to the objections just
mentioned, dislike the theological teachings of the day,
and wish to protect their children from the persecution
which in rare instances besets them in schools of the
lower class, when their companions chance to know
them to believe in the spirits, which all of them, as a
matter of politeness and form, say every Sunday that
they believe in themselves.
We have now in Spiritualism a public body of officers,
elected by ballot by Spiritualists at large, to watch over
the interests of the movement in this country, and to
judiciously control expenditure. The constant publi¬
city will be security for good work, and against the
misapplication of funds. No doubt, if there were suffi¬
cient reason for doing so at the present time, the British
National Association of Spiritualists would have no ob¬
jection to appoint a School Committee to give attention
to this subject. All who are interested in it; all who
have children they would like to send to a good school;
all who wish to subscribe funds to establish one or more
schools and colleges in connection with the Spiritual
movement; and all schoolmasters who think that they
can more or less meet the existing requirements, cannot
do better than to write upon the subject to Mr. Alger¬
non Joy, honorary secretary to the National Associa¬
tion, 25, James-street, Buckingham Gate, London.
Me. Epes Saegent writes:—“If Messrs. Yarley and
Crookes can establish the fact that the figure known as Katie
is a temporarily materialised form, vanishing or dissolving
immediately after its withdrawal from the view of the spec¬
tators, then will they establish the most stupendous fact yet
known to science; one that will do more to revolutionise
human opinion on a variety of important subjects than all the
books that ever were written or can be written. I am not
competent to say how far Mr. Yarley’s electrical experiments
are valuable as tests in this matter.”
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
NO. XI. .
What, then, is the outcome of our teaching? How far
does it square with right reason ? How does it teach
you of God ? How does it help your spirit ?
You have been taught in the creeds of the orthodox
churches to believe in a God who was propitiated by
the sacrifice of His son, so far as to allow a favoured
few of His children to be admitted to an imagined
heaven, where for ever and for ever more with mono¬
tonous persistence their occupation should be the sing¬
ing His praise. The rest of the race, unable to gain
admission to this heaven, were consigne'd to a hell of
indescribable torment, perpetual, endless, and in¬
tolerable.
These miserable ones failed of bliss; some of them
because they had not faith; and others, because they
had evil surroundings by which they were degraded.
And others fell, being assailed with fierce temptations
by which they were led away and seduced to sin. And
others were incarned in debasing and sensual bodies,
and were overcome of untutored passions. And others
could not understand what was Wanted from them,
though they tried, and would fain have done what they
could. And others had intellectual inability to accept
certain dogmatic propositions which they had been
taught to believe essential to their salvation. And
others had not, as bodily existence ceased, assented to
certain statements which were able to secure them the
entry into the heaven we have described. And so they
perished everlastingly; and on their endless torments,
from a height serene and secure, the blessed who have
gained their bliss through a faith in certain dogmatic
assertions, though many of them had been men of
grievous and degraded lives, look with the satisfaction
of undisturbed and changeless repose.
A life of gross sensuality, or of sloth, or of offence
against all law you are taught is remediable by an act
of faith. The fgrossest and most sensual ruffian may,
by a cry on his death bed, find himself instantaneously
fitted for admission into the immediate presence of the
God whom he has all his life blasphemed. He, the
impure, base, degraded, earthy spirit admitted to
association with the refined, the noble, the pure, the
holy, in the immediate presence of the stainless per¬
fection of the all-pure God,
And yet the half is not told; but enough by way of
contrast. We tell you nothing of such a God—a God
of whom reason cannot think without a shudder, and
from whom the fatherly instinct must shrink in dis¬
gust. Of this God of love who shows his love in such
a fashion we know nothing. He is of man’s fashion¬
ing, unknown to us. We pause not to expose the
miserable pretence that such a human idol can ever
* In the Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of some
remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-read, St. John’s-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to he published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extracts they gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium, free, to a large extent at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently, the “ spirit teachings ” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many: each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing, peculiar to the communicating intelligence, is always preserved,
and the individuality remains throughout the same.—Ed.
May 8, 187,4.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
219
have been aught but the figment of a barbarous mind.
We do but ask you to wonder with us at the presump¬
tuous ignorance and folly which has dared to paint such
a caricature of the pure and holy Grod, Surely, friend,
man must have been in a degraded spiritual condition
ere he could have pictured such a Deity. Surely, too,
they who in this age have not shrunk from such a
creation must have sore need of a Gospel such as that
we preach.
The God whom we know, and whom we declare to
you is in very truth a God of Love—a God whose acts
do not belie His name, but whose love is boundless, and
His pity unceasing to all. He knows no partiality for
any, but deals out unwavering justice to all. Between
Him and you are ranks of ministering spirits, the
bearers of His loving message, the revealers from time
to time of His will to man. By His spirit messengers
the train of ministering mercy is never suffered to fail.
This is our God, manifested by His works, and operating
through the agency of His ministering angels.
And you yourselves, what of you ? Are ye immortal
souls who by a cry, by a word, by an act of faith in an
unintelligible and monstrous creed can purchase a
heaven of inactivity, and avoid a hell of material
torment? Yerily, nay. Ye are spirits placed for a
whole in garb of flesh to get training for an advanced
spirit life, where the seeds sown in the past bear their
fruit, and the spirit reaps the crop which it has pre¬
pared. Ho fabled dreamy heaven of eternal inactivity
awaits you, but a sphere of progressive usefulness
and growth to higher perfection.
Immutable laws govern the results of deeds.
Deeds of good advance the spirit, whilst deeds of evil
degrade and retard it. Happiness is found in pro¬
gress, and in gradual assimilation to the Godlike and
the perfect. The spirit of divine love animates the
acts, and in mutual blessing the spirits find their happi¬
ness. For them there is no craving for sluggish idle¬
ness; no cessation of desire for progressive advancement
in knowledge. Human passions, and human needs and
wishes are gone with the body, and the spirit lives a
spirit life of purity, progress, and love. Such is its
heaven.
"We know of no hell save that within the soul: a
hell which is fed by the flame of unpurified and un¬
tamed lust and passion, which is kept alive by remorse
and agony of sorrow : which is fraught with the pangs
that spring unbidden from the results of past misdeeds;
and from which the only escape lies in retracing the
steps, and in cultivating the qualities which shall bear
familiar love and knowledge of God.
Of punishment we know indeed, but it is not the vin¬
dictive lash of an angry God, but the natural outcome
of conscious sin, remediable by repentance and atone¬
ment and reparation personally wrought out in pain
and shame, not by coward hands for mercy, and by
feigned assent to statements which ought to create a
shudder.
Happiness we know is in store for all who will
strive for it by a consistent course of life and conduct
commendable to reason and spiritual in practice. Hap¬
piness is the outcome of right reason, as surely as
misery is the result of conscious violation of reasonable
laws, whether corporeal or spiritual.
Of the distant ages of the hereafter we say nothing,
for we know nothing. But of the present we say that
life is governed, with you and with us equally, by laws
which ye may discover, and which, if ye obey them,
will lead to happiness and content, as surely as they
will reduce you to misery and remorse if ye wilfully
violate them.
We need not specify at length now the creed we
teach as it affects man in his relation to God, to his
fellows, and to himself. You know its main features.
One day you shall know it more fully. Sufficient has
now been said to point the contrast, and to reply to our
question : Whether such a view as this be not pure,
divine, ennobling, the natural complement of that which
Jesus Himself preached ?
Is it less definite, more vague than the orthodox ? It
may be less minute in details which are repulsive, but
it breathes a nobler and purer atmosphere ; it teaches a
higher, holier religion; it preaches a Diviner God. It
is not vaguer, not less definite. But even were it so,
it deals with subjects into which the reverent mind will
not curiously pry. It throws a veil over the unknown,
and refuses to substitute speculation for knowledge, or
to apply the cruder human notions to the very nature
and attributes of the Supreme.
If it be vagueness to vail the curious eye before the
footstool of the Divine and Incomprehensible, then are
we vague in our knowledge, and indistinct in our teach¬
ing. But if it be the part of the wise to dwell only
on the known and the comprehensible; to act rather
than to speculate ; to do rather than to believe, then is
our belief dictated by wisdom, conformable to right
reason, and inspired by God Himself.
It will bear the test of rational sifting and experi¬
ment. It will endure, and inspire the myriad souls in
distant ages when those who cavil at its teachings and
insult its author shall be working out in sorrow and
remorse the consequences of their folly and sin. It
will have conducted countless myriads of pure spirits,
who have progressed in its faith, to happiness and ad¬
vancement, when that which it is destined to spiritualise
shall have shared the fate of the mouldering body from
which the spirit is withdrawn. It will live and bless
its votaries in spite of the foolish ignorance which
would charge its Divine precepts on a devil, and
anathematise its votaries as the children of darkness.
+ I. S. D.
That seems to me rational and beautiful. And I
think you meet the charge of vagueness. But I fancy
most 'people would say that you do practically upset
popular Christianity. 1 should like to have from you
some ideas on the general outcome of Spiritualism, more
especially as it affects the undeveloped, whether incarnated
or not.
We will speak to you of this in due course. But
not yet. Ponder what has been said before you seek
for further messages. May the Supreme enable us to
guide you aright! + I. S. D.
MR. EPES SARGENT ON “ THE SPIRITUAL BODY.”
In the course of a letter to Mr. Benjamin Coleman,
dated Boston, April 10th, 1874, Mr. Epes Sargent, the
author of Blanchette, makes the following statements
about the testimonial which leading English Spiri¬
tualists recently presented to Judge Edmonds, and
about the nature of the spiritual body:—
It must be a satisfaction to you to know, that the testimonial
you got up for Judge Edmonds gave the old man very great
pleasure in his latter days. It was a timely as well as a
merited tribute, and from a recent letter I saw from him, I
know he was justly proud of this acknowledgment by promi¬
nent English Spiritualists of his early and unintermitted ser¬
vices, in behalf of the great truths for which you are doing
220
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 8, 1874.
battle. Judge Edmonds avowed his convictions at a time
when it required great courage to do so; but, strange to say,
his business and reputation as a lawyer did not seem to be
much affected by the ridicule of which he was made the sub¬
ject. To the jeers of the press he never replied with asperity.
The man, visiting a tropical country, who was told by the
reigning prince that he lied when he said that water could be
made so hard that a person could walk on it, did not lose his
temper.
And so Judge Edmonds was too serenely confident in his
knowledge of the central fact of Spiritualism, to be in the least
disturbed by the charges that were brought against him of
hallucination, insanity, or deliberate falsehood.
Mr. Staniland Wake’s paper shows that he has been a
thorough student of psychical phenomena, including those of
Spiritualism. His volume, entitled “ Chapters on Man, with
the Outlines of a Science of Comparative Psychology,” pub¬
lished by Trubner in 1868, and which I noticed in Plan-
chette, is well deserving the attention of Spiritualists.
I find the following remark in Mr. Wake’s recent paper:
“ If we accept these statements as true, most of the phenomena
of Spiritualism are explainable without reference to the agency
of spirits. They would show that the human body must con¬
tain within itself an inner form, be it material or immaterial,
which, under proper conditions, is able to disengage itself,
either wholly or partially, from its outer covering.”
If this much is admitted, Spiritualists may be well content.
This theory of a spirit-body I have long held to be our strong
point. All the facts tend in this direction, and I have en¬
countered no fact as yet in opposition to it. Have you ? The
late Hippolyte Rivail (Allan Kardec), among Spiritualists,
seems to me to have had the most confirmed views on this
subject. He says:—
“ The spiritual body is not one of those hypotheses to which
science sometimes has recourse to explain a fact. Its exist¬
ence is not only revealed by spirits themselves, it is the result
of observation. Whether'in the earthly body or out of it, the
soul is never separated from its spiritual encasement. The
spirit-body, then, is an integral part of the man ; but this en¬
casement alone is no move the spirit than the body alone is the
man; for the spiritual body cannot think; it is to the spirit
what the body is to the man, the agent or instrument of his
action. ”
Here Kardec departs from the teachings of Swedenborg, in
whose system the soul is at once spirit and spirit-body. Thus
Kardec makes of man a trinity, and Swedenborg makes of man
a duality (or shall we say a vitalised unity ?). “ Whatever lives
in man,” says Swedenborg, “ is his spirit, and the body only
serves it, just as what is instrumental serves a moving living
force. .. . The spirit is the man himself. ... A man, viewed in
himself, is a spirit. . . . Hence, when the body is separated from
its spirit, which is called dying, the man leaves nothing
behind but his earthly body; he remains still a man, and lives
in the human form.” Thus the earthly body is phenomenal
—the spirit alone is substance, receiving life by perpetual
divine influx.
Kardec says: “ The spirit-body, though fluid, is, neverthe¬
less, a hind of matter, and this results in the facts of tangible
apparitions.. . . The spirit-body can extend, contract, or trans¬
form itself; in a word, can lend itself to any metamorphosis,
according to the will which acts upon it. It is through this
property of its fluid encasement that the spirit which desires
to make itself known can take, when necessary, the exact ap¬
pearance it had when living, even to the bodily peculiarities,
and the very style of dress, by which it can be recognised.”
Your own varied experiences will confirm all this. But
what shall we say of the difference between Swedenborg and
Kardec ? Kardec’s spirit becomes a duality, Swedenborg’s a
unity. Kardec’s has a body, and Swedenborg’s is its body.
Must not the spiritual Ego have a body objective to itself, just
as man himself has one ? But I did not mean to plunge you
into a cold bath of metaphysics. I have never seen these
points of difference between two influential spiritual teachers
indicated and discussed. Perhaps a closer study will show
that the difference is one which appears on the surface, but
does not exist fundamentally ; or that it is verbal rather than
essential. There is much in Swedenborg’s spiritual diary that
seems at variance with his teachings after his “ spiritual sight
was opened.”
M. Alexandre Axsakoe, of St. Petersburg, writes re¬
specting recent events at Miss Cook’s seances. He says—“ I
rejoice to see how, in this case, plots and outrage resulted in
he most elaborate justification.”
A LITTLE ONE’S PRAYER.
[A little boy who had been playing in one of the city theatres suddenly
dropped and died. Before his death he was overheard praying—this bit of
humanity who had found no standing-place in the world—11 Make room
dear Lord, for another little child l’’}
Make room in Thy home, dear Lord,
In Thy mansion undeflled,
Away from the woe and toil and strife,
For another little child;
For the music of life grows dim,
And the feet all weary and worn,
Tossed to and fro by the careless wind,
Like a tender leaflet borne.
Away from the stifling air.
From the tinsel and glaring light,
Where the plaudits of earth grow dim
And the vision of heaven grows bright;
With spirit in restful peace,
In pleadings tender and mild,
He said, “Make room, dear Lord, for me.
For another little child.”
The souls of the martyrs in flame,
The souls of the saints in tears,
The prophets of olden time
And priests of the latter years,—
They throng and crown Thee with love
Rich as the wine on the lees,
But Thou hast said, “There is always room
For children such as these.”
Thank God, for Thy word is sure.
And the burden of life grows light,
For the path to Thee is.the path-way trod
By the children pure and white.
And lo, as of old, a voice
Borne down on the passing breeze,
“The brightest jewels in all His crown
Are children such as these.”
Liberal Christian.
ME. A. E. WALLACE ON SPIEITUALISM.
A short time ago', when a superficial article on
Spiritualism, by Lord Amberley, was published in the
Fortnightly Review, we expressed regret that that serial
should so mislead its readers. We further stated that
i‘s editor, Mr. John Morley, was not one who would be
likely to knowingly misguide the public, and that he
ought to invite Mr. A. R. Wallace, or some other com¬
petent writer on the subject, to represent the Spiritual¬
istic side of the question.' This has been done, for the
last number of the Fortnightly Review contains the first
part of an article by Mr. Wallace, entitled “ A Defence
of Modern Spiritualism.”
The portion of the article already published contains
little of an argumentative character, but places before
the public much which it is for the good of the move¬
ment that general readers should know, though little
with which Spiritualists are not already well acquainted.
A history of the early Fox manifestations is given, the
experiences of Judge Edmonds, Mr. Yarley, Mr. Crookes,
M. Flammarion, Dr. Sexton, and others are cited, and
attention is called to some of the more remarkable
manifestations which occur through the mediumship of
Miss Fox, Mr. Home, and Miss Cook.
The following paragraph relating to educated and
persistent objectors, who will not examine the facts for
themselves, is one of the best in the whole article, and
faithfully expresses the present thorough apathy of
leading Spiritualists as to what authorities in science
or religion believe or disbelieve, and the determination
to take little or no further trouble to enlighten them
as to where they are going to after their bones are laid
in the grave—a question which ought to be of more
interest to themselves than to anybody else :—
Each fresh observation, confirming previous evidence, is
treated as though it were now put forth for the first time;
and fresh confirmation is asked of it. And when this fresh
and independent confirmation comes, yet more confirmation
is asked for, and so on without end. This is a very clever
way to ignore and stifle a new truth; but the facts of Spiri-
May 8, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
221
tualism are ubiquitous iu their occurrence and of so indis¬
putable a nature, as to compel conviction in every earnest
inquirer. It thus happens that although every fresh convert
requires a large proportion of the series of demonstrative
facts to be reproduced before he will give his assent to them,
the number of such converts has gone on steadily increasing
for a quarter of a century. Clergymen of all sects, literary
men and lawyers, physicians in large numbers, men of science
not a few, secularists, philosophical sceptics, pure material¬
ists, all have become converts through the overwhelming logic
of the phenomena which Spiritualism has brought before
them. And what have we 'per contra ? Neither science nor
philosophy, neither scepticism nor religion, has ever yet in this
quarter of a century made one single convert from the ranks
of Spiritualism ! This being the case, and fully appreciating
the amount of candour and fairness, and knowledge of the
subject, that has been exhibited by their opponents, is it to be
wondered at that a large proportion of Spiritualists are now
profoundly indifferent to the opinion of men of science, and
would not go one step out of their way to convince them ?
They say, that the movement is going on quite fast enough.
That it is spreading'by its own inherent force of truth, and slowly
permeating all classes of society. It has thriven in spite of
abuse and persecution, ridicule and argument, and will con¬
tinue to thrive whether endorsed by great names or not.
Men of science, like all others, are welcome to enter its ranks ;
but they must satisfy themselves by their own persevering
researches, not expect to have its proofs laid before them.
Their rejection of its truths is their own loss, but cannot in
the slightest degree affect the progress of Spiritualism. The
attacks and criticisms of the press are borne good-humouredly,
and seldom excite other feelings than pity for the wilful
ignorance and contempt for the overwhelming presumption
of their writers. Such are the sentiments that are continu¬
ally expressed by Spiritualists; and it as well, perhaps, that
the outer world, to whom the literature of the movement is as
much unknown as the Vedas, should be made acquainted with
them.”
Another good point in Mr. "Wallace’s article is the
prominence he gives to the fact that experienced
Spiritualists are never known to recant. He says:—
“ The almost universal belief in gravitation, and in the
undulatory theory of light, does not render them in any
degree more probable; because very few indeed of the
believers have tested the facts which most convincingly
demonstrate those theories, or are able to follow out
the reasoning by which they are demonstrated. It is,
for the most part, a blind belief accepted upon authority.
But with these spiritual phenomena the case is very different.
They are to most men so new, so strange, so incredible, so
opposed to their whole habit of thought, so apparently opposed
to the pervading scientific spirit of the age, that they cannot
and do not accept them on second-hand evidence, as they do
almost every other kind of knowledge. The thousands or mil¬
lions of Spiritualists, therefore, represent to a very large extent
men who havewitnessed, examined, and tested the evidence for
. themselves, over and over and over again, till that whichthey had
at first been unable to admit could be true, they have at last
been compelled to acknowledge is true. This accounts for the
utter failure of all the attempted exposures and explanations
to convince one solitary believer of his error. The exposers
and explainers have never got beyond those first difficulties
which constitute the pons asinorum of Spiritualism, which
every believer has to get over, but at which early [stage of
investigation no converts are ever made. By explaining
table-turning, or table-tilting, or raps, you do not influence a
man who was never convinced by these, but who, in broad
daylight, sees objects move without contact, and behave
as if guided by intelligent beings; and who sees this in a
variety of forms, in a variety of places, and under such
varied and stringent conditions, as to make the fact
to him just as real as the movement of iron to the
magnet. By explaining automatic writing (which itself
convinces no one but the writer, and not always even
him), you do not affect the belief of the man who has obtained
writing when neither pencil nor paper were touched by any
one : or has seen a hand not attached to any human body take
up a pencil and write; or, as Mr. Andrew Leighton, of Liver¬
pool, testifies, has seen a pencil rise of itself on a table and •
write the words—And is this world of strife to end in dust at
last ? Thus it is that there are so few recantations or perverts
in Spiritualism; so few, that it may be truly (said there are
none. After much inquiry and reading I can find no example
of a man who, having acquired a good personal knowledge of
all the-chief phases of the phenomena, has subsequently come
to disbelieve in their reality. If the ? explanations ’ and ‘ ex¬
posures ’ were good for anything, or if it were an imposture to
expose or a delusion to explain, this could not be the case, be¬
cause there are numbers of men who have become convinced of
the facts, but who have not accepted the spiritual theory.
These are, for the most part, in an uncomfortable and un¬
settled frame of mind, and would gladly welcome an explana-
nation which really explained anything—but they find it not.”
Mr*. Wallace’s article calls for no criticism, for
Spiritualists will agree with its statements throughout.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
We have received the following letter :—
Sir,—Mr. Alexander Calder, Member of Council, writes :—
‘•4th May, 1874. Mr. Martin Smith’s excellent example
should be followed. Please put me down as a subscriber for
£25 this year; and if I can, I shall double it.”
Algernon Joy, Hon. Sec.
Several annual subscriptions of X10 each have been
guaranteed by members of the Association.
At a meeting of the Council last Wednesday night,
among the honorary members elected, they having
accepted the invitation of the Council to allow themselves
to be nominated, were Messrs. Peebles, C. Biko, J.
Tyerman, Baron von Yay, and Mrs. Hardinge Britten.
The following have accepted seats on the Council:—
Mrs. Senior, Sir Charles Isham, Mrs. Boss Church,
Mrs. Honywood, and Mrs. Wiseman.
A number of invitations which ought to have been
sent out has not been so, because the supply of
Principles and Purposes, &c., had run out, and a fresh
one has not yet been obtained.
A committee has been drawing up bye-laws, and
another revising Mr. Noyes’s paper, with a view to its
adoption, with such modifications as may be deemed
necessary, by the Council.
The Earl of Caithness, the Countess of Caithness, Lady
Fanny Caithness, and Count Pomar, attended the Queen’s
drawing-room, at Buckingham Palace, last Wednesday.
Among the presentations were Mrs. Arthur Arnold, introduced
by the Countess of Granville; Lady Aberdare, by the Countess
of Arran; Miss Eveline Barrett, by her mother, Mrs. U. S.
Barrett; Miss Beauclerk, by her mother, Lady Amelia Beau-
clerk ; Miss Cecilia Cavendish, by her sister, Mrs. Noel Mundy;
Lady Gooch, by the Marchioness of Hertford; and Miss
Florence Levy, by Mrs. Edward Levy. The attendance was
unusually large, causing considerable delay in arrival and
departure from the palace.
D Alston Association oe Enquirers into Spiritualism.
—The ordinary weekly meeting of this Association was held
on Thursday evening last week, April 80th, when Mr. Thomas
Everitt read a paper entitled “ An Answer to the question
What is the use of Spiritualism?” Among those present were
Mrs. Thos, Everitt, Mrs. A. Comer and her two daughters,
Mrs. M. Theresa Wood, Miss A. M. Crane, Messrs. T. Wilks,
B. Pomeroy Tredwen, G. T. Snelling, Thos. Blyton, B. God¬
dard, of Yorkshire; A. M. Greene, the honorary secretary;
and others. In the absence of Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, the presi¬
dent-elect, Mr. Thomas Wilks was voted into the chair. The
chairman, in introducing Mr. Everitt to the meeting, spoke of
the valuable work that Mr. and Mrs. Everitt have done for the
cause of Spiritualism in England. Mr. Everitt, who on rising
was received with applause, then read an interesting and in¬
structive paper, incorporating many quotations from direct
writings obtained through the mediumship of Mrs. Everitt.
The paper was listened to with attention, and, at the close,
various specimens of direct spirit-writing were handed round
amongst the members present, who carefully inspected them.
Questions were freely asked by members present, and answers
given by Mr. Everitt in a manner which afforded much valu¬
able information to the meeting. A vote of thanks to Mr.
Everitt for his paper having been put from the chair and
seconded by Mr. G. F. Snelling, was carried unanimously.
The meeting closed at a somewhat late hour;
222
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 8,1874
THE LAST ILLNESS OF JUDGE EDMONDS.
In the course of a letter to Mr. Coleman, Miss Laura
Edmonds gives the following particulars about her
father’s last illness :—
It is a sad duty on my part to answer in place of my father,
who has left this world of labour and pain to join the dear
wife he so loved and longed for. After two weeks of the most
agonising tortures he passed ■ peacefully away, just as Easter
morning dawned, his eyes beaming with light and tenderness,
and with an expression upon his countenance as if he had
found all that he had hoped for.
From the first, he was fully aware of his coming departure,
and spoke to me of it cheerfully, joyfully even.
When in the greatest suffering, he said to me, “ I bear this
for the purification of my spirit, and I know the efficacy of
prayer, for it has helped me to bear the long hours of pain as
I could not otherwise have done.”
With this spiritual heroic disposition, he passed through
the hours and days, and when he closed his eyes upon earth,
dear as he was, and hard as was the parting, I could not but
say to him, “ God speed you, dear father.”
My father hung the testimonial in his library among his
other treasures, and I shall keep it carefully for his sake and
those of his friends. I hope to go abroad next winter, and if
I see you, can tell you more particularly of his life the
last year.
THE FUNERAL OF JUDGE EDMONDS.
(From the Banner of Light).
But a short time previous to his departure, Judge
Edmonds was made the recipient of a testimonial of
respect and affection by the Spiritualists of England, an
act so timely in view of the event that calls forth these
comments, as no doubt to prove as profound a satisfac¬
tion now to the contributors as it could have been at
the moment to the recipient. The article containing
the detailed account of this testimonial was taken from
the Spiritualist, an English publication, by the Judge
himself, and sent to us. It appeared in the columns of
The Banner of Light, of March 21st last, and will be
dwelt upon by all our readers with a fresh satisfaction
for this reference. More especially has a new signi¬
ficance been imparted to his words by the event of his
departure, written on the intrinsic character of the
cause of Spiritualism, “ Its grand principle—love to
God and man—commends it to every heart; and the
principle is enforced by a revelation easily compre¬
hended by every mind—a revelation of what is the
future life, made so certainly and distinctly that every
one may know for himself how to use the present life
as a due preparation for the next.” And his syllables
of gratitude to the English men of science for per¬
sistently investigating the spiritual phenomena will not
soon be forgotten on either side of the Atlantic. “ I,
for one, say, I God bless you for it!’ for you have made
solid the foundation of that which we have attempted to
establish, namely, that this whole thing of spirit-com¬
munion and its consequences is addressed to the reason
as well as to the heart, and ought not to be received
unless the judgment and conscience alike welcome it.”
The ceremonies attending the sepulture of Judge
Edmonds were exceedingly simple and impressive, and
were participated in by a large concourse of people.
They took place at St. George’s Episcopal Church, in
New York City, on the afternoon of the 7th inst., the
Robinson-hall congregation of Spiritualists, together
with a large number prominent in Spiritualism being
present. The body was received at the foot of the
central aisle by Rev. Dr. Tyng and Rev. Dr. Beet. It
lay in a massive velvet-covered, silver-trimmed coffin,
according to the minute report published in the Sun,
there being on its broad top an anchor, a wreath, and
a cross, elaborately formed of flowers. On the plate
were the words, “John Worth Edmonds, died April
5th, 1874, aged 75 years.” The pall-bearers, who
had been selected by the Judge himself some time
before Lis death, were Samuel J. Tilson, Judge Suther¬
land, Judge Monell, William Caldwell, Thomas Allison,
Dr. John R. Gray, Judge Parker, J. L. Gosling, W. H.
Fields, C. P. Shaw, C. H. Kitchell, S. G. Jeliffe and
Chauncey Childs. Behind the pall-bearers the coffin
was borne, and after it walked the mourners. The
last included daughters and grandchildren of Judge
Edmonds, and a brother’s family. After the reading
of the Episcopal burial service by Dr. Tyng, the boys of
the choir singing and Dr. Peet responding for the
congregation, Dr. Tyng proceeded to deliver a feeling
and warm eulogy on the character and life of the emi¬
nent departed. He said, “ I should not like to part
with his body without giving utterance over it to my
personal feeling. Before the death of my venerable
and beloved friend, I received from him a request to
officiate on this mournful occasion. Although for
several years I have met him only occasionally, I
never saw him but I felt that I was with a genial,
tender, sympathising friend. There are aspects of
character which can be understood only after intimate
personal contact. . . . The kindness and persevering
nobility of his nature gained my unqualified confidence,
and I recognised his high moral and intellectual power.
When we come to a standard of character like this, it
is far above all our little divisions, and it is with
gratification and delight that I speak of him as a man.”
The Sun’s report continues as follows, closing with
the touching request made so brief a time before, on his
seventy-fifth birth-day anniversary:—“ After the ser¬
vices the coffin was opened, and the assemblage passed
by it to look upon the almost unchanged face. The
body was robed in white satin. All having seen the
corpse, the procession was reformed, and the coffin was
borne back to the hearse. On the way out a niece of
Judge Edmonds fainted, and was half carried down the
steps. From the church the hearse and carriages were
driven to the foot of Leroy-street, where the body was
put on board the steamboat Edwards, to be taken to
Hudson for interment, according to the Judge’s own
directions, written on the seventy-fifth anniversary of
his birth, the 31st ult., as follows:—
“ I ■wish to be buried in Hudson, in the same grave with my
wife—not by her side, but in the same grave—that our ashes
may mingle and be one on earth, as our souls will be one in
the spirit-world. In the monument to her memory, erected
there by the bar of New York, there are two vacant spaces
left purposely for me. In one of them I want this inscrip¬
tion :
JOHN WOETH EDMONDS.
Born in Hudson, 13th March, 1799.
Died in —, —, 187-.
On the other hand I want simply these words :
Death joins the ties
Which death destroys.”
The Spiritual movement is largely indebted to the honorary
secretaries of the British National Association of Spiritualists,
Mr. Algernon Joy and Miss Kislingbury, for the large amount
of work and correspondence they have executed during the
past few months. Most of the responsibility of getting up the
soiree at the Cleveland-hall fell upon Miss Kislingbury, as Mr.
Joy was then absent from London most of the time. The
soiree passed off well, and more than cleared its own expenses,
for it left a balance of a few pounds in hand.
Mat 8, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
223
PRIVATE SEANCES.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER’S MEDITJMSHIT?—APPEARANCE OE A
SPIRIT TO MISS EOWLER—REMARKABLE PSYCHOLOGICAL
EXPERIENCES.
About a fortnight ago, soon after Miss Lottie Fowler,
the clairvoyant, came to London, we called upon her
about five o’clock in the evening, at 9, Somerset-street,
Portman-square, W., and in the course of a trance seance
of nearly two hours’ duration, received a large number
of test messages on subjects known only to the spirit
professing to communicate, and to the listener, but not
to Miss Fowler. Many similar experiences have been
published in these pages, so it is unnecessary to give
the details. It is worthy of note, however, that Annie,
Miss Fowler’s spirit guide, described the death pains of
the spirit attempting to communicate, and said that the
latter was obliged to begin by presenting them, and to
take on some of the conditions under which she left
earth. Further, when we put a few mental questions,
the entranced medium was palpably sensitive to the
thoughts; she paused as if listening, and answered
them.
"We left about seven o’clock, hut Miss Fowler had
not seen the last of the communicating spirit, who at
one time during the seance had attempted to control the
medium in the place of her guide “ Annie,” which was
an unusual occurrence. Miss Fowler makes the follow¬
ing statement about what took place afterwards :—
“ I went to bed that night at twelve o’clock, five
hours after the close of your seance. I had been in
bed about a quarter of an hour, and had begun to doze,
when I felt as if something heavy were on the bed,
and as if there were a £ presence ’ in the room. This
lasted about a quarter of an hour, during which I grew
more and more nervous, so I rose, lit a candle, searched
the room, and tried whether the door was locked as I
had left it, which was the case.
“ I then put out the light and went to bed again;
the pressure on the bed returned once more, and I felt
as if something were smothering me. Then I saw Mrs.
 quite plainly, standing in the room dressed in
flowing robes of white, with her hair hanging straight
down her shoulders, as I had never seen her wear it in
life. [She wore it thus during her last illness.~\ She
came to the side of the bed, stood still, and smiled, then
gazed at me for perhaps a quarter of an hour; I was
excessively frightened, as I had never seen an apparition
more than once in my life before. I was paralysed, and
could not move, yet was wide awake, and perfectly
conscious of everything which took place.
“She then went to the dressing-glass, where she
stood for some moments pressing her hair hack from her
forehead with her fingers, after which she sat quietly
for a long time on a chair, motionless. She looked
happy, but was thin and pale. Next she walked
towards the door, near which she disappeared; in¬
stantly the whole room seemed to be flooded with light
like moonlight, and it was strongest at the place where
she disappeared. This light lasted for hours, and I
did not get to sleep till five o’clock in the morning.
“ I had never seen an apparition but once before,
when I saw my mother eight days after she died.
That was five years ago. I did not know at the time
that she had passed away from earth, for we had been
separated for somei ime, she having taken some sacred
office in a Roman Catholic establishment. I was in
Boston with my nurse, Mrs. Colson Smith, about twelve
o’clock in the day, when both» us saw my mother
standing near the piano ; she was in the peculiar reli¬
gious dress, in which she had been laid out; but I did
not know this till afterwards. She did not speak, and
she looked quite real and solid. We only saw her a
few moments, when I gave a shriek, and fainted. Mrs.
Colson Smith afterwards told me that she was glad of
the occurrence, since it would probably make me believe
in Spiritualism, for at that time I believed only in
clairvoyance and not in spirits.”
A SEANCE IN GLASGOW—MR. DAVID DTJGTJID’S PAINTING
MEDITJMSHIP—SPIRIT IDENTITY.
Mr. Benjamin Coleman, of 1, Bernard-villas, Upper
Norwood, has favoured us with the following account
of a seance which took place a few days ago in Glas¬
gow :—
It is just seven years since I gave an account in the Spiritual
Magazine, of some of the earhest productions, through the
mediumship of Mr. David Duguid, of Glasgow. He was
at that time a working mechanic, and after he had become a
medium for the usual ordinary manifestations, he commenced
to draw, first in pencil and then in water colours, with his
eyes closed, and in a deep trance.
It was at this time (May 1866) that I visited Glasgow to
meet the members of the Association of that city, of which I
had been elected an honorary president, and at the house of
Mr. Hay Nisbet I met Mr. David Duguid, and saw him operat¬
ing on the third or fourth of his more ambitious paintings;
I at once became satisfied of the entire genuineness of the re¬
markable power exhibited through this young man. I was
satisfied also of the facts which were then related to me by
Mr. Nisbet and Mr. F. Logan, jun., and which I may briefly
repeat, as evidencing one of the best tests of spirit identity
which I have met with.
After one of the largest paintings was finished, he was urged
to tell the name of the artist, but he declined for the moment
to answer the question. He (the spirit) said that he was well-
known on earth in the 17th century, was born 1635, died in
1681, and he would ultimately give them the means of estab¬
lishing his identity.
Another painting in water colours was commenced at the
next sitting and completed in four hours, the medium painting
most of it in the dark, and at the left hand corner there were
the initials J. R. Several persons called to see this picture,
among whom was a friend of Mr. Logan’s, an artist who recog¬
nised the subject as being one well known ; he could not name
the original painter, but said he would look the matter up, and
in a day or two he brought an engraving—nearly a fac simile
of the spirit drawing—of “ The Waterfalls,” by Jacob Ruysdael.
Mr. Duguid knew nothing of painting in his normal con¬
dition, nor had he ever heard of such a painter as Jacob
Ruysdael.
All this has been well proved, and I need not waste a word
to satisfy scepticism. I sought for the date and found in one
authority, Jacob Ruysdael, born 1635, died 1681; in another
it is given as born 1636, died 1681. The discrepancy was
pointed out to Duguid when he was next entranced, and the
reply of the spirit was that he was born in the last day of the
year 1635 at midnight. How far this is correct I have had no
means of ascertaining.
Having been recently on a visit to my friends Mr. and Mrs.
Inglis, Bridge of Allan, they were desirous of obtaining a
sitting with Mr. Duguid, and Mr. Nisbet kindly arranged for
us to come to Glasgow for that purpose. The medium, who
is a remarkably quiet and unpretending man, received us in
his own room, where I was told he always obtains the best
manifestations; home influences are in this case, as with
most mediums, the best for securing satisfactory results.
He took his seat behind a table on which there was a box of
various-coloured oil-paints, palette, and palette-knife, and at
his side a piece of cardboard, of about two feet square, placed
on a tressel, upon the back of which board Mr. Inglis and I
wrote our names. We were requested to keep silence until
the medium was entranced, and on no consideration at any
time during the entire seance were we either to touch him or
any of his preparations. These instructions we implicitly
obeyed. After sitting for about ten minutes, we saw that his
eyes were shut, and that he was talking to an invisible per¬
sonage, his spirit-guide Jan Steen, who was, I believe, a pupil
of Jacob Ruysdael, both celebrated painters of the Dutch
school. He appeared to be consulting his'instructor in a tone
224
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 8, 1874.
of voice too low for us to hear what was said, but having
decided upon a subject, he at once took his palette on his
thumb and commenced to mix his colours with all the
ease of a first-class artist; he immediately made a dark
daub with his brush on the left-hand corner of the board,
and then rapidly changed to the bottom of the board, and
then again to the other side ; this he continued to do backwards
and forwards for about a quarter of an hour, without pro¬
ducing anything like a picture. At this moment it was sug¬
gested the light should be extinguished, which was done;
and, as we were not required to keep silence after the medium
was entranced, as he then heard nothing of what was said by
those around him, we sat in darkness talking for another
quarter of an hour, when the gas was relighted, and we saw
to our surprise that all the blanks and blotches were nicely
toned down, and turned into a well-drawn landscape, with
dark clouds, a lake, and ruined castle. After about ten
minutes more work, he put down his palette and brushes,
saying he would finish it at another time, and I have no doubt
he will make a very good picture of it; it must be understood,
however, that though well designed and drawn, they are not
artistically finished pictures.
After this the medium sat down, and taking a blank card
from the table, he tore, a piece off one end and handed the
piece to me; then he folded his arms, and the gas was put
out. In four minutes it was relighted, and we found that a
very beautifully executed picture in oil had been painted by
the spirit, without the hand of the medium, on the identical
card of which I held the torn-off piece; and being in oil,
I had to protect it from being injured until the following
morning, when it was dry.
» A similar card was taken, the piece being torn off and
handed to Mr. Inglis, and in two minutes a painting in oil
was produced much less in size, not much larger than a
shilling, and this picture was carried away by Mr. Inglis.
The whole seance was perfectly satisfactory to us, and
proved the existence of some intelligent power being at work
independently of the medium, which power it would be absurd
to call “ psychic force.”
SEANCE AX ME. YERNON’S—SPIRIT IDENTITY.
In tlie last number of the Christian Spiritualist, Dr.
Sexton saysDuring my last provincial tour, I was
invited to stay for a short time with some exceedingly
kind and amiable people, in an old-fashioned, but withal
a remarkably comfortable farm-house, about four miles
from TJttoxeter. In the course of a long and interesting
conversation one evening, or rather night, or, per¬
haps, to be still more precise, early in the morning,
upon various topics in general, and Spiritualism in
particular, I learned of the facts of a seance that had
been held there in November, 1872, which, since it
affords conclusive evidence of the truth of Spiritualism
and of the identity of the spirit communicating, I think
may prove interesting to your readers. The medium
was a young man named Manley, an assistant in the
mill connected with the house where I was staying,
and might, therefore, be considered a member of the
family. He has only somewhat recently become a
convert to Spiritualism, having been previously so
bitterly opposed to it that for a long time he declined
even to investigate it or witness any of the phenomena,
but since that has turned out a most excellent trance-
medium.
The seance to which I refer was held on the 17th of
November, 1872, the place referred to being Foie Mills,
the proprietor of which is Mr. Wm. Yernon, the head of
the family. The persons present were mainly the mem¬
bers of the household. It appears thait speedily after
sitting down, the medium became entranced by a spirit
strange to the circle, who spoke as follows :—
This is a very funny country. My name I will tell you.
I am an old miller, I liked a drop of beer when here. I was
killed in a mill; I was doubled up, twisted round the shaft;
it was something awful. My name is Samuel Cooper, and the
name of the place Ctfddington Mill, Cheshire.
The spirit now left the medium, who was taken pos¬
session of by another spirit—the one that usually con¬
trolled him—who said:—
I thought the conditions favourable to introduce him.
I met with him yesterday ; he is only in the second sphere,
and left in a poor state of mind.
The medium then awoke. Now no one present at
the circle had ever heard of the mills in question, or was
even aware that there was such a place as Coddington
in Cheshire. Next day, however, they turned up a direc¬
tory or railway guide, and found the name. Still being
ignorant of whether there were any mills at Coddington,
or the name of any one resident in the place, Mr. Yernon
addressed and sent by post the following note :—
MEMORANDUM.
November 18th, 1872.
From To the
W. Vernon, Proprietor,
Foie Mills, Coddington Mills,
• Uttoxeter. Cheshire.
Dear Sir,—Would you oblige me whether a miller used to
work at your mill by name of Samuel Cooper, and if killed in
the mill and how, and kindly oblige me with the date of his
death.
After a few days had elapsed, the following reply
was received:—
Coddington Mills, near Chester.
20th November, 1872.
Dear Sir,—Samuel Cooper was killed at Coddington, on
September 6th, 1860, in the fifty-third year of his age, and
was buried in Coddington Churchyard ; he was killed whilst in
the act of putting a strap on a pulley to drive a grindstone,
his coat having got entangled between the pulley and strap.
—Yours truly, Albert Lowe.
The following is the testimony of all who were pre¬
sent at the seance that they had never heard either of
Samuel Cooper or of Coddington Mills previously :—
We, the undersigned, attending a seance at Foie Mills,
Staffordshire, on the 17th of November, 1872, affirm that we
never heard of the person or place alluded to as Samuel
Cooper, Coddington Mills, Cheshire, previous to this com¬
munication.
TWm. Vernon,
Signed in the presence of each other, -< Jane Cooper,
t A. C. Manley.
Witness to the signature of Thomas ? riwa a
Atkins, Charles Eight $ iH0S* ATKINa*
Witness to the signature of E. A. 1E A< yBEN0N<
Vernon, B. Bewly, jun. j
MISS cook’s MEDIUMSHIP—FURTHER EVIDENCE RELATING
TO SPIRIT FORMS-*—MR. BLACKBURN’S EXPERIENCES.
On Thursday, last week, there was a seance at Mr.
Henry Cook’s, at Hackney, at which Mr. Charles Black¬
burn, Mr. W. Crookes, F.R.S., Mr. G. R. Tapp, and
Mr. W. H. Harrison, were present. Last Monday
evening there was another, and among the spectators
were Mr. Wm. Crookes, Mr. and Mrs. Earl Bird ; Mr.,
Mrs., and the Misses Withall; Mr. B. W. Pycock,
Miss Belsey, Mr. G. R. Tapp, Mrs. A. Corner, and Mr.
W. H. Harrison.
The spirit Katie announces that she is going to leave
the medium soon, to make way for recognisable spirit
faces.
Mr. Charles Blackburn has favoured us with the fol¬
lowing letter about last week’s seance:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—Since my return from Paris with Miss Cook and her
sister, where we went specially for the restoration of Miss
Cook’s health, and not for seances, I met you and Mr. Crookes
last Thursday evening at Hackney. After the first part of the
seance was over, you could not stop longer, so left us; but in
came Mr. Blyton, and we began the second part.
Mat 8, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
225
You are aware that one-half of the double door leading
into the cabinet or bed room, is a curtain consisting of a
woollen table coyer, which joins the other half of the wood
door. I pulled on one side that woollen curtain, and Miss
Gook walked in and lay down on the floor, merely having a
pillow for her head; a red woollen shawl covered her head to
exclude all light; she wore a blue serge dress which buttoned
close up to her throat, and reached to her waist very tight
fitting, but loosely downwards to her boots. I let go the
curtain, and in a few minutes we heard the spirit voice talking
to Miss Cook, and we heard her replies. Stillness followed,
as though Miss Gook had gone into trance. Then the spirit
form appeared in low white dress, with white silken looking
cord tied round her waist, and evidently devoid of stays ; this
Mr. Crookes proved, as he stood close to her and was allowed
to feel. She had a white head dress, as usual, all very plainly
seen by the gas light.
As it was growing late, I said, “ Katie, this is my last visit,
and I want you to allow me to give you a kiss before I go.”
She replied, “Well, come up then!” Now observe—Mr.
Crookes stood close to her at the curtain, and had a bottle
of phosphoric oil in his hand, whilst I sat next to Mr. Blyton
at the sofa. Of course I quickly went up, and she presented
her right cheek, warm and soft as velvet; then I asked for the
left, which she also offered, and it was the same. Then she
kissed my forehead. I then said, “ Now, Katie, show me the
medium.” She said, “ Yery well, take the bottle from
Crookes, come inside, and look for yourself.” I instantly
took the bottle from Mr. Crookes, and followed her, and took
the cork out of the bottle to get more light. I saw the
medium at my feet in a deep trance, and in the same clothing
as when she entered the cabinet. I placed my hand on the
red shawl, and a head moaned painfully under it; my hand
passed down from neck to waist, and to her boots, she still
moaning all the time. I produced more light from the bottle
again, and said, “ Katie 1 Where are you ?” But Katie had
vanished.
The bedroom window has Venetian blinds and long drawn
curtains, so no escape there. The door leading into the lobby
had a washstand with crockery ware on it placed against it,
therefore no escape there. Mr. Blyton said that not five
seconds elapsed before I entered, and so said Mr. Tapp, who
likewise witnessed it; consequently with such evidence I leave
the public to judge of these very marvellous and new facts,
which are as true and honourable through this medium as
anything that ever did exist.
I now leave Miss Cook in the hands of Mr. Crookes, F.R.S.
Charles Blackburn.
Parkfield, Didsbury, near Manchester, May 4,1874.
SEANCE AT ME. BIBB’S—TEANCE AND CLAIEYOYANT MEDIUM-
SHIP—THE BEWABD OP INPAMY.
One Sunday evening a few weeks ago a seance was
held at the house of Mr. Earl Bird, 11, Park-grove,
Shepherd’s-lane, Brixton. Mrs. Bird was the medium ;
Miss Bird and Mr. Henry Stevens were also present,
and the latter took notes of what Mrs. Bird uttered in
the trance state, as follows
“ Oh, it makes me sick—positively I cannot describe it; and
I think they will take it away from me. I had set my heart
on conversing with my angel friends to-night. I had thought
about them all day, and I looked for a bright vision to come
from above, instead of which I have been led, or I may say,
dragged, into the very centre of a group of individuals, dis¬
gusting to look at, too unclean to touch. The very sight has
made me ill, and unfitted me for describing what I see. I
turn to Lorenzo and ask him a question, * Why do you show
me scenes, and lead me into society which my soul abhors. Is
this elevating, edifying? ’ It is not palatable, and I think I
shall refuse to do it.
His answer is—
“ You must not refuse—you dare not refuse. Such things
are. Even the angels look on them sometimes, and why
should not you ? I have a mission to perform, and a part of
the work is to find a voice into your world.
“Lend your ears and hear, for those you accounted dead
shall speak to you. Not only from the high and holy places
above you; not only those shall speak who have found rest,
and peace, and joy ; they indeed shall sometimes whisper in
your ear, telling you of the heavenly land ; but there are
other voices that must be heard. For continually going out
from amongst you is a mixed multitude; they live about you,
hang about your doors, sometimes live in your very houses
and haunt your homes. Poor souls! Who shall speak
to-night amidst all this clamour about your medium’s ears ?”
So speaks my guide, Lorenzo. But how shall I do it ? It
is the sickliest sight I ever saw.
I’ll speak to him, for I suppose he is a man; he keeps some¬
what the form of a man. I know not the first question to
put. I will give you his answers presently, when I have put
all my questions. -
Oh, I can’t do it! Am I to speak these things in the
people’s ears ?
Wolf! and not a man! I have read him. I have read
his life and his horrid deeds. It is written upon his every
limb. His whole form is moulded from his life. Well might
he shrink as far out of sight as he could, and ask his com¬
panions to gather close about him, to cover him from the
sight of him who catoe that way to-night.
He is the centre of a group now, and was the head of an
establishment here. Yes, he lived in the body—he walked
our earth—he lived in this great city, some sixty years; and
how shall I speak the next ?
He had a den. That is why I called him “ Wolf.” He
called it an establishment for young ladies. I call it a den,
and he was the Wolf. Shall I look in and see the bones ?
Will my eyes bear the sight ? Can I take in the ruin, and
bear the disgust ? No, I can look no further. I look for the
spirits of the slain, and leave this charnel-house; and to do
that I must go back again to that group from which we
selected him; and here, for the first time, my pity is excited ;
here I can pity even him.
What a reception ! He died and was buried. He thought
he had managed his earthly matters well; he had escaped all
law, and had been a clever man. He had made himself rich,
for he was a prudent man. He had hidden, to a great extent,
his infamous trading from the eyes of the world, throwing a
covering over this den of infamy and those bones, and had
kept down pretty well a troublesome voice within. He had
not many friends; they had dropped off one by one, and he
was very soon forgotten here.
But I said he died and was buried, and was received. Can
you not hear it ? I can. He stops his ears, for he hears
voices that he never thought to hear again.
What a clamour!—what a tumult!—what insults and abuse
they heap upon him. They have been waiting for his coming,
and now their curses must ring in his ears for many days
to come.
Can he bear it ? He thinks not. Yet he must. It is his
own work; the seed he has been sowing for many years.
It is the reward of his evil traffic in human souls and
human bodies. The souls that he has ruined form the society
into which he enters, and into which I have been shown
to-night. His evil doings and the wrongs of his victims
are a continual reproach to him; and I say again, I
pity him and them. Shut out from all other society, they
group together in filth and rags, hiding so that we had
a difficulty in finding them. I must question my guide
again, and ask him if this is angel’s work, to grope about in
these foul places? His answer is, “Yes, this is angel’s
work. They will not come to the light; they are destitute
and helpless of themselves. And what,” he says, “ what
are angels for? Not to live up in heaven and keep all their
happiness, purity, and peace to themselves: they are
ministering spirits constantly at work to uplift, to speak com¬
fort to those who mourn, to whisper hope to the hopeless, to
take hold sometimes as he took hold of the man to-night
against his (the man’s) will, and dragged him out of the
slough, and bid all of them wash and be clean, showing the
way to do it, also.”
This has been his work to-night, not only to help the
spirit-man to step out of his despair, but to say to us at the
same time, “ Go thou and do likewise.” Never mind how
degraded or low sunk be the object, the purity of thy- own
motives shall keep thee clean, thou shalt not be contaminated
i or suffer harm.
Mes. Tappan’s lecture committee, which has up to the
present time managed the Sunday meetings so satisfactorily,
is taking steps, which will probably be successful, to raise
sufficient funds to engage her for a further period of eight
months. The proposed new course will consist of a series of
thirty-five lectures, commencing on the 4th October next,
and extending to May 31st, 1875. Friends willing to subscribe
are requested to send in their names as soon as pos¬
sible to the secretary, Mr. Webster Glynes, 4, Gray’s-inn-
square, W.C.
226
THE SPIRITUALIST.
<3£megpntmice.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.']
ON- INTERNAL RESPIRATION. NO. TWO.
Sib,—In -my letter in No. 81 of The Spiritualist, I
endeavoured to illustrate some of the outer and physiological
phenomena of internal breathing. Other cases have since
come under my notice, but these for the present must suffice.
Probably in each case there is some difference of manifesta¬
tion, in some cases the internal breathing seems to be con¬
tinuous, in other intermitting, at least to outward perception;
in some it comes on gradually and at first imperceptibly, and
in others it seems given suddenly in great fulness.
I will now endeavour to illustrate the chief spiritual
characteristics thereof. It is a spiritual phenomenon, there¬
fore worthy of the attention of all Spiritualists. The question,
however, arises, is it only a form of ordinary mediumship, or
is it something quite distinct and of an altogether higher
order? I believe the latter to be true. The differences are
these. 1. It cannot be acquired by seeking it at the seance,
but is always a gift from God. 2. It does not consist in the
recipient becoming a medium in the ordinary sense of the
word, to be controlled by spirits; but when it opens the
spiritual faculties, which it does after a time, it places him on
the same plane as spirits, their equal—not their subject. 3.
It, and it alone as far as I know at present, brings with it as
it becomes developed the all-important gift of the discerning
of spirits, without which all spiritual communications are of
little value except as scientific phenomena. But to the proof.
I. It cannot be acquired at the seance. Harris, who is the
best authority on this same subject, most emphatically asserts
that no man can open his internal respiratories of himself, and
that if he could, physical death would result. Were a man
to breathe fully the atmosphere of the heavens without
preparation for it, the opposition of the evil in his nature to
it would be so great that he would die from the agony produced
thereby; did he breathe the atmosphere of the hells, he would
fall dead from suffocation. It can only be received as a gift
from God. A man may have never heard of Spiritualism, and
yet the breath be given him in great fulness, and a new world
of truth opened to him at once; or, on the other hand, he may
sit at the seance for years, developing as a medium in many
ways, and yet be without the inner breath.
II. Internal breathing does not make the recipient the
subject of spirits, though of course, he, like all others, may
through imprudence sink under this control; but when it opens
his spiritual faculties, does so by placing him on the same
plane. The difference is immense. In the Spiritualistic
journals we constantly read that “ The spirit controlled the
medium,” and caused him to say or do whatever he pleased,
thereby destroying for the time his individuality and moral
freedom,—often his physical freedom also. With internal
breathing there is nothing of the kind. We have only to read
the writings of Swedenborg and Harris to see this. We there
find them talking face to face with angels, spirits, and devils ;
but they do not receive blindly what they are told, nor are
they mesmerised by them; they simply hear, see, and judge
for themselves, as they would do with men on the natural
earth. Upon this subject I will quote from Swedenborg’s
Apocalypse Explained (1182-3), one of his latest works, and
therefore one in which we may expect to find his most matured
views. He says :—
“ It is believed by many that man may be taught of the
Lord by spirits speaking with him; but those who believe
this, and are willing to believe it, do not know that it is con¬
nected with danger to their souls. Man, so long as he lives
in the world, is in the midst of spirits as to his spirit, and yet
spirits do not know that they are with man, nor does man
know that he is with spirits 1 The reason is that they, are
conjoined as to the affections of the will immediately, and as
to thoughts of the understanding mediately; for man thinks
naturally, but spirits think spiritually; and natural and
spiritual thought do not otherwise make one than by corre¬
spondences ; and union by correspondences causes that one
does not know anything concerning the other. But as soon
as spirits begin to speak with man, they come out of their
spiritual state into the natural state of man [observe that
this is different from the man being elevated into a spiritual
state through inner breathings], and in this case they know
that they are with man, and conjoin themselves with the
thoughts of his affection, and from those thoughts speak with
May 8, 1874.
him; they cannot enter into anything else, for similar affec¬
tions and consequent thought conjoins all, and dissimilar
separates. It is owing to this circumstance that the speaking
spirit is in the same principle with the man to whom he
speaks, whether they be true or false, and likewise that he
excites them, and by his affection conjoined to the man’s
affection strongly confirms them; hence it is evident that
none other than similar spirits speak with man, or manifestly
operate upon him, for manifest operation coincides with
speech. Hence it is that no other than enthusiastic spirits
speak with enthusiasts; also that no other than Quaker spirits
operate upon Quakers, and Moravian spirits upon Moravians ;
the case would be similar with Arians, Socinians, and with
other heretics. All spirits speaking with man are no other
than such as have been men in the world, and were those of
such quality. That this is the case has been given me to
know by repeated experience; and what is ridiculous, when
man believes that the Holy Spirit speaks with him or
operates upon him, the spirit also believes that he is
the Holy Spirit; this is common with enthusiastic
spirits. From this consideration it is evident to what
danger man is exposed who speaks with spirits, or who
manifestly feels their operation. Man is ignorant of the
quality of his own affection, whether it be good or evil,
and with what other beings it is conjoined; and if he is in the
conceits of his own intelligence, his attendant spirits favour
every thought which is thence derived; in like manner, if
anyone is disposed to favour particular principles enkindled
by a certain fire, which has ;place with those who are not in
truth from genuine affection. When a spirit from similar
affection favours man’s thoughts or principles, then one leads
the other, as the blipd the blind, till both fall into the pit.
The Pythonics formerly were of this description, and likewise
the magicians in Egypt and in Babel, who by reason of dis¬
course with spirits, and of the operation of spirits felt mani¬
festly in themselves, were called wise; but by this the worship
of God was converted into the worship of demons, and the
Church perished; therefore such communications were for¬
bidden the sons of Israel under penalty of death. It is other¬
wise with those whom the Lord leads, and He leads those who
love truths, and loves them from Himself; all such are
enlightened when they read the Word, for the Lord is in the
Word, and speaks to everyone according to his comprehension.
If these hear speech from spirits, which also they do occa¬
sionally, they are not taught, but are led, and this so provi¬
dentially, that the man is still left to himself, since, as was
before said, every man is led ;of the Lord by affections, and
thinks from them as from himself in freedom ; if this were not
the case, man would not be capable of reformation, neither
could he be enlightened. It has been given to me to see it,
and from it to perceive distinctly what comes from the Lord,
and what from the angels.”
There is also a second species of spiritual communication to
which Swedenborg refers which he calls obsession, which con¬
sists not in the spirit putting on the thoughts and affections
of the man, but the man putting on those of the spirit, and
being controlled by him. There is yet one other to which he
refers, and which he implies is produced by internal breathing,
such as he himself possessed. He says {Arcana Celestia,
1880)
“ Man was so created that during his life on earth amongst
men, he might at the same time also live in heaven among
angels, and during his life among angels he might also at the
same time live on earth among men, so that heaven and earth
might be together, and form a one ; men knowing what is in
heaven, and angels what is in the world. But as man became
so corporeal, he closed heaven himself.”
Again, in Spiritual Diary (2551), he says :—
“ I have often conversed with spirits, stating that if men
were in faith in the Lord, heaven might thus be open to them,
or that an interior way towards heaven might be opened which
is now shut; and this in a manner almost similar to that
which through the Lord’s mercy has occurred to me.” It is
evident that a very large proportion of the spiritual commu¬
nications of the present day belong to one of the two former
classes; while internal breathing belongs to the last.
It will probably be objected to this statement, that in the
preface to the Epic of the Starry Heaven, and Lyric of the Golden
Age, Harris is spoken of as being entranced or controlled by
the communicating spirit, and that, therefore, he is only an
ordinary medium like others. To this I reply :—
(1.) These prefaces were not written by Harris, but Mr. S.
Brittan, who simply gave a faithful account of the matter, as
it appeared to him.
May 8, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
227
(2.) The tone of the preface is in direct antagonism to
Harris’s repeated warnings not to he controlled by spirits.
(8.) It is contradicted by the Lyric of the Golden Age itself,
where we read (p. 7)—
“ Its outer shape but partially unveils
Its grand interior archetypal form.
The language is the medium’s, and he kept
His individuality, and wrought
In the deep chambers of his inmost brain,
Language and imagery, that he might give
Fit drapery to the thought that Heaven sent down.’’
Again in Regina, p. 14, we read—
“ Paradise is full
Of golden-breasted birds, who, like the swan,
Drop down from horizon to horizon;
And there are melodies that have their birth
In far Elysium, but descend to earth.
The inner mind of man with hunger spies
The jewelled bird fly from its Paradise,
And feeds upon it; so all poets are
Nursed in their souls with songs from Heaven afar.
The Lyric of the Morning Land was given
This wise, and so the Starry Song of Heaven.
The Golden Lyric then came flying down,
And that young cygnet robed in yellow down,
The sweet Odora.”
There is nothing of spirit control and dictation here, but the
reverse.
(4.) In the most authoritative of his works, the Arcana of
Christianity, he says (see Herald of Light, vol. iii., pp. 167-8J
that the Lyric of the Morning Land and Odora were received
from the Lyrical Heaven, as also were to be the third and
fourth of the series, which evidently must have been the only
two other lyrics published, viz., the Golden Age and Regina.
Harris tells us that angels never compel or control anyone,
but acting only as the Lord acts in and by them, leave every
man’s moral freedom unimpaired. This statement of Harris
in the Arcana of Christianity is moreover an answer to the
falsehood uttered by a celebrated but unreliable female
medium and lecturer, one of Harris’s bitterest enemies, that
he now says that the spirits who communicated these poems
through him were demons.
(5.) Again, if anyone will compare the two accounts given
of Harris’s vision of Dante, in Appendix A and B of the Epic
of the Starry Heaven, he will see at once what a different im¬
pression Harris’s own statement gives from that of the editor.
(6.) Again, in Herald of Light, vol. v., p. 108, Harris says of
the Lyric of the Morning Land, “ I was conscious that the
ideas which are inwrought into this poem descended into the
spiritual degree of the mind months before it was uttered.
In spiritual illumination and quickening I was conscious that
the truths which were afterwards embodied in song were
grouped within me from the higher life. Months passed
away; I was engrossed in other duties; at last, under the
influence of the Spirit [observe, not of spirits, but the Spirit,
or Breath of God], I ceased the more objective avocations of
my life, and in the course of dictations occupying 30 hours
the book came forth. It was borne then through the natural
senses into time and space, but it lived in thoughts, in living
thoughts descending from God through the higher universe
before it came forth to live in the hearts or minds of those
who took it to themselves.”
(7.) Since writing the above I have received a further and
most conclusive proof of the above statement. In 1869 and
1870, Mr. John Thomson, of 39, John-street, Glasgow, the
agent in Great Britain for the sale of Harris’s works, re¬
printed the Lyrics of the Morning Land and Golden Age, and
afterwards wrote to inform Harris of what he had done. The
following is a copy of the letter which Miss Waring (one
of the brotherhood of the New Life) wrote at Mr. Harris’s
request:—
“ April 11th, 1870. Mr. Harris requests me to say that his
intention had been, when the time came to do so, to revise
the earlier poems and reprint ’them. The Lyric of the
Golden Age was sold to the publishers and printed during his
absence from New York, and contains many typographical
errors. The preface was written by a leading Spiritualist at
that time, and is not at all in harmony with Mr. Harris’s
teachings and work. He would be glad if you would not bind
it with the poem, as it is calculated to misrepresent his
ground. The Epic of the Starry Heaven Mr. Harris would be
glad to have you defer for a time, as there is an internal
law governing the republication of his books, as well as the
issuing of those now in manuscript, for which there seems no
outward ground for delay. I shall be glad to inform you of
anything that Mr. Harris may suggest at any time that he
feels publication should go on, and I may add, that he most
warmly appreciates the feeling that prompts you to a repub¬
lishment of the poems. The work of organising the truths
given in the daily lives of his society, and so leaving a human
record to measure them by, is so absorbing at present, that
Mr. H. finds little time for the literary side of his mission.
This, too, will doubtless come again in its turn, but he cares
little for doctrines unembodied, and feels that if men cannot
live the life, the teachings are worse than useless.”
I think it is evident, from all these proofs, that Harris was
not controlled by spirits while dictating his poems ; but that
his spiritual senses being opened by the Lord to the heavens,
he heard the songs of the angels, which he embodied in human
language himself.
III. The discerning of spirits. This is one of the most
important subjects, for, unless we know the source of any
spiritual communication, we know not whether to place confi¬
dence in it or not. Now internal respiration confers this power.
In Arcana of Christianity, iii. 104, we read that the passage,
“ And hast tried them which say they are apostles and are not,
and hast found them liars,” signifies “ the ability to discern
the quality of spirits, and to detect the falsehoods of those who
counterfeit angels.” Again, in Arcana of Christianity, iii. 241,
we read, “ The second of these states consists in the develop¬
ment of the faculty by means of which, through sound,
the voices of spirits, angelic or infernal, may be detected
in the breathing. . It requires a cessation from self and
from the love of self in the breathing man who is
becoming spiritual-natural, for the training of this fine
gift. By it, as the faculty becomes cultured, in the
lungs even of the closed or natural person is found a
criterion of all moral states. Painfnlly through practice
he learns to detect, by the variations in the breathings,
when infernals are near, and of their predominant quality.”
Again (in Wisdom of Angels, 97) concerning the explosive
sounds commonly known now as spirit-rappings, he says,
“ The speech of spirits was distinctly heard through the con¬
cussions when they anciently were manifested in the Golden
Age. Were the sensory organisations of man fully quickened,
in cases where regeneration is far advanced, the auditory
nerve would sense the quality, the character, and the sphere-
position of communicating spirits, through the quality and
character of each explosive intimation. In reality, each and
every intonation thus produced is of the character of a
hieroglyphic, containing in its general form each and every
particular of the mind of whom it is the revelation. When
therefore disorderly spirits make use of this method of com¬
munication, they cannot lie to those whose interiors are
sufficiently quickened; but the interior essence pervading the
vibrations, reveals the character of the communicating spirit,
and his position in the sphere of orderly or disorderly minds.”
Lastly, in Modern Spiritualism, p. 41, he says, “ All possible
glories of mediumship which result, according to the exploded
hypothesis of the mere naturalist, from giving up one’s self to
finite spirits, do follow with an ever unfolding superiority and
permanence, in the crucifixion of self-love, that the Lord may
reign within us, the Alpha and Omega, the first and the last.
We have simply to resolve to be mediums for Jesus ; to seek
first the kingdom of God and His righteousness, at any
hazard, at any sacrifice. If then it is our Lord’s will to open
the : spiritual eyes, we can see angels and spirits and fiends.
We can see not merely the veils in which spirits may disguise
themselves, but the very quality of their hidden affections,
and so ‘ discern the spirits.’ The subject medium does not
discern the spirits. He but beholds the veils of appearances
with which spirits wrap themselves, and in which they appear.
He sees the mask, not the face ; the glove, not the hand. The
discerning of spirits implies a perception of their quality, by
means of which alone their authenticity can be tested.” Thus
far for Harris’s teaching; and a study of his works will fully
demonstrate that this state is a reality at least with him, and
that he has the power of detecting devils when appearing in
angels of light.
Thus far for internal breathing. The question which next
arises is, Do ordinary mediums possess this power ? I have
asked every medium I have met this question, including men
and women 'of different shades of opinions, and of different
mediumistic powers. Without one solitary exception,
they all say they have no certain test, but that we
must use our judgment in accepting or rejecting spiritual
communications. But what a mockery this is ; to give us a
spiritual communication beyond our previous knowledge, and
tell us to test its value by what we do know ! How can we
learn thus ? What we require is to test the communicating
agent, not the message communicated. But to resume. Many
228
THE SPIRITUALIST.
tests have been proposed; let us examine them. One says
that the spirit wrote out his name in the handwriting which
was known to be his while on earth. This is no test; a skilful
forger could do the same here, and so could one in the spirit
world, if we admit the existence of memory and faculty.
Another says, “ I was told of circumstances known only to
myself and my departed friend. ” This is no test. Man acts
his part in life with confidants and accomplices around him,
with invisible spirits watching him; the things that a man
does in secret here are proclaimed upon the housetops in the
world of spirits. Or again one says, “ My friend stood before
me in the very form which he had on earth.” This is no test.
Many an actor here would affect the resemblance almost as
well. Are there no actors among spirits ? Or, again, it is said
that good precepts can only emanate from good spirits. This
might be true if these good precepts were always continued;
but are there not hypocrites in the spirit world as well
as here ? Do we not often find here, only when too
late, that we have been deceived by the moral and
Christian profession of one whom we have trusted, and will
it not often be so in the other world ? Or, again, the medium
says he feels very happy under the influence of the spirits.
But a skilful mesmerist, even when thoroughly debased, can
will his subject into a sensational rapture. Could not an evil
spirit do the same ? Again, we may say, if the medium is a
good man, he will receive messages only from good spirits.
Alas ! who is good, in the highest sense of the word? and
do not the best often feel temptation from evil spirits, far
more than those who think of nothing but their selfish
pleasure ? I have known most ridiculous and evil messages
given through good people. One more test yet remains, and
I have left it to the last because it is one almost implicitly
trusted to by Christian Spiritualists, and yet one which, like
the rest, proves a broken reed. I allude to the test given in
St. John’s Epistle—“ Try the spirits ; every spirit which con¬
fesses that Jesus is the Christ come in the flesh is born
of God.” Whether the apostle here refers to spirits Or
false teachers we need not now discuss. It may be
that a Divine power was then exercised over the demon
world, so that the infant Christian Church should not be
crushed by it; and a test given them for identification :
but assuredly this test is no test now, for spirits will for their
own ends prefer to believe the same doctrines which their
mediums believe. Thus I know a medium who holds the
doctrines of Swedenborg concerning the Lord Jesus; she is
told by the spirits that when they believe that He is God they
rise higher; another, who is a member of the Church of
England, is told by her attendant spirits that spirits only
attain to those high regions when they believe in the doctrine
of the Trinity : so that the belief of each is thus confirmed.
I will here quote a letter from Harris to me, received March
11th, 1872, which is worthy of the fullest attention. He says,
“ In reply to your esteemed favour just received I may state as
follows:—I. With reference to writing mediumship. There is
no dependence to be placed on the mere verbal statements of
spirits as to their real belief. One class deceive purposely :
they are simply flowing into your general thoughts and coin¬
ciding with your most devout convictions for the purpose of
obtaining confidence, and hence, of putting you off your guard,
making you gradually receptive of them, and finally of obtain¬
ing a supreme and ruinous dominion over mind and body.
Another class are simply parasites, negatives drawn into the
personal sphere of the mediums, and seeking to sun themselves
in its light; to relieve the tame monotony of their cold, empty,
barren existence, self-removed from the Divine light and heat,
by absorbing the vital forces on which they feed, and by
means of which they for a time revive their faded intelligence
and apathetic sense. To the Mahometan they confirm the
Koran; to the Pantheist they deify nature ; to the believer in
the Divine humanity they glorify the Lord. Fighting, as
every upward-growing man is, to obtain deliverance from the
selfhood, with its dead obstructions, its fettering limitations,
it is most dangerous to become interlocked with the deadly
selfhoods of sects, of inversive human society, or of the clans,
hordes, tribes, or wandering banditti of the spiritual world.
“ II. Spiritism, as distinguished from Spirituality, belongs to
one of the lowest stages of human society. Its phenomena
belong (1), to the barbaric era of religious sentiment; and
(2) to epochs of religious decay. Baces, as they sink into an
infirm, obsolete culture, make Spiritism at last their sole reli¬
gion, as with the dense masses of China. As Christianity, in
its vast corporate form, sinks into its last paralysis, the larvae
gather to obsess the last vital remains, and to complete the
work of dissolution. As Spiritism grows in a community, the
May 8, 1874.
Holy Ghost, the operation of the Divine Humanity, is obviously
withdrawn. Spiritism does not develope Spirituality; it pro¬
duces rather a ghostly and attenuated materialism. As men
tend outward, by the sense, to take hold on spirits, they lose their
heart-hold, their life-hold, on the Living God. Hence centres
of Spiritism are centres of decay. For real, orderly growth
we turn inward to inspire reviving, purifying life from the Lord,
and then outward to ultimate the life in social use. If God
waits at the door to the spirit, ever gracious and ever present,
let us call on Him. The creative and redemptive sufficiency
is our sufficiency. It is orderly to communicate with spirits,
if our special human uses makes it necessary to explore the
ground of their operation in the human frame, in the social
body, &c.,'just as the medical student uses the dead body for
purposes of education in his calling, or walks the hospitals, or
devotes long and painful days to the sad and terrible details of
insanity. Use always determines duty. But the exhaustive
treatment of the subject requires a volume, and I touch here
only on its outskirts. I snatch a hurried moment from time
always more than occupied, and only have room to add in con¬
clusion, that I hope soon to be able to come into regular, and
frequent communication with enquiring friends.”
With this letter I close this second part of my paper
on internal breathing. I trust I have said nothing that will
give pain or offence to any of my brother Spiritualists. I do
not, of course, mean to say that no good has resulted from
other forms of Spiritualism than internal respiration, fori
know to the contrary ; I only exhort all to beware of what
they do when they lay themselves open to the influence of
unknown spirits.
In my next I will endeavour to compare Harris’s state¬
ments with those of the Bible; and possibly begin my fourth
and last paper on the various hindrances (through false
reports and misunderstandings of his writings), which have
dissuaded many from that careful investigation of his writings,
which they unquestionably deserve.
E. W. Bereidgb, M.B. (Lond.)
SIGltOB DAMIANT.
Sir,—Will Signor Damiani kindly inform me, through your
columns or otherwise, of his correct address at Naples ? A
letter sent to him last November has been returned to our
assistant secretary, and I have no means of obtaining Signor
Damiani’s full address. I shall feel obliged if you will kindly
insert this in your next number.. Emily Kislinobury,
Foreign Secretary to the British National Association
of Spiritualists.
93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, London, W.
May 2nd, 1874.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
• SELLER, STATIONER. AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39. Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, Supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS. — Handsomely-printed Blue
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion, may be obtained in packets, each containing 400, price 2s. 6d. per
packet. They are especially useful for distribution at public meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, reading-rooms, clubs, and places
public resort.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-ehurchyard, London, E.C.
ft Aft REWARD.—MASKELYNE & COOKE.
^ Alir EXP0SE
OF THE FALSENESS OF THEIR PRETENSIONS.
By ALGERNON JOY, M.I.O.E. (Iota).
London: J. Burns, 15, Sonthampton-row, W.C.
Price One Penny.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE.
49, Grainger»street, Newcastle on-Tyne.
EJ. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North, that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. * Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c., &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms, cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to MR. BARKAS),
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
May 8, 1874.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the (TREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Revealing Startling Facts
to the public, can be consulted on either Medical or Business Affairs con¬
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 12 to 8 (Sundays excepted.)
Terms, One Guinea. Address, 9, Somerset-street, Portman-square,
London, W.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
6s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 6s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in "Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bernard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Campden-hill, Kensington.
'R. W. O. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubbeb, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-roid, Shepherds’-busb,
W. Please write.
Now ready, price Is.,
■VrOTES OF AN ENQUIRY INTO THE PHENOMENA
Aji CALLED SPIRITUAL, DURING THE YEARS 1870—1873. By
WILLIAM CROOKES, F.R.S., &c. Reprinted from the Quarterly Journal
of Science, January, 1874.
London: Offices of the Quarterly Journal of Science, 3, Horseshoe-court,
Ludgate-hill, E.O.
MISS GODFREY, CUR AT I YE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER. AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 161, Hampstead-
road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms, on applica¬
tion by letter.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. - Author of “ An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Patemoster-row.
WORK BY THE SAME AUTHOR.
An elegant little volume, bound in blue and gold, carmine edges,
Price 4s. 6d.
LYRICS AND BUCOLICS. The Eclogues of Yirgil,
a selection from the Odes of Horace, and the Legend of the Sibyll.
“Mr. Noyes’ qualifications are of no mean order. In the 3rst place, he
has the essential one of thoroughly entering into and appreciating the true
spirit of his master, and even where, as we have said, he exceeds what
we conceive to be the limits of a Translation, we attribute it rather to his
being carried away by his own muse than to his misunderstanding his
author’s. And here we have a second and no less important qualifi¬
cation for success. Mr. Noyes has a genuine poetic vein of his own, and
his lines have almost always the ring of true metal.”—Standard,
April 7th, 1868.
“There is a certain freedom and swing in these translations, which not
only more resembles the brisk spirit and ringing tone of the original, but
is truly refreshing after the stiff rendering which had been generally made
of Horace’s choicest composition.’'—London Review, Feb. 15th, 1868.
“The Translations from Horace are spirited and musical. His light
Epicureanism and gay Stoicism are happily hit off.”—Daily News,
March Zd, 1868.
“ Mr. Noyes’ Version of Virgil’s Pastorals may fairly take its place by the
side Of Mr. Connington’s translation of the jEneid. The lovers of such
poetry have here as pleasant a bouquet as can well be set before them,”—
Speculator March 7th, 1868.
TO THE-READERS OF “THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.”) Printed and published
by T. Scott, 1, Warwick-court, Holborn. Price One Penny.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82, St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery.
Bookbinding, Printing, &e. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept On sale.
A WIDOW LADY seeks a Comfortable Home in a
Gentleman’s Family where she could render her services valuable
in any Position of Trust, she is an Experienced Housekeeper, and has
been Companion to a Lady. References exchanged. Address H., care of
T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.O.
Lately published,
WHAT AM IP A Popular Introduction to Mental
Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. I. The MECHANISM of MAN-
By EDWARD W. COX, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s. 6d,
Contents.
ohap.
1. Introduction.
2. What am I?
3. The Man.
4. How we Grow.
5. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Intellectual Faculties. ,
25. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects..
26. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the Will.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and ita
Destiny.
31. Soul—Spirit—Anima.
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness,
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. TheNaturalandthe Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery.
45. Conclusions.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and charming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and no
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Her odd.
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I ? ''—Leicester Mercury
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflectiv readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest.—South Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
London: Longman and Co., Patemoster-row.
Just published,
The second yolume of “ what am i p”
A Popular Introduction to Psychology and Mental Philosophy. By
EDWARD W. COX, Sergeant-aWLaw. Price 10s. 6d.
• This Volume completes the work. It treats of the Mechanism of Man in
action. The following are the
Contents :—
OHAP.
Preface.
1. Introductory.
2. Of the Intelligent Motive Forces.
3. The Conditions of Existence.
4. The Mechanism in Health.
5. Of Sleep..
6. Of Dreams.
7. Of some of the Phenomena of
Sleep and Dreams
8. Of Delirium.
9. Of Insanity.
10. Of Natural Somnambulism.
11. Of Artificial Somnambulism. I.
The Condition.
12. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
II. Clairvoyance.
13. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
III. The Mental Phenomena.
14. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IV. Catalepsy.
15. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
V. Insensibility and Uncon¬
sciousness.
CHAP.
16. Of Artificial Somnambulism
VI. History.
17. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VII. Healing Power.
18. Of Artificial Somnambulism
VIII. Supersensuous Pereep
tion.
19. Of Artificial Somnambulism
IX. Thought Reading.
20. Of Trance.
21. Of Unconscious Cerebration.
22. Of Psychic Force.
23. Of Psychic Force. I. The
Proofs.
24. Of Psychic Force. II. Its Phy¬
siology.
25. Of Psychic Force. III. The
Directing Inteligenco.
26. Other Psychic Phenomena. I
Communicated.
27. Other Psychic Phenomena. II
Experiments.
28. The Summing Up
29. The Conclusions.
VOL. I. MAY BE HAD, PRICE 8s. 6d.
London: LONGMAN & Co., Patemoster-row.
The progressiye spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Weekly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman.
Price Threepence. To.behadof W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 8, 1874.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., Q-. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. E. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles' Bradlaugh, Esq.; G-. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Btillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; 0. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq.,,Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Sohcitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
, “3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’  
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a .comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not^et known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
6. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a fbeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related orknown to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
Capital—ONE MILLION STEELING.
Read O^c&s.-BEOWN STEEET AND MAESDEN STEEET, MANCHESTER.
FIBE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates
Bonus Eeturns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Eenewed Premiums;
FIDELITY GTJAEANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STEEET, LONDON, E.C.
*#* Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities
TNSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lecturer, or what¬
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram¬
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature and its Needs’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!”—South Wales Press.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.”—Spiritualist.
“ The address quite riveted the attention of the audience.”—Eastbourne
jChronicle.
“ He spoke for nearly an hour-and-a-half. Not a hitch occurred. The
address was more or less argumentative throughout, in parts it was really
eloquent.”—Brighton Guardian.
MB. J. J. MOBSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
All letters should be addressed to his private residence, Warwick Cottage,
Old Ford, Bow, E.
THE ALLEGED IDENTIFICATION OF THE
ENGLISH NATION WITH THE “LOST HOUSE OF ISRAEL.”
By A. L. Lewis, Honorary Secretary, London Anthropological Society.
Being a Paper read before the British Association for the Advancement of
Science (Brighton Meeting), and before the London Anthropological
Society, with the Discussions thereon. Reprinted from Anthropologia,
No. 2 (by permission of the Council of the London Anthropological Society).
With the addition of an Append on the alleged Scriptural Evidence. The
whole showing that Englishmen are not Israelites.
London; Published by the Author, at 4, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O. 1874.
Price Sixpence.
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER, LETTER¬
PRESS, OOPPEB-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
Engraver, &o.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Spiritualist Newspaper.
A CIRCLE is in Process of Formation: Sitters of Re¬
fined, Intellectual, Harmonious Natures are required: present
Members Ladies and Gentlemen of good standing. Manifestations of a
high order are promised by the Guardian Spirits for regular, faithful
attendance. Each Applicant will be submitted to the Spirit Guardians for
approval, and it is hoped offence will not be taken upon rejection. Address
by letter, with stamped envelope for reply, to O. W., 41, Bemard-street,
RusseU-square. Applicants may call, if preferable.
PHOTOGRAPHIC COPIES OF THE ILLUMINATED
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London, E.O.
