rbcisiebed as a Nbwspaphb
SK© f’^YdSo^o^idS^ ^Ci^Kci5<-
^[)c jtltei |l.cios|3apr rnmwd^b' billj Spintwalism m <&xmt §rifam.
THE “ SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque, 246, Bou le-
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The Internationa
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal” Office. MEMPHIS ,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
LONDON: FRIDAY, DECEMBER 22, 1876. Published Weekly ; Price Twopence.
No. 226.—(Yol. IX.—No. 21.)
Contents.
The Prosecution of Dr. Slade by the English Government 241
Form Manifestations. By Emily Kislingbury  242
Dr. Carpenter on Psychological Phenomena  ... ... 244
Dr. Carpenter Criticised,    245
A Remarkable Apparition  •   246
To You who Loved Me. (Poetry.) By Florence Marryatt. 247
A Clergyman on Dr. Slade's Mediumship  247
Mr. Blackburn’s Seances. By William Newton, F.R.G.S,... 247
The National Association of Spiritualists':—Oct. 6, 1876,
Medium, W. Eglinton—Oct. 13,1876, Medium, W. Eg-
linton—Oct. 20, 1876, Medium, W. Eglinton—Oct. 27,
1876, Medium, W. Eglinton   «... 248
“ Life Beyond the Grave—The Experiences of a.Writing
Medium—Preface of the Communicating Spirits 249
Correspondence-.'—Spiritual Phenomena in Jersey — A
“ Spirit Test ”—Dr. Carpenter's Lecture 250
Direct Writing in Liverpool   ... 251
Poetry:—Mortimer Collins—Pussie’s Christmas—The Web
of Life—A Christmas Story  ...  252
Paragraphs:—Mr. J. J. Morse in Manchester, 242; National
Association Council Meeting, 246; The Protection of
the Innocents, i 251; ‘ The Brains of Criminals, 251;
The Dalston Association, 251; Attempted Suppression
of Scientific Truth, 251; Professor William Denton
in England -   .... ... ...   | 252
‘"‘THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
J- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science "and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Yarley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ,ol Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness; His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson. F.G.S.;’ Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); .Baron Dirckinck-flolmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C, Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr, George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent' (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dbugall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof. Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) : the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M* Dunphy,
Barnster-at-Law; C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci:, Lecturer oh Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital: Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (E'din.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. JohirE. Purdon;M,B.'(lndia);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn.;
Mr, St. George W. Stock, B.A (Oxon): Mr. Janie® Wason ;;Mr. N-.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. WliiteHauthor of •
the “Life of Swedenborg”); .Mr J. M. Gully, M.D,; the Rev. C.-
Maurice Davies. D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London, Mr. S. C..I
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law:<-Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kislihg-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers.; Mr. J. N. 'p.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles '(United States): Mr. ,W. Lindesay ,
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United.Kingdom, 10s. lOd. .
To residents in the United States,'4 dols. 17 cents'per annum, which
;niay be paid in to Messrs. Colby and-Rich, 9, 'Montgomery-place, j
Boston) U.S., and itheir receipt forwarded to w. H. Harrison, :
.Spihitualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street.t London,
W.O. ■  
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRATE : described by.
a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen,-11, Ave Maria-lane, London, EsC.
BIRKBECK BANE. — Established 1851. —
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated peiiods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of .Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
GO to 2. 'On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Eveniog.
A Pamphlet With full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
Agenda for December, 1876.
Friday, \st.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.-
Monday, Ath.—Seance Committee at 7 p m.
„ Discussion Meeting at 7.30 p.m.
Wednesday, Gth—Soiree at 38. Great Russell Street, at
7 p.m. Music, Conversation and Refresh¬
ments. Open to members and friends.
Admission, Is.
Thursday, 7th.—Mr. Blackburn’s Seance, at 7.30. Mr.
Eglinton, medium.
Friday, Sth.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Tuesday, 12ih.—Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ Council Meeting, at 6 30 p.m. At the
close of the ordinary meeting of Council, a
Special Meeting will be held to consider
Resolution 653, as stated in Report of the
last Meeting.
Thursday, 14fh.—Mr. Blackburn’s Seance, at 7.39 p.m. Mr.
W. Eglinton, medium.
Friday, \5th.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Monday, 18£h.—House and Offices Committee, at 6.30 p.m.
„ Library Committee, at 7 p.m.
„ Discussion Meeting at 7.30 p.m.
Thursday, —Soiree Committee at 6.30 p.m.
„ Mr. Blackburn’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m. Mr.
W. Eglinton, medium.
Friday, 22nd.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Thursday, 28<A—Mr. Blackburn’s Seanae, at 7.30 pm. Mr.
W. Eglinton, medium.
Mr. Blackburn’s Seances are free to inquirers, who must he
recommended by a member, or apply personally to the Secre¬
tary. Members of the Association and of Allied Societies are
admitted to the Seances by ticket, at a nominal charge, but as
-there is a great demand for admission, and the numbers are
strictly limited, it is necessary to apply some time in advance.
CHRISTMAS CLOSING.
The Offices of the Association will be closed from the 23rd
to the 27th December, inclusive.
PRIZE ESSAYS OF THE BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
In the year 1875, through the liberality of two members of
its body, the Council of the British National Association of
Spiritualists was enabled to offer two prizes, the first consisting
of a gold medal or £20; the second of £10, for the best and
second best essays on a selected subject, which was—“The
Probable Effect of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral and
Religious Condition of Society.”
The conditions were that the competition should he open to
all British born or naturalised British subjects, and further to
all foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, provided the essays were written in English.
The following gentlemen were kind enough to consent to
adjudicate upon the merits of the competing essays:—Mr.
Alfred Russel Wallace, the well-known naturalist and F.R.G.S.;
a gentleman known to a large circle under the nom deplume of
M. A.: Oxon.; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D., and Mr. Martin R. Smith.
Of the essays sent in, tbe two which have been printed were
selected by the judges as worthy of the first and second prizes
respectively, by reason of their logical and literary merits; but
the Council of the Association, though it has undertaken their
publica’ion, holds itself free from all responsibility for the
views of the writers.
The first essay, by Miss Anna Blackwell, is in course of
translation into the French, Spanish, German, and Italian lan¬
guages.
Can be ordered of Mr. W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C. Price Is. ijd., post free.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A GENERAL CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS
WILL BE HELD IN LONDON, AT
38,.GREAT RUSSELL, STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
* On the 7th, Sth, and 9th of February, 1877.
The following subjects are offered as suggestions for papers,
but essays on kindred subjects will also be received :—
1. The Best Tests of the Genuineness of Physical Phenomena.
2. The Scientific Aspects of Spiritualism.
3. Has Spiritualism given any New Truths to the World?
- 4. The Evidences of the Identity of Communicating Spirits.
5. The Relation of the Law to Public Mediums.
6. The Aims,'Ends, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
7. The Best Means of Directing Attention to the,Importance
of the Private Investigation of Spiritualism.
8. Spiritualism as a Religions Influence.
All papers to be sent .to. the Secretary, 38..Great Russell- ;
street, Bloomsbury, not later than January 20th, 1877; the ,
papers to remain the-property of the Association, subiact to '
the conditions laid down in rule 37.
POPULAR SCIENTIFIC LECTURES.
MR. T. P. BARKAS, F.G.S.,
Begs to annouce that he will deliver, in January, a series of
POPULAR SCIENTIFIC LECTURES, in the Lecture Room.
Nelson-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne. on the Thursday evenings
of each week, commencing Jan. 12th.
Doors open each evening at 7 o’clock; Chair to he taken
at 7.30.
LECTURE I.—The Worshipful the Mayor will preside.
Subject—“The Scientific Principles involved in raising the
Vanguard, and a criticism of the methods proposed.”
LECTURE II.—Thos. Foster, Esq., Sheriff of Newcastle, will
preside. Subject—“Pneumatics; or, the Laws and Pro¬
perties of Air and other Gases, with remarks on the Navi¬
gation of the Air.”
LECTURE HI.—Councillor H. W. Newton will preside.
Subject—“ The Structure and Functions of the Brain and
Nervous System, comparative and human.”
LECTURE IV.—Councillor J. O. Scott will preside. Subject—
“ The Latest News from the Stars.”
LECTUBE V.—Councillor W. Stewart will preside. Subject—
“ Heat: its History and Philosophy.”
LECTURE VI.—Alderman Gregson will preside. Subject—
“ Heat: its Modern Applications.”
These Lectures will occupy about one hour each, and at the
conclusion of each Lecture, relevant questions will be
answered.
The Lectures will be illustrated by diagrams and models.
Terms of Admission by Ticket, to be had of Mr. Barkas, Art
Gallery, and Mr. Blake,’49, Grainger-street. Front Seats, 2s. 6d.
the course; Unreserved Seats, Is. 6d. the course.
A COMMITTEE OF LADIES have much
pleasure in announcing that they have made arrange¬
ments for
A BALL,
To be held at Mbs. Burke’s Residence,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE,
On Tuesday Evening, January 9th, 1877,
For the Amusement and Entertainment of the younger
Spiritualists.
The tickets will he 5s. each, including supper. Dancing to
commence at half-past eight o’clock.
Tickets can be obtained at Mrs. Burke’s, 8, Upper Badford-
place, Russell-square; Mrs. D. Fitz-Gerald, 6, Loughb rough-
road North, Brixton; Miss Kislingbury, 38, Gr. at Hussell-
street; Mr. Blyton, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.; and of
Mrs. Maltby, 41, Marylebone-road, N.W.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
■ President,
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
{Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the A ssooiation for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton. Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen.
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts aflecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly; on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The fasi Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus
sions, reading of papers, er narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of tie
Association have the privilege of attending the public seances < t
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to tie
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members. ; s
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions for
formation of circles andcouduct of sea t.ces," and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be .obtained on application'to the
honorary secretary. . ' ; < . . w V i
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—AnnuSil, JOs.j ’half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. .All subscriptions payablein advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
■of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, End desirous of aiding;the same, can become
ife members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2a,
ii
THE SPIRITUALIST.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OR
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Colder, Esq., l, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Hitchman, William, M.R.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 82, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jeacken, Henry D.j M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C. :
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 98, Portland-place, W.
Rogers, E. D.. Rose-villa. Church-end, Finchley,N.W
Smith, Martin R., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derbj' House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Binney, F A., 22, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keninorale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall,Richmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs, K., Nightingale Hall, Richmond-hill.
Orosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe.N. Fabyan, 1, Cornwall Residences, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H.. 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald,DesmondG., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd,North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hook, C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, MisS, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Reimers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
roaa, S.E
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, South Ken¬
sington, S.W.
S trawbridge, Mrs. G. N., Annandal e, Central-hill. Upper Nor wood.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., St. Paul’s College, Stony Stratford.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-parkJBlackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., HemloCk-house, Leeds.
‘Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Poste Restante, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H„ 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr. J. H. Andre. Mr. H. Cook. Mr. Morell Theobald.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Antheime Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Yienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de TAthenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30,Upper-Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F Burton, F-.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq.,;F.R.G.S., Kosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake' City, Utah; U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W- Day, Esq., 9, MontgomeryrPlace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
, M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—George Browne,
Esq., 63, Ncwlands-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual-Society. Hon. Sec., H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
SociedadlEspirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senbr Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedd.'Mexico.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for Midsummer, 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr, James Wason, Mr Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs.
Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, Dr. Hitehman, Mr. Richard Nos¬
worthy, Mr. Vaughan, Mr. John Lament, Mr. Meredith, and
Mr. John Priest.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charlton, and Mr. Vaughan.
HE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
. 2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
-i discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
July, 1876.
STRANGE YISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing' Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Bronte, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
• Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Ills Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de TEmpereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld; Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M: Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany."
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,lU6, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa. -
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. IVJ- Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes,Esq., 5,Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 2,Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
npHE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
X GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Alien, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 3s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Oh. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, Ac., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie”
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, W.C.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till S. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o'clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
Deo. 22, 1876.
MRS. OLIYE has a FREE SEANCE for
(Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctual. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 3 p.m .
are discontinued, but Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, Ac.
Established seven years. ^Residence, 15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173,' Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
jV/f'EDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London
W.C. Price Id.; post free for lid.: or six copies post free
for 6d.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
Spiritualism in the bible identi¬
cal WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E,t W. Allen. 11. Ave Maria-lane, E.C.; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Ruasell-street, W.C.; F. J. Theobald,
18, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
"O EYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 3 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
The trapped medium * or, the two
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.S.,and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post free, 6jd.. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
AN APPEAL TO SPIRITUALISTS.
MR. ALDRIDGE (Healing Medium) has
been very unsuccessful in Business this last 3 years,
and failed about 6 months ago—since that time he has tried to
obtain employment but could not, which has rendered himself
and family quite destitute. He is desirous of Emigrating to
Australia by the Assisted Passage, which will cost about £25,
with Outfit and Clothing necessary for the voyage, which he
hopes to raise by Subscription. The next Ship sails about the
middle of January. Cast-off Clothing will be very acceptable,
there being three young children.
7, Alien-road, Stoke Newington, N. 12th Dec., 1876.
The particulars of this caseare known to Mr. J. Wilks of the
Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the-requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance.
Manager—Mas. A. C. Burke
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
33, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, witn a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annnm.
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
/CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.,,
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embfacing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper .Branch
Office, £S; Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
JL tl t$ |lp mi tf ^jtiijii«iiK$tti+
Volujvie Nij^e. Kumber Twenty-one.
LONDON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 22nd, 1876.
THE PROSECUTION OF DR. SLADE BY THE ENGLISH
GOVERNMENT.
The Slade case, according to the newspapers, has assumed
larger proportions, from the Government having taken
up the prosecution, so that Mr. Lankester is henceforth but
o, witness in the case, and the prosecutors are the Lords of
the Treasury, namely, the Earl of Beaconsfield, Sir Stafford
Northcote, Viscount Crichton, Mr. Rowland Winn, and Sir
J. D. H. Elphinstone ; the joint secretaries to the Treasury
are Sir W. Hart Dyke and Mr. W. H. Smith, M.P.; the
permanent secretary is Mr. R. R. W. Singen, Whitehall.
This change of position will do more good than harm to
Spiritualism, by increasing the importance of the case, and
by the removal from the prosecution of such animus as was
displayed in Mr. Lankester’s statements in the Times that
mediums should be dealt with like “ wild beasts,” and that
the consideration of the subject of Spiritualism was ^de¬
grading” to the British Association ,for the Advancement of
Science.
The consequences to the historical prestige of the nation
will be serious and indelible, for its honour and character are
involved in the case. The Government must prosecute upon
one of two grounds—the first one being that Mr. Lankester
may have been cheated out of a sovereign on a particular
occasion, consequently that it is the duty of the British nation
to redress such a remarkable private grievance; and if the
Government takes up this position, such a course appears
to be altogether unprecedented. On the other hand, the
Treasury may take action on the broad public ground that
Dr. Slade is a habitual impostor, consequently, that his
prosecution should not be left to a private individual. If
this course has been taken, it has been done precipitately,
without attempting to hear the unlimited amount of evi¬
dence suppressed at Bow-street, that Dr. Slade is not a
habitual impostor; thus, England is placed in the same
position as that of Spain when it prosecuted Galileo,
whereby the national honour of the latter country has been
stained in a way that can never be wiped off so long as his¬
tory lasts. That Dr. Slade is not a habitual impostor was
absolutely proved even by the four witnesses for the defence
whose evidence was not suppressed ; indeed, Mr. Flowers,
the magistrate, unreservedly declared their evidence to be
u overwhelming.” He dealt only with Mr. Lankester’s
personal alleged grievance, and into the merits of that case
we do not enter.
The Government having taken the step, it remains to be
seen whether they, like their predecessors in the case, will
ask for a suppression of broad scientific evidence for the
defence, and urge the confinement of the inquiry to the
small grievance of Mr. Lankester, who has so generously
come forward to protect Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. A. R.
Wallace, the editor of the Spectator, and other lambs, from
Dr. Slade’s alleged subtle crafts and devices.
Mr. Sergeant Ballantine has been retained for the defence ;
a better advocate could not have been found, and we believe
that his junior will be that tried friend of truth Mr. C. C.
Massey. The case will be fought out on its merits, so far as an
unpopular scientific truth can be so fought out before those
unacquainted with the subject, for it has been resolved to
carry it to the Clerkenwell Sessions, rather than to adopt
the cheaper course of taking it to the Court of Queen’s
Bench, and having it decided upon a technical point. The
new prosecutors have no animus that we know of, and as
gentlemen they may have no desire to suppress the evidence
for the defence, in which case there will but be the difficulty
of facing a legal tribunal totally unacquainted with every¬
thing relating to a scientific question which is inappropriately
thrust before it. The phenomena happily are fast developing
I f in private families, and will soon be more generally under-
i stood.
This charge was brought against Dr. Slade while he was
! on his way to St. Petersburg, engaged by some of the
! nobility there to have his powers scientifically tested, and
\ \ while in London he has repeatedly invited Dr. Carpenter to
(| examine the phenomena. Professor Lankester, however,
> | has thought it desirable, in the public interests, to come
\ | forward as the protector of these helpless simpletons. The
! Hon. A. Aksakof, of St. Petersburg, has carefully examined
) j the evidence of his kind English protector, the result being
11 that he was ungrateful enough to pay over £50 to the
| defence fund last Monday. Thus is the truest friendship
| ever misunderstood.
The following letter on the subject, from Mr. Massey, has
| been published in the Daily News
\ i To the Editor of the » Daily News.”
j Sir,—It is commonly reported that the Treasury will
| undertake the case against Dr. Slade upon his appeal to the
| Middlesex Sessions. To the public the motive and character
j I of this prosecution, so long as the responsibility for it was
j individual, were of secondary interest. It is a very different
| matter when the Government is asked to give to the pro-
) | ceeding the weight of its sanction and authority. It then
11 becomes time to consider whether the indignant persuasion
| of many persons of at least average intelligence that the
| prosecution has for its object and tendency the suppression
I of free investigation, and is itself, as a means to this end, an
| abuse of the criminal law, has any foundation in fact and
| reason.
| Not on behalf of Dr. Slade, but in vindication of princi-
| pies which you especially represent, I ask your permission
| to show how, even if the prosecution had not originally this
I sinister character, it will necessarily acquire it by being
j adopted by the Treasury. The latter does not take up any
j trumpery case, such as that of Slade is, if the particular
| charge against him is regarded without reference to his pro-
| fession and occupation as a “ medium.” If he is prosecuted
i by the Treasury, it will not be because on a certain occasion
j he is thought to have attempted to pass (I will not say
I a palm”) off a particularly stupid and impudent trick upon
| a very clever gentleman, but because he is assumed to be a
| habitual impostor, trading in superstition and credulity.
| Now if the truth of that assumption was intended to be
| tried at the Middlesex Sessions, and if that tribunal were a
>| fit one for the determination of the questions which its trial
si' would involve, there would be no objection to urge. But
|| the prosecution, at all events, must contemplate, if it does
! not count upon the possibility of the magistrates altogether
11 refusing to receive testimony upon this larger issue, and
| confining the evidence, as Mr. Flowers practically confined
| it, to that of Professor Lankester and Dr. Donkin. But
11 how, in that case, in view of the great body of evidence of
(| intelligent, and in some instances skilled and distinguished,
| witnesses whom the defence are eager to call, and which
11 may thus be wholly shut out, can this assumption be justified
u except on the notorious further assumption that all these
j | alleged phenomena whensoever, wheresover, and with whom-
| i soever occurring, are fraudulent, their agents to be hunted
|| down, and the investigation of them to be discredited and
I} obstructed ?
! I know that this assumption will be disclaimed. I know
(i that it will be said that it is not Spiritualism, but a common
| cheat who has imposed upon Spiritualists, that is assailed.
) | But how, I ask, do you show him to be a common cheat ?
! If it is replied, we show him to have cheated on a particular
||' occasion, and his general practice may be inferred, the
j| answer is easy. Even if the inference were indisputable
242
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 22, 1876.
FORM MANIFESTATIONS.*
(which to any experienced investigator it notoriously is not),
whether is it more reasonable to infer from apparently sus¬
picious circumstances (explainable by the very evidence I
assume to be excluded) on one occasion, that habitual deceit
has been practised, or to infer from a multitude of instances,
explicable upon no theory of cheating, that two inex¬
perienced persons have been misled in their conclusions in
the one instance ? Without, of course, discussing in your
columns the character of Messrs. Lankester and Donkin’s
evidence, which will no doubt be sufficiently sifted at the
proper place and time, my present object is to show that
that evidence, taken at its best, does not raise the issue
which alone would justify a Government prosecution, unless
a real inquiry into Slade’s mediumship is permitted. Does
any one seriously suppose that the Treasury com template
such an inquiry ? But if not, seeing that the public pro¬
secutor does not concern himself with the small and isolated
offences of obscure delinquents, is there not warrant for
maintaining that this is an attempt to prejudice what is
really a scientific question by a side issue and an utterly
inappropriate mode of trial? To pretend that Spiritualism
is not aimed at through Slade is the merest mockery, for
there is as much and as irresistible evidence of his genuine
mediumship as there is for any of the facts on which
Spiritualists rely.
Then as to the means. The legal applicability of the
Vagrant Act will be matter for judicial decision. But that
it is being abused by these proceedings to a purpose alto¬
gether foreign to its use and intention must be at once
apparent.* It was designed to protect from the wiles of
strolling fortune-tellers the most ignorant, the most super¬
stitious, the most helpless, and the poor of the community.
It is applied to the suppression and ignominious punishment
of a man who challenges investigation by the most educated
and sceptical of the wealthy professional and scientific
classes. It is the very attraction of Slade’s stances, for
which people pay their sovereigns, that no demand is made,
any more than by Maskelyne and Cooke, upon faith or
credulity. Surely this is not a matter about which the
public should be indifferent, that the Government should
attempt to apply such an Act to such a case for such a pur¬
pose. And if it is not enough to condemn this proceeding,
that it is an attempt to dispose of a scientific question in a
police court, and to pervert an Act of Parliament for the
punishment of a foreigner who was utterly ignorant of its
existence, and who in his own country had pursued his
career for twelve years unmolested, what shall we say on the
point of expediency ? If it is both possible and important
to spoil his business, is not this more appropriately, and, in
the long run, more effectually done by u exposures ” in the
newspapers, and by professional conjurors, than by a
conviction which is consistent with the public declaration
by the magistrate that the defendant’s evidence is p over¬
whelming ? ”
I submit that it would be sufficient reason for the
Government refraining from this prosecution, that there is a
bond fide assertion of grounds for scientific investigation,
just as a bond fide *| claim of right” ousts the criminal juris¬
diction of a magistrate upon a charge of larceny. Some of
the newspapers headed their reports of the late proceedings
in Bow-street “The Prosecution of Spiritualists.” In future
times the proceedings'at the Middlesex Sessions, if persisted in
under the conduct of the Government, will be known to our
discredit and reproach as the persecution of Spiritualism, or,
at least, of that which is commonly so called. Spiritualists
stand alone in resisting this persecution, or will liberal
sentiment help us with a protest against the abuse of the
criminal law for the suppression of open investigation of an
unpopular subject ?—I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
0. 0. Massey.
Temple, Dec. 15tli.
Mr. J. J. Morse in Manchester.—On Sunday last Mr. Morse
delivered two trance addresses in the Temperance Hall, All Saints,
Manchester. In the afternoon the subject was “ Who are the Enemies
of Religion ? ” Mr. Dandy presided. In the evening the address was
upon, “ The Future of Humanity.” Mr. Marsden presided. The
lectures were pronounced to be eloquent and instructive. On Sunday
next, December 24th, Mr. Morse will deliver a trance address in
Doughty Hall, Bedford-row, W.C., in the evening, at seven.
IBT EMILY KISLINGBURY.
Ladies and Gentlemen,—Though I have been called
j upon rather unexpectedly to furnish a paper for reading at
| these meetings, I may say that the subject I have chosen is
| one on which I have bestowed a good deal of thought for
I some time past, and I am only sorry that my numerous
I duties have not left me sufficient leisure to work it
| out as thoroughly as I should have liked, and as I feel
| its importance deserves. It has seemed to me that,
| with a few. marked exceptions,' the Spiritualist public
| has at present very vague and general ideas on the
| class of phenomena commonly called “materialisations,”
| and my humble aim is to try to separate and bring into
j clearer view some of the more marked varieties of these
| phenomena, and to gain for them a recognised place under
| distinct headings; to try to set up, as it were, some sort of
| order in the confusion which at present prevails.
There are three principal sections under which, I think,
| the materialisation phenomena may be classed. 1. Duplica-
| tion. 2. Transfiguration. 3. Transformation.
Thefirst of these has been, at various times, so ably treated
1 by the editor of The Spiritualist, and some few writers in
| his journal, that I only propose to give it a passing notice.
By duplication I understand that a form, partial or entire,
j more or less resembling the medium in physical and mental
! characteristics is presented, which has on several occasions
I been indubitably proved to be distinct and separate from
j the medium, drawing from him its life and energy, the flow
I of which to, the one occasions a corresponding ebb from
j the other. In all instances, however, of this kind, I
| venture to hold that an intelligence, an entity—a “ spirit,”
| if you will—which is not the medium in another state of con-
| sciousness, is controlling, manipulating, moulding the form.
| When the “conditions” (a comprehensive term, which is
| intelligible to all Spiritualists, whether these consist in the
i bodily or mental state of the medium or in his surroundings)
| are not favourable to manifestation, the materialised or dupli-
| cated form bears most resemblance to the medium; when they
| are favourable the resemblance is less marked, because then it
I would seem that the controlling intelligence is met by fewer
I obstacles in clothing itself with strange materials, and can, so
i to speak, shape thenrso as to set off its own individuality to
j the fullest advantage, instead of appearing in ready made gar¬
ments bearing the impress of another hand. I came to this
conclusion from observations I was able^to make when en¬
joying the privilege of occasional admission to the seances of
Miss Florence Cook, and I think others who had the same
advantage will bear me out in my opinion. When only
hands are presented to view, the duplication theory may bear
another interpretation. It may then be considered as the
power of multiplication of form, to an indefinite extent,
given a sufficient amount of energy. With this theory it is
not my intention to deal, though I am aware that it has its
advocates, and is worthy of examination. I will only add, on
this part of my subject, that in my belief, very few examples
of real materialisation or duplication of form occur; which
belief is based upon the fact that where strict test conditions
are imposed, even when united with harmony and good feel¬
ing, as in Mr. Blackburn’s seances, it is only in rare instances
that full form manifestations take place.
The group of phenomena to which I propose more parti¬
cularly to allude this evening are those which I have called
by the genuine name of “ Form-manifestation,” and which
I have sub-divided into first, transfiguration; second trans¬
formations. Neither of these can be considered “ materialisa¬
tions ” in the proper sense of the word, yet they are often
called by this misnomer. I can best explain to you how I
wish to distinguish them by reading a letter which I wrote,
in the month of July last, to The Spiritualist, hoping to
provoke a discussion on the subject in that journal. * The
letter being, so to speak, uncorrelated to the subjects then
occupying the minds of Spiritualists, probably passed un¬
noticed ; I will therefore ask your forgiveness for introducing
it here.
“ You speak of certain manifestations which may be the
* A paper read last Monday evening at a meeting of the members and
friends of the National Association of Spiritualists.
Dec. 22, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
243
1 double ’ of the medium, or the spirit of the medium
acting under conditions we have been accustomed hitherto
to consider abnormal. In these cases it is still to be sup¬
posed that the form presented is, in the majority of instances,
at least, a form distinct and separate from that of the
medium, and that when the spectators are allowed access to
the cabinet, they will find therein the (form ’ of the medium,
though possibly in a state decidedly abnormal.
“ Then there is the manifestation exemplified by Mrs.
Compton in America. While the medium was placed under
the strictest tests, firmly bound to her seat, and with her
dress nailed to the floor, a form would appear in white
raiment, and in all respects unlike Mrs. Compton, differing
even in weight, and yet when the spectators searched the
cabinet no trace of the medium was to be seen. After the
‘ form * vanished, and the cabinet was again searched, Mrs.
Compton was still sitting as at first, with her dressed nailed
to the floor. What is this ? It is a manifestation certainly,
and one in which it cannot be supposed that the medium
plays a conscious part, but can it be called a materialisation ?
Again, when Miss Cook was in the Isle of Wight, staying j
at the house of Dr. Purdon, a cabinet sitting was held at
noon on a Midsummer’s day, for the sake of photographing
the face at the cabinet window, should one be presented.
The medium was placed in a strait-jacket, laced up the
back, and with the sleeves sewn and sealed behind her back,
and then fastened with straps to an iron staple in the floor.
A living face was presented at the opening, and remained
long enough to be photographed, but, as soon as it had dis¬
appeared, Miss Cook called out in alarm to Dr. Purdon to
* come and see,’ and the jacket was found slit all the way
down, evidently by a cutting instrument, yet none such
could be found either on Miss Cook’s person or in the cabinet.
The natural inference was that the face presented was Miss
Cook’s face, but Dr. Purdon himself told me that it was im¬
possible, though he was at that time !new to the subject, for
him to prove or to believe, after carefully sifting and weigh¬
ing all the circumstances, that Miss Cook had any know¬
ledge of how the trick was done.
“ I have more than once seen, and you, sir, and others must
have seen, so-called materialisations which bore every evi¬
dence of being the medium brought out in disguise, and
sometimes in very poor disguise too ; so poor, that the
medium would have been far too clever to have presented
himself or herself so badly got up, could he or she be supposed
to have had any hand in the performance.
111 firmly believe that in all the cases I have mentioned
there was a manifestation of spirit power, and that the
medium, when forced to take part in it, has been not only
disguised, but to some extent transformed; the operating
spirit has seemed to infuse, as it were, his own spirit into
the unconscious form with which he was i manifesting.’
“ Since the difference between these various kinds of
manifestation must have struck all those who are in the
habit of attending physical seances, and of observing and
questioning, instead of merely believing what purports to be
said by spirits, why, I ask, are we to continue to call them all
by one name ? Is it not to make confusion more confounded,
and to expose our mediums to the charge of trickery by in¬
quirers who do not know all the wondrous difficulties of the
subject? It would be better, I think, to recognise at once
that transfiguration or transformation of the medium, giving
him or her a momentary likeness to some departed friend, is
a distinct, and, under test conditions, a legitimate form of
manifestation. But do not let us blind ourselves and others
through fear of giving offence, or for other foolish reasons,
to facts which are so patent that even a child could at once
detect their nature and difference.”
Now, what I wish chiefly to bring out in this letter is that
these are cases in which the medium is taken bodily out of
the cabinet while in a state of trance, and is presented under
another character apparently conscious and wide awake, and
that these are real manifestations of spirit-power, in which
the medium plays an unconscious part. The close observer
will at first think that he has detected the medium in a trick,
and if he be rash enough to seize the form, he will find that
the spirit has fled, and that what he holds is only the dense
matter of the medium’s body. But if he will continue to
watch patiently and more closely, he will come to see that
there is a factor in that presentation of likeness and unlike¬
ness to the medium, which for a moment recalls the far-off
vision of a departed friend, which even claims to be that
friend ; and yet, when he looks again, the likeness is gone,
and he thinks he must have been mistaken. Yet there is a
lingering conviction in his mind that the likeness was there,
otherwise why was that particular friend, whose memory may
have been latent, but was not immediately present in his
brain, recalled to his mind at that particular moment.
Besides, there was not only the look, there was the gesture,
and some special name or word was uttered, suggestive of
bygone days or scenes.
In the meantime, the form which had retreated behind the
curtain, reappears, and some one else present claims a grand¬
mother, where before was a companion-in-arms, a long-lost
child, or an early love. The unuttered thought of the close
observer is changed from “imposture of the medium” to
“ imagination of the sitters,” and so he throws it all over,
and begins again with strict test conditions. “ I would
rather see a pencil stand up in the light,” he says, “ than
all the recognisable faces and full forms in the world; there
is so much imposture mixed up with these materialisations.”
Now it seems to me, as I said before, that if we were to do away
with the vague term “ materialisation,” which implies so
much, almost to an act of creation, and were to substitute
“ form manifestation ” or “ transformation,” or some similar
term less suggestive of the miraculous, and if the sitters
would moderate their expectations, and not claim, in the
presence of inquirers, to recognise the actual bodily form of
their lost ones, we should hear less of seizures, exposures,
and police-prosecutions. If Spiritualists could convince
themselves, by any tests they please, that the body of the
medium is brought out under a changed form, in other
words, undergoes a transformation, a step would be gained
towards clearing mediums of imposture, and Spiritualists of
credulity. Of course, each manifestation would require to
be severely tested.
The case of Mrs. Compton, to which my letter alludes,
may have been either a duplication in which all the energy
or vital fluid was drawn from the medium and transferred
to the spirit, rendering the medium invisible so long as the
presentation of the spirit form was going on, a speculation
started by Mr. Harrison in an article in the Spiritualist, on
the 5th May last; or it may have been the actual presenta¬
tion and transformation of the body of the medium, as I
have endeavoured to explain. In the case of Miss Cook, at
Dr. Purdon’s, it was certainly the latter. On each occasion
the most severe tests were employed; with Mrs. Compton
they were found intact at the end of the seance ; with Miss
Cook they had been violently tampered with, but in a
manner impossible for the medium to have any hand in it.
The fact of likeness between the medium and the spirit-
form is now so well established, that to those versed in these
phenomena it is more remarkable that the spirit should be
unlike than that it should be like the medium; even if this
were not based on experience, it would be naturally inferred
from a full examination of the theories of duplication and
transformation.
I will now say a few words on transfiguration, which,
though included in transformation, is not necessarily iden¬
tical with it. As an example, I will quote from a letter
written by Mr. Algernon Joy, from America, and published
in the Spiritualist newspaper, Sept. 17th, 1875 :—
Mrs. Crocker, a highly respectable medium of Chicago, related the
following circumstances to me a few days ago. I made a note of them
at the time. Under directions from her spirit guides, she began, some
months ago, a series of seances for developing a new phase of medium-
ship.. These seances were confined to her own family. One night
when there was a bright fire in the room, and the moon was also
shining into it, so that she thinks it would have been just possible to
read ordinary newspaper type, she was transfigured ; her face entirely
changed its form, size, and character. A heavy dark beard came upon
it. All who were at the table saw the same thing. Her son-in-law,
who sat next to her, on her turning her face towards him, said, “ Why !
it’s my father himself,” and afterwards declared it had been identically
his father’s face: his father had passed away. Shortly afterwards
Mrs. Crocker was turned into an old woman with silver hair. She
herself is middle-aged, and has dark hair. These changes occurred
gradually, and while the witnesses were watching her face. . . . Mrs.
Crocker was perfectly conscious the whole time. She experienced a
very vivid tingling sensation all through her body, exactly as though
she had been holding the poles of a strong galvanic battery.
244
THE SPlElTtTALlST.
Hec. 22, 1876,
The second instance I shall quote is from Allan Kardec’s
Medium's Book, Miss Blackwell’s translation, page 133.
Allan Kardec, so early as the year 1861, recognised this
class of phenomena under the same heading, materialisa¬
tions, so-called, having scarcely appeared at that time. The
fact is said to have occurred in the years 1858 and 1859, in
the neighbourhood of St. Etienne, and to be well authen¬
ticated :—
A young lady, about fifteen years of age, had the singular faculty of
transforming herself—that is to say, she could assume, at times, the
appearance of persons who were dead. The illusion was so complete
that the person simulated appeared to be actually present, so exact was
the resemblance of features, expression, voice, and even of peculiarities
of speech. This phenomenon occurred hundreds of times, without the
girl’s will having anything to do with it. She often assumed
the appearance of her brother, who had been dead many years, pre¬
senting the similitude, not only of his face, but his height, and the
size of his body. A physician of the place, who had several times
witnessed these strange occurrences, made the following experiment,
with a view to assuring himself that he was not imder an illusion. We
have the fact from his own lips, from the girl’s father, and from several
other ocular witnesses of most honourable character, and unquestionable
veracity. It occurred to the physician to weigh this young lady, first
in her normal state, and then in her state of transfiguration, when
she had assumed the appearance of her brother, who was more than
twenty years of age when he died, and much larger and stronger than
his sister. He did so, and found that, in her transfigured state, her
weight was almost doubled. This experiment was conclusive, and ren¬
dered it impossible to attribute her appearance to an optical illusion.
We have not many examples of this manifestation on
record. One, however, will occur to all readers of the
Scriptures, which may, perhaps, have been similar in cha¬
racter, though different in degree. Still, these few cases
may serve to show that classification of these various pheno¬
mena is possible, and if possible, it is certainly desirable. I
cannot help thinking that our mediums are sometimes un¬
justly charged with simulating materialisation, whereas it is
we, the observers, who are confounding it with what should
be called by a different name altogether. It is time that we
helped both ourselves and them by trying to extricate from
the confused and ample mass of materials, which we have
accumulated, at least the framework of a structure, whose
outline and proportion could be seen by the seeing eye, under¬
stood by the understanding mind, and acknowledged by the
true in heart. Just at this time there is a peculiar need for
us to make things clear to ourselves, and I, for one, shall be
glad to know whether the experiences of others have led
them to any conclusions similar to those which seem to me
to follow from the observations I have endeavoured to adduce
to you this evening.
DR. CARPENTER ON PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA.
On Thursday night last week Dr. Carpenter lectured at the London
Institution, Finsbury Circus, upon “ Mesmerism, Spiritualism, and
allied subjects.” He began by stating that he was acquainted with a
colonial judge who had informed him that he could not refuse to accept
the testimony of persons in all positions of life in respect to the phe¬
nomena which were the subject of that lecture, that is to say, that tables
moved about in the presence of individuals who could draw them, and
so on. He did not wish to make the lecture polemical; he spoke upon
these subjects in consequence of his having studied them for forty years,
and he did not wish to place himself in opposition to individuals whom
he respected for the good work they had done in science, and for their
worth as private individuals. Although in courts of law testimony of a
certain kind ought to be accepted, still if the individual said something
very improbable, would it not invalidate all his statements ? He (Dr.
Carpenter) thought it would. His friend, Mr. Wallace, took the oppo¬
site side upon these questions, but for all that when a -man told some¬
thing incredible his testimony was not believed, because men relied
upon their own senses. By means of scientific training a body of ex¬
perience grew up by which men judged of the possibility and probability
of the truth of information laid before them; nothing was more valuable
than an §arly education of this kind, building up scientific knowledge
founded upon observation of facts. If a person so trained were in¬
formed that a man could plunge his naked hand into molten iron “ for
some seconds, may be half-a-minute,” would not most of his hearers say
that it was impossible, yet a man of scientific habit of thought would
say “this is not beyond my belief.” Investigation proved that the thing
was possible, for if a damp hand were plunged into molten iron a
cushion of vapour temporarily surrounded the skin, protecting it from
the action of the molten metal. To show how much people would
believe who had a tendency to place faith in the wonderful, he might
call attention to the snail telegraph once described in Chambers'
Journal. Two alphabets with figures were inscribed upon circular
discs ; one of these discs was placed, say in Paris, and the other in New
York; the operator in Paris put his snail upon a certain letter, and it
was said that the one at the other end would soon crawl to that letter
in consequence of some sympathy established between them through
[i their having been previously placed near each other. His late friend
I i Robert Chambers, who was extremely fond of novelties of this kind,
>1 thought the experiment to be at any rate worth trying. Was this not
I inherently impossible ? If they would have believed it, he for one
i f would not. In like manner the higher phenomena of Spiritualism went
•j not only beyond ordinary experience, but were opposed thereto, and
[j that was the distinction which he drew. Nothing but the most
| cogent proof could justify the acceptation of the phenomena of the
II higher order, and the evidence must be given not by persons who had
|! altogether committed themselves to a system, but by those who were
opposed to it and were experts in such inquiries. Mr. Crookes had
made the most interesting discovery of the radiometer—(Applause)—but
if he had used the same skill in investigating the other classes of phe¬
nomena, he (Dr. Carpenter) thought that he would have been led to see
j: them from a different point of view. Mr. Crookes had admitted that
the phenomena could not be reproduced at will, and that Mr. Home
having exhibited marvels, Mr. Crookes afterwards devised scientific
tests, but the marvels were no longer shown; that; was Mr. Crookes’
statement, and it was his (Dr. Carpenter’s) exactly. He had wasted
much time over such subjects, which might have been employed in
doing good scientific work. The marvels went on all right the first time,
| but when he had had time to think over them and went again, they
! either did not happen at all or the fraud was discovered; thus he en¬
dorsed what Mr. Crookes fully admitted. He (Dr. Carpenter) would
not give the details of his own experiences, because he did not wish to
I pain people whom he much respected. Every medical man knew that
I there was in the female sex a sort of enthusiastic leaning to these views,
which made them lend themselves unconsciously to deception', so that even
in one’s own family it was necessary to be on one’s guard—(Laughter)—
yes, carefully on one’s guard, and he would tell them why. He would ask
every medical man present if he had not, over and over again, met with
j cases of feigned disease? They were as common as common could be,
|| and in the inquiry of which he was speaking “nobody was to be
!j trusted.” (Laughter.) They were told of things that were done
I ] which, on the face of them, were incredible, such as tables floating in
| i the air; and, in investigating such matters, they must begin by looking
\ | out for self-deception, or intentional deception. He would give a real
II experience, mentioning no names. Once he saw a small table dance up
11 and down under the hands of a lady, who marched across the room,
i! This occurred in the days when large crinolines were worn, and to him
I i it seemed more likely that she did it with one foot than that it was
[I anything abnormal. He did not say that she did it in that way,
II but he had been told not to show suspicion, so did not put his
'I head down to see where her feet were. Yet the friend who took
| him was satisfied that this thing had been done by spiritual
) | agency, and, soon afterwards, tried to put it to the test with another
> | medium who did not perform for money. The test was of his own
j making, and consisted of a crinoline guard, made of wire and paper,
) | placed all round the table, so that nothing could be passed beneath it;
/; his friend then asked him, “If the table dances with the screen round it,
(j what will you say ?” and he (Dr. Carpenter) replied, “I should then say,
)i ‘It deserves further investigation.’” (Laughter.) He suspected that
) i mediums who did not do these things for money did them for fun. There
(j was no dancing with this little table, but things took place on a large
) i one. He never heard whether the table with the crinohne guard round
(i it danced or not. They had all heard of table-turning, and doubtless
\ I many of them had practised it. He lectured many years ago at the
)| Royal Institution upon Ideo-motor Action, arguing that these pheno-
(| mena were produced by unconscious pressure. Professor Faraday
I afterwards reduced this to experiment, and, by means of apparatus,
(i showed that people who placed their hands upon a table exerted such
(j pressure. [The lecturer here exhibited a model of the apparatus em-
j j ployed by Faraday for the purpose.] A lady once told him that her
) i table moved with no hands upon it at all; but upon a little further
k inquiry he discovered that it was a very small table, with a hat placed
(j upon it, and that hands were placed round the hat, so that this was an
) i instance in which one of the essential conditions had been left out of the
(| evidence. No doubt the friction of the bottom of the hat against the
) i table caused the table to move. Some time ago he had a letter from a
medical man at the West End, informing him how an individual,
j standing in any part of the room, could make a table light or heavy by
) i the simple action of the will. His (Dr. Carpenter’s) first idea was that
)! it might be done upon the plan by which Houdin tried to convince the
sj Arabs that he was a more wonderful juggler than they. Houdin had a
) | large electro-magnet, which attracted an iron box on the table, and by
(|' making or breaking contact with the battery, he could make the box
light or immovable at will, and this puzzled them. He (Dr. Carpenter)
;; accordingly asked whether the table could be placed in any part of the
(| room, and the reply being satisfactory, he resolved to witness the ex-
(| periment, but a day or two afterwards he received a letter from his
|(| informant’s brother, who said that two members of the operator’s family
Uj had their hands upon the table, consequently it was easy for them to fix
)(| it. Now, the first informant had no intention of suppressing the truth,
i) ; but his mind was so biassed that he left out the essential portion of the
k | facts. Such self- deception men of science were constantly obliged to meet,
| (| and he would not say to expose, but to point out. He would recom-
j) i mend them to read a little book which he held in his hand, and which
l(i was pregnant with wisdom; it was entitled Illustrations of Modern
m Mesmerism, by Sir J. Forbes, who had given great attention to this
|)| subject. In those days two clairvoyants, of the names of Alexis and
i<| Adolphe, were trumpeted by Dr. Elliotson, Dr. Ashburner, and others;
;j| they were tested with care, and broke down completely, as Dr. Forbes
i)l explained in the little work just mentioned. Avast amount of assist-
| s | ance was unconsciously given to these two persons by bystanders, who
j;i let out certain particulars in answer to tentative questions put to them.
i)j There was also another, alleged clairvoyant, of the name of George
^ Goble, in the employ of one who might be called Mr. A. B., one of the
Dec. 22, 1876,
245
THE SPIit ITU A LIST.
ablest advocates of modern times. In. the book which he had just j)
recommended would be found a description of how George Goble opened
and closed a box to get at information which he was supposed to gain i \
clairvoyahtly; although he thus played tricks, another trial was kindly i;
granted to him; in which he was to read a word inside a box, and the i (
boy succeeded, as far as he. remembered, in making known about two j|
letters out of seven. Miss Martineau was at that time a strong ad- |)
vocate of mesmerism and clairvoyance, and had a servant named |l
Jane about whose performances she published statements. While Miss j|
Martineau was living in a town -upon the coast of Durham, the servant i)
described a shipwreck, and a cousin of this Jane was on board the ship. K
Miss Martineau stated that the news of the shipwreck was given by is
clairvoyance several hours before the news arrived at the place, but Sir |)
John Forbes, who lived in the neighbourhood, proved that information jc
about the shipwreck had been told in Miss Martineau’s kitchen three j (
hours before the revelation was made through her servant. Many things ;)
were said to occur, but under circumstances where, investigation unfor- j(
tunately could not be made, and it was necessary that the occurrences |)
should be tested by those who had no special interest in the facts turn- !)
ing out to be true, he'did not mean money interest, but the interest of ‘
those who were pledged to a system; they unconsciously stuck to the \)
system, and left out everything which did not fit.: He did not say that i)
he was free from the same fault, or that he had no tendency to leave out j \
that which was inconsistent with ordinary scientific experience. He j)
thought it better to explain principles than to go into the question of i)
facts ; many of the things stated to be facts would have been presented K
in a different light had sceptical experts been present.. He would I)
state one thing in regard to the raps, on which subject the public were k
not well informed. The raps first attracted attention in the year 1847, \(
in America; they came apparently upon the persons of two young , !)
ladies, who, as stated by contemporary records, were then twelve or four- j)
teen years of age.- The facts were very carefully scrutinised, and Is
medical men thought that they were produced in the two persons just |)
mentioned. They had no solid instruments about them. He (Dr. Car- |)
penter) had recently quite satisfied himself that they were produced in j(
the persons, because they were transmitted from them to the door, piano, i)
and other objects; they were not produced by machinery. Amongst I
those who investigated this was Dr. Austin Flint, who soon produced |S
patients who could make the noises themselves by the particular action i)
of certain tendons in striking on certain joints ; the noises could not U
be made by everybody. Once he placed his hands on the knee i j
of a person from whom the noises came, and they ceased immediately; j)
this experiment was repeated over and over again. Thus it was pos- j (
sible to produce the raps by ordinary agency. About the year 11
1855, Professor Schiff, of Florence, appeared before the French Academy j)
of Medicine, and showed how he could produce the raps by his tendons: j j
this was an historical fact. The production of the raps without apparent j j
agency was very puzzling, and at a Spiritual seance people could get 11
raps when they could get nothing else. He did not say that the raps j l
actually were produced in this way; he only asserted that they could n
be so produced ; and, while that was the case, it was not necessary to j)
go into the question of the supernatural. He had published an article j
in the Quarterly Review twenty-five years, ago, onwhat we are tq j
believe’’on such subjects, and the conclusion to which he came was i)
that the haunting spirits were merely dominant ideas; persons searched . |j
for what was above, instead of what was around them. Dominant i
ideas were dangerous, and led to insanity and a monomania for inter- ;)
preting everything in favour of the leading idea; people who were in j
this state were in that condition of mind which tended towards insanity, |
namely, they asserted things which the world deemed to be incredible, j
and against the dictates of common sense. These might seem to be |
hard words, but they were justified. There was not one remarkable j
case of these phenomena which had stood the test of investigation by | ]
sceptical scientific experts, who were willing to attend and to witness n
them. He, for one, was not willing to accept the testimony of those |)
who were governed by a dominant idea.
DR. CARPENTER CRITICISED.
(From the “Daily News”) .
Me. Alfred R. Wallace writes to us:—“I am very sorry to find
that in his second lecture, reported in your columns on Saturday, Dr.
Carpenter has made statements which, as a matter of fact, are untrue,
and which (as I shall show) he had the means of knowing to be untrue.
Leaving it to Mr. Crookes and to the friends of the ‘ two American
girls ’ to reply to the allegations made about them, I beg to be allowed
to point out an important misstatement which concerns myself. Dr.
Carpenter is reported to have said that ‘ a friend who believed ’ once
told him of a small table rising up bodily when the medium and two or
three other persons placed their hands on the top, and that it was sug¬
gested that a cylindrical cage of paper and hoops should be placed round
the table to prevent the possibility Of its being raised by the medium’s
toe under cover of her dress. His friend asked, “ If it is done without
disturbing the paper, what will you say ?’ ‘ I will say, then,’ replied
Dr. Carpenter, ‘ it is a thing deserving further investigation.’ The
paper cage was put round the feet of the table, and Dr. Carpenter
assured his audience that he never after heard of the table dancing up
and down, and that ‘ that test was sufficient to his mind to dispose of
that particular case.’ Now, I should like to ask Dr. Carpenter
whether he would be surprised to hear that I myself was the ‘ believing
friend ’ who told him about the small table and the paper cage, and
further, that I told him that it had been tried, and had perfectly suc¬
ceeded ? And even if he had quite forgotten this—which I admit he
may have done—the experiment is fully described, along with another
even more conclusive test, in the notes of personal evidence given in my
little book on ‘ Miracles and Modern Spiritualism ’ (pp. 133, 134), which
I may assume one who comes forward to enlighten the public has taken
the trouble to read. In the same book (p. 128) he will find an account of
another table rising, while a sceptical friend who accompanied me was
looking on, and could see the whole lower part of the table, with the
feet freely suspended above the floor. It is hardly too much
to say that every one of the more important statements which
Dr. Carpenter puts before the public as evidence in his favour may be '
shown to be equally opposed to the actual facts of the case ; but I will
confine myself to one of these. Dr. Carpenter asserts that the two
French clairvoyants, Alexis and Adolphe, were broken down by a test
case as related by Sir J. Forbes, and he describes their method of pro¬
cedure as l guessing the number of letters in a. word.’ If they said
‘ six,’ some one was sure to say ‘ very near,’ and so they gathered indi¬
cations, and they also knew what sort of words were likely to be given.
And this is actually set before the public as an adequate account of the
clairvoyance of these remarkable young men. As regards Adolphe, I
can from personal observation declare that it bears not the most remote
relation to what he did; and Dr. Edwin Lee, a Well-known physician,
in his book on ‘Animal Magnetism,’ has given, from personal observa¬
tion, a minute account of the clairvoyance, of Alexis at Brighton, which
occupies twenty-five pages. Among a great variety of most remarkable
tests, he frequently read passages in books brought at random a number
of pages in advance of the page opened, but at the level of a line indi¬
cated. Numbers of these tests are recorded, the words read always
being found at the level indicated, but not always at the exact number
of pages in advance asked for. The evidence for this, as well as for
many other forms of clairvoyance, is overwhelming, and the tests applied
of the most varied and stringent character. It has lately been asserted
that professed conjurors are the proper persons to test the alleged
powers of mediums and clairvoyants. Now if there is one thing more
than another which conjurors know all about, it is tricks with cards;
and Robert Houdin is acknowledged to have been one of the
greatest of modern professors of the art of legerdemain. Yet
when he took his own new cards and dealt them himself on the
table Alexis named every card before it was turned up, and in
subsequent games he told Houdin every card he held, and
even what would be trumps before it was turned up. At the end of two
sittings, which are found recorded in Dr. Lee’s book (pp. 231—233),
Houdin wrote to his friend M. de Mirville: ‘I came away from this
seance as astonished as any one can be, and fully convinced that it
would be quite impossible for any one to produce such surprising effects
by mere skill.’ Dr. Carpenter quotes Robert Houdin for his own pur¬
pose ; why did he not tell his audience of the great conjuror’s testimony
as to the possession by Alexis of some power other than ‘ mere skill ’ ?
But besides this remarkable testimony of an expert of the highest rank,
we have the evidence of many physicians of eminence to the reality of
clairvoyance. In the Dictionnaire de Medecine, article ‘ Magnetisme,’
the Parisian Professor of Medicine, Dr. Rostan, says, ‘ There are few
facts better demonstrated than clairvoyance. I placed my watch at a
distance of three or four inches from the occiput of the somnambulist,
and asked her if she saw anything. * Ceftainly,’ she replied, ‘ it is a
watch, ten minutes to eight.’ M. Ferrus repeated the experiment with
the same successful result. He turned the hands of his watch several
times, and we presented it to her without looking at it: she was not once
mistaken.’ Dr. Herbert Mayo, a physiologist who, in his lifetime, had
a scientific reputation as high as that of Dr. Carpenter himself, testified
to the reality of clairvoyance; and Dr. Lee quotes the testimony of
other physicians, demonstrating that Dr. Carpenter’s views set forth in
the Quarterly Review article to which he so often refers are entirely
opposed to facts. But all such evidence is systematically ignored,
apparently because it cannot be answered, and would render the opinion
of twenty-five years ago as untenable as from the advance of knowledge
of this subject we might expect them to be. The most charitable view
we can take of Dr. Carpenter’s persistently ignoring or misstating all
facts opposed to his own stereotyped theories is, that he is the slave of
a ‘ dominant idea ’—the idea that all such facts as we have adduced
(and they could be multiplied a hundred-fold), whether witnessed by
conjurors, physicians, or men of science, and however carefully investi¬
gated, are to be got rid of by the cry of f, delusion or imposture.’ Dr.
Carpenter himself assures us, however, that ‘ the subjection to a tyran¬
nically dominant idea is monomania or insanity.’ ”
Dr. George Wyld, 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, writes:—
“ As Dr. Carpenter makes an allusion to me in his lecture on Spirit¬
ualism, as reported in your truthful journal of Saturday, will you
permit me to make a very brief reply ? In attempting to show the
loose, inaccurate, and credulous way in which Spiritualists accept
phenomena, Dr. Carpenter is reported as saying—‘A gentleman
(myself) requested me to go and see a table which became light and
heavy at the will of a person who stood in another part of the room.
But the gentleman’s brother wrote to me that the hands of two persons
were openly placed on the table, and that it was through the pressure
of their hands that it became light and heavy—this important particular
having been, in good faith, omitted by my friend.’ In this short quota¬
tion there are three very important mistakes. First, I did not say, with
reference to the phenomena I saw, that the person stood in another
part of the room. Secondly my brother did not say that in the instance
alluded to the table was rendered heavy by the pressure of hands; he
only suggested that it was possible thus to render it heavy. Thirdly,
it is evidently absurd to say that a table can be rendered light by the
downward pressure of hands, downward pressure only being alluded to
by my brother. May I not justly retort on Dr. Carpenter, and say—
‘ Could we have a better illustration of the loose and credulous way in
which sceptics attempt, by so-called facts, to disprove Spiritualism ?’ I
urged Dr. Carpenter to test my friend’s table, as to its being influenced
by spiritual force, my friend being perfectly willing to submit to any
test Dr. Carpenter might choose to apply. Dr. Carpenter agreed to
make the investigation; but on receipt of my brother’s hypothetical
explanation, he at once declined to test’the asserted facts. Could I
246
Dec. 22, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
offer a better illustration of the ready credulity of sceptics ? May I not
justly conclude in Dr. Carpenter’s own words—‘All experience shows
that when individuals have committed themselves to a system’ (in Dr.
Carpenter’s case unconscious cerebration and the ignorance and folly of
Spiritualists), ‘ they unconsciously cling to all that favours their system,
and drop all that is against it, and thus come under subjection to a
tyrannically dominant idea, which is monomania or insanity’ ?”
A KEMARKABLE APPARITION.
Mrs. De Morgan has favoured us with the following
narrative, written to her thirteen years ago, by Mr. Reece,
a schoolfellow and close friend of the late Professor De
Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society of London.
The Miss Jane Porter mentioned in the letter is the well-
known novelist of that name:—
17, Chepstow Villas West, Bayswater, London, W.
Sunday evening, 12th April, 1863.
Dear Mrs. De Morgan,—The circumstances of this story
were transacted, as I suppose, 1-765-70, for I well remember
the “young Blomberg,, as “old Blomberg,” in 1825, a
prebendary bf Bristol Cathedral, and I dare say my friend
De Morgan remembers his name.
The genealogy of the story is this:—1st. Col. Stewart.
2nd. The Lady Mother to whom Col. Stewart told it. 3rd.
The daughter of this lady—name unknown—from whom
it passed to, 4th. Miss Jane Porter; it being enclosed in an
envelope addressed to her name. 5th. The late Lady Neale,
in her early life much about the Court of George III.
Lady Neale died about five or six years ago, and bequeathed
all her property to a young man named “ Reboul,” the son
of her early friend.
Reboul died suddenly in Paris in 1860. His efiects fell
to his family, and his papers, that is, Lady Neale’s papers,
were left in the hands of my friend Edmund Lynch Nugent,
a barrister.
You are at liberty to make the particulars known to Mr.
Owen, as one of the best authenticated stories on record.
Farewell. Yours, very sincerely, Robert Reece.
The late Colonel Stewart himself related to my mother
and my aunt Frances Duer the circumstances of Mr. Blom-
berg’s appearing to him after his death. My mother knew
Colonel Stewart well, and had often heard of this remark¬
able story, but understood that he was unwilling to speak
of it. He called on her one morning and said he had been
inclined to have taken the liberty to introduce to her a young
man for whom he was much interested, and with whom he
had parted at the door; it was Mr. Blomberg, who is now in
the Prince of Wales’ household, and Chaplain to the Duke of
Cumberland. He said he supposed she had heard the extra¬
ordinary story that induced him to interest himself for him.
She said she had heard it spoken of, but wished to be
accurately informed of it. He then related it.
The regiment to which Colonel Stewart belonged was
ordered on service in the West Indies (he was, I believe,
major of it). He embarked in England; the ship in which
they embarked touched at the Cove of Cork to take in the
flank companies, which had been for some time in Ireland.
A Mr. Blomberg, whom he did not know before, belonged to
one of them, and embarked in the same ship with him; he was
in mourning for a wife he had recently lost, and had a young
child, a boy, with him. The young widower interested his
new acquaintance, and all the officers were fond of him and
amused with the child, and Stewart attached himself to both
during the voyage, but he assured my mother that Blom¬
berg did not enter into any details respecting his family or
marriage to him at any time previous to his death. On
their landing at Dominico the troops soon caught the
climate fever, and both men and officers died rapidly.
Blomberg, who was before in delicate health, fell very soon.
Stewart, with other officers, attended the funeral.
As the barracks were crowded, two or three officers slept in
one room; Stewart’s companion was a Mr. Minchin. Soon
after they went to bed, the room being sufficiently light to
distinguish objects plainly, they heard some person walk in
the passage. Stewart said: “ If Blomberg was alive I
should say that was his step.” As he finished speaking,
the door opened and Blomberg entered, dressed as he usually
had been, in his uniform. He advanced to the side of
5j Stewart’s bed, who raising himself up called him by his
11 name, assured him he felt no apprehension from his appear-
I ance, and expressed a hope he was happy. He told him he
|| was permitted to visit him for his child’s sake, who, unless
|! his legitimate birth could be proved, would lose the fortune
1 he was entitled to. He then acquainted him with all the
! particulars requisite to establish the legality of his marriage
i with a young woman in Ireland, whom he had married in a
| remote village there, the register of the boy’s birth, &c., &c.
| He then rose from a chair by the bed-side, and walked out
| of the room, after recommending the boy to his friendship
| and protection. As soon as he had left the room Stewart
I said to Minchin : “ You have heard all that has passed ?”
| He replied he had. Stewart then proposed they should both
| rise and commit what they had heard to writing, and after-
I wards compare accounts. They did so, and the accounts
| agreed.
As the island was unhealthy Stewart sent the boy to
[! England to friends he could depend on, and wrote letters
II relating this extraordinary revelation to several people,
[I among others to the late Duke of Northumberland, who was
| then, I believe, in the king’s household. The Duke of
[| Northumberland told the story to the king, who was so
I much interested by it that as soon as the ship arrived he
I! directed proper people to inquire into the healthiness of the
|| ship, and bring the boy on there, and from that time in-
■ terested himself for him.
51 When Colonel Stewart came to England he brought Mr.
II Minchin’s account attested^ for he was then dead, and found
r| on inquiry all the registers, &c. &c., as he had been directed.
11 He sued the persons in possession, and obtained the disputed
| estates for the boy.
In the course of the trial, though, his testimony was not neces-
i] sary, as the registers {however traced) could alone ascertain
[| the legitimacy, Stewart related on oath Blomberg's appearance
>| to him, and his directions (and I think Minchin's hand^writing
11 was attested in court).
When Stewart had concluded this relation my mother ex-
* claimed: “ And do you really believe, Colonel Stewart, that
i j you saw and conversed with Mr. Blomberg after his death ?”
11 He replied: “As much as I believe that there is a God in
1 i Heaven, before whom I must answer for what I have now
! related, and for every action of my life.”
Colonel Stewart was believed by his friends to be a very
I sincere Christian.
The Spiritualist subscriptions for 1877 are now due.
Among the numerous advantages offered to visitors at the Reading
Rooms of the National Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-
street, it is perhaps not generally known that the truly English institu¬
tion of four o’clock tea is included, and which is furnished for a very
moderate sum. The afternoon being the favourite time for callers,
Spiritualists often meet their friends and enjoy refreshment simul¬
taneously.
National Association Council Meeting.—The monthly meeting
of the Council of the National Association of Spiritualists was held on
Tuesday, the 12thinst., and was attended by eleven members. The
minutes of the last meeting haviug been read and confirmed, twelve
new members were elected. Mr. A. R. Wallace, E.R.G.S., having
accepted the invitation to become an honorary member, was elected
accordingly. The resignations of four members were accepted. Mr.
F. W. Mansell resigned his seat on the Council, and Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S., of Newcastle, was elected a member of the Council.
Letters were read from Mr. C. Reimers and Mr. W. Oxley, on Dr.
Monck’s case. The secretary was instructed to reply to the effect that
the Council was not itself taking any measures for the defence of
mediums, and that all applications on that subject should be made to
the Spiritualist Defence Committee. At the same time no feeling
existed on the Council adverse to Dr. Monck. A vote of thanks was
passed to Mr. W. P. Adshead, and to Mr. W. C. Pickersgill, for gifts
of books and other favours to the library. The Joint Committee ap¬
pointed to rearrange the secretarial department reported recom¬
mendations to the following effect, viz. :—That the secretary be em¬
powered to engage an assistant for such days or hours in the week as
she shall find expedient, and that one day in the week (Monday) be
set apart on which the secretary shall not be on public duty. Miss
Kislingbury stated that she had engaged Miss C. A. Burke as her
assistant, subject to the approval of the Council. The recommendations
of the committee were adopted in full, and the appointment of Miss
Burke confirmed unanimously. The Offices Committee reported that
the offices of the Association would be closed for the Christmas vaca¬
tion from Saturday, December 23rd, to the Wednesday, 27th inclusive.
The Stance Committee reported that Mr. J. J. Morse would give
a trance seance, at 38, Great Russell-street, on Friday, January 5th.—
E. Kislingbury, Secretary.
Bifid. 22, 1676,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
247
TO YOU WHO LOVED ME.
BY FLORENCE MARRYAT.
Not in the busy day I
The busy day is far too full of care ;
Each hour hath its duty, and its share
* Of labour, and I may
Not loose my thoughts from Reason’s firm control,
Lest they should spread their wings,
And soar beyond my reach, and all my toils
Be wasted for an idle dream that foils
My hope of better things,
As thou hast done, thou darling of my soul!
Not in the silent night!
The silent night was made to soothe our pain,
And sleep is sent from God, that we may gain
Fresh strength to do the right!
Let not its calm be pierced by Mem’ry’s dart,
My solace to affray,
Else shall my life look hideous by my dream,
And Faith and Duty harder than they seem
By honest light of day.
Vex not the night, Beloved of my heart!
Nor at the hour of prayer!
The hour of prayer should be a time of peace,
When passions lull and jealous discords cease,
And only God is there!
Come not betwixt the Gates of Pearl and me,
Lest in my wild regret
I should entreat of gracious Heaven, instead
Of pouring blessings on thy faithless head,
To teach me to forget
The day that brought me thee and misery.
Yet, come before I die,
Before I die, when earthly joys grow dim
And pale before the Eucharistic Hymn
Of heavenly choirs nigh.
Then may I, that I worshipped, gaze upon,
And with my rest so near,
Remembering only that thou wert beloved,
I may forget the bitter past that proved
Thee faithless, dear,
And bless thee, still, my life and death in one.
Christmas, 1876.  
A CLERGYMAN ON DR. SLADE’S MEDIUMSHIP.
Dr. Slade has handed us the following letter for publica¬
tion :—
118, Albany-street, Regent’s Park, London, N.W.
December 13th, 1876.
Dear Dr. Slade,—I am not at all fond of writing letters,
but after what has happened this morning I cannot help very
earnestly and very gratefully thanking you for what you
so kindly showed me. As a clergyman, from the very
bottom of my heart I believe the phenomena I saw with
you are bond jide and genuine, and I can much more easily
accuse myself of wickedness and trickery than even think you
in relation to them, guilty of fraud and guile.
I came to you more or less expecting to learn the news¬
paper accounts I had read, had some trifle of unconscious
exaggeration in them, but, judging from my own case, I
found understatement rather than overstatement. You were
in full daylight, both your hands and your feet were dis¬
tinctly visible, either in whole or part, and in the latter case
such large portions of them and of what you held were so
very clearly seen, that it was totally impossible for the re¬
maining unseen portions to produce the results that happened.
The slate you used was my own, with both my own and its
own natural marks upon it, and besides it never left my
presence. The writing could not have been produced by your
fingers. All my botanical eyes—well accustomed to minute
observation—could not detect with abundant facility for so
doing the least motion of tendon or any other motion in your
wrist, or the parts of your hand either which must necessarily
have showed what was going on had the unseen parts
attempted to conjure. The sentences written were suggested
mainly by my own remarks; they came without delay and
without any possibility of you either seeing or feeling the
side of the slate on which they were written.
I add nothing about the touching, bell-ringing, or music,
but all that happened was perfectly satisfactory to me,
especially that strongly felt indescribable something, that
made me at once feel that you were, notwithstanding all that
has been said, not a rogue and a vagabond, but an honour¬
able and truthful man.
I do not know how to thank you enough, but am sure
I am gratefully and sincerely yours, W. W. Newbould.
MR. BLACKBURN’S SEANCES.
BY WILLIAM NEWTON, F.R.G.S.
Mr. Blackburn’s weekly seance was held at the Rooms of
the British National Association of Spiritualists on Thursday,
the 14th inst., with Mr. Eglinton, as medium.
The circle consisted of fourteen, including myself, as
representing the Seance Committee.
The medium’s hands were placed behind him, and the
cuffs of his coat were then sewn firmly together, and to the
back of the coat, while, to* prevent the possibility of the
removal of his coat, his breast was covered with a pinafore,
which was fastened behind in knots. All this had been
arranged in compliance with a request made by a voice
from the cabinet, in which the medium had first been placed
to obtain instructions. He was then seated in a chair
within the cabinet, the curtain of which was pinned so as
to leave his legs in view in the reduced gas light. The
usual visibly materialised hands did not, however, make their
appearance on this occasion; but, after waiting a quarter of
an hour, knocks were heardj apparently on the woodwork of
the side of the cabinet, at a distance of two feet from the
medium, and, in accordance with instructions thus conveyed,
we released the medium, who was found in a deep trance
with his bonds remaining intact.
We then formed a dark circle round a long table, but
“Joey’s” voice informed us that we were not sitting in
proper order, and that he would influence the medium to
suggest the requisite alterations. These were carried out,
all hands were linked, and the room was again placed in
darkness. Then commenced the usual strong physical
manifestations: the heavy musical box was heard to be
wound up and set going, and, by the common consent of
all present, it was taken from the table and rapidly moved
through the upper part of the room above our heads ; the
“fairy bells” were similarly swung about, the strings being
twanged at the same time, and many of the circle touched
on the heads therewith. “Ernest’s” deep voice greeted
some of the sitters, and “Joey’s” assured the nervous
ones that he would do no harm. The chairs out¬
side the circle were said to be somewhat roughly
used, and one young lady, sitting next the medium, being
somewhat inexperienced, was made the subject of vigorous
but friendly handling on the part of Joey, who inquired
plaintively whether she was now convinced. It is to be
remarked that on one of these occasions, the manual con¬
nection was broken for an instant between this lady and the
medium, whose hand was therefore for the moment free;
there was, in consequence, a sudden and total cessation of all
the many movements and noises, and the medium himself
suffered strong convulsive twitchings \ very gradually, how¬
ever, these subsided, and the movements recommenced.
Pale grey lights, in long flashing streaks, were visible to all,
and, as a final effort, Joey consented to exhibit (though he
protested against the use of this word) one which should be
more brilliant than all; this duly appeared over the centre
of the table. On lighting up, we found a chair upon the
table, while other chairs outside the circle were piled fantas¬
tically on each other.
All were impressed with a conviction of the thoroughly
genuine nature of the phenomena, and although it must be
stated that the foregoing record contains nothing that can be
regarded as affording any exact scientific information, it
seems proper to infer that in this case, in spite of the dubious
personal factors present, the “ well-known course of nature ”
has been adhered to, and that it is unnatural to suppose that
fourteen individuals, keenly set upon preventing fraud,
should, at the same time, deliberately meet for the purpose
of imposing on each other a mutual delusion.
248
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Dec. 22, 1876.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
REPORT OP THE EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCH COMMITTEE, NOV. 12TH, 1876.'
On behalf the Experimental Research Committee, I have
to report:—
1st. In regard to the means proposed for ventilating the
Seance-room and the 11 Cabinet'''1 in dark stances:—
These means consisting in the employment of ventilating
shutters, admitting no light, for the seance-ioom., and of a
stream of pure oxygen, from a vessel in which the gas is
condensed for the cabinet in which the medium is confined,
have been successful so far as their immediate object is con¬
cerned. Mr. W. H. Coffin has prepared a diagram and a
short description of the ventilating shutters, which papers
I now lay before you (Appendix A). The apparatus in
question, which was obtained by the committee at a cost of
£6 8s., has been fitted to the windows of your seance-room on
these premises, and will probably be used whenever a dark
seance is held in it. At our seances, therefore, the sitters
need no longer be exposed to the frequently distressing, and
always injurious, effects of breathing a mephitic atmosphere,
whilst the imminent risk of some day asphyxiating a physical
medium has been completely obviated. The mediums them¬
selves will no doubt readily appreciate the improvement in
the sanitary conditions, for on one occasion, when, owing to
an accident, the supply of oxygen was not forthcoming, Mr.
Eglinton, who on several previous occasions had breathed the
purer atmosphere, seemed quite concerned at the idea of having
to return to the old conditions. In regard to the question
whether the improvement in the sanitary conditions at dark
seances constitutes an improvement also in the conditions
under which the physical phenomena occur, further expe¬
rience is required before your committee can offer a decided
opinion.
The committee would suggest that steps be taken to make
known to Spiritualists generally, both the necessity, from a
sanitary point of view, for special means of ventilation at
dark stances, and tbe particular methods by which such
ventilation has been obtained in the present case.
2nd. In regard to the experiments made bg your committee,
with a view to obtain, under absolute test-conditions, certain
physical phenomena of Spiritualism, such as might probably,
when once obtained and verified, be reproduced from time to
time, and thus be studied by scientific methods; your com¬
mittee has held six seances with Mr. Eglinton and two with
Mr. Herne. A detailed account of the four most interesting
stances held with the former medium has been drawn up by
Mr. Gf. King (Appendix B). From this it will be seen that
on two occasions, viz., on October 6th, and October 13th,
your committee obtained <£ direct ” writing under their own
very stringent test conditions (vide papers marked C and D).
An account of a seance with Mr. Herne, during which a
curious but inconclusive incident occurred in connection with
the “bell test,” devised by the committee, has been drawn
up by Mr. W. H. Coffin (Appendix E). Nevertheless,, after
a careful consideration of all the phenomena which occurred
at these seances, and full discussion of the attendant cir¬
cumstances in each case, your committee is unable to state
decisively that they have obtained any phenomena under
what may be termed absolute test conditions, viz., conditions,
eliminating every hypothesis by which the phenomena
could be accounted for, irrespectively of the psychical
or spiritual explanation of them. They have found such
absolute conditions difficult of attainment; and their expe¬
rience. appears to illustrate what has often been observed
and insisted upon in relation to what have been termed
“ sceptic-tests,” and “ spirit tests ; ” the difficulty, under
ordinary circumstances, of obtaining test phenomena under
imposed conditions, and the comparative readiness with
which real evidence may often be obtained by seeking for
moral as well as physical proof in a receptive rather than an
investigating and analytical frame of mind. But your com¬
mittee are strongly of opinion that the phenomena of
Spiritualism should be approached and studied from every
point of view, and that it is the special duty of an experi¬
mental research committee to investigate them, as far as
may be practicable, by ordinary scientific methods. Many
exceptional difficulties, such as the perturbed condition of
mind which in consequence of recent events has prevailed
amongst mediums generally, and those difficulties which have
always to be overcome in a new circle, have hitherto been
encountered. But your committee are confident that, if
duly supported, they will be able to obtain, under absolute
test conditions, phenomena which may, with tolerable
certainty, be repeated from time to time, and be thus brought
within the category of verified, conclusive, and established
experimental facts. Desmond FitzGerald.
( Chairman of the Committee.)
{Appendix Ai)
Appendix A consists of an illustrated description of the
ventilating shutters.
(Appendix B.)
OCT. 6, 1876. MEDIUM—W. EGLINTON.
At a preliminary dark stance it was asked of “ the spirits”
what kind of test should be employed; and they chose the
“ bracelet test.” This consists in binding behind his back
the hands of the medium by means of calico bracelets, so
that he cannot disengage them, and then tying them to the
back of the arm chair, the chair itself having been previously
fixed to the cabinet. Under these conditions it is quite im¬
possible for the medium in any way to use his hands, and if
hands be shown at the aperture of the cabinet, or if any¬
thing be done requiring the use of hands beyond the reach
of the medium’s hands as secured, it is proof positive that
some other agency than that of the medium has been
operating. The advantage of having calico bracelets rather
than tapes is that the former cannot by any means be slipped
from the wrists.
The medium was placed in the cabinet, and confined in
the bracelets. Beside him was placed a small table with a
clean sheet of paper upon it, out of which had been torn a
corner, by way of marking it. A pencil containing patent
ink was laid on the paper. The curtain of the cabinet was
drawn, and the gas turned down, but sufficient light re¬
mained to see the time by a watch. “ Joey” spoke, and
said he would try to exhibit spirit hands, but after about
half an hour there was pushed out from beneath the curtain
the sheet of marked paper, with the words written on it in
very bad penmanship : “ Dear friends,—I cannot show you
any hands to-night.” This was the only test given, but it
would be considered by most persons a conclusive one, as
hands must have been used to do the writing, and the
medium’s hands had been placed out of the question by the
means above detailed. All the members of the committee
present attested the writing with their signatures.
We afterwards tried to obtain direct writing on a slate
under the table, but failed after about 15 minutes’ trial.
OCT. 13, 1876. MEDIUM—W. EGLINTON.
We sat, as last week, for hands or direct writing, but we
took the additional precaution of tying both the medium’s
legs, so that if it had been possible on the previous occasion
for him to have done the writing with his feet, this time
such a possibility was removed. We also fixed the little
table in its place by a leather thong, the end of which was
brought outside the cabinet, so that even could the medium
reach the table he should be unable to draw it close to him,
and do the writing with his mouth without our being aware
of the movement. “ Joey” spoke as before, and made a
good deal of fun at its having been said that the writing
might have been done by the medium with his mouth. We
had placed three sheets of marked paper in the cabinet—
one on the table, one on the chair of the medium between
his knees, and one on the floor, under his chair. From the
position in which the medium was secured we assured our¬
selves that it was impossible for the medium to have reached
any of these sheets of paper, with his hands, his feet, or his
mouth. After about half an hour “Joey” said we must
give the medium a glass of water, and we entered the
cabinet for the purpose; The medium appeared to be in a
deep trance, out of which it was difficult to awake him. We
examined the papers, and found on one of them a roughly
formed letter D. After sitting again for a while, “ Joey”
said he could do no more, and we again entered the cabinet,
and found that all the papers had fallen on the floor, and on
the one which had been on the medium’s chair were written
the words, “ Joey. This is not teeth. We work with you.”
THE SPIRITUALIST.
249
Dec. 22, 1876.
The word teeth could not be read, as it was written over the
letter D above mentioned, and after the words, “ We act,”
the rest was illegible. The medium went again into the
cabinet, and we asked c( Joey” for an explanation. He gave
the above reading, and on examination we found the words
could be clearly deciphered.
OCT. 20, 1876.—MEDIUM W. EGLINTON.
The cabinet since last sitting had been divided by a wire
partition in the centre, which was firmly bolted into the
frame, and was so close to the sides that only here and there,
and that with difficulty, could a sheet of note paper be
passed between the partition and the floor or wall of the
cabinet. The meshes of the partition were so close that a
man’s finger could only with difficulty be passed through
them. A table was placed in one compartment of the
cabinet, about four inches from the partition, and on it were
laid two sheets of note paper carefully marked, and a pencil,
and the door of that compartment was firmly bolted from the
outside. The medium was placed without fastenings in the
other compartment, and the door shut. Shortly u Joey ”
spoke, but his voice was weak. After a time we distinctly
heard movements in the table compartment of the cabinet,
and soon a sheet of paper was presented, apparently clean
and uncrushed, at the window of the medium’s compartment.
u Joey ” asked how many sheets of paper had been placed
on the table to which the reply was given, two. Very soon
11 Joey ” said he could do no more, and we opened the
cabinet. The medium was in a deep trance. On the table
could be found only one sheet of paper, the other having dis¬
appeared entirely, and a thorough search for it proved un¬
availing. A sheet had been handed into the medium’s side of
the cabinet during the evening, and on it were the words,
“ We have removed one of the sheets of paper as a pre¬
liminary test.”
OCT. 27, 1876.—MEDIUM W. EGLINTON,
We secured the medium with tape, the bracelets not being
forthcoming. The medium was placed on one side of the
wire partition, and a table with paper, &c., on the other.
There were no manifestations worth recording. “ Joey ”
spoke, but his voice was weak. We observed that on open¬
ing the doors of the cabinet and replacing them by a curtain,
the voice became much stronger.
Nov, 3, 1876.—I was absentv
Nov. 10, 1876.—Ditto.
Nov. 17, 1876.—Medium Mr. Herne.
Nov. 24, 1876.—Ditto.
We tried the “ bell-test,” but the seances were complete
failures.
{Appendices C and D.)
These consist of the original specimens of the direct spirit
writing.
{Appendix E.)
At the seance of the Research Committee held here
Friday, Nov. 10th, Mr. Fitzgerald’s “ Electric Bell test”
was attempted. The battery, contact, and bell were care¬
fully adjusted till the bell rang vigorously by a slight pres¬
sure upon a small fragment of wood tied as before to the
oscillating arm of the relay, while uninfluenced by any
external treatment of the box enclosing the battery. The
latter, being placed upon a chair in the cabinet, with its
connecting-wires led outside to the bell at the left of the
cabinet through two holes m the side, was then tried in
position and securely closed and sealed. The box was after¬
wards raised a few inches by a small table being substituted
for the chair on which it rested. Mr. Herne (medium) sat
in the cabinet with his hands on or near the box. After a
noise as of great agitation of the connecting wires, a voice
announced that the lever had been depressed, without, how¬
ever, ringing the bell. Afterwards was distinctly heard a
sound exactly as if the lever were being deliberately and
rather forcibly depressed. Examination of the box on
opening it showed that one of the wires had been detached
or broken from the binding-screw on the bare board of the
relay, and also pushed or pulled into the box five or six
inches.
CTfc appeared to a member of the committee that it was
possible to move the lever from the outside by means of
the loose and rather stiff detached wire.)
W. H. Coffin, Chairman.
Nov. 17th, 1876.
“ LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE.”
A book with the above title has been published this week, full of
messages about spirit life and spirit powers, given through writing
mediurnship. We quote the preface in full because of the interesting
description it gives of
THE EXPERIENCES OF A WRITING MEDIUM.
Most persons will admit that a preface to the following pages is
required in order that their alleged spiritual origin may as far as pos¬
sible be substantiated. They are stated to be a spirit communication ;
and, since nine persons out of ten will naturally ridicule that idea, and
prefer to attribute them to the wanderings of a disordered brain, I will
endeavour to state here a few facts, by way of proving that the writer
has not quite lost his sanity, and that he is likewise free from the
charge of conscious imposition. How far unconscious imposition or
“unconscious cerebration” may be adequate to explain their origin, I
must leave the reader to judge for himself. I should have been glad
if I could have ventured to subscribe my own name and address as a
further guarantee that they are not the result of a deliberate attempt
to deceive the reader; but, in these days, the social position of a
person who is suspected of holding communication with the other
world is, in some parts of England, anything but enviable. Socially,
such a person is avoided; and all belonging to him come under the
same stigma. This I already know by experience, and, for these
reasons, I prefer to give the following pages to the world anonymously.
Most persons have beard of Planchette : but, for the benefit of those
who have not, I may say that it consists of a miniature wooden table,
about the size of an ordinary breakfast plate, mounted on three legs,
two of which run upon small wheels, and the third terminates in the
point of a lead pencil. This instrument is placed upon a sheet of white
paper, and the hands of the sitter rest lightly upon it. If the person
be mediumistic, planchette begins to move in ten or fifteen minutes,
and the pencil traces marks or letters upon the surface of the paper.
These are found to be intelligible words and sentences, frequently quite
independent of any thought or will on the part of the sitter, or
“ medium,” as he may be called. Not unfrequently the names of de¬
ceased persons are written out, and messages professing to come from
them are found written on the paper. In some cases the communica¬
tions seem to be limited to the thought and knowledge of persons
present; in other cases, facts have been communicated which no one
present was acquainted with, and which have subsequently been veri¬
fied through other sources.
To make the origin of the following pages quite clear, I may state
broadly that they were written by the same agency by which writing is
obtained through planchette; and the circumstances under which they
came to be written are as follows
About ten years ago, I purchased a planchette and tried to get
writing by its agency, but failed. I subsequently became interested
in Spiritualism ; and from personal investigation and a perusal of the
literature of the movement, I soon became convinced that it was based
upon facts. My personal experience was confined to the phenomena
observed through various mediums. In myself £ failed to develope the
least trace of mediumship, either through table turning or planchette
writing, until the summer of 1874, when I accidently came in contact
with an American medium who was reputed to have the power of
developing mediumship in others. This person mesmerised my hand
and arm—she never succeeded in mesmerising the brain—and the
result was, that when I placed my hand on planchette I felt a dragging
motion in the instrument, as if some invisible power were gently
drawing it over the surface of the paper, uncontrolled by me. The
result was a name professing to be that of a deceased person. This
was followed by intelligible communications relating to the person
named ; and finally, as the facility of writing increased with the aid of
the developing medium, I was able to get long and interesting messages
professing to come from departed spirits. Considering that I had for
years been unable to induce the slightest movement in planchette, and
that the messages related to facts and theories not within my own
knowledge and not emanating from my own thoughts, I was not a
little surprised at this startling development of occult power. I soon
found that planchette was an impediment rather than an advantage to
my progress as a writing medium, and that I could get on much more
rapidly by simply holding the pencil in the hand and keeping the mind
and the muscles of the arm perfectly passive.
Under these circumstances my hand would be involuntarily moved
to write without the use of planchette, and I soon exhausted my
curiosity by propounding endless questions to the supposed spirit
touching the present, the past, and the future. Like many novices in
spiritual investigations, I imagined a spirit would necessarily be om¬
niscient, and I speedily became exceedingly credulous, and prepared to
swallow anything that might be written.
In the first blush of enthusiasm for this new gift, I fondly imagined
I should be able to convince all my friends of the truth of Spiritualism
without difficulty; and the communicating spirit who had given me
long and interesting messages touching the mode* and conditions of
life in the spirit world, and had to some extent gained my confidence,
promised to astonish my friends by predicting their futures, besides
conveying messages from their departed relatives. He also predicted
events of great public interest, which I was advised to publish.
With these promises before me, I went in boldly for convincing my
250
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 22, 1876.
friends; Wt, with the first attempt, my anticipation of mediumistic
fame came to an untimely end, and I found that it was—if not all
vanity and vexation of spirit, in all probability something worse. All
my “ predictions ” turned out to be lies* and I gave up writing medium-
ship in disgust, and vowed that, however true it might be as a fact, no
reliance was to be placed upon the veracity of spirits.
About six months after these experiences I was induced to try another
developing medium—Mrs. Woodforde, whose speciality was said to be
the development of writing mediumship and the removal of undesir¬
able spirit influences. Mrs. Woodforde I found to be lady of education
and refinement, and her own experience and advice explained much to
me that had been mysterious, and proved to be most useful and valu¬
able in avoiding for the future the dangers I had so narrowly escaped
in the past. These dangers cannot be too sufficiently kept in view by
persons who dabble in mediumship. Unless the mediumship is devel¬
oped under good auspices in the first instance, and guarded with
extreme care, there is the greatest risk of the medium becoming the
dupe of frivolous and deceitful spirits, who abound in the other world
as much as in this. If the medium will abandon the popular error that
a spirit is a superior being, instead of being just as human and fallible
as himself, he will estimate the communications at their proper value,
instead of receiving them with abject credulity, as is too frequently
the case. It is in consequence of this foolish notion that many persons
give up communicating through planchette, on the assumption that it
is diabolical; because, having. asked foolish questions, they have in¬
duced foolish replies.
After a week’s sittings with Mrs. Woodforde I found myself in com¬
plete possession of my former power of unconscious writing, but the
character of the communications had entirely changed. Formerly they
were of the earth earthy, and reflected my own state of mind to some
extent. Now they impressed me with their greater purity, benevo¬
lence, and truthfulness.
This change, I was told, was attributable to the removal by Mrs.
Woodforde’s invisible friends, of the disagreeable influences by which
I was formerly surrounded. Be that as it may, I found that the mes¬
sages now written breathed nothing but good advice, whereas formerly
their tendency was sometimes evil. Feeling more confidence in the
trustworthiness of the messages, I re-commenced my writing experi¬
ences, and amongst other communications I received the series of mes¬
sages which are reproduced in the following pages, and which are said
to describe the Life beyond the Grave.
It may probably be urged by many readers of these pages that, even
if the bona Jides of the writer be admitted, there is no proof that he
has not unconsciously reproduced thoughts and ideas which he has
met with at various times in his course of reading in spiritual litera¬
ture. This objection is the only alternative to the assumption that the
following pages are a deliberate fraud on the part of the writer ; and,
in reply to the former objection—the value of which I am far from
depreciating—I can only say that the whole of the following pages
were written without the least previous thought on my part, and with
my mind kept as passive as possible ; that most of the facts and theories
therein stated were quite new to me when written, and seemed, in
many instances, so absurd and contradictory that I objected to them
at the time, but received answers to my objections through my own
hand. Thus, the following pages, to some extent, contain internal
evidence of their originating externally to my own brain. Another
curious fact may here be mentioned. I was frequently compelled to
write such sentences as 11 no more to-day” you have written enough now”
etc., at a time when I was anxious and willing to go on writing. The
communications would then cease.
So great was my own scepticism touching the truthfulness of the
facts communicated, that for eighteen months I have withheld them
from publication, in order that I might ascertain from other sources
whether the “life beyond the grave,” here described, coincided with
the revelations through other mediums. In the main, I have reason to
believe they do ; and I have therefore decided that I ought not to with¬
hold them from publication any longer, but give them to the world for
what they are worth. If they are reliable, their value to mankind
cannot, I. think, be doubted. Whether owing to my hesitation about
publishing, or to other causes, it is certainly curious—and goes not a
little way to explain their extraordinary origin—that upon the com¬
pletion of this series of communications, the power to write, as dis¬
tinctly as I then wrote, seemed to leave me, and I have since been
able to Write (involuntarily) little or nothing. The sudden acquisition
of this power of involuntary writing—when I had formerly failed in
all my attempts to induce it—is also, in itself, quite as remarkable a
circumstance as its subsequent withdrawal. Whether the public will
consider the following pages worth reading remains to be seen. For
the present I prefer to subscribe myself simply as
The Writing Medium.
We also append the
PREFACE OF THE COMMUNICATING SPIRITS. .
In presenting the following pages to the notice of the public, we,
the inspiring intelligences, disclaim, on the part of the writer of the
communications herein contained, all the responsibility for their con¬
tents. He has himself explained how they came to be written, and
what his share in their production has been. We have simply used
him as our medium for conveying to the world some information on
topics that are of vast importance to mankind, and of which they
cannot, by ordinary channels of information, acquire any knowledge.
That they contain statements which may be disputed or doubted, even
by Spiritualists and spirits also, is quite possible, since all men do not
think alike and neither do they see alike ; and there are many men in
the spirit world who do not understand the conditions by which they are
surrounded, and the laws which govern their own state. We do hot
claim infaHibility ourselves, and if we have set down anything which
is not clear or intelligible, we shall be happy to answer any questions
that may be sent to the writer, through whom we have been able to
express ourselves. : _
Having said this much for the origin of the following pages, we will
leave them to speak for themselves.
<£rirresponiience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot he returned; copies
should he kept by the writers.']
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA IN JERSEY.
Sir,—On the 10th inst., at 7.15 p.m., a successful seance was held at
my residence through the mediumship of Mr. William Clarance, from
London, who is now spending a few days in this island (Jersey).. None
of those present (fourteen in number) had ever sat with a developed
medium before, excepting myself and two other friends, this, I believe,
being the first seance of that description held in Jersey. The following
articles were placed on the table: two violins, a fan, a handbell, and a
small musical box played by the hand. We then sat round, holding
each other’s hands, the medium’s hands also being held by two of the
sitters, and it was understood that none would quit their hold or break
the circle before the seance was over. The light was then extinguished.
We sang “ Shall we gather at the river,” “ Footsteps of Angels,” and
other hymns, during which time beautiful spirit-lights were seen dart¬
ing over our heads in various directions; the violins were strummed
and floated about, sometimes touching the ceiling, then striking against
the door, right away behind the circle, and after touching the heads of
several of us, were brought back and placed on the table : the
fan was also vigorously used. Spirit-hands touched most of the
sitters; the hand-bell was manipulated and rung, and the musical box
was played repeatedly. These manifestations continued in abundant
variety for above half an hour. Towards the close two of the sitters*
chairs were lifted from the floor in such a manner that they (the sitters)
were compelled to stand; at the same time one of the ladies present
exclaimed, “ There is something touching my head; it is coming down
on the table.” We were then directed by means of the raps to close;
having struck a light we found the two chairs placed on the centre of
the table in a peculiar manner. The circle was still unbroken;
those present were perfectly satisfied and convinced that what had taken
place was really a wonderful manifestation of spirit-power.
Geo. De Carteret,
Yale Farm, St. Peter’s, Jersey, Dec. 13th, 1876.
a “spirit test.”
Sir,—On two occasions recently our family circle has witnessed some
very extraordinary materialisation phenomena through the medium-
ship of Mr. Willie Eglinton. On the first occasion, no less than five,
and, on the second, three, materialised forms made their appearance.
No test conditions were imposed at the time when these manifestations
took place ; although, on each occasion, physical phenomena had pre¬
viously been obtained, under conditions which precluded any possi¬
bility of direct causation on the part of the medium. For the
materialisations he was simply seated comfortably in a room separated
by folding doors and a curtain from that occupied by ourselves. •
I will refer to one only amongst our strange visitors, because, from
the fact of his being in every feature dissimilar to the medium, and
from the bold way in which he came up to, and actually into contact
with us, allowing us to perceive, not only the colour of his eyes and the
play of his features, but even the texture of his skin ; he appears to
me to constitute in himself an intrinsic test of the genuineness of the
phenomena. This spirit calls himself “ Ernest.” 1 may observe that
he is not the same as “John King.” He brings his own light—of*an
emerald tint—flat on the upper surface, and placed, as is usual, upon a
cushion of what appears to be fine muslin. His countenance is of an
oriental type ; he has black hair, moustache, and beard. He strikes
one at once as being possessed of a considerable amount of indi¬
viduality, if not of originality. I desire further acquaintance with
him, as he appears to be one of the few spirits outside the body who
have obtained great power on the material plane, and I hope shortly
to be able to obtain some fresh manifestations through his agency.
Desmond G. Fitz-Gerald.
6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, London,'W., Deo. 18th.
DR. CARPENTER’S LECTURE.
Sir,—The great man of science has spoken! Wisdom has inspired
its materialistic oracle ! Spiritualists are all doomed to perish in lunatic
asylums ! Dr. Carpenter has told the world that the influx from the
invisible world (unknown to him) to and on our world is all nonsense—
| that insanity must be the fatal consequence of investigation of Spirit-
| ualism. What of the men who have been investigating the matter for
1 twenty and more years, and who pretend to possess, if not the high
1 scientific attainments of Dr. Carpenter, at least a long experience of
I those facts which he boldly rejects, and who are gifted with common
sense without prejudices ? Plato, Socrates, Plotinus, Apollonius,
| lamblichus, Pythagoras, Lavater, Torquato, Tasso, and many scores of
others, were all suffering from unconscious cerebration ! Frightful! Dr,
Carpenter alludes to a theory, probably to amuse his audience, of the
production of raps in the knee or ankle-joints. This ingenious theory
j was brought forward some twenty years ago by an eminent doctor in
I Paris—Jobert de Lamballe—who became insane a few years afterwards,
I and, if my memory fails not, died in a lunatic asylum. Let us hope
that this may not be the fate of Dr. Carpenter for rejecting the oldest
| and greatest truth of our century.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
251
Deo. 22, 1876.
Scientific men have often committed the blunder of turning a deaf
ear to, and a contemptuous look upon, new discoveries, even in their
own sphere; hut history will have to record this one as the greatest
blunder, and certainly Dr. Carpenter will have his full share in the
“honourable mention.”
“ E pur si muove” and the spirits will communicate, notwithstanding
his judgment.
Ladies must feel very flattered with the doctor’s estimate of the fair
sex. J. N. Tiedejun Maethkze.
20, Palmeira-sqnaro, Brighton.
Prince Wittgenstein is expected to visit London shortly. ijj
The Protection of the Innocents.—When Dr. Carpenter, Lankes- | (|
ter’s senior in years and superior in science, has made an arrangement | {|
with Dr. Slade for a full and searching investigation of the phenomena, j) \
the young professor, with a modest assurance that is overwhelming, uj
snatches the inquiry from the hand of his senior, and, with a smartness !
that calls for admiration, carries off all the honours. As he admits in j j j
the Times, he sets to work to trap him “ like a wild beast.” Still, all [U
through the business, the professor acted solely on a pure desire for the iji
public good. This is his assertion, and we are bound to believe it—as |)|
much as his assertion that Slade tricked. How noble to devote his j j
time, his young talents, and his money so unselfishly to preserve the j [ ]
world—especially the simple London world—from fraud! How kind, i / j
and yet with what delicious modesty, to show young and innocent lambs {It
like Alfred Russel Wallace, William Crookes, Lord Lindsay, and Ser- j)j
jeant Cox how they had all been fleeced and fooled! Above all, how [n
touchingly filial his desire to protect his venerable friend, Dr. Carpenter, I (j
from imposition, and to spare his grey hairs the disgrace of inspecting {{i
the bubble of Spiritualism!—Sussex Daily News. \)\
The Brains of Criminals.—In our last issue we published a very |)!
interesting letter from our Vienna correspondent, in which a brief sum- j I!
mary was given of Professor Benedict’s researches on the brains and i(|
skulls of criminals. The subject is an important one, both from a phy-
Biological and psychological point of view, and it is to be hoped that In
more extended and more precise inquiries will be made upon it, for the I (j
results which Dr. Benedict has obtained, though very important, are | (J
not sufficiently numerous to warrant any large induction. Up to the Ijj
present time Dr. Benedict has examined the brains of sixteen criminals, j j I
all of which, on comparison with the healthy brain, he finds to be jjl
abnormal. Not only has he found that these brains deviate from the j j j
normal type, and approach towards that of lower animals, but he has j(i
been able to classify them, and with them the skulls in which they were i) i
contained, in three categories. These consist in (1) absence of sym- jj j
metry between the two halves of the brain; (2) an excessive obliquity j(j
of the anterior part of the brain or skull—in fact, a continuation j)j
upwards of what we term a sloping forehead; (3) a distinct lessening ju
of the posterior part of the skull in its long diameter, and with it a i(j
diminution in size of the posterior cerebral lobes, so that, as in the |H
lower animals, they are not large enough to hide the cerebellum. In j ji
all these peculiarities the criminal’s brain and skull are distinctly of a ijj
lower type than those of normal men, and the interesting question j ji
arises, How far are the evil acts of the criminal to be attributed to i(j
this retrograde development? Dr. Watts can pardon the vicious pro- iji
pensities of “bears and lions,” on the ground that “God had made ijj
them so.” If he had foreseen these new inquiries, he might have felt j(i
less hopeful when he bade his little readers not to “let their angry jjj
passions rise.” The results of Dr. Benedict’s researches, if confirmed ijj
by further examinations, will do much to shake many beliefs now firmly iji
fixed.—Medical Examiner. j jj
The Dalston Association.—The ordinary monthly session of the jjj
Council of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism j i
was held at the Association’s Rooms, 74, Navarino-road, London, on ijj
Thursday evening last week. The members present were Mrs. Amelia jjj
Corner, Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood, Mr. John jji
Rouse, Mrs. R. Pomeroy Tredwen, and Mr. Thomas Blyton. The Ijj
minutes of last meeting were read and confirmed. Letters of general j j |
interest, received since, were read from the “Psychological Society of ij!
Great Britain,” declining to entertain any arrangement for interchange jjj
of members’ privileges; and from Mr. John Enmore Jones, on the snb- I j |
ject of “Mesmerism.” Presentations received since last session were I {I;
laid upon the table and accepted, with a vote of thanks to the respective j 1
donors, viz., Mr. and Mrs. S. C. Hall, Mr. R. H. Collyer, M.D., and ijl
Mr. Thomas Shorter. The cash accounts were submitted and passed, j j j
An order was also passed for the Banner of Light to be obtained for the j j I
reading-room table. Mr. J. Bamford was unanimously elected a life j j j
member, and Messrs. John Dawbarn and Thomas Dales as ordinary jjl
members. The honorary secretary read a copy of a circular received j j j
from the lecture committee of the Newcastle-on-Tyne Society, request- | j j
ing an order for copies of Mr. Barkas’s lecture on “ Original Researches i j j
in Psychology,” which was declined. The date for reading of the Rev. i j j
F. R. Young’s paper on “ The Positive Value of Spirit Communion,” jjj
was, with the author’s approval, postponed from the 25th proximo to the jjl
26th April next. An offer by Mr. Thos. Blyton to present a quantity of jjj
leaflets, containing information on spiritual phenomena, was accepted, iji
and an amount voted for their distribution in the neighbourhood, with i j i
the view of encouraging an inquiry into Spiritualism. Letters were read iji
from Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., president, respecting protective jjl
measures against legal proceedings, the consideration of which was jjj
deferred until next session. The attention of the Council was drawn to ijj
the forthcoming Conference of Spiritualists, and Mr. Thomas Blyton ijj
was unanimously appointed as a delegate to attend the Conference. The j j j
hon. secretary was instructed to draft the usual half-yearly reports, and jjj
Messrs. Alfred E. Lovell aud George Robert Tapp requested to act as j I
auditors. '' \
DIRECT WRITING IN LIVERPOOL.
The following paper was read on Friday last in the Academy, 63,
Newlands-street, Liverpool, by Mr. Chadwick : —
Mr. Chairman, Ladies and Gentlemen,—Before I became a Spirit¬
ualist I was a member of the Free Church of England, and my minister
had preached three sermons against Spiritualism, which some, he siad,
had averred to be trickery, but he warned his hearers to beware of it
as a delusion ; he denounced it as diabolical in all its phases. Never¬
theless, I received an invitation to attend a seance, and of course
accepted it, and although timid and retiring, I was well rewarded, for
my doubts were dissipated, and I am now one of the happiest men in
all England, although what I saw aud heard caused me to have a
sleepless night. Knowledge superseded faith, and every succeeding
seance added to the former extension, brightness, and beauty. I have
had convincing tests in abundance Of the future life, from dear friends
who have gone before.
After quoting messages given by methods with which all Spiritualists
are familiar, Mr. Chadwick said that as spirit-writing was the topic, of
the day, he would next refer briefly to that phase of Spiritualism.']
A fellow workman was invited to the same seance, and after gaining
the experience of one sitting, thought he would endeavour to obtain
the same or similar phenomena at home. For this purpose he arranged
a circle, and sat the first night without any results. Not discouraged,
the following night they tried again, and a sister who was absent on the
first occasion, a girl of fifteen years of age, was asked to join them.
She said it was “ nonsense ” ; however, she consented. The moment
she put her hands on the table it manifested lively symptoms, and
spelt out, “Would the medium write under control?” They could
not understand the question. The brother said, “ Is Maggie the
medium ? ” The reply was three raps. She did not understand the
word “control.” The brother said he did not know, but urged her to
say “Yes,” which she did. By direction of the intelligence she held a
pencil over an ordinary copy-book, became as pale as death, her eyes
were closed, her hand began to shake, and then to write, “ Good even¬
ing, friends ; I am glad I can communicate with you. I am Professor
Mapes, of America, near Wisconsin; I shall be always with you.”
You may imagine the surprise of people who had never heard of
anything of this kind before.
They went on in this way for a considerable time, and I invariably
took part in the seances.
We were told to get a slate and a piece of slate pencil, and the
medium was to hold the slate under the table. We were to place a
cloth on the table. We did so. It was not there long when an attempt
was made to take up the pencil. We could all hear it quite distinctly.
In about five minutes writing commenced, which astonished us all, the
medium included. She compared the holding the slate to the holding
of a galvanic battery. We thus received the direct writing. It varied
in character and quickness, and gave us many excellent tests. She
has two controls, Prof. Mapes and Dr. Balthor; but it was some time
before the latter could effect control. In no case has he ever written
on the slate. When we sat for writing we were still in full light of
gas, and we obtained the same results in daylight. She can obtain the
writing in any place, and in the presence of as many as twenty indivi¬
duals at once. When I sat on the left I always felt a curious sensation
from head to foot, but sitting on the right I felt nothing of the kind.
During the automatic writing I always felt a throbbing in my temples.
The medium has no more knowledge of how the writing is done than a
child.
She is told the diseases of persons, and prescribes for them without
ever seeing them. She obtains writing in French and Latin, of which
she has no knowledge.
Last Sunday night, at the Doughty Hall, Bedford-row, London,
very powerful raps were obtained before a public audience through Dr.
Monck’s mediumship; a committee appointed by the audience certified
that they were not made inside his body, as suggested by Dr. Carpenter,
but came from any object near which the medium stood.
A long and interesting discussion on materialisation and transforma¬
tion manifestations followed the reading of Miss Kislingbury’s paper last
Monday, before the members and friends of the National Association of
Spiritualists, under the presidency of Mr. W. H. Coffin. A full report
will be published next week.
Attempted Suppression of Scientific Truth.—A letter in The
Cape Times (Capetown, South Africa), of November 15th, on the,Slade
case, says :—“ For my own part, and on behalf of many of the Spirit¬
ualists in South Africa, to be plain, we don’t care one jot for all the
‘ editorial rods,’ ‘ anathemas of the church,’ or so-called ‘ scientific
exposes.1 Thank God the days of the Inquisition have past, for ever I
hope. A good scientific education with a well-balanced cerebral organi¬
sation, and a large stock of moral courage, are all that is wanted for
investigators. Mere words and threats are as effete to determined men
who seek for pure truth, as water falling on a duck’s back. Truth
like gold can never deteriorate, no matter how often it passes through
the furnace of analytical reasoning. Because Spiritualism upsets some
of the pet dogmas of the Church and science it is run down. I ask
all honest men to think of Copernicus, Galileo, Columbus, Stephenson,
Morse, Galvani, Harvey, Fulton, and hosts of other pioneers of great
truths. From alchemy and astrology we have our noble sciences of
chemistry and astronomy. Spiritualism will prove, sooner or later, to
be the foundation or nucleus of some great truth; and what harm is
done, supposing Spiritualists are found to be in error about the cause ?
Prove we are wrong by demonstration, by tracing the effect to its
cause and vice versa, and then Spiritualists will change their theory,
but don’t put all down to imposition, hallucination, and deception
without having spent any time in practical and not theoretical investi¬
gation.”
252
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 22,1876,
$3oett£.
MORTIMER COLLINS.
A sobrowfct, interest attaches to the following, which the Athenaeum pub¬
lishes ag the “ last verses written by Mortimer Collins ”:—
I have been sitting alone
AH day, while the clouds went by,
While moved the strength of the seas,
While a wind with a will of his own,
A Poet out of the sky,
Smote the green harp of the trees.
Alone, yet not alone,
For I felt, as the gay wind whirled,
As the cloudy sky grew clear,
The touch of Our Father Half-known,
Who dwells at the heart of the World,
Yet who is always here.
PUSSIE’S CHRISTMAS.
The following is a Christmas song written by Mrs. Eric Baker and Mrs.
Weldon, with music by the latter, and published by the Music and Art Asso¬
ciation, 39, Great Marlborough-street, London.
Some children gazed at a large Christmas tree,
That on a strong table stood,
They laugh’d and they clapp’d their hands with glee,
Gay and happy because they were good.
Their pussie cat glared from under a chair,
Staring full at the Christmas tree,
She said, “ They’ve forgotten, I vow and declare,
To hang up a mouse for me.”
Away, in a pet, to the stable she flew,
For there in the soft warm hay,.
A little brown mousie she very well knew,
Would be all by himself at play.
A little brown mousie she very well knew, *
Would be all by himself at play,
Would be all alone at play.
She cunningly hid in a heap of straw,
Till the poor little mouse she found,
And then in a minute she stretch’d out her paw,
And pinn’d him half dead to the ground.
As mousie by puss well-nigh lick’d out of shape,
Tried hard in vain from her grasp to escape,
Merry bells rang out chimes so clear and plain,
To tell us that Christmas had come again.
Then pussie remember’d the children at play,
The beautiful Christmas tree !
And said, “ The whole world is happy to-day,
I’ll let the brown mouse go free.
The whole world is happy and merry to-day,
I’ll let the brown mouse go free.”
THE WEB OF LIFE.
A weaver sat by the side of his loom
A-flinging the shuttle fast;
And a thread that should wear till the hour of doom
Was added at every cast.
His warp had been by the angels spun,
And his woof was bright and new:
Like threads which the morning unbraids from the sun-
All jewelled over with dew.
And fresh-lipped, bright-eyed, beautiful flowers
In the rich, soft web were bedded,
And blithe to the weaver sped onward the hours— ,
Not yet were Time’s feet leaded.
But something there came slow stealing by,
And a shade o’er the fabric fell; .
And I saw the shuttle less blithely fly,
For thought had a wearisome spell.
And a thread that next o’er the warp was lain,
Was of melancholy gray;
And anon I marked there a tear-drop’s stain
Where the flowers had fallen away.
But still the weaver kept weaving on,
Though the fabric all was gray;
And the flowers and the buds and the leaves were gone,
And the cold threads cankered lay.
And dark, and still darker and darker grew
Each new woven thread;
And some there were of a death-mocking hue,
And some of a bloody red.
And things all strange were woven in—
Sighs, downcast hopes and fears;
And the web was broken, and poor, and thin,
And it dripped with living tears.
And the weaver fain would have flung it aside,
But he knew it would be a sin;
So, in light and in gloom, the shuttle he plied,
A weaving these life cords in.
And, as he wove, and, weeping, still wove,
A tempter stole him nigh;
And, with glowing words, he to win him strove,
But the weaver turned his eye.
He upward turned his eye to Heaven,
And still wove on, on, on!
Till the last, last cord from his heart was riven,
And the tissue strange was done.
Then he threw it about his shoulders bowed,
And about his grizzled head;
And, gathering close the folds of his shroud,
Lay him down among the dead.
And I after saw in a robe of light,
The weaver in the sky;
The angels’ wings were not more bright,
And the stars grew pale on high.
And I saw ’mid its folds, all the iris-hued flowers
That beneath his touch had sprung—
More beautiful far than these stray ones of ours
Which the angels have o’er us flung.
And wherever a tear had fallen down,
Gleamed out a diamond rare;
And jewels befitting a monarch’s crown
Were the footprints left by care.
And wherever had swept the breath of a sigh
Was left a rich perfume ;
And with light from the fountains of bliss in the sky
Shone the labour of sorrow and gloom.
And then I prayed:—when my last work is done,
And the silver life-cord riven,
Be the stain of sorrow the only one
That I bear with me to Heaven.
From the San Francisco News Letter.
A CHRISTMAS STORY.
The following verses are by Miss C. A. Burke, the new Assistant-Secretary
to the National Association of Spiritualists :—
’Twas Christmas Eve, a fearful night;
In the proud mansion all was fair;
The feast was spread, the wine flowed bright,
For angel guests were looked for there.
And there the Earl in pomp and state
(i Stood by the wide-set outer gate.
(I Far through the lofty door-way streamed
(I From banquet halls, a flood of light,
Upon the soft white snow it gleamed,
The Earl looked forth into the night.
In the chill moonlight he could see
U A beggar asking charity.
(j He heeded not the suppliant cry,
I So wrapped was he in boastful thought;
Little he knew how very nigh,
That moment were the guests he sought.
Far as was heard that cry of pain,
On swept the shining angel train.
With listless limbs and footsteps slow,
When thus repulsed the beggar went
Half-blinded by the driving snow,
. To a dark court his way he bent;
And pausing at that humbler door
He asked for charity once more.
A man upstarted in amaze,
And half began some angry word,
But something in the other’s gaze,
Touched in his heart a better chord.
I He gave him his last crust of bread,
“You are worse off.than we,” he said.
Then all that chamber bleak and bare
Was beautified with nameless grace ;
The beggar stood no longer there,
But a bright angel took his place.
With lifted hands and eyesight dim,
11 The rough man knelt and worshipped him.
I Then from the trembling golden chords
Of his glad harp, his fingers drew
A melody too deep for words
] That o’er each sense a glamour threw,
And pain and sorrow passed away
Like mists before the sunbeam’s ray.
And so the legend ends; we know
Of beggar or of earl no more;
Yet from this tale of long ago
A lesson we may surely draw.
And listening to an olden strain
May nerve us to our work again.
I Each Christmas Eve an angel brings,
To sojourn both with high and low,
i Unless when blind to heavenly things
From out our midst we bid them go ;
Because they come not in such guise
As suitest best our mortal eyes.
Caroline A. Burke.
Professor William Denton in England.—Mr; Luther Colby, in a
letter to Mr. W. H. Harrison, dated Boston, U.S., Dec. 8th, says:—
“ Prof. William Denton leaves these shores to-morrow on private busi¬
ness in London. He had only time to bid me good-bye, otherwise I
should have sent this letter by him, i.e., if he could have waited a suffi¬
cient time forme to have written it. But as he did not, I hope you will
get it by the mail that goes out in the ship on which he embarks. I
told him to be sure to call on you on his arrival, which he promised to
do. You, of course, already know him as a talented author, a good man,
an able lecturer, and, by-the-way, an Englishman.”
\
Dec. 22, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any Way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. Gd.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the sendees of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, ' by William Crookes, E.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, E.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, US. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Ered. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,‘also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newlymublished book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritnal-
sm to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they, will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and S experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rale, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium fight. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and* vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supcmaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ;Science: the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and.the Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens • these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals Iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions, of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.: or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of atrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. 6d.; cheap edition,
7s. Gd. ,
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. Gd.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allafn Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. Gd.
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. Gd.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. Gd.
THE QRIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. Gd.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. Gd.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. Gd.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), Gd.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), Gd.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. Gd.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. Gd.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem-
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. . 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. Gd.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. Gd.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. Gd.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. Gd.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. Gd.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. Gd.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. Gd.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Yol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
5s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. Gd.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists, is. Paper, Gd.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record of Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. Gd.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. Gd.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. Gd.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles,
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER, By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer; 1765. 2s. Gd.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gamed the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub, at 7s. 6d.) 4s.,
NEW WORKS OF M. CHARLES GOUNOD.
PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,
39, Great Marlborough Street.
ON THE SEA OF GALILEE. Arranged by E. Tieel as
Pianoforte Duet and Vocal Solo. Price 6s.
LA VENEZIANA. Pianoforte Solo, 4s.
FETE DE JUPITER. Grand March, 4s.
OFFERTORIUM. For Organ, 4s.
JOAN OF ARO. French Vocal Score, 10s.
BALLAD OF THE PAGE, English and French words, 4s.
Also A SERIES OF SEVEN DUETS containing the Prin¬
cipal Music, arranged by the composer expressly for Her
Majesty the Queen and H.R.H. Princess Beatrice. Nos. 1
and 2, price 2s. 6d. each. Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7, price 5s.
each.
ILALA, May, 1874. Words by Lord Houghton, written in
commemoration of David Livingstone, 4s.
My True Love hath My Heart, 4s.
Ohidiock TichBorne, 4s.
Go, Lovely Rose, 4s.
A Series of 12 Part Songs, 6d. each. Special arrangements
made to Choral Societies.
NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION. 1
MISS TREHERNE (MRS. WELDON).—The Brook, words
by Tennyson, 4s. Hier au Soir, words by Victor Hugo
(English words by Mrs. Eric Baker), 4s.
ALFRED RAWLINGS.—Lullaby, words by Bradwyn Brad-
r wen, 4s. Beware, words by Longfellow, 4s. Part-song,
To the Ouckoo, Gd.
JOHN URIOH.—Bagatelle, words by T. Hood, 4s. Venetian
Barcarola, 4s. Pity the Wives at Home (sailor song), dedi¬
cated to Samuel Plimsoll, Esq., M.P., 4s. Mazurka, 4s.
F. CLAY.—Enid’s Song. 4s. Elaine’s Song, 4s. Vivien’s
Song, 4s. Guinevere’s Song, 4s. Mary’s Song, 4s. There
is no Flock (Resignation), 4s. Sands of Dee, 4s.
HAMILTON CLARKE.—Serenade for Pianoforte, 4s. Ditto,
arranged as a Duet for Pianoforte, 5s. Two Voices: a Song,
4s.
ALFRED CELLIER.—Flower Girl: a Song, 4s.
KJERULF.—On the Heather; Danish Melody.
Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Quadrilles, with Portrait of Mrs.
Weldon, arranged from Grannie's Nursery Rhyme Book, by
Mrs. Weldon, 4s.
Subscribers’ Names received for Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme
Book—Subscribers, 5s.; Non-Subscribers, 7s. 6d.
All the music published by the Music and Art
Association, 39, Great Marlborough-street, is sold for the
benefit of Mrs. Weldon's Orphanage.
A List of Works sent post-free on application.
THE MANAGER, MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,
39, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
Just published, a New Song.
X> EMEMBRANCE (embossed title), 4s. in A
flat for contralto or baritone, and in C for soprano or,
tenor. Words by W. H. Parker. Sung by Miss Laura
Matthews, Miss Hellier, Mr. R. Odell, and Mr. Sidney Barber.
Also the Snowdrop Mazurka and Dewdrop Redowas (second
edition), each 3s., by the same composer. To be had of all
Music-sellers, and of the Author and Publisher, post free, at
half price. Copyrights reserved. A few second-hand piano¬
fortes for sale, from £5 to £18. N. Vickery, Professor of
Music. 9, Cambridge-terraoe, Railton-road, Heme-hill, S.E.
Now Ready.—Fifty-seventh Year.
KAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC &
MESSENGER for 1877. Post free Seven Stamps; cr,
with Ephermis, Thirteen Stamps.
London: Catty and Dobson, 1, Ivy Lane, E.C.
DR. SLADE.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST” OF Sep?-. 29th CONTAINS
ALL THE EVIDENCE ON BOTH SIDES,
WHICH was given for and against Dr. Slade
in the Times newspaper. It contains a reprint of
the letters in the Kmes from Professor Lankester, F.R.8.; Dr.
H. B. Donkin : Colonel Lane Fox, president of the Anthro¬
pological Institute; Dr. Carter Blake; Mr. C. C. Massey,
barrister-at-law; Mr. J. A. Clarke; Mr. A. R. Wallace,
F.R.G.S.; Mr. A. Joy, M.Inst.O.E.; Mr. G. C.Joad; Mr. Park
Harrison; Mr. Serjeant Cox; Professor Barrett, and Dr.
Slade.—2Jd.-, post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
By Royal Letters Patent.
“ KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
graceful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the nlost delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis. -
The above fact renders THE “ KRINE COSMETIC ” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, St.W.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-squ'are, S.W.
WANTED, A SITUATION as CLERK,
.ACCOUNTANT, or MANAGER OF SHOP. Good
references; used to the book and newspaper trade; by E. W.
Wallis, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end-road, E.  
BEVERIDG-E AND CO., Printers of The
Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, B.OLBORN, W.C.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of
Printing. Estimates forwarded on application.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 22, 1876.
SPIRITUALISTS’ DEFENCE FUND.
Dr. Slade, a stranger, from the United States, on his
journey to St. Petersburg, is, by an unfortunate sentence of a
magistrate, under condemnation to imprisonment, and punish¬
ment appropriate to a criminal is meted out to him. This
highly-gifted sensitive, the greatest medium of the day in
England, is condemned to “ hard labour,” and will, in January,
1877, become the forced associate of criminals., . Unless we
adopt some effectual means, nothing can prevent this out¬
rageous calamity.'
The affair is not individual, but relates to all. The struggle
raised before the nation is between Materialism and Spiritual¬
ism. A more important issue was never before us. Spiritual¬
ism demonstrates, through facts occurring around us, the
existence of a future life; while Materialism would deprive
humanity of the precious doctrine of immortality.
When we reflect that the proceedings aimed at Dr. Slade
are really designed more as a blow to the sacred cause of
Spiritualism than against him, shall Spiritualists stand by
and accept the verdict without remonstrance? Will they,
without appeal, suffer him, whom they consider innocent, to
be imprisoned and punished as a felon without a struggle?
Assuredly not. Conscience being our witness, let us perform
what we know to be right.
The question is before us. According to the measure of
support so will be the power of the Committee, and their
ability for action.
Donations will be thankfully received by the joint treasurers
or by the secretary.
The Executive Committee.
Alexander dALDER, 1, .Hereford-
square, South Kensington, S.W.
CJ. Enmore Jones, Enmore-park,
Honorary Treasurers.! Wyld, MJXt§Great Cum.
berland-place, W.
C. c. Massey.
W.' S. Moses, M.A.
Hon. Sec.—A. Joy, 69, Great Bussell Street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
SUBSCRIPTIONS.
0. U.
Bust ian Spiritualists (per M. AksakoD   50 0 0
Miss Douglas     SO 0 0
Mr. G. C). Joad     30 0 0
r'Nicodemus ”,    25 0 0
Mr. Alexander Calder    21 0 0
J. N. T. Martheze   ,;20 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn.................   20 0 0
Countess Caithness       10 10 0
Mrs. Weldon    ...1.....;   10 10 0
Mr. Martin Smith     10 10 0
„ Thomas Grant.-.      10 10 0
Miss H.      .' 10 0 0
Sir C, Isham, Bart   .10 0 0
Mr. A. Tod       10 0 0
■ „ J. Bulteel    10 0 0
‘‘Lady Jane Grey ”  1    10 0 0
B.P.J        10 0 0
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood ....’.  10 0 0
Mr. N. F. Dawe     10 0 0
Prince Emile von Wittgenstein    6 0 0
Mr. W, Tebb    5 5 0
„ J. Enmore Jones     5 0 0
„ C. O. Massey         5 0 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory     5 0 0
„ Douglas Bayley   5 0 0
Oscar von Hoffman         5 0 0
Dr. George Wyld         5 0 0
Mr.-T-E. Partridge, t 5 0 0
Mrs. Hennings.... 1     5 0 0
Mr. N. Kilburn, jun   5 0 0
„ A. Joy     5 0 0
Dr. S. T. Speer    5 0 0
Mr. A. T. T. Peterson    5 0 0
Mrs. H...........I..     5 0 0
An American   !j     5 0 0
Friends at Belper, per W. P. Adshead   3 10 0
Mrs. Strawbridge    3 3 0
Mr. J. B. Stones :,... 2 12 6
F. J. T. (collected)    2 2 6
Mr. H. Withall       2 2 0
Captain James  1   2 2 0
M.A. (Oxon.)     *  2 2 0
Mr. 0. Pearson      2 2 0
Mr. W. P. Adshead ..: ....;   "220
Mr. F. W. Percival  2 2 0
Dr. J. Dixon.,... |    2 0 0
Mrs. Lowe     2 0 0
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun    2 0 0
Mr. A. B. Wallace    2 0 0
,,' J: C. Ferguson        2 0 0
“Disciple” ;    '. .'  2 0 0
Mrs. W atkins           200
Mr; J. H. Gledetanes.....      2 0 0
Collected by Mr. J. Bums     12 0
Mr. Geo. Stones    110
., J. Mould     110
Dr. K. Cook.-.    110
K.G. ;    110
J.R.W....    110
Mrs. Maltby ..A.     110
Major Menars  tj  11 o
Mr. J. C.Ward     110
„ E. D. Rogers     110
„ Morell Theobald    110
„ William Theobald  110
„ R. M. Theobald, M.A   110
„ H. N       110
„ J. Andre'         110
„ James Brown     110
The Misses Witha.ll  110
Dr. Baikie ...i .'....    110
Anon, per C. C. Massey     110
A.M. W  U...  110
Mr. T. P. Barkas %  110
„ Tucker     10 0
Mrs. S. Parker :   10 0
Miss Douglas Bayley       10 0
Mr. A. Smedley         10 0
F. Smedley         10 0
“ u ” (Clericus)       10 0
Dr. W. M. Buchanan    10 0
Smaller sums  ..;  5 16 0
The following consist of amounts advertised as received by
The Banner ofLii/ht newspaper, Boston, U.S., towards the Fund,
and a portion of the sum total collected has already been re¬
mitted to England.
. From America. dols.
Colby and Rich (Publishers Banner of Light),
Boston.      200,00
Spiritualists’ Defence Fund continued.
dols.
Epea Sargent, Esq., Boston  50.00
A. P. H. (a Spirit)   25,00
Mrs. Mary M. Hardy, Boston..........;.   25,00
Henry J. Hom, N, J. City   ....,  5,00
Jefferson Cutter. Medford, Mass  3,00
G. Sweet, N. Y. City      2,00
Geo. W. Gray...'.    60
Isaac Gibbs, Springfield, Mass  5,00
Chas. Case, Washington, D.O   1,00
D. R. Arnold, Pawtucket, R. I   1;00
G. Parker..     ; so
Harvey Howes, North Bennington, Vt  5,00
John A. Day, Norfolk, Mass    2,00
H. E. Parsons, Ashtabula, 0  100,00
B.           1,00
J. L. Donaldson, Boston, Mass..... !  5,00
W.H. R.        8,00
Margaret Jackson, Greensboro’, N.C............ 1,60
Ohas. Levy, St. Louis, Mo ;  2,00
A. Fuller, Waltham, Mass    2,00
F. L. Crane, Topeka, Kan  1,00
Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston   10,00
L. B. Wilson; Boston   3,00
F. A. Gould, Boston   10,00
G. H. Woodis, Worcester   2,00
E. M. Winslow, Boston     1,00
Stephen Young. Mechanicsville, la  1,00
Wm. Benson, Albany, N.Y    100,00
David Appleton, Lowell, Mats  100,00
Andrew Williams, Lawrence, Mass  100,00
James Codrnan, Worcester, Mass  100,00
Sarah Johnson, Worcester, Mass  100,00
Dr. Josiah Jordan, Springfield, Mass   5,00
Mrs. Louisa Andrews, Springfield, Mass  5,00
j. l. e.        so
Liberal Christian   1,00
E. Crowell, M.D., Brooklyn, N.Y   50,00
C. B. Somes, .Groveland, Mass  1,00
A Poor Woman      . 50
P. E. Ulster....;     50
M. A. Dryden, Mansfield, Mass  1,00
Jeremiah Turner, Warren, R. I   1,85
Mrs. H. J. Severance, Tunbridge, Vt  1,00
C. M. Barrett, New Haven, Or     2,00
Geo. Stacj, Montreal, P. Q    2,00
Augustus Day, Detroit, Mich 7.   1,00
A. Burford, East Liverpool, Ohio  2,00
L. L. Rosecrans, Hainesvllle, N. J  1,00
M; A. Giles    2,00
O. Giles I     2,00
Jas. O. Ransom ,.      50
A Friend to the Cause....      2,00
W. Y, Philadelphia, Pa........ i....... 25,00
Joseph Wescott, No. Castine, Me  2,00
Mrs. H. E. Beach, New York City    . 1,00
Geo. W. Smith, Boston, Mass ;..    20,00
“ Delta,” New Jersey ....'.  1,00
J. DuBois, Everett, Pa    5,00
Mrs. A. C- “Whittemore. New Boston, Ct  3,00
Mrs. Wm. Rhodes, ditto   50
E. W. S. St. Johns; P. Q.        50
B. T. Briggs, Fairhaven, Mass  50
L. K. Joslin, Providence,'R. I........   3,00
H. Sherburn, Esperance, N. Y  50
Friend, South Framingham, Mass  1,00
Jas. T. Walton, Terre Haute, Ind   10,00
J. Campbell Kemp, Petersburg, Va   1,00
H. F. Phillips, Providence, R. I....  1,00
Wm. F. Krebs, Staunton, Va    50
Chas. P. Perot, Philadelphia, Pa.'  5,00
P. Carpenter, Lancaster, Ohio   85
Mrs. John Squires, Dansville, N. Y.  85
Jona. Travilla, West Chester, Pa     1,00
Dr. Dodge, St. Louis, Mo  1.00
A. S. Phelps. Cambridge, Mass  1,00
Friend, Mt. Auburn  1,00
A Friend, Spencer, Mass  2,00
A Tanner, Norwood, ditto        1,00
Dr. M. M. Gardner, Utica, N. Y  1,00
Mrs. R. Bowker, Boston, Mass   1,00
Henry Seyberts, Philadelphia, Pa    25,00
H. G. Wyte, Buffalo, N. Y f  2,00
Joseph Kinsey   5,00
Mr. and Mrs. E. P. Tucke    3,00
Martin Hiscox, Providence, R. 1  2,00
K. C. Chapman, Taylorsville, N. Y   1,00
A. Farnsworth, E. Saginaw, Mich  1,00
Henry Rennan, W. Meriden, Conn  2,00
Henry Gildemeister, Bunker Hill, 111 ’ 2.00
“ A Liberal,” Greenville, Me .■  3,00
E. D. Hall, Okolona, Miss '.  60
C. A. S.          1,00
N. Huckins      ....;     1,00
H. K. Morrill.....      2,00
La Fayette Tyrel, Charlestown, N. Y. ..' t, 1,00
P. Thompson, Saratoga Springs, N. Y  50
John D. Tighe, Brighton, Mich   1,00
C. M. S. Lawrence, Mass    1,00
L. P. Boston, Highlands, Mass 1,00
W. D. Holbrook, Waukesha, Wis. 1,00
Jos. P. Hazard, Peacedale, R. I.'........;...  5,00
Dr. G.B. Brooklyn, N. Y    3,00'
Wm. Sargent, Newport, Me  1,85
J. N. H., Peaceddle, R. I.       25,00
Joseph Beals, Greenfield, Mass   2,00
Jas. Wilson, Bridgeport, Conn  5,00
Geo. Adams, Franklin, Mass   1,00
F. R. Baker, Topeka, Kan  5,00
Chas. H. Starbuck     20
James Shackleton, Lawrence, Mass   2,00
E. Croseley  ..f.:    1,00
D. B. St. John, Edmesion, N. Y.  1,00
F. Hinckley, Barnstable, Mass  5,00
F. B. Manchester, W. Randolph, Vt .'  1,00
Rachie Cross  ; ’.    25
’warren S. Barlow, St. Johnsbury, Vt  6,00
Frederick Sehroedex-, Papineau, 111.:......  2,50
Joseph Schroeder, ditto    5,00
Ccas. H. Edwards, Prospect Plain, N. J. ...... 50
Samud Robinson, Swansea, Mass.   2,00
Nellie (a Spirit)       1,00
C. W. Cotton, Portsmouth, Ohio   1,00
David A. Mutidy, Rahway, N. J  2,00
Wm. D. Oydy, Bricksburg, N. J.     50
A Friend to the Truth, Vineland, N. J..   1,00
D. Higbie, Mungerville, Mich.   50
J. Tillson, Sandy Hopk, Conn.)  ;......  1,50
A. Rosekrans, Scranton, Pa. ....•   1,00
J. B. Armstrong, Ogdensburg, N. Y.    1,00
Mrs. C. B. Marsh, E. Calais, Vt.1,00
G. Smith, No. Wavne, Me ...t.   1,00
“A Friend of the Banner"    .50,00
A Lady Friend  1,00
Spiritualists' Defence Fund continued.
dols.
J esse H. Butler, Los Angeles, Cal   1,00
J. W. Robins, M.D., Uxbridge. Mass  2,00
Mr. and Mrs. J. Roberts, Rush, N.Y  2,00
C. D. Stone, Marblehead, Mass   50
“ A Friend,” Birmingham, Ohio    1,00
Elijah Gordon, Bangor, Me    1,00
J. B. Angel, Red Bank, N. J.    5,00
Mrs. E. A. Briggs, Kingston   75
Mrs. L. P. Whiting, ditto  50
Otis Eastman  *      25
O. B. Huyghue, St. John, N.B  lv00
Lucy James, Danielsonville,' Conn  6,85
Mrs. A. S. Holyoke, Mass   1,00
Miles Sprague     60
Mary M. Lincoln; Westfield, Mass  50
Wm, A. Atkins, Provincetown, Mass.    5,00
Friend’...    50
Mrs. Chas, Baldwin, Fayville, Mass    5,00
Mrs. H. Smith, Boston Highlands, Mass...  1,85
J. Mayo, Waltham, Mass   2,00
A. M. Gaffield, ditto   2,00
Mary McGarr, Pittsburg, Pa    25
Mrs. Davis, Watertown, Mass   1,00
Isaac and D. W. Wright, Harvard, Mass  2,00
Sarah W. Stewart, Lowell, Mass  85
Mrs. A. M. Stone, Cincinwati, Ohio    1,00
Mrs. A. L. Pratt, New Haven, Conn  2,00
Roger Shagreen     1,00
Hutchins Wright, Waterloo     85
S. T. Spaulding, Dunstable, Mass  85
Samuel Smart, Willoughby, Ohio  2,00
Joseph Dimmock, Stonington, Conn  2,00
Mrs. A. F. Bennett, Stowe, Vt. ...;  1,00
John Tebbs, Brooklyn, N. Y    1,00
Robert Kerr Elliott, Live Oak, Fla  3,00
Geo.Melling, Bladensburg, Md     1,00
Thos. Lees, Cleveland, Ohio  1,50
Mrs. Hannah Lees, Cleveland, Ohio    75
Jas. Lawrence, ditto      3,00
Geo. Rose, ditto  ;  1,00
Esther McKay, ditto    60
Nancy M. Tibbols, ditto   25
Geo. Sykes, ditto..'.  ],00
Ghas. Mason, ditto     1,00
Wm. Rich, ditto   ;.......  5)
John Madden, ditto..      50
R. T. Jones, Utica, N. Y‘ ;  1,00
S. C. Moses, Mendota, 111     2,00
Richard Roberts, Washington, D. C.......  1,00
Mrs. H. H. Handy, Fredonia, N. Y.     50
B. L. Wade, Jefferson, Ohio....   10,00
Mrs. Eliza Eastman, Concord, N. H  l,oo
M. H. W., New Orleans, La  1,00
C. R. Brooklyn, N. Y      2,00
F. H. R., ditto         50
T. H. B.    3   50
Mrs. E. A. P      1,00
Chas. W. Spaulding, Norwich, Conn  1,00
Mrs. J.T. G.......     50
C. G. Brown, Shelbina, Mo   1,00
H. J. Brown, ditto  ;  1,10
J» F. Hamilton, Berlin, Wis   2,00
E, Man, Litchfield, Mich        5,00
E, Nickerson, Burton Harbor, Mich.........  2,00
Dr. P. A. Connelly, Des Moines, la. 1,00
E. M. Davis, ditto  I.  1,00
Wm. Skinner, ditto      1,00
Geo. Sly, ditto    1,00
N. E. Mulford, Madison, N. J    1,00
Calven Westover, Oxford, N. Y...; : 10,00
Friends, Charlotte, Mich    2,50
David McArthur, Amsterdam, N. Y  1,00
F. Stevenson......;    50
Mrs. Sarah Drake, Bloomington, 111  50
“A. R.,” Maine     1,00
E.W. Parker      35
J. L. Willson, Sugar Loaf, Col      1.00
John Colby, ditto   1,00
Ira Copeland, Enfield, N. H    1,00
Wm. G. Dennison, ditto  1.00
S. G. N. Millertou, N. Y     2,00
E. R. Whiting, New Haven, Conn  5,00
Mrs. Mhry Bell, W. Philadelphia, Pa  85
H. W. Ballard, Malone, N. Y    2,00
J ohn Ryan, Waterford, N. Y  1.00
J. H. Shedd, Hardwick, Vt      1,00
An Investigator    1,00
Henry G. Post, Orange, N. J    1.00
A Friend to the Cause of Spiritualism    1.50
Sami. N. Stillman, New Brunswick, N. J  1,00
T. T. Baker, Marion, Ohio   %  1,00
W.M. O.     *  5,00
O. B. Rogers        1,00
P. W          60
John Robbins   ...,.  1,00
Dr. Rhodes          1,00
EAST LONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven.
Admission free ; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Wednesdays at eight. Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seanse, 5s. 6d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
o—
t H. E.FRANOES, Hon. SfiC.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. AMonthly Journal
devoted to the inve itigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly—Leipsic: Oswald Mutzh. London: The
(Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. •
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood's Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, A ve
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
