AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE,
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
NO. 91. (VOL. IV.—NO. 21.)
LONDON: MAY 22, 1874.
Published Weekly; Price Threepence
(Eontentg.
Spirit Teachings. No. XI 241
Review.—“ Studies from the Spirit World”—Visions in Crystals and in
Water—^Reincarnation—Political Prophecies Fulfilled—Curing Cases
of Obsession  243
Spiritualism in Foreign Countries, No. II 245
Carlyle on Time, Space, and Immortality  246
Poetry:—Labour for Love  247
CorrespondenceMiss Showers and Florence Maple seen at the same
time—Miss Lottie Fowler’s Mediumship—Miss Showers’ Medium-
ship—A Seance with Mr. Morse in Manchester  
Experiences in Spiritualism. No. III. By the late J. W. Edmonds
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York
The Psychology of Church Ceremonies
The Human Double  
The Sunday Spiritual Meetings  
Answers to Correspondents  
Paragraphs:—Spiritualism in Australia, 252
King” ...    
Attempt to seize “John
247
249
250
251
252
252
252
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London: Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
THE LIVERPOOL ' PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1873.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.
Mr. John Davidson, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Riece.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Casson.
Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. John Lamont.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
Mr. Bretherton. I Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. G. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. R. Casson.
Mr. D. Gay.
Mr. T. B. Griffin.
THE object of tils Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing to
become affiliated, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. Thomas Blyton, 12, High-street, Bow, London, E., of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.)
President.—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Mrs. O. A. Blyton,
Mr. George Blyton,
Mrs. Amelia Comer,
Mrs. Theresa Wood,
Council.
Mr. T. Blyton.
Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
A. M. Greene, Hon. Secretary.
A DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on hear¬
ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, and in¬
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might be
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 15th September, 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter careful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modem Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations (vide Rule IX). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordi¬
nary ieawce held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on the first Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Rooms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelope
should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
The lunacy law reform association wm
hold Public Meetings on Monday, the 25th of May, and three follow¬
ing Mondays, at Eight o’Olock, in Lawson’s Rooms, Gower-street, to con¬
sider recent violations of the Lunacy Laws. Dr, Kenealy in the Chair.
Admission, Front Seats, 2s. 6d.; Second ditto, Is. Body of the Hall, Free.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy 8vo.,
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel swedenborg: his life and
WRITINGS. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the
Doctrines and the other-world Experiences of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav¬
ings, by C. H. Jeens—i Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
ii
May 22, 1874.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS;
MEETING- of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee Was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The, Objects of this Association are
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, jpro tem., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Q-rosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
RiCHAED FittON, Secretary pro iem.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRIT DALISM.
Presidents.
Mr. F. Oowper. | Mr. 0. Hunt.
Treasurer.—Mr. Whitley.
Librarian.—Mr. Maynard, 103, Lisson-grove.
Secretary.
Mr. 0. White, 4, Gray-street, Manchester-square, W.
The Membership Subscription is Is. per Quarter, which admits to full
fellowship, including use of books from the Progressive Library. Seances
are held weekly, to afford members an opportunity of becoming acquainted
with the Phenomena. Members are assisted in the formation of new
circles. A public meeting is held every Wednesday evening at the
Hall of Progress, 90, Church-street, Paddington, at 8 o’clock.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. -Library for use of members
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly ; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
A. M. GREENE, Hon. Secretary.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
YERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
into England the subject attracted attention in [Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assocciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
.Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Oommittee
Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISTS.—Sunday Evening Seevices aee Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o’clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening-; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
R. PeaeOe, Hon. Sec.
ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
THE following are the Speakers at Goswell Hall on
Sunday Evenings up to the end of May:—
April 19—Mr. R. Haepee, “Reasons for being a Spiritualist.”
„ 26—Miss Keeyes. .
jq! Mes. Bullook.
„ 17—Miss Kbeves.
„ 24—Rev. F. R. Young, of Swindon.
Whit Sunday—“ The Day of Pentecost and its Spiritual Phenomena.”
De. Sexton in the Chair.
R. PeAeoe.
NEWCASTLE SOCIETY
FOE _
PROMOTING ENQUIRY INTO MODERN SPIRITUALISM!
OLD FREEMASON’S HALL
(WBIB’S OOUET),
NEWGATE STREET, NE WCASTLE-ON-TYNE.
President.—Mr. Armstrong.
Treasurer.—Mr. John Miller. Secretary.—Mr. F. Pickup.
Seances are held for'Members and Friends on Sunday Evenings, doors
open at 6.30, to commence at 7; at d on Tuesday and Thursday evenings,
doors open at 7.30, to commence at 8.
On no account will anyone be admitted after the time announced for
commencing the meetings, except on special occasions, when permission
must be obtained from the sitters who form the circle at the time of
application.
Tickets of Admission may be had of the Committee.
Yrawwrer.—Heebeet N. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane.
Offices.—te, BERNERS STREET.
Hon. &c.—Mrs. Lowe (Louisa).
Price 2s. 6d.
aLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND.—
Showing the harmony of things spiritual with things material.
“ The tone of the book is exceedingly pure and good.”—Christian Spiri¬
tualist.
*** A. list of spiritual and mesmeric works on application.
London: Bailliere and Co., King William-street, Strand.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
T> EYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
JLAj fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyms, 7, Rue de -Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
EVERY THURSDAY MORNING
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS,”
A Weekly Record of Spiritualism, Scientific and Ethical.
And contains articles by Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton, “Fritz,”
Rev. Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes, Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, and other
general information.
16 PAGES—ONE PENNY.
F. Pitman, 20, Patemoster-row, London, E.C., and can be ordered of any
bookseller.
1 REWARD.—MASKELYNE & COOKE.
\7\r'br an EXPOSE
OF THE FALSENESS OF THEIR PRETENSIONS.
By ALGERNON JOY, M.I.O.E. (IOTA).
London: J. Burns, 15, Southampton-row, W.O.
Price One Penny.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE.
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
EJ. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North, that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &o., &o. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms, cash, postage extra,
E. J. BLAKE (successor to MR. BARKAS),
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
TO OWNERS OF HOUSE PROPERTY.
E. BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
11, PARK GROVE, SHEPHERD’S LANE, BRIXTON,
T> ESPECTFULLY solicits the patronage of Owners of
JL\i House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixton
Road, and near the Railway Station—offering special facilities for the
prompt letting of Houses of every description.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
JL xr| xd] ilp %$& xdj
VOLUJVIE FOUR. JHUJVIBEF( TWEjMTY-ONE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MAY 22nd, 1874.
Cjre SpnLalist J^trrs^apr.
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADYERTISEMENTS :—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Seduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, hut preserved for hinding.
Ooerespondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions]:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of '■'■The Spiritualist" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari-
■ ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
Jhe Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 1S4, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. 0. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118 Clarendon-street
% Fitzroy.—Mrs, Campbell, news agent, 78. Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Bruuswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road,
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thomfeldt, Main-ttreet.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher.
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny,
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 10s., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
JjlEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—i, Fitzroy-square, W.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
' NO. XI.
I have thought very much of what has been said by
you, and I have read some of it to a friend in whose judg¬
ment I rely. It is startling to find doctrines of
Christianity, which we have been taught to consider as
essential dogmas of the faith, denied under the symbol
of the Cross. I cannot more strongly put my difficulty
than by saying that though your statements command my
assent intellectually, still the faith of Christendom which
has lasted now 1800 years, and more, camiot lightly be
upset by statements however reasonable they may seem to
me, which are not authenticated by any authority
that I can test. Will you state clearly for me what posi¬
tion you assign to Jesus Christ ? what authority you can
show which gives you any power to reverse or develops
teaching which bears His name, and to substitute a
new gospel for the old one ? Can you give me satis¬
factory evidence of your own identity and of the reality
of the mission which you claim ? Evidence that would
be accepted by plain reasonable men. I cannot under^
take to accept what seems to me so revolutionary a change
as of Divine origin and binding force, on the unsupported
word of any angel or man, whoever he may be. Nor
ought I to be asked to do so. Though the change is very
gradual, I think I discover a perceptible difference in
your communications. And there seems to be a divergence
in teaching between some spirits who have communicated
to you: while the bond which can unite a number of
opinions which profess to come from such discordant
sturces must be slight.
Friend, it is to us a source of pleasure tliat we have
so far stirred your mind as to draw from you so earnest
and rational a series of questions as these. Believe us,
so far at least as this, that no frame of mind is more
pleasing to the Supreme than that which seeks
earnestly and intelligently for truth; refusing mere dog¬
matic statements from whatever source they come;
weighing all in the balance of right reason, and pre¬
pared honestly to accept the result. Far from wishing
to quarrel with such a temper, we hail it as the
evidence of a receptive and honest mind, which will not
resign a former belief without substantial reason, but
* In the Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of some
remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-road, St. John’s-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extracts they gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium, free, to a large extent at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently, the “spirit teachings” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many: kach gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing, peculiar to the communicating intelligence, is always preserved,
and the individuality remains throughout the same.—Ed.*
242
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 22, 1874.
which, yet, is willing to learn new views of truth so
they be authenticated by reasonable internal and exter¬
nal evidence. Such doubts and difficulties are worth
far more to us than the credulous frame of mind
which gulps down indiscriminately all that comes under
specious colour; far, far more than that stagnant temper
which no storm can stir, whose glassy surface no breeze
can ruffle, and on whose impassive, uninterested content
no word of spirit warning can make any impression.
We hail your doubts as the best evidence of our suc¬
cessful dealing with you ; we welcome your arguments
as the intelligent proof that you have seen the full pro¬
portions of the claims we make as the messengers of the
Most High. Your difficulties shall be answered so
far as we have power to answer them. There is
a point beyond which it is impossible for us to present
evidence. Of that you are aware. We labour under
one great disadvantage, as compared with human wit¬
nesses ; we are not of your earth, and cannot produce
for you the kind of evidence which would weigh in your
courts of justice. We can but state for your accept¬
ance the evidence on which we ground our claims to
your hearing and acceptance, leaving to your own mind
in fairness to decide upon the points which we cannot
clear up by evidence.
For our own statements must to a very great extent
be unsupported save by statements of those who work
with us. Many of us have told you of our earth identity,
and have given to you proof that ought to be conclusive
that we are fully acquainted with the earth lives of
those whose names we bear, even in the minutest par¬
ticulars. If that is not convincing to you: if you
reply that such information might have been gained by
false and deceiving spirits, who might have gathered
the facts for the very purpose of deluding, we point
to the tenor of our intercourse with you, and remind
you of the standards of judgment set up by Jesus Him¬
self, “ By their fruits shall ye know them.” Men do
not gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles. We
fearlessly refer you to the whole tenor of our teaching
for proof that it is Divine.
It would not consist with the dignity of our mission,
were we to dwell longer on this point. We are not
surprised that you should have referred to it; but if
our reply be not convincing to you, we have nothing
further which we can add to it, and must await in
patient prayer the time when the evidence will come
home to you. We would not have you to accept our
words before. We will patiently abide the issue.
With respect to the union of spirits who were in
their earth-life divergent in their views qf God and the
hereafter; who dwell in different climes, at different
ages of the world’s history, we could say much, and
will at another season. For the present we point to a
misconception which is inseparable from the state in
which you live. You cannot see, as we see, the almost
utter worthlessness of what you call opinion. You
cannot know while yet the eye is veiled, how the veil
is rent by the dissolution of the spirit from the earth-
body ; how the speculations that have seemed so all-
important are seen to be but idle, baseless fancies;
while the germ of truth that has underlaid the theolo¬
gical creed is found to be very similar in essence, albeit
of divers degrees of development.
Ah, friend! religion is not so abstruse a problem as
man has made it. It is comprised within narrow
limits for the intelligence that is domiciled on earth.
And the theological speculations, the dogmatic defini¬
tions with which man has overlaid the revelation of
God, serve but to perplex and bewilder, and to involve
the spirit struggling up to light in the mists and fogs of
ignorance and superstition. The groping after truth
which has been characteristic of the progressive spirit
in every age has been but the same story, different,
indeed, in detail, but identical in issue: As with the
blinded eye of sense, so with the spirit that gropes
blindly to the light. The mazes of superstition be¬
wilder it; the mists of human ignorance close around
it. It staggers and wanders on. its devious way, now
here, now there, now cast down to earth and trodden
under foot by the adversaries, but rising anon, and
with outstretched arms struggling onward still. Those
wanderings seem to [you similar, and when confined
within the limits of a single sect they are indeed alike,
but to spirit gaze they have very many points of differ¬
ence. The struggling spirits who in all ages have been
groping their way through the maze of human opinion
to the fount of light have pushed their way through
tortuous paths which bear only a superficial similarity.
To us the theological opinions which have characterised
certain sets of men called churches are not so identical
as you think. We see the inner points of divergence;
and we know that to no two spirits yet created were
precisely identical views of the unknown ever pre¬
sented. They have framed for themselves ideas more
or less like those of other spirits, but never identical
with them. It is only when the veil is removed that
the fog lifts; the speculations die with the body of
earth, the opinions shift aside, and the purged eye sees
what it has dimly pictured, and corrects by the
quickened senses the impressions of earth. Then it
sees how that the germ of truth is at the base, helped
in some to progress by a receptive mind and a clearer
spiritual vision ; hampered and clogged in others by a
cramped intelligence, and a debased earth-body. But
in all cases of yearning souls thirsting for true know¬
ledge of God and of their destiny, the opinions of earth
rapidly fade, and the spirit sees how baseless and un¬
real they were. It is only when there is no desire for
truth that error is permanent.
So you see, friend, that truth is the exclusive heri¬
tage of no man, of no sect. It may and does underlie the
philosophy of Athenodorus, as he yearned after the re¬
fining of the spirit, and the subjection of the flesh in
ancient Borne. It was as really existent in the
groping after union with his Master whiqh enabled
Hippolytus to endure the loss of earthly existence in
sure anticipation of a real life, even though he only
dimly saw its characteristics. The self-same seeking
after truth elevated and ennobled Plotinus, and raised
him, even in earth-life, above and beyond the earth-
sphere. It dwelt in the breast of Algazzali, in spite of
the errors by which it was dimmed. It—the same
blessed germ of Divine truth—lightened the specula¬
tions of Alessandro Achillini, and gave force and reality
to the burning words which fell from his lips. The same
pure jewel shines now in one and all of .them. It is
the common heritage which enables them to be banded
together in a common work and for a common end—
the purifying of that deposit of the truth which man
has from his God—and the ennobling and elevating of
man’s destiny by the outpouring of more spiritual views
of God and of the destiny of spirit. To them their
earth-opinions are of little moment now. They have
vanished long ago, and have left behind them no trace
of the prejudice which clouded the soul on earth and
May 22, 1874.
THE SPIEITUALIST.
243
hampered its progress. They have died and are buried,
and over their grave no tear of sorrow is dropped. No
resurrection awaits them: they are for ever done with :
but the jewel which they once enshrined shines with
ever-increasing lustre, and is imperishable and eternal.
In its illuminating influences, in the aspirations which
its presence inspires, lies the mysterious bond of sym¬
pathy which is powerful to unite in one work spirits
who, in earth-life, were so apparently divergent in
opinion.
This may serve to suggest for your consideration
reasons why it may not be so strange as it now seems
to you that we should be banded together for a common
object, consecrated to a common work by one earnest
desire to spread abroad the knowledge of a higher and
purer religion, through an instrument chosen by us for
special indications of fitness of which we are the best
judges.
"We are confident that continued thought will lead
you to recognise the reasonableness of what we say.
Eor definite proof you must be content to wait until
you, too, have rent the veil, and stand with unclouded
eye in our company. The most we hope for now is
the gradual establishment of conviction. We desire
that you should apply to us the same law by which the
Master judged—the Divine law of judging others as
you would yourself be judged. We ask no more.
Ifobteto.
Studies from the Spirit World (Studien uber die Geis-
terwelt.) By Adelma, Baroness von Yay, nee Countess
of Wurmbrand. Leipsic : Oswald Mutze.
This book is as remarkable as it is interesting. It
contains an account of the mediumship of the Baron
and Baroness von Yay, and of their experiences since
the year 1865, chiefly extracted from the authoress’s
diary, as entered at the time. The circumstances under
which she first became acquainted with Spiritualism
have been already related in these pages by the Baroness
herself; we will therefore describe the manner in which
she received the communications which led to her con¬
firmed belief in the theory of reincarnation, and to her
development as a healing medium of extraordinary
power. The communications were given through the
hand of the medium, who, being always unconscious of
what was written was soon convinced that she was
guided by some other intelligence than her own. The
first of these communicating intelligences called himself
“ Thomas,” and claimed to be a young man whom the
authoress had known as a child, and for whom she had,
in accordance with the teaching of the Romish Church,
offered up prayers after his decease. He thanked her
for her prayers, and assured her that they had helped
him to progress. Thomas brought other spirits, who
recommended the Baron to sit for drawing. This was
done, and many remarkable pictures were produced,
some of which are printed in the work before us. One
is said to be the portrait of Alfred the Great, King of
England; a cat and dog from the planet Mercury,
drawn by the spirit Humboldt; a spirit travelling
through space; Robespierre, Madame de Pompadour,
&c. The explanations to the pictures were always
given in writing through the hand of the Baroness.
By degrees more exalted spirits gave communications
and teachings on the nature of the spirit-world and of
spirit existence. Many of the teachings were incom- i
prehensible at the time, and were only explained by the
light of after-knowledge and experience; and those
which are included in the extracts taken from the
diary are necessarily fragmentary and unsatisfactory.
The authoress has therefore gathered together in one
chapter at the beginning of the volume the philosophy
deduced from these teachings. This philosophy corre¬
sponds, as far as we are able to judge, with that taught
by Allan Kardec and the ^Spiritist school; neverthe¬
less the authoress assures us that the first knowledge of
the doctrine of reincarnation came to her independently
before she had seen Kardec’s writings. Some of the
spirits knew of the doctrine, others did not; but as soon
as the medium came into direct communication with
her guides, who gave the names of Buddha, the Yirgin
Mary, and St. Lawrence, and whose teachings with
regard to this doctrine were confirmed by the experi¬
ences of spirits with whom she was in daily com¬
munication, she could no longer, she says, reject that
which now began to approve itself to her under¬
standing.
About three months after the writing begun, a medi¬
cal friend came to ask whether advice could be obtained
through the medium on a case which caused him great
anxiety. A prescription was written by Hahneman.
The medium knew nothing of homoeopathy, but the
doctor came again and again, the homoeopathic treatment
continued, and the patient recovered. The fame of the
medium spread abroad, and the sick were brought
from far and near, until the Baron’s house became a
complete homoeopathic dispensary. Mesmeric passes
were frequently applied and mesmerised water given;
husband and wife both took part in the healing pro¬
cesses, though the prescriptions were always written
through the hand of the Baroness.* The cases cited
were chiefly persons affected with ague, epilepsy, typhus,
and cramp in the limbs and vital parts, such complaints,
in short, as are incidental to low-living, ill-drained dis¬
tricts, and ill-fed populations.
During a visitation of the cholera in Bohemia and
Hungary in the year 1866 forty-three serious cases were
cured by medial powers; only one man and two
children of those treated did not recover.
The power of communicating with the spirits of
those still in the flesh was tested in a remarkable
manner during the war of 1866. A cousin of the
authoress, called W—, who was in the campaign, professed
continually to give accounts of himself through the hand
of the medium while the body was asleep, which ac¬
counts always agreed with subsequent letters received
from him. On the 4th July W—’s spirit wrote: “ We
have had a great battle. I am well, but so tired.” On
the 6th a letter came from W—|dated July 2nd : “ We
expect a decisive battle to-morrow. I have a feeling
that I shall not escape, but do not fret about me; my
trouble will soon be over, &c.” A day or two after¬
wards W—’s name appeared among the list of those
slain in the battle of Kbniggratz, which took place on
the 3rd July. On the 9th, however, W—’s spirit again
wrote: “ I assure you I am not dead. I came safely
through the fearful battle of Koniggratz: do not doubt
my words; I will write you a letter in the flesh shortly.”
Three days later the Baroness received a letter from her
cousin dated July 11th: “God and the good spirits
* For the better development of the healing power, the mediums were
recommended by their guides to adopt a vegetarian diet, which was con¬
tinued for nine months, with great benefit to their own health as well as
the development of their medial powers.
244
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 22, 1874,
protected me in that frightful carnage; thousands fell;
450 privates in our battalion, and two officers.”
Another form of mediumship possessed by the Baron
von Yay is that of clairvoyance, whereby she sees scenes
and persons by gazing at a glass of water. She says :—
VISIONS IN CRYSTALS AND IN WATER.
The first time of looking I saw- immediately all kinds of
objects: first, a railway, a dog, and then forms resembling
men. It seemed, at first, as if the water moved, then there
came little clouds, or spots; after that-the water seemed to
have a wavy motion, while the spots became forms, and
developed gradually into distinct objects. I was during this
time in my normal state, quite conscious of all I saw, and of
all that was going on around me. But I always have a feeling
of sympathy with what I see, whether of joy or sorrow, gloom
or cheerfulness, comfort or discomfort, happiness, dislike, or'
vexation. The sight of high and pure spirits exalts me,
whereas that of undeveloped or malicious spirits makes me feel
bad-tempered. I am even cognisant of scents, of warmth and
cold. . . . Sometimes the pictures appear much larger than
the size of the disc would seem to allow. Sometimes they
look like photographs, at others like chiaroscuros. Light blue,
yellow, golden, reddish, lilac, and grey, are the colours I see.
While I gaze into the water, I dictate what I see to my
husband, and then give explanations mediumistically, gene¬
rally under the influence of the spirit Laurence or Buddha.”
The pictures are said by the spirits to he produced
by means of reflected light; when the art of' photo¬
graphy is more perfected, it will he possible to print them
off by a proper intermediate arrangement of magnifying
lenses; this statement of theirs we need scarcely say
appears at present to be thoroughly unreliable. The
visions are probably psychological impressions, having
no basis in physics. The medium often saw spirits
who were present; sometimes representations of inha¬
bitants and scenes in distant planets; sometimes past
events of lives which are imprinted in the atmosphere.
Future events are said to be shown in accordance with
the conclusions drawn by the spirit present. The higher
spirits can judge and show more truly than lower ones.
She says:—
REINCARNATION.
Sept. 9th, 1868.—I see a female form, young, in a black
woollen dress ; over her head is a gleaming golden star; her
hands are bound upon her back; she carries a wheel. Two
dark men are walking before her, two behind her; these men
are wrapped in great cloaks, and have broad-brimmed hats.
Near her is a man with a forked tool in his hand, another with
a scourge. The men with the large hats have masks, or iron
visors. The poor girl is bound, and looks as if about to do
penance. ... I have a strange feeling of sympathy with her,
as if she were myself; it is something quite peculiar. Now
she is lying on a black iron bed, with all her limbs tied down
to it. Is that her torture ? A ray of light streams from the
star above her head, and shines down into her heart. The
men with the large hats point towards the light, which grows
brighter and brighter. I see her soul leaving her body; it is
quite golden. Her hair is fair and long. A beautiful spirit
receives her. The men fall trembling on their faces.”
While you were looking, you felt truly, for you saw your
own former incarnation on the earth. You recognised yourself
and your sufferings. In the year 1394, you were a maiden at
Cologne, endowed to a rare degree with the gift of prophecy.
When the priests found it out, they wanted to use you for their
own purposes, but you held fast to G-od and the right. Then
they proclaimed you a witch, and you had to pass through all
the tortures of a witch’s trial. While they laid you on the
rack, you were so completely mesmerised by good spirits, that
you scarcely felt anything of the torture and the fiery tongs.
You foretold their priestly decline and death, and the Reforma¬
tion. When your spirit left your murdered body, the prison
shook; the men heard a rustling sound, and your spirit stood
shining before them, so that they fell trembling on their faces.”
POLITICAL PROPHECIES EULEILLED.
3rd December, 1869.—I see a very rough sea. A ship is tossing
amidst huge waves. A mighty angel is hovering over the sea,
and spreads out his arms above it. Explanation :—“In this ship
on the stormy sea is the Emperor Francis Joseph; it must
un into Trieste, for there is a violent gale; the archangel
Michael protects the voyagers.” The next day we read the
following in the newspapers :—“ News from Trieste, Dec. 3rd.
His Majesty Francis Joseph continued his journey from Lissa
in the midst of wind, rain and snow, and this morning, at
7 o’clock, after the rage of the elements had somewhat spent
itself, the little squadron approached our shores.”
13th December, 1869.—The imperial vault at the Capucines
in Vienna; a beautifal angel and a mourning gentleman
stand near a coffin. The Emperor Napoleon III. with a
tottering crown upon his head; three great eagles are pecking
the crown, and he fades gradually away.
Explanation:—“ Next year a member of the imperial family
will die; the Emperor mourns by the coffin; near him stands
the pure and glorious spirit of the departed one. In the year
1870 Napoleon will lose his crown; the double eagle of Russia
and the single eagle of Prussia will take it from him.” The
death of the Archduchess Maria, who was universally beloved,
was Ithe unfortunate fulfilment of this picture. That con¬
cerning Napoleon needs no comment.
The second part of the work is called The Book of
Cures, and constitutes about two-thirds of the whole
volume. It by no means, however, partakes of the dry
nature of ordinary records of this kind. Every case
is given with the fullest details, and has a novel in¬
terest for reasons that we will endeavour to explain.
The medium had been taught by her guides that the sub¬
jects of long-standing chronic diseases are frequently kept
back from recovery by undeveloped spirits, who take
advantage of the weakness of mortals to haunt and per¬
secute them. The first thing, therefore, to be done in
each new case brought for treatment is to bring the
obsessing spirit under the will-power of the medium.
This is done by “ evocation,” which the spirit, being
generally of a low order, is forced to respond to. . Then
a conversation ensues by means of writing; the spirit
is made to give an account of himself, is reasoned with
and prayed for. Some of these spirits retire in a
better frame of mind, some are refractory, but in the ma¬
jority of cases they are grateful for the benefit they de¬
rive from contact with higher influences, and in the end
become powerful coadjutors with the medium in helping
those whom they formerly caused to suffer. No cures
are effected without prayer, and the conversion of evil-
disposed spirits. The mediutn kept a long list of those
requiring the aid of her prayers, and every evening a
certain time was set apart for such intercessions.
Many proud intellectual spirits mocked at this prac¬
tice, but the faith of the medium remained unshaken,
and her stedfastness was in all cases rewarded.
CURING- CASES OE OBSESSION.
The child of a friend having been attacked by epilepsy, the
medium sought the advice of her guides.
“ The guides wrote as follows:—The child is suffering from
the influence of an opposing spirit; if this were removed, she
would recover. She is highly sensitive, and has a very ex¬
citable nervous system; therefore she feels the presence of
this spirit painfully. The child can only be healed by the
evocation and conversion of this spirit, who is so material,
that he bears the name of Raimund. In order to ward off
an attack, call him to you at once by the power of prayer.
Bind him here, that he may leave the child, and talk with
you. We will go ourselves and attract him by our fluidic
power. But as this spirit is still so material, he can hear
your human words better than our spiritual communications.”
The medium then begged the spirit Raimund to leave the
child M. and to come to her. The pencil, which she held
in her hand, was moved violently, and with some difficulty
began in a heavy, coarse handwriting—“ I am here! Raimund.”
Q. “ Why do you go to M. ? Do you know that your presence
injures her ?”
Raimund. “ I am seeking my body, I am not tormenting
the child; it will not speak, and that annoys me.”
Q. “We admonish you to pray, will you pray with us?”
R. “ What are you talking about ? I cannot pray; I am
a murderer, I am one of the condemned. All is dark to me.
May 22, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
245
I have been dead long, and only know evil. I am like a
chained dog ! Are you not afraid of me ? I am quite wild !”
The pencil now moved in a different manner, the medium
felt calmer, and the spirit of the child itself wrote in a beau¬
tiful handwriting. It was about 10 o’clock at night, when the
child was asleep. We know that the spirits of mortals can
make use of mediums while the organism is sleeping. The
communication ran thus :—
M. “ I come to speak to you, Eaimund! I tell you
solemnly, I forgive you all you have done to me; spare my
parents now any further sorrow.”
E. “ No.”
M. “ Why not ? Have you not worried me enough ? ”
E. “ No ; I want to have you with me.”
M. “ I cannot come. God is my salvation I Eepeat that
after me.”
E. “ God is my perdition 1” “
M. “ Oh, Eaimund! how you grieve me! Can you not
pray ?”
E. “ I can curse.”
M. “ Oh, Adelma, help me! I want to get free from
Eaimund. I am chained to him, for I once neglected a duty
towards him. Help me to convert him. God, give me
strength for it 1”
The medium besought E. earnestly to desist from his per¬
secutions.
E. “ I have told you already that I am seeking a body. I
want to be M.’s brother, that I may persecute her still more.”
The Medium : “ Violent incarnations are against the law of
God. Eepent first, and then pray for this grace.”
E. “ I will not; the devil helps me.”
The guides of the medium then wrote this prayer:—
“ Father! Thou Creator of All! Thou Lord of All! Thou
End and Beginning! Hear our cry ! We beseech Thee for
E.’s deluded spirit. Oh, Father! let Thy grace and pity
reach him! Send him a ray of Thy light, and lead him to
repentance ! Eeceive then his humble petition, for Thou art
his Father. Amen.”
A pause here ensued, and then was slowly written :
E. “ My head swims. That prayer has done me good. If
you will promise to talk to me often, I will not molest M. Ah,
I can never be good! My God! I am sinful.” (After
another pause): “ May God forgive me! My resolution is
taken! I will go away from M. if you will pray for me every
day.”
The guides: “ His repentance is sincere; he will improve.
. . . We need not prescribe for the child. Tell her mother
to give her ten mesmeric passes every day.”
These conversations and prayers were continued first daily,
then at intervals, for about two months, during which time
the medium received news of the gradual improvement of the
health of the child. Eaimund made a full and free confession
of the whole of his former life, after which he became com¬
pletely converted, and was permitted to be reincarnated as he
had desired. M.’s recovery was complete, the guides of the
medium having prescribed various simple remedies throughout
this period, which were made use of by the mother, though
she did not believe in the spiritual origin of the prescriptions,
and begged her friend to offer up no more “ mesmeric prayers”
for her child.
It is impossible to read tbis book without being struck
with the arguments here presented in favour of the
doctrine of re-incarnation and of the efficacy
of true prayer. We are fully sensible that in
the analysis and isolated portions here given, we have
but presented our readers with dry bones, and that the
subtle essence which is the life of the structure has es¬
caped in the process of translation. As a literary
composition we have no hesitation in saying that
the book has little merit, but it has a higher
claim on our regard. Its charm consists in an
undescribable purity and loftiness which breathe from
every page, and appeal to the highest feelings of the
reader, and which are, in all probability, the simple
but unconscious expression of the character or spirits of
the writer.
Me. Moese lectured in Oldham'last Saturday, and there
was a large attendance.
SPIRITUALISM IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
No. II.
The May number of the Revue Spirite contains an
account of a most successful seance, given with Mr.
Williams as medium, on the 23rd April, in Paris, at
the house of M. le Yeh, 26, Avenue des Champs-
Elysees, in the presence of eighteen persons.
The company present having refused to tie Mr.
Williams to his seat, he was placed on a sofa in a re¬
cess, before which hung a curtain of very slight texture.
In a few minutes John King issued from the cabinet,
bearing his mysterious lamp, which he passed up and
down his face, that his features might be distinctly seen
by all present. Mr. Gledstanes then introduced him
to M. Leymarie, whom John invited into the cabinet,
and who testified, to the satisfaction of the assembled
company, that he had seen the medium lying entranced
upon the sofa, while the spirit passed the lamp over his
sleeping form.
After an hour’s conversation, during which John was
seen by the light of his lamp to rise to the ceiling, he
gave the parting word so well known to all frequenters
of the Lamb’s Conduit-street seances—<f God bless
you ”—and retired behind the curtain. While he was
in the midst of the table (as the writer expresses it),
Mr. Williams was heard coughing in the cabinet, in
tones at least an octave higher than those in which the
spirit was at that moment conversing.
On the 3rd March last (the fifth anniversary of the
passing away of Allan Kardec) three hundred persons,
including Mme. Kardec and delegates from all the
Spiritualist circles of Paris, assembled at the tomb of
the founder of French Spiritualism, where, after crowns
of immortelles had been deposited, discourses were pro¬
nounced by various speakers in praise of the “ Master”
amidst much enthusiasm.
In Madrid, also, the anniversary was observed with
much ceremony. At a meeting of one of the societies,
papers were read and poems" recited, composed for the
occasion, expressing admiration of the great Spiritist,
and devotion to his teachings.
Spiritualism in Spain seems to be in a very flourish¬
ing condition, judging from the number of active
centres and from the journals in circulation. No less
than five of these are regularly advertised, published
respectively in Madrid, Seville, Barcelona, Alicante, and
Murcia, besides two in Mexico, also in the Spanish
language. Much interest in the subject of Spiritualism
has been created by an inspirational work entitled,
Pages de deux existences et pages d’outre-tombe, written
by a young medium, a member of the Spiritual Society
of Saragossa. The founder, and some time president
of this society, was a former Minister of State for War,
General Don Joaquim Bassols, of Maranosa.
The president of the Spiritual Society of Madrid is
M. le Yicomte de Torres Solano.
The Revue Spirits contains a photographic portrait
of the spirit-photographer of Paris, M. Buguet.
The editors of Psychic Studies continue to present
their readers with copious extracts from the Spiritualist
and from the writings of Messrs. Crookes, Wallace, &c.
Dr. G. C. Wittig writes thus on the subject to the
foreign secretary of the National Association: “You
will see how largely we have laid your scientific writers
on Spiritualism under contribution in our journal, and
I need hardly say how deeply we are indebted to them.
Not that we are here without witnesses to the truth.
246
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 22, 1874.
but the importance of their evidence sinks into in¬
significance in the presence of the searching investiga¬
tions of English men of science. It is only from the
scientific and sceptical stand-point that we can force
our ship’s screw through the density of Grerman igno¬
rance on this subject. You, however, will be able to
read between the lines, and to follow the thread which
will lead you through the labyrinth of our seemingly
opposing tendencies.”
CARLYLE ON TIME, SPACE, AND IMMORTALITY.
From Sartor JResartus.*
Deepest of all illusory appearances for hiding
Wonder, as for many other ends, are the two grand
fundamental world enveloping appearances, space and
time. These, as spun and woven for us from before
birth itself, to cloth our celestial Me for dwelling here,
and yet to blind it—lie all embracing as the universal
canvas, or warp and woof, whereby all minor illusions
in this phantasm existence weave and paint themselves.
In vain, while here on earth shall you endeavour to
strip them off; you can, at best, but rend them asunder
for moments and look through.
Is the past annihilated or only past; is the future
non-extant or only future ? Those mystic faculties of
thine, memory and hope already answer; already through
those mystic avenues, those the earth blinded sum-
monest both past and future and communest with
them, though as yet darkly and with mute beckon-
ings. The curtains of yesterday drop down, the cur¬
tains of to-morrow roll up ; but yesterday and to-mor¬
row both arei Pierce through the time element, glance
into the eternal. Believe what thou findest written in
the sanctuaries of man’s soul, even as all thinkers in
all ages have devoutly read it there; that time and
space are not God, but creations of God; that with God
as it is a universal Here, so is it an everlasting Now.
And seest thou therein any glimpse of immortality ?
0 Heaven! Is the white tomb of our loved one who died
from our arms and had to be left behind us there, which
rises in the distance like a pale mournfully receding
milestone, to tell how many toilsome uncheered miles
we have journeyed on alone, but a pale spectral illu¬
sion ! Is the lost friend still mysteriously here even as
we are here mysteriously with God ! Know of a truth
that only the time shadows have perished or are perish¬
able; that the real being of whatever was, and whatever
is, and whatever will be is, even now and for ever. This
should it unhappily seem new, thou mayst ponder at thy
leisure; for the next twenty years, or the next twenty
centuries; believe it thou must; understand it thou
canst not.
Again, could anything be more miraculous than an
actual authentic ghost ? The English Johnson longed
all his life to see one, but could not, though he went to
Cock-lane, and thence to the church vaults, and tapped
on coffins. Foolish Doctor! Did he never, with the
mind’s eye as well as with the body’s, look round him
into that full tide of human life he so loved ? did he
never so much as look into himself ? The good Doctor
was a ghost as actual and authentic as heart could
wish; well nigh a million of ghosts were travelling the
streets by his side. Once more, I say, sweep away
the illusion of Time, compress the threescore years into
three minutes : what else was he? what else are we?
Are we hot spirits that are shaped into a body, into
an appearance, and that fade away again into air and
invisibility? This is no metaphor; it is a simple
scientific fact. We start out of nothingness, take figure,
and are apparitions; round us, as round the veriest
spectre, is eternity; and to eternity minutes are as years
and seons. Come there not' tones of love and faith as
from celestial harp-strings like the song of beatified
souls ? And again do we not squeak and gibber, in
our discordant screech-owlish debatings and recrim-
inatings, and glide bodeful and feeble and fearful, or
uproar and revel in our mad dance of the dead, till the
scent of the morning air summons us to our still home,
and dreary night becomes awake and day ? Where
now is Alexander of Macedon ? Does the steel host
that yelled in fierce battle shouts at Issus and Arbela
remain behind him ? or have they all vanished utterly
as perturbed goblins must? Napoleon, too, and his
Moscow retreats and Austerlitz campaigns! Was it all
other than the veriest spectre hunt, which has now
with its howling tumult that made night hideous, flitted
away ? Ghosts! There are nigh a thousand million
walking the earth openly at noontide; some half
hundred have vanished from it, some half hundred have
arisen in it ere thy watch ticks once. Oh, Heaven, it
is mysterious ! it is awful to consider that we not only
carry each a future ghost within him, but are in very
deed ghosts! These limbs, whence had we them ?
This stormy force, this life blood with its burning
passion ? They are dust and shadow—a shadow system
gathered round our Me, wherein through some moments
or years the Divine essence is to be revealed in the
flesh. That warrior on his strong war horse, fire flashes
through his eyes; force dwells in his arm and heart;
but warrior and war horse are a vision—a revealed
force—nothing more. Stately they tread the earth, as
if it were a firm substance. Fool! the earth is but a
film; it cracks in twain, and warrior and war horse
sink beyond plummet’s sounding. Plummets ? Fantasy
herself will not follow them. A little while ago they
were not; a little while and they are not; their very
ashes are not.
So has it been from the beginning, so will it be to
the end. Generation after generation takes to itself
the form of a body, and forth issuing from Cimmerian
night on Heaven’s mission appears. What force and
fire is in each he expends; one grinding in the mill of
industry; one, hunter-like, climbing the giddy Alpine
heights of science; one madly dashed in pieces on the
rocks of strife, in war with his fellows: and then the
Heaven-sent is recalled; his earthly vesture falls away,
and soon even to sense becomes a vanished shadow.
Thus, like some wild-flaming, wild-thundering train of
Heaven’s artillery, does this mysterious mankind
thunder and flame in long-drawn, quiet succeeding
grandeur through the unknown deep. Thus, like a
God-created, fire-breathing spirit-host, we emerge from
the Inane; haste stormfully across the astonished earth,
then plunge again into the Inane. Earth’s mountains
are levelled and her seas filled up in our passage. Can
the earth, which is but dead and a vision, resist spirits
which have reality and are alive ? On the hardest
adamant some footprint of us is stamped in; the last
rear of the host will read traces of the earliest van.
But whence ? Oh Heaven! whither ? Sense knows
not; Faith knows not; only that it is through mystery
to mystery; from God and to God.
“We are such stuff as dreams are made of, and our little
life is rounded with a sleep.”
Me. Foster, the test medium, has reached Australia;
his seances in Melbourne are largely attended.
May 22, 1874,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
247
' LABOUR FOR LOVE.
"With twelve white egga in a downy nest,
The old hen sits on a box in the shed;
And the children yesterday, stood and guessed
Of the hopes that hid in her speckled breast.
Of the dreams that danced through her red-crowned head,
“ She thinks,” said the labour hating Ned,
“ Of a land where the weasels are all asleep,
Where the hawks are blind, and the dogs are dead,
Where are heaps of corn as high as the shed,
And plenty of earth-worms for her to eat."
“ She remembers the country fair,” says Bess,
“ And the prize she took at Hampton-town
“ No, no, she don’t,” cried James the less,
“She dreams of her little ducks, I guess;
She is wondering why they didn’t drown."
And what say you, little curly pate
I see a thought in your merry eye,
“ She fink,” says the bright-eyed baby Kate,
As she lifts the latch of the garden gate,
“Dere’llbe tickens to skatch for by and by."
Three cheers for the wisdom of three years old
Who told you the secret, little pet,
That love is better than ease or gold,
That labour for love pays a thousand fold ?
“ Ooo finked it oorseif." Well, don’t forget!
New York News Letter, Jan 1,1874.
(ftuTOspontiettce*
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.']
MISS SHOWERS AND FLORENCE MAPLE SEEN AT THE SAME
TIME.
Sib,—I trust that you will, in the cause of truth, allow me
space in your journal to record the facts of a seance which was
given expressly for myself and daughters under the following
circumstances:—
Mrs. and Miss Showers came to our house to bid us “ Good
bye,” as they intended to leave London next morning.
I prevailed upon them to stay and take tea with us, during
which we heard raps in different parts of the room. I expressed
regret at not having an opportunity of bidding Peter and his
companion spirits “ Good-bye,” when it was suggested that we
should have a short seance, and probably Peter might come
to us.
We accordingly (Mrs. and Miss Showers, my daughters
Carrie and Nina, and myself) sat round our little “ spirit
table ” in the light. Peter soon announced himself by move¬
ments of the table. I then took the opportunity of bidding
him “ Good-bye,” when, instead of replying to me, he gave the
following message to Mrs. Showers:—“ You must not leave to¬
morrow, but give a seance, and I will try to show to Mrs.
Corner, Florence and my medium at the same time.” Mrs.
Showers replied, “All arrangements for our departure are
made, Peter.” But Peter was inexorable; “ You must stay.”
Mrs. Showers then said : “I suppose I must, and if you show
the medium and Florence together, I shall be glad I have
done so.” He then repeated, “ I will try.” Peter afterwards
favoured us with some vocal music (Mr. Corner being also
present).
Next evening, I, accompanied by my daughters, paid our
visit to Mrs. and Miss Showers. No other guests were present
during the evening. We had a preliminary dark seance, and
the power was very great. Materialised hands touched us fre¬
quently—one very large hand was placed on the top of mine,
and took hold of my bracelet. I said, “ The bracelet fits
tightly round the wrist; you will not be able to remove it.”
Immediately greater strength was used by the fingers, and the
bracelet was off! My daughter had a ring taken off her
finger (we found them afterwards on the table). Peter and
his friends then began to talk to us in twelve different and
direct voices, he saying the power was so great that they did
not require to use the organs of the medium. Each spirit
gave his or her name, and in some cases said what they were
when on earth, and each maintained a distinct individuality.
After sitting about half-an-hour, Mrs. Showers relighted the
lamp, and Miss Showers went into the back room, which was
separated from the room in which we sat by damask curtains
in the place of folding-doors. We soon heard Peter’s voice,
instructing the medium what position she was to take for
entrancement. He then asked my daughter Carrie for music.
She played some light airs on the piano, which Peter accom¬
panied vocally. This continued for about a quarter-of-an-
hour, when the further side of the curtain was drawn back, and
the materialised form of Florence appeared. After remaining
a few minutes, during which she closed the curtain two or
three times, she came into the room, and allowed us to sur¬
round and closely scrutinise her. I had seen her three times
previously, but her pensive style of beauty and graceful attire
greatly surpassed her former appearances. The head-dress,
I am certain, could only have been. arranged on earth by an
artist, and it would have been impossible for a young girl of
seventeen years of age to have accomplished such a task in a
dark room. The dress hung in the beautiful graceful folds
peculiar to Florence, and the train was half a yard on the
ground; her appearance realised the ideal of a spirit. During
our scrutiny, the height of Florence was discussed, when she
said she would stand by my side before the looking-glass, and
measure her height by mine. (I am five feet seven inches.)
On this being done, we found she was about two inches
shorter, giving her a decided advantage over Miss Showers of
some inches.
Florence then sat down and the following conversation took
place: “Mrs. Showers, I am so hungry.” “ What, Florence,
can you eat ? ” “ Yes, Mrs. Showers.” “ Well, I can only give
you a biscuit, and shall have to leave the room to get it.”
“You can go, Mrs. Showers.” Florence remained talking to
us during the absence of Mrs. Showers, and on her return took
the biscuit and began to eat it. She was sitting opposite to
me, about eight feet away. I begged her to come nearer so
that I might be able to see her eat more distinctly. She
immediately came and stood before me and continued eating ;
the action was perfectly natural, and after consuming half the
biscuit, she put the remainder on the mantel-piece. I may
here add the crumbs were found after Florence departed.
We then asked the spirit to favour us with some music.
She readily assented, and played some pieces in a masterly
style, Mrs. Showers saying, neither she nor her daughter knew
them, and agreed with Florence, when she said, “ I can play
better than my medium.” On leaving the piano she said,
“ Now, Mrs. Corner, go with me into the dark room and I will
try to show you the medium ; I do not think you will like to
see her, for she is .” I lost the word, for Mrs. Showers
hearing partly what was said, exclaimed, “ What is that you
say, Florence ? ” when she replied, “ Oh,'she may not be very
much unlike herself.” She then took my hand and we went
into the room together. The bed stood across the room, so
that we went straight to its side. Mrs. Showers opened the
curtains a little, but Florence was much afraid of the light
falling on the medium, I found Miss Showers lying on the
outer edge of the bed farthest away from the light; Florence
reclined on the bed, and I leaned over it, resting on my arms,
both of us looking at the face of the medium. The light was
dim so that I could not distinguish the features, but the face
was sufficiently lighted up to present a corpse-like appearance.
After remaining in this position for about ten minutes, the
medium to all appearance dead, and the spirit form and dress
mingling with my own, I must say a feeling of awe began to
come over me, and I asked Florence if she would allow my
daughter Carrie to come to us. She consented, and I retired
from the bed, but remained in the room, my daughter taking
my place close to the spirit. While she was looking at the
medium, Mrs. Showers, at the request of Florence, opened the
curtains, but this time much wider, so that a stream of light
fell upon the medium’s face, and my daughter saw that it was,
as Florence had foretold, much altered in appearance. The
spirit then took my daughter’s finger and passed it down the
face of the medium. Mrs. Showers expressed a wish to see
her daughter; but one look was sufficient; the ghastly face was
too much for her; she turned away exclaiming, “ How horrible.”
We then left the room, each feeling very anxious to again see
Miss Showers. We had not been many minutes, when the
well known voice of Peter told us to take a light pnd see the
medium. We gladly availed ourselves of the invitation, when
we found Miss Showers still entranced, but restored to her
original appearance, much to our relief. The spirit Florence
had vanished. Shortly after Miss Showers joined us, uncon¬
scious of all those marvellous things that had transpired.
3, St. Thomas’s-square, Hackney, Amelia Cobneb.
May 18th, 1874.  
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER’S MEDITJMSHIP.
Sib,—During the last two years I have been interested in
Spiritualism, and have taken such opportunities as I can of
investigating it, although, living some eighty miles away from
London in a small country town, my opportunities have been
few.
248
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 22, 1874.
Having read of Miss Fowler and seen her advertisement, I
resolved to pay her a visit, and did so on Friday last, and
the result to me was unexpected and gratifying.
After a little conversation, in which I gave no hint or clue
of who I was, Miss Fowler granted me a seance. She gave me
her hand, and after a time I noticed a strong throbbing in my
arm. Miss Fowler then took both my hands, and very soon
passed into what is termed, a mesmeric state.
I knew that she did not feign this, because I have mesmerised
personal friends, and the upturned eyes, and the change that
comes over the face of one in such a state, are, as far as my
experience goes, unmistakeable.
Miss Fowler, in a different voice altogether, said there were
spirits round me, and one was my father, who, she said, died
a few years ago suddenly, in his chart of a fit, and she
added he was lame in the knee, and walked with a stick
some years before his death. This was true and somewhat
astonished me, but it was but the beginning, for Miss Fowler
next told me correctly the number of my brothers and sisters,
and the fact of one being dead; and she then described
minutely the personal appearance of my deceased father, and
that correctly.
She then passed on to my mother, who, she stated, was
living; and described two ailments she is subject to, one
being a tumour on the right side, and touching on her own
side the spot. In all this she was right.
Returning to my father, she said he had when living some¬
thing the matter at the back of the neck; this I did not know,
but since arriving home, I have questioned my mother, and
found that long before I could remember, he had a complaint
on that part from which he suffered much, and had to be
cupped.;
She then described the appearance of my grandfather and
uncle, both of them dead. After this she appeared to wander
somewhat in her remarks, and I could not follow her, but
soon she was clear again, and making myself the subject, she
startled me by her knowledge of my life and character. This
is but an outline of what took place; I was simply too
astonished to remember all. Now, I am simply an investi¬
gator—an honest one I hope, and this seance has decided me
to go on and endeavour to ascertain more.
I don’t presume all are so successful as I was with Miss
Fowler; but having read your journal carefully, I did all I could
to put her at her ease before the seance began; indeed, I told
her if I had any tests I ghould be pleased, and if not, I should
think no more about it. It may be this influenced the result.
I must think the seance was genuine; it is impossible for
me to account for what occurred on any other ground. I am
quite sure Miss Fowler never saw or heard of me before. I,
therefore, have great pleasure in stating these facts. To some
of your readers they may be interesting, and to vouch for
them I give you my name and address, which will satisfy you
that I can have no motive in misrepresenting anything that
occurred. Registrar.
May 7, 1874.  
MISS SHOWERS’ MEDIUirSHIP.
Sir,—I consider it my duty, in the interest of truth and
Spiritualism, to give my testimony as to the honesty and in¬
tegrity of Miss Showers.
My wife and I attended a seance by the invitation of Mrs.
Showers, at that lady’s temporary residence, some three or four
weeks previous to her leaving town, we being the only visitors.
Peter’s voice was heard shortly after our sitting at the table,
and after a little vocal performance by him, he invited Miss
Showers into the cabinet. In a very few minutes he desired
my wife and me to go in, and see that the medium was pro¬
perly tied and secured. Having examined the knots, whiph:
were sealed with wax, we returned to the room we had left,
which was separated from the cabinet by long curtains pinned
in the middle. We waited, perhaps, from five to ten minutes,
when the curtains opened, when the figure of the spirit calling
herself Florence Maple appeared, and told us to come close
to the curtain that we might see for ourselves that it was not
the medium. We accordingly approached. Her dress, which
was pure white, appeared to me to be made of fine calico, her
head-dress of fine muslin. She was very affable, allowed us
to shake hands, to feel her dress, and the muslin on her head.
We were in conversation perhaps five minutes, when Mrs.
Showers had occasion to open the door. Florence immediately
said that the conditions had been disturbed, and that she must
go, and almost before we could bid her adieu, she appeared to
me, not to walk, but to fade away. In two minutes Peter in¬
vited us into the cabinet. We found the medium, who was
dressed in black, in the same state as we left her with regard
to the tapes, knots, &c., but in a deep trance, and I can vouch
for it that it was physically impossible for her to change her
dress, to untie the knots and reseal them again, in the time,
even supposing her capable of attempting to do so.
With regard to the truth and sincerity of Mrs. and Miss
Showers, I am as fully satisfied as I am of my own exist¬
ence, and I am only very sorry Serjeant Cox did not stay his
hand before giving publicity to a statement (very far from con¬
clusive) calculated to give pain and annoyance to two ladies,
whose only reward in the cause of truth and Spiritualism has
been their self-sacrifice and devotion.
Thos. . Wilks,
Late President of the Dalston Association
of Inquirers into Spiritualism.
The Library, Dalston-lane, London, E.
Sir,—The controversy going on in your columns between
Mrs. Showers and Serjeant Cox would seem [to lie in a nut¬
shell. He himself has nailed his colours to the mast; he has
written two volumes, with the object of proving a theory,
apparently arrived at after a very limited experience of the
so-called spiritual phenomena, and by that theory he seems
determined to abide, coute que coute. Mrs. Showers has hit
the nail on the head when she says, in her letter, “ I was
enticed into the house with one object, and one alone, that of
forcing testimony to contradict Mr. Crookes.” The bed of
Procrustes will not fit the captives, and so they must be cut
down to fit the bed. “ The facts militate against your theory,”
said a savant to his brother {pseudo ?) savant. “ Then so much
the worse for the facts,” was the complacent rejoinder; sic
apparently, Serjeant Cox. Observer.
May 15 th, 1874.  
A SEANCE WITH MR. MORSE IN MANCHESTER.
Sir,—Perhaps it may be interesting to your readers to have
a short account of an agreeable evening a few Manchester
Spiritualists spent in discussing the following questions of
interest:—
Mr. Morse’s guides first delivered a short but very interesting
address upon the Darwinian, the scientific, and the religious
theories of the origin of the human race, in which the speaker
professed to believe that they might all be considered to con¬
tain some truth, but that none of them were per se satisfac¬
tory. The Darwinian theory, he said, was perfectly true so
far as regarded the origin of the physical nature of man, but
failed utterly to account for the spiritual element—the origin
of that element in man which distinguishes him from the
animal. The spirit Tien contended that at that period in the
development of animal life on this globe, when the human
species had become as regards the body so highly developed
that the latter became capable of being the receptacle of the
spiritual principle, that the latter was then “inspired” from
the spirit world, and thus a sort of creation actually did take
place, and that this inspiration of the spiritual principle,
which has since continued to manifest itself on earth, took
place in different parts of our globe about the same time.
Thus he accounted for the varieties of race, black and white;
a distinction which no heat of sun or its absence could alone
ever have produced. In reply to a question, he stated that
beings were sometimes even now born of men, whose bodies
were not sufficiently developed to render it possible for them
to absorb this spiritual principle from the spirit world, and
they were accordingly known as hopeless idiots—mere animals,
in fact, who could never preserve any individuality or identity
hereafter. He differed from Andrew Jackson Davis in the
belief that the human race was originally black, or was the
result (spiritually) of a gradual evolution of the spiritual
principle, although he did not mean by any means to say that
men’were not now much further advanced in spirituality than
formerly.
The nature of Jesus Christ.—He said that he did not know
the individual called Jesus of Nazareth, but had seen Him at a
distance, and knew others who did. He did not consider, nor
did those who knew Christ, that He was more divine in His
origin than other spirits in His own sphere, which, however,
was a very advanced one, and if the various degrees of advance¬
ment in spirit life could be represented by twenty figures,
Christ might be said to be in No. 20. Christ was supported
and had the co-operation of numbers of advanced spirits who
saw the need of His teachings. The world was ripe for the
reception of new ideas; whenever that was the case a mind
would be developed capable of receiving them. There was apt
THE SPIRITUALIST.
249
May 22, 1874.
analogy between tbe spiritual and the material growth of the
world.
Future punishment and forgiveness of sins.—There was no
possibility of avoiding the natural consequence of spiritual
wrong-doing by forgiveness any more than there was for physical
wrong-doing ; the consequences ensue just the same, whether
the breach of the laws of nature occurs through the ignorance
of the sinner or his wilful act. As regards those who sin in
ignorance owing to the circumstances in which they are placed,
the responsibility will rest heavily on those who are placed in
the position of teachers of their fellow-creatures, and who
neglect their duty.
Prayer.—Should prayer be continued, i.e., daily, or only on
special occasions ? Prayer should be a continual aspiration
towards that which is divine. He prays best who lives best.
The use of formal prayers meant nothing, unless as the actual
expression of an inner aspiration.
Not being a shorthand writer I cannot vouch for the literal
accuracy of the above report, but in substance it correctly re¬
presents the answers given by the spirit. Fritz.
Manchester, May 18th, 1874.
EXPERIENCES IN SPIRITUALISM.
No. III. •
BY THE BATE J. W. EDMONDS, JUDGE OE THE SUPREME
COURT, NEW YORK.
At the same time, I was seeing in the newspapers and hear¬
ing from others, whose testimony I could not, as a rational
man, disregard, accounts of transactions in various parts of
the country, of similar general character, differing only in
detail.
To make “ assurance doubly sure,” I instituted the scientific
inquiries mentioned in my published address. The gentleman
whose aid I had on that occasion, was an officer of rank in
the army, a graduate at West Point, and at one time an as¬
sistant professor there. He was one of high attainments and
character, affording then to me, as they would now to others,
if I could venture to name him, most satisfactory evidence of
skill and integrity in our researches.
Now, under all these circumstances, what was I, as an
honest man, blessed with common sense, to do? Had I a
right to disregard the evidence of my own senses, enlightened
by patient inquiry and the deductions of my own deliberate
judgment drawn from that evidence ? Aware as I was of the
state of feeling which would make the reality of this thing so
acceptable to me, and thus guarded against self-delusion,
could I rationally overlook the fact that the same deductions
flowed from the same facts in minds not liable to such a bias ?
Could I reject a weight of evidence that was allowed to prevail
in all human transactions, and without which the earth would
be a bedlam? If I did, on what was I to rest my judgment ?
What, indeed, but caprice, or arbitrary will, or the opinion of
others ! No, I could not thus trifle with my reason. The re¬
sponsibility was too great, and I therefore brought to bear on
this subject the same faculties which were daily at work within
me, in passing judgment on the life, liberty, or property of my
fellowmen, and the result at which I arrived was an inevitable
one. And I venture to say, from all my observation in this
matter, that such must be, as such has been, the result in
every candid mind that will give the subject an impartial ex¬
amination. It is this which daily causes hundreds who are
convinced against their will, and in defiance of all precon¬
ceived opinions, to wheel into the spiritual column. It is this
which causes the tide of Spiritualism, fed from these thousand
rills, to swell rapidly against the barriers of error and super¬
stition. It is this, among other things, which tells me to
beware lest these revelations be of God, and it be impiety to
doubt them.
There was, however, another element in the phenomenon
which had immense influence with me, and that was the
intelligence displayed by this unseen power. That was almost
always manifested at every interview, and the question that
obviously presented itself on the very outset was, whether
that was from the mind of any mortal present, or from some
other source ? So that, even if it had been established that
the sounds and physical manifestations of which I have been
speaking were produced by mortal agency, still the question
remained, whence came the intelligence that was displayed ?
For instance: What was the power that read the thoughts
which I had buried for a quarter of a century in the depths of
my heart ? What was the power that knew my interrogatory
the instant it was formed in my mind ? What the power that
read the questions which I had written in the solitude of my
study ? What the power that revealed my secret purposes to
the bystanders, and the purposes of others to me ?
Before those questions could be answered satisfactorily, to
me at least, the whole character of that intelligence, and all
the phases and forms in which it displayed itself, must be
understood. It seemed to me that it would have been rash
indeed to have attempted to pronounce a judgment on one or
two or a few exhibitions of it only. Nor did I; but carefully
for months, aye I and now for years, have I watched it, and
there is no possible solution of it that I can imagine that can
bring it to any other complexion than that it is out of and
beyond mere mundane existence—in other words, that it is
super-terrestrial.
To enable others to judge, however, whether my conclusion
was right, I must, even at the hazard of being tedious, detail
some more instances of its manifestation.
The answering of mental questions and the statement of
facts, which, there is every probability, are known only to the
interrogator, are, and for four or five years have been, of such
frequent occurrence, and have been witnessed by so many
thousands and tens of thousands, that it is idle to dwell upon
those topics, especially when the opportunity of everybody’s
examining and witnessing for themselves is abundant all
around us. He who ventures to deny their existence may as
well deny the existence of the Crystal Palace, because,
forsooth, he has not taken the trouble to go and see it. His
wisdom is that of the driven sheep, which leaps over an un¬
real object because another sheep has just done it before him;
and of him, at least, it cannot be truly said, “ Never does
nature open her breast before a worthy mind only that it may
behold, and then fall asleep.”
Other instances, however, of a kindred character may as
well be mentioned. I will take as an instance the fact of my
friends in New York being informed in regard to me, while
absent last winter in my journey to Central America. The
first time they heard of me, I had been at sea four days in a
steamer. We were 800 miles from home, and in long. 70° 2'
W., off the coast of Florida. We had spoken no vessels since
we left our port, so that there was no possible way, by earthly
means, by which people in New York could know how I then
was, and what I was then doing ; yet, at half-past nine o’clock
that evening, the circle of which I had been a member being
assembled, asked, “Can any spirit inform us of the condition
of Judge Edmonds ?” and it was answered, “ Thy friend is
well and doing well. His passage thus far is favourable, and
his mind has been favourable. He is now thinking of the
circle, and now enjoying conversation about you. I see him
laughing and enjoying himself with the passengers,” &e. I
knew nothing of this till I returned home four months after¬
ward, and then, having learned it, I compared that statement
with the entries in my journal, and it was literally true, even
to the hour. Four days afterward, while I was still at sea, no
ship having yet been spoken, it was said with truth, through
the same medium, “Your friend the Judge is not so well as
usual, and he wishes himself in his own home again. He has
been writing considerably, and it has brought on his old dis¬
tress.” Three days afterwards they again heard of me, that I
had “ left the vessel, was on terra firma, recruiting from the
voyage,” &c. Our voyage had terminated the previous day,
and I had penetrated the interior about ninety miles. Twenty-
two days afterward they heard of me again, among other
things : “ He is now travelling slowly, not being yet sufficiently
inured to hardship to travel very rapidly. His head aches at
present.” On referring to my journal, I found that on the
two previous days I had travelled one day four leagues, and
the other day eight, and that at the very hour when that was
said in New York, I was confined to my bed with a sick head¬
ache, more than 2,000 miles distant.
Now what is to be said about this? What solution is to be
given of it ? It was utterly impossible that that could be done
by any mortal means that I know of. And whence came the
intelligence that thus conveyed the verity of things then
actually existing 2,000 miles distant ? Will it be said that it
was guessing ? If it was guessing, it was, indeed good, for it
was done seven times during a period of four months—every
time exactly right, and never twice alike.
I will give another instance. My daughter had gone with
her little son to visit her husband’s relatives at Ogdensburg,
on the St. Lawrence River, more than 400 miles from New
York. During her absence, and about four o’clock in the
morning, I was told through this spiritual intercourse that the
little fellow was very sick. I went to Ogdensburg after him,
250
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 22, 1874.
and found that at the very hour when I received that intelli¬
gence he was very sick, his mother and aunt were sitting up
with him and were alarmed for the result. Was this also
guessing, or my own imagining ? When I was so told, I was
not thinking of the boy, and yet the information I received
was true.
j I mention these things as happening to me, because I am
giving my own testimony ; yet I will confess that if they had
happened to me only, I should hesitate in relating them, lest,
perhaps, there might be some mistake about it; but we have
accounts of many other similar instances within the last three
or four years, and from reliable sources, so that if human
testimony is to be credited, they must be true.
Often have I witnessed this unseen power keep time to music
that we were making; and once by rapping on my forehead
with a hair-brush, and at another time by rapping on a violin
which I held in my hand, and keeping time to my singing,
and changing the time as I changed the tune and the measure,
which I did several times, and occasionally as abruptly as I
could.
Once when we formed a circle, the first thing that was said
was, “ Now, Judge Edmonds, about your trouble ?” I inquired
what trouble ? and it was answered by referring to a matter
which had indeed been worrying me.
During the last illness of my revered old friend Isaac T.
Hopper, I was a good deal with him, and on the day when he
died I was with him from noon till about seven o’clock in the
evening. I then supposed he would live yet for several days,
and at that hour I left to attend my circle, proposing to call
again on my way home. About ten o’clock in the evening,
while attending the circle, I asked if I might put a mental
question. I did so, and I knew that no person present could
know what it was, or to what subject even it referred. My
question related to Mr. Hopper, and I received for answer,
through the rappings, as from himself, that he was dead 1 I
hastened immediately to his house, and found it was so. That
could not have been by any one present, for they did not
know of his death ; they did not know my question, nor did
they understand the answer I received. It could not have
been the reflex of my own mind, for I had left him alive, and
thought he would live several days. And what it was but what
it purported to be, I cannot imagine.
So on one occasion I was warned as to the character of a
person in whom I was disposed to place a good deal of confi¬
dence. I thought there was some mistake, and I disregarded
the warning, yet after some time, during which the deepest
cunning was displayed, I became indeed well satisfied the pre¬
monition had been correct.
The warning which Governor Tallmadge received, and which
is mentioned in the following papers, is another instance. He
was in my library in the city of New York, and was told of
events which would happen, and which actually did happen
after his return to his home in Wisconsin.
So I was told before sailing for Central America last fall, of
several events which would occur during my journey, and
which did occur.
So the destruction of the steamer Henry Clay, and the
accident to the Reindeer on the Hudson River, last year, were
both foretold before they happened.
On one occasion I had forgotten the name of a person in
Michigan, to whom I wished a letter addressed on the subject
of spiritual manifestation, and upon asking, it was given to
me correctly through a medium.
Often when the party have been engaged in conversation,
this invisible intelligence has taken part, as if it was a person
present hearing what was said. Once I remember we were
conversing about propagating this new faith, and it was
spelled out to us by the rappings, “ Sow only where the soil is
prepared.”
Once it was spelled out to the medium, “Edward, you seem
to feel disposed to oppose us,” and on inquiry, we learned that
he was adverse to a measure which had been proposed, but he
had said nothing about it.
Once a person present expressed his fears, that by avowing his
belief in this faith he might be reduced to poverty and
destitution, and it was spelled out, “Read the last ten verses
of the sixth chapter of Matthew.”
On one occasion the medium in New York was told that his
sister was sick in the State of Michigan. A few days after¬
ward he received a letter through the mail, giving him the same
information.
I once asked a spirit what was the last event in life it
remembered, and what the first event happening here that it
noticed after death ? The answer detailed two events correctly,
one of which happened about an hour after the breath had
left the body.
I once mentioned that a dying person had whispered a faint
“ amen” to a prayer that was uttered. It was answered, 1 It
was not to his prayer that I said amen, but expressing my
resignation to the will of God.”
At one time the answers were spelled out by moving the
table, and not by rapping. A vial of water was put on the
table ; while it remained there the movings were very gentle,
but both before and after it was there, they were vehement
enough to have thrown it off.
I have frequently known the violence of the manifestations
to be softened at the request that they would be more gentle,
and so I have known them to be more vehement when
requested.
A word was once used that I had never heard before. Some
one present said that Mr. Davis had used it in one of his books.
It was said, “ Davis has not that term.” On subsequent
inquiry of him, I found that he never had used it, and had
never heard it.
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF CHURCH CEREMONIES.
Ik one of the earlier numbers of the SpirtuaUst, a
leading article was published on the Psychology of
Revivals, in which we clearly proved the phenomena
presented at certain specified revival meetings to be due
to the mesmeric influence of earnest and enthusiastic
speakers. In short, the phenomena are the same in
kind as those produced by lecturers who call them¬
selves “ electro-biologists,” and who make their sensi¬
tives on the platform do and say what they please, only
the lecturer is aware he is exerting psychological con¬
trol, whilst the preacher knows nothing of the nature
of the power he is unconsciously wielding. In less
exciting theological services the same influence of the
stronger mind over the weak, but milder in degree, is
doubtless at work, aided by other surrounding influences.
These influences are well described in the following
quotation from The Girls of Feversham, one of the novels
of Mrs. Ross Church (Florence Marryat), and is written
in the same grooves of thought as the article already
mentioned :—
St. Gwendulphus was a large 'and newly-erected building,
raised by private subscription for the Reverend Euohristus
Monkshood, whose doctrines were greatly admired by a
portion of the public, and who was supposed by it to have
been very hardly treated by his late Bishop, who had
objected to let him wear blue and red ribbons, and little
capes embroidered with gold and silver, and various other
adornments intended for weak heads and weaker minds
from the beginning of the world. Of course, as the majority
of subscribers to the new church were ladies; ladies as
is usual in such cases, had a great deal to say to its decora¬
tions and the conduct of its ceremonies; because if their
opinions had been put on one side, they would in all pro¬
bability have put their hands there too, instead of the church-
bag.
Besides which, the Reverend Euchristus Monkshood, or
Father Euchristus, as he wished his flock to term him, was
dependent on those very hands for the embroidering of
most of his sashes, and bibs, and aprons, and the other
little articles without which he could not appear in full
dress; and it was not only very convenient to have them
worked for him, instead of going to the expense of buying
them himself, but it afforded an excellent opportunity for his
fair devotees to show their obedience to the Church, and
desire to increase its glory.
Mrs. Dwarris, who, though amiable, did not possess the
strong, clear mind of her daughter, had jf sat under ” the
Reverend Euchristus ever since he had been established
there, and followed his doctrines as blindly as though he
had been inspired, and she had no judgment of her own;
but Belle was not one of the congregation of St. Gwen¬
dulphus. It was the only point on which she and her
mother differed—not sufficiently for argument, but enough
to make the subject an unpleasant one, and seldom dis¬
cussed between them. Else Mary Pelham could scarcely
have stayed a fortnight under their roof, without hearing
May 22, 1874
THE SPIRITUALIST.
251
or seeing something of Father Euchristus. She had attended
several Ritualistic churches during her former stay in
London, more for the sake of seeing their ceremonies
performed than of joining in them; but she had never
entered one with the feelings with which she passed
under the porch of St. Gwendulphus that morning. If ever
a woman was in a condition to be caught by tinsel and
glare, it was Mary Pelham at that period of her life; for
her heart seemed cold and dead; and her sensations were
blunted; and she wanted life and light, and colour infused
into her being. She followed her aunt mechanically
into the holy building, and was scarcely alive enough to
notice the profound obeisance which Mrs. Dwarris made to
the alter, nor the ostentatious parade with which she
crossed herself. The church, notwithstanding the season
and the hour, was warm and light; candles blazed upon
the altar, before a background of flowers and embroidery;
pictures hung around the walls; incense-burners were being
slowly swung to and fro, filling the atmosphere with a
sickly fragrance ; and the organ was sending forth a melan¬
choly strain of music in a muffled monotone, which was
intended to, and did add to the solemnity of the whole pro¬
ceedings.
Mrs. Dwarris, having found her own 'prie-dieu, motioned
her niece to take the neighbouring one, and sinking on her
knees, buried her face in her hands ; an example which was
quickly followed by Mary Pelham.
At first she had no idea but of doing what she was told;
she could not, and she did not wish to pray; but as the
music still rolled on, and the church-bell, tolled in the
centre of the building by a youth clad in semi-monastic
garb, joined its solemn voice to that of the organ, she found
her tears were flowing, and words were rising from her
heart almost against her will. The tolling of the bell ceased,
to give place to the chanting of the choir, and the whole
congregation rose to their feet as the vestry doors were
flung open and the long line of choristers, followed by
the priests, in all the glory of the ladies’ needlework, with
their arms crossed upon their breasts, and their eyes uplifted
to Heaven, issued forth, and fell into their respective
places. Mary was awed and excited: she was curious to
watch the formalities and genuflexions adopted by both
priests and people; the rapid utterance of the intoned ser¬
vice seemed to make her chilled and sluggish blood run
faster; the thrilling notes of the organ, and the united
voices of the choir, sent a pleasant shock through her
nervous system, which warmed it into life. She remembered
to have experienced just such a feeling once before, though
under very different circumstances, when she had visited
the opera for the first time, and the clash of the orchestra,
and the many voices rising in chorus, had served as a back¬
ground to some sweet, rapid melody, executed by the singers
in front.
She had held her breath on that occasion also, as the
harmonious phrases struck on her delighted ear: and had
felt that same strange cold feeling run through all her veins
as excitement and pleasure carried her far beyond the actual
things before her. So, with her first service beneath the roof
of St. Gwendulphus.
As soon as her interest was fully aroused, she followed it
eagerly, weeping a great deal during its progress ; and hardly
recognising that whilst she knelt and sobbed beneath the
influence of that plaintive music, it was because the sad soft
tones brought her own misery so vividly before her imagina¬
tion, and not because the tender mercies of God had melted
her heart. She mused on the wretchedness of this world;
especially such as she was called upon to feel and endure;
and the blessedness of the next, where all pain should cease,
and parted lovers meet again ; but she would not have cared
so much for the prospect, had there not been a chance of
seeing Lord Augmering there. She cried bitterly, poor girl,
at the words of the hymn:—
“ Brief life is here our portion,
Brief sorrow, short-lived care,
The life that knows no ending,
The tearless life is there; ”
but at the same time, when Mary left St. Gwendulphus that
morning she had not prayed one prayer more than she had
done before quitting her bedroom to enter it.
Matins were concluded, and she passed into the daylight
once more; her cheeks burning, and her eyes sparkling with
excitement; a very bad (instead of what Mrs. Dwarris had
termed a “ blessed ”) preparation for encountering the sober
duties and cold cares of a working world.
“ Oh, aunt! how beautiful, how comforting it was 1 ”
she enthusiastically exclaimed. “ I had no idea that a
High Church service made you feel like that; I have been
at several before, but they never affected me. How can
people say that it is not good for one? I feel as though
I should never be able to pray in another kind of church
again.”
“ I am delighted to hear you say so,” said Mrs. Dwarris,
who was charmed at the prospect of making a convert, a
feat she had not yet accomplished. “ Yes, indeed, it is very
wrong of anybody-to speak about what they know nothing.
Depend upon it,“my dear, this is the true Church, and all
others are but dissenters. I must introduce you to Father
Euchristus, and you shall hear what he has to say upon the
subject. I am sure you will never have a doubt again after
that.”
Belle Dwarris did not appear pleased when she heard
where her cousin had been that morning.
THE HUMAN DOUBLE.
The recorded instances of the human spirit having been
seen at one place while the body was asleep or dying at another,
are legion, and in a great number of cases well authenticated.
The persons seen have frequently been thinking intently
beforehand of those to whom they appeared. The apparitions
have often been seen by three or four persons at the same
time, and in. some few instances as narrated by Mrs. Hardinge,
and published in The Spiritualist, have produced physical
effects at the place seen, as if they were temporarily material¬
ised. They have appeared in their ordinary clothes in most
cases, hence it would appear that the thoughts or belief of the
spirits, result in their appearing in garb corresponding to that
which they ordinarily wear.
Here is a speculation for Mr. Serjeant Cox. May not a
medium for spirit forms pass at entrancement into the state
in which human souls are as in the foregoing cases separated
from their bodies, and being at the time under the mesmeric
control of the thoughts of sitters, may they not therefore
appear in the dress which the sitters believe to be suitable for
the occasion? But how about the materiality and objective
reality of the dress for the time being ?
The following narrative is quoted from News from the
Invisible World, published by W. M. Nicholson and Sons,
Wakefield. The book is without date. We wish that some
of our readers living in Kent would ascertain if possible
the nature of the dress in which the apparition was
clothed:—
Letter from Mr. Thomas Tilson, Minister of Aylesworth, in
Kent, concerning an Apparition seen in Rochester, written to
Mr. Baxter.
Rev. Sib,—Being informed that you are writing about
spectres and apparitions, I take the freedom, though a stranger,
to send you the following relation.
Mary, the wife of John Goffe, of Rochester, being afflicted
with a long illness, removed to her father’s house at West
Mulling, which is about nine miles distant from her own;
there she died, June the 4th, 1691.
The day before her departure she grew impatiently desirous
to see her two children, whom she had left at homerto the
care of a nurse. She prayed her husband to hire a horse, for
she must go home and die with her children. When they
persuaded her to the contrary, telling her she was not fit to
be taken out of the bed, nor able to sit on horseback, she en¬
treated them, however, to try: ” If I cannot sit,” said she,
“ I will lie all along upon the horse, for I must go to see my
poor babies.”
A minister who lives in the town, was with her at ten
o’clock that night, to whom she expressed good hopes in the
mercies of God, and a willingness to die.
“ But,” said she, “ it is my misery that I cannot see my
children.”
Between one and two o’clock in the morning she fell into a
trance. One widow Turner, who watched with her that night,
says that her eyes were open and fixed, and her jaw fallen ;
she put her hand upon her mouth and nostrils, but eould per-
252
THE - SPIRITUALIST.
May 22, 1874.
ceive no breath ; she thought her to be in a fit, and doubted
whether she were alive or dead. The next day this dying
woman told her mother, that she had been at home with her
children. “ That is impossible,” said the mother, “ for you
have been here in bed all the while.” “ Yes,” replied the
other, “ but I was with them last night when I was asleep.”
The nurse at Eochester, widow Alexander by name, affirms
and says, she will take her oath of it, before a magistrate, and
receive the sacrament upon it, that a little before two o’clock
that morning, she saw the likeness of the said Mary Goffe
come out of the next chamber (where th§ elder child lay in a
bed by itself, the door being left open), and stood by her bed¬
side for about a quarter of an hour; the younger child was
there lying by her; her eyes moved, and her mouth went, but
she said nothing. The nurse, moreover, says that she was
perfectly awake; it was then daylight, being one of the longest
days in the year. She sat up in her bed, and looked[steadfastly
upon the apparition; at that time she heard the bridge clock
strike two, and awhile after said, “ In the name of the Father,
Son, and Holy Ghost, what art thou?” Thereupon the ap¬
pearance removed and went away; she slipped on her clothes
and followed, but what became of it she cannot tell. Then,
and not before, she began to be grievously affrighted, and went
out of doors, and walked upon the wharf (the house is just by
the river-side) for some hours, only going in now and then to
look at the children. At five o'clock she went to a neighbour’s
house, and knocked at the door, but they would not rise; at
six she went again, then they rose and let her in. She related
to them all that had passed; they would persuade her she was
mistaken, or dreamt; but she confidently affirmed, “ If ever I
saw her in all my life, I saw her this night.”
One of those to whom she made the relation (Mary the wife
of J. Sweet) had a messenger who came from Mulling that fore¬
noon, to let her know her neighbour Goffe was dying, and
desired to speak with her; she went over the same day, and
found her just departing. The mother, amongst other dis¬
courses, related to her how much her daughter had longed to
see her children, and said she had seen them. This brought
to Mrs. Sweet’s mind what the nurse had told her that morn¬
ing ; .for, till then, she had not thought fit to mention it, but
disguised it rather, as the woman’s disturbed imagination.
The substance of this I had related to me by John Car¬
penter, the father of the deceased, the next day after the
burial.—July 2, I fully discoursed the matter with the nurse,
and two neighbours, to whose house she went that morning.
Two days after, I had it from the mother, the minister that
was with her in the evening, and the woman who sat up with
her last that night. They all agree in the same story, and
every one helps to strengthen the others’ testimony.
They all appear to be sober, intelligent persons, far enough
off from designing to impose a cheat upon the world, or to
manage a lie; and what temptation they should lie under for
bo doing I cannot conceive. Thomas Tilson,
Minister of Aylesworth, near Maidstone, in Kent.
THE SUNDAY SPIRITUAL MEETINGS.
Last Sunday, Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan delivered the last of
her series of weekly lectures, at the Cleveland-hall, Cleveland-
street, Portland-road, London. In consequence of its being
the closing lecture, there was a very large attendance.
A spirit, who stated himself to be the late Judge Edmonds
of New York, controlled Mrs. Tappan, and said that from the
boundaries of two worlds he greeted his listeners that night.
He had, however, to speak in an unwonted manner through
the lips of another, a task almost as difficult as it was to an
organist who attempted to play upon an instrument which he
had not previously studied to some extent. He was, however,
assisted by the ordinary guides of the medium, in his work of
attempting to make known to those present the details of the
greatest triumph of his life—the triumph over death. During
the whole of the death-change he was in the full and clear
possession of his faculties, and he felt no pain, although for
some years previously, he had been suffering from debility.
His body sank into sweet repose, whilst his spirit, already free,
gazed upon it as one would look upon a worn-out garment;
he was not aware of losing the control of any faculty ; he
re-entered his body at times to see the loved ones around his
bed; and he admonished his children not to mourn. He
sprang into the new existence as one would leap from bonds
which for years had enchained him to the flesh and to physical
suffering—he sprang forth delighted, as one would leap into a
golden sea, which gave Immediately strength, vigour, and
immortality. He beheld the friends around he had been
accustomed to converse with as spirits, and he felt the power
of spiritual utterance without word or sound, but as soul com¬
munion. He could not speak to his daughters left upon earth,
but he could palpably and perceptibly impress the mind of his
youngest daughter, who was aware of his presence. Then he
experienced the power of spiritual volition, and by the power
of will traversed vast spaces with his guides, to his new home,
where he met his wife. Among the spirits who welcomed him
were Horace Greeley, late editor of the New York Tribune,
Professor Mapes, and Benjamin Franklin. The latter was the
mast active worker in the next world in devising means to
communicate with men by means of physical manifestations,
and Mesmer was most active in improving the methods of
controlling mediums inspirationally.
At the close of the discourse the spirit guides of Mrs. Tappan
thanked the listeners for their constant attendance, and for
the work they had done in furthering the cause of
Spiritualism.
Spiritualism in Australia.—As might be expected,
the field in Australia is too limited to support a weekly paper,
so the Progressive Spiritualist (Melbourne) is now issued only
on the 15th of every month, and the Harbinger of Light on
the 1st. No. 19 of the Progressive Spiritualist contains an
extract from the paper which Mr. T. H. Noyes delivered before
the Dialectical Society, and from the memoir which Mr. W.
H. Harrison read before the Dalston Association. It also
quotes from The Spiritualist some accurate information given
through Miss Lottie Fowler’s mediumship; the statements
contain facts not known at the time to the medium or others
present at the seance, but verified afterwards. No. 20 contains
an interesting letter by Dr. Richardson on Spiritualism in
England, and a further long quotation from Mr. Noyes’ essay.
Attempt to seize John King.—Last week in Paris at
a seance with Mr. Williams at the house of Mr. Chinnery, a
man seized and tore off a piece of the robe of John King, and
rushed into the cabinet after the retreating spirit form.
Nothing was found there but Mr. Williams in a trance, with
no white drapery about him; he was very ill after the outrage,
and fell down once or twice the same night. When the robe
was seized John King’s lamp flashed up brightly as to illumi¬
nate his indignant face, as well as the whole room, and all the
sitters in it. After Mr. Williams was fully awake and the
meaning of the hubbub around explained to him, he asked to
be searched; this was done in the presence of several gentle¬
men and one member of the press, but nothing was found
upon him. The piece of John King’s robe remained, at all
events for a time. These particulars have been narrated to
us partly by Mr. Williams and partly by M. Gustave de Yeh.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A.—We will make a further attempt to read your last letter when
more at leisure. The compositors all object to set type from your
manuscript because of its illegibility. Your letters should be
copied out in another handwriting before they are posted. The
correction you speak of was made in our last, and although the
error ought to have been at once detected, it was caused at the
outset by indistinct writing.
S.—You deal with inferences only, which may or may not be
founded upon facts.
SYCHISCHE 8TUDIEN. A Monthly Journal, chiefly
devoted to the investigation of the imperfectly known phenomena of
psychic life. Edited by Alexander Aksaeow, Imperial Russian Coun¬
cillor at St. Petersburg. Published at Leipsic, by Oswald Mutze, Nurnberger
Strasse, 21. Price 5s. for six months.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed oh the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR-
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingslaud.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERR'S, 96, RUSSELL-STREET, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world, Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
in
May 22, 1874.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND OLAIBYOTANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Revealing Startling Facts
to the public, can be consulted on either Medical or Business Affairs con¬
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 12 to 8 (Sundays excepted.)
Terms, One Guinea. Address, 9, Somerset-street, Portman-square,
London, W.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as shove.
Mrs. w’oodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bernard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Campden-hill, Kensington.
MR. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush,
W. Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIYE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER. AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 161, Hampstead-
road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms, on applica¬
tion by letter.
JY. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 861, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,’’&c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
WORK BY THE SAME AUTHOR.
An elegant little volume, bound in blue and gold, carmine edges,
Price 4s. 6d.
LYRICS AND BUCOLICS. The Eclogues of Yirgil,
a selection from the Odes of Horace, and the Legend of the Sibyll.
“Mr. Noyes’ qualifications are of no mean order. In the first place, he
has the essential one of thoroughly entering into and appreciating the true
spirit of his master, and even where, as we have said, he exceeds what
we conceive to be the limits of a translation, we attribute it rather to his
being carried away by his own muse than to his misunderstanding his
author’s.. And here we have a second and no less important qualifi¬
cation for success. Mr. Noyes has a genuine poetic vein of his own, and
his lines have almost always the ring of true metal.”—Standard,
April 7th, 1868.
“ There is a certain freedom and swing in these translations, which not
only more resembles the brisk spirit and ringing tone of the original, but
is truly refreshing after the stiff rendering which had been generally made
of Horace’s choicest composition.’ —London Review, Feb. Ibth, 1868.
“The Translations from Horace are spirited and musical. His light
Epicureanism and gay Stoicism are happily hit off.”—Daily News,
March 3d, 1868.
“Mr. Noyes’ Version of Virgil’s Pastorals may fairly take its place by the
side of Mr. Connington’s translation of the iEneid. The lovers of such
poetry have here as pleasant a bouquet as can well be set before them,”—
Speculator March 7th, 1868.
mo THE READERS OF “ THE MEDIUM.” Answer
JL to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.”) Printed and published
by T. Scott, 1, Warwick-court, Holborn. Price One Penny.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82, St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery.
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
. Lately published,
'HAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Mental
Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. I. The MECHANISM of MAN-
By EDWARD W. COX, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s. 6d.
Contents.
chap.
1. Introduction.
2. What am I?
3. The Man.
4. How we Grow.
5. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Ofthe WUl.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
31. Soul—Spirit—Anima.
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. The Natural and the Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery.
45. Conclusions.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and charming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and not
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Herald.
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I ?.”—Leicester Mercury.
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflective readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientifle
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest.—South Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
London: Longman and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just published,
THE SECOND YOLUME OF “WHAT AM I P”
A Popular Introduction to Psychology and Mental Philosophy. By
EDWARD W. COX, Sergeant-at-Law. Price 10s. 6d.
This Volume completes the work. It treats of the Mechanism of Man in
action. The following are the
CONTENTS :—
Chap.
Preface.
1. Introductory.
2. Ofthe IntelligentMotiye Forces.
3. The Conditions of Existence.
4. The Mechanism in Health.
5. Of Sleep.
6. Of Dreams.
7. Of some of the Phenomena of
Sleep and Dreams
8. Of Dehrium.
9. Of Insanity.
10. Of Natural Somnambulism.
11. Of Artificial Somnambulism. I.
The Condition.
12. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
II. Clairvoyance.
13. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
III. The Mental Phenomena.
14. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IV. Catalepsy.
15. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
V. Insensibility and Uncon¬
sciousness.
CHAP.
16. Of Artificial Somnambulism
VI. History.
17. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VII. Healing Power.
18. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VIII. Supersensuous Percep¬
tion.
19. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IX. Thought Reading.
20. Of Trance.
21. Of Unconscious Cerebration.
22. Of Psychic Force.
23. Of Psychic Force. I. The
Proofs.
24. Of Psychic Force. II. Its Phy¬
siology.
25. Of Psychic Force. III. The
Directing Inteligehce.
26. Other Psychic Phenomena. I.
Communicated.
27. Other Psychic Phenomena. II.
Experiments.
28. The Summing Up
29. The Conclusions.
VOL. I. MAY BE HAD, PRICE 8s. 6d.
London: Longman & Co Patemoster-row.
A WIDOW LADY seeks a Comfortable Home in a
Gentleman’s Family where she could render her services valuable
in any Position of Trust; she is an Experienced Housekeeper, and has
been Companion to a Lady. References exchanged. Address H., care of
T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.
THE PROGRESSIVE SPIRITUALIST AND FREE
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Weekly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman.
Price Threepence. Tojbe had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 22, 1874.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.;
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
t has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to invesr
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows
“H. G-. Atkinson, Esq., F.G-.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. E. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Eev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles E. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.E.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Eobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hiliier, Esq.; Mrs. 'J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.E.O.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Eobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Eeed, Esq.; 0. Bussell Eoberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans, Esq.
“ Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred E. Wallace, Esq., F.E.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor ’and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
•paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no .pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’ ; .  : ;  
HOW TO DORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the Sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an. uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its - top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently .accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a fe'w seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table,- to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
6. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three.signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters ,of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to. work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of. communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
Tfle best manifestations are' obtained when the medium and all the
-members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
- Possibly at. the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
B
RITISH NATIONAL INSURANCE CORPORATION,
LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STEELING.
Bead OjTte.-BEOWN STEEET and MAESDEN STEEET, MANCHESTEE
FLEE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates
Bonus Eeturns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Eenewed Premiums;
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STEEET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities
NSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press. E •
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham. Daily Mail.
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lecturer, or what¬
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram¬
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature and its Needs’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!”—South Wales Press.
“He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience....' As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
“ The address given through the Ijps of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.”—Spiritualist.
“ The address quite riveted the attention of the audience.”—Eastbourne
Chronicle. '■
“ He spoke for nearly an hour-and-a-half. Not a hitch occurred. The
address was more or less argumentative throughout, in parts it was really
eloquent.”—Brighton Guardian.
MR. J. J. MOESE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
All letters should be addressed to his private residence, Warwick Cottage,
Old Ford, Bow, E.
THE ALLEGED IDENTIFICATION OF THE
ENGLISH NATION WITH THE “LOST HOUSE OF ISRAEL.”
By A. L. Lewis, Honorary Secretary, London Anthropological Society.
Being a Paper read before the British Association for the Advancement of
Science (Brighton Meeting), and before the London Anthropological
Society, with the Discussions thereon. Reprinted from Anthropologia,
No. 2 (by permission of the Council of the London Anthropological Society).
With the addition of an Append on the alleged Scriptural Evidence. The
whole showing that Englishmen are not Israelites.
London: Published by the Author, at 4, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O. 1874.
  PriceEixpehce.  
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt, and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER, LETTER¬
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Spiritualist Newspaper.
A CIRCLE is in Process of Formation: Sitters of Re¬
fined, Intellectual, Harmonious Natures are required: present
Members Ladies and Gentlemen of good standing. Manifestations of a
high order are promised by the Guardian Spirits for regular, faithful
attendance. Each Applicant will be submitted to the Spirit Guardians for
approval, and it is hoped offence will not be taken upon rejection. Address
by letter, with stamped envelope for reply, ;to C. W., 41, Bemard-street,
Russell-square. Applicants may call, if preferable.
PHOTOGRAPHIC COPIES OF THE ILLUMINATED
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size. Is.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish, of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by-El W
Allen, AveMaria-lano-London, E.'C.- “ •? - ;0 l' ,\ ‘
