Begistebep as a Newspaper.]
OS' f^YdSoifOG^ldS^
^dislKd^.
Stosppr toii^ Spiritualism iu (foai §ritaiir.
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON: iz, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque, 246, Boule*
yard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE 5 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 9x8, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street. •,
No. 242. (Vol. X.—No. 15.) LONDON : FRXDAYy APRIL 13, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Otantents*
Materialisation Phenomena     ...  1G9
Imposture among Mediums    ' 169
The History of the Liverpool Psychological Society. By
John ChapmanThe Rise and Progress of Organised
Spiritualism in Liverpool—The Pounding of the
British National Association of Spiritualists—The
Later Work of the Liverpool Psychological Society ... 170
Easter Day, 1877:—Spirit Teaching...   ... , ... 172
Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism  174
The National Association of Spiritualists:— A Special
Soiree and Musical Entertainment—Meeting of the
Council     ... j ,.'. ... |... ... 175
Spiritual Phenomena in Paris. By the Hon. J. L. O’Sulli¬
van, formerly American Minister at the Court of Por¬
tugal ... ... ... ....... ...     ... 175
A Strange Incident...      | ...  177
Murder of the Editor of The Religio-Philosophical Journal:—
Biographical Sketch of Mr. Stephens S. Jones  177
Poetry:—The Burial of Moses—To-morrow ... ... ‘ ... ... 178
Correspondence:—A New Slate-Writing Medium—Another
Phantom Dog—Dr. Slade—Freedom of Scientific Re¬
search in Holland—Mr. S. 0. Hall’s Challenge to
Messrs. Maskelyneand Cooke ... ... ... ... 178
Spiritual Phenomena among the Chinese:—A Chinese
Planchette—Peculiarities of Chinese Ghosts—The
Seeing Mediumship of the Emperor Yuen Tsung—
Filial Devotion -of Ko-Ai and Others—Chinese and
Japanese Illustrations of “ St. George and the Dragon”
—Mr. Kwei Ku and his Grandmother—A Warning to
Theosophists in relation to the Practice of White
Magic “  ... 180
Paragraphs:—The Religious Aspects of Spiritualism, 171;
The Strongest Shadow of Modern Spiritualism, 171;
Spiritual Phenomena in South Africa, 171; What is
the Explanation ? 174; Taxation without Representa¬
tion, 174; The Newcastle Psychological Society, 174;
Which is More Important ? 177; The Perils of Re¬
ligious Excitement, 177; A Speculation, 177; The
Employment of Mediums, 179; Dr. Maurice Davies’s
Lectures,179; The Case of Mr. Aldridge, 179; A Per¬
sonal Narrative, 179; Professional Mediums, 179;
Another Witness Wanted, 179; A Lepture.by Miss
Kislingbury, 179; Vaccination Statistics 179
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism. -
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
. ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rriHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-i- oldest Newspaper connected with ; the movement in the
United Kingdom', and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual •
stsinallthe English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors touts pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of literature. Art, Science .and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their.names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. O. E. Yarley; C.E.,-F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S;,’Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science’.’ (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no’decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred, R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement-ol Science-(1876): Prince- Emile de
• ayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;;His Imperial Highness .Nicholas of Russia '(Duke; of
Leuchtenherg); Mr. H. ,G. Atkinson, F.G.S. Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-flolmfeld (Holstein); Mr.. Gerald-
Massey; Le Comte-de Bullet-: the Hon. J. L. O.’SuUivan,.formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C, Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T P.
Barkas, E.G.S,;,Mr. Serjeant Cox,: President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, TJ.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order oUSt. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital: Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood: Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling
bury; Miss A Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ((United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the UnitedJKingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States, 4 dols. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in.to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgbmery-place,
Boston, US., and their receipt forwarded to ' W. H. Harrison,
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C.
MR. J. COATES, the Mesmerist, will give a
series of seven entertainments at the Albert Hall,
Virgel-street, Scotland-road, Liverpool, commencing Monday,
the 16th inst., and every evening, at eight, and at three and
eight, Saturday, the 2ist inst. These entertainments are highly
spoken of by the Press.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
Agenda for April, 1877.
Monday, 16<A—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at 8 p.m.
Tuesday, 17fh.—Members’Neorace, at 8 p.m. Admission, 2s. 6d.
„ —Soiree Committee at 5 p.m.
Thursday, 19th.—Enquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m. Mr. Eglinton,
medium.
Friday, 20th.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Tuesday, 24th.-—Members’ Seance, at 8 p.m. Admission, 2s. 6d.
Wednesday, 25th.—Gband Musical Entertainment1 at 38,
Great Russell-street. Commence at 8 p.m.
Thursday, 26th.—Enquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m. Mr. Eglinton,
medium.
Friday, 27th.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Monday, 30th.—Library Committee, at 7 p.m.
„ Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at 8
p.m.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
Changes having been made in the arrangement of the
Reading Room and Library, at 38, Great Russell Street, the
Rooms will be Reopened with a
SPECIAL SOIREE AND
GRAND MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT
On Wednesday, April 25th,
To Commence at Eight o’clock precisely.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen will take part in the
performances, viz.:—Madame Rouniger, Madame Schneegans
Mrs. Limpus, Miss Schallehn, the Misses Withall, Mr. Tietkens
Mr. Andre, Mr. Kitcat, and Mr. Dietz.
Single tickets, 2s. 6d.; double tickets, 4s.; to he had of the
Secretary, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.; Mrs.
D. Fitz-Gerald, 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton, or any
member of the Soiree Committee of the Association,
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—
  H. E. FRANCES, HON. SBC.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Sbientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad-
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.  
Publishing Office: 13, Red Lion-court, Fleet-street,
' London, E.C.
THE AMATEUR WORLD.—A monthly
•journal devoted-to non-professional literature, drama,
music,*sports, &c. Chas. L. Wellsden, Editor and Proprietor,
1, Castledine-road, Anerley, S.E.
THREE.'SHARES, value £100 each, in a
private Syndicate or Company, composed mainly of
Spiritualists, FOR SALE on most advantageous terms. The
holder is reluctantly compelled to part with them under
special circumstances.; Full particulars to he obtained of X.,
care of the .publisher of The Spiritualist,. 38, Great Russeil-
street, Loudon, W.C. ’ ■
Price 7s; 6d., cloth. •
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
• LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public.speaker..,.Her.
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious-and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit’of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unnfistakahle cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of -spiritual com¬
munion is pourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : Colby and Rich. London Spirii-
Office.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. .Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Ig.; post free Is. Id,—Newspaper
Branch Office.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists
President.
HENRY D. JEN.OKEN, ESQ., M.R.L
(Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
acts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental stances are held Weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The last Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus*
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association havelthe privilege of attending, the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines arc
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions "for
formation of circles and conduct of seances," and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership .’—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s. '
EAST LONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven.
Admission free; voluntary eontributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Wednesdays at eight. Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seance, 5s. 6d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
Leigh spiritualists* association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will he thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
A NEW REVELATION.
Just Published, price 12s..
ENGLAND AND ISLAM;
Or, the Counsel of Caiphas. By Edward Maitland, Author
of “ The Pilgrim and tlie Shrine,” “ The Keys of the Creeds, &c.
“ The production of this book was accompanied by pheno¬
mena of such a character as to leave no doubt on the minds of
the writer and others who witnessed them, that it contains a
revelation from the spiritual world which is destined to con¬
stitute it one of !the world’s Bibles. Written under the con¬
trol of a spirit; claiming to he the same that spoke through the
prophets of the Old and New Testaments, while its immediate
purpose is to afford a solution of the present European com
plication, it sets forth the existence and nature of God and
the soul, the perfection of the whole of the divine existence,
the purpose and method of creation, and the object and cha¬
racter of religion. ' It further points the place of the present
crisis in the’scheme of the world’s development; the spiritual
relationship between England, Islam, and Israel; the duty of
England in the present crisis; and the high destiny which
awaits her on the fulfilment of that duty.”—Extract from the
New Preface.
Tinsley Brothers, Publishers, Catherine-street.
Purchasers of previous copies can obtain the Preface at the
Publishers.
BIRKBECK BANK. — Established 1851. —
29 & 30, Southampton-huildings, Chancery-lane, W.O.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet With full particulars, mav fee had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
April 13, 1877,
PEITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(.Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Calder, Esq., l, Hereford-square.'W'estBrompton, S.W«.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester,
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fltz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambrldge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.E.I., Barrlster-at-Law, Goldsmith-builds
Ings, E.C. . ,
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 98, Portland-place, W.
Bogers, E. D , Kose-vllla, Church-end, Finchley,N.W
Smith, Martin B., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason. James. Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-plaoe, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Helper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley,' Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Soutnsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, R.E.
Dawe.N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd. J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H.. 7, Gberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G.,M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning. A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, w. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Reimers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.,
Stra vbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redciifle-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-Vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W. ;
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., PosteRestante, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St, John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H„ 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W,
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heatblands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr, J. H. Andre. Mr, H. Cook, i Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Yevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Yon Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
Tbe Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Lake George, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lmdesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany."
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq , M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavalroz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Gironde, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 2, Rue de Rpcroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A,
M. de Bassomplerre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de TUnion, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels
Lieut.-Ool. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D..Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 80,Upper Gloucester-place.Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St.Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U,S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S. W,
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 80, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—S. Pride, Esq.,
8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane. Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. O. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola. Cervantes 34,2®, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot,
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to.receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1877.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—John Priest, Esq.
/Secretary.—Mr. Samuel Pride, 8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane,
Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Auditors.—Mr. Charlton and Mr. Chatham.
Trustees.—Mr Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Chapman, and
James Wason, Esq.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. Ainsworth, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs. Nos¬
worthy, Mrs. Wharmby, Mr. Ainsworth, Mr. Casson, Mr.
Davjes, Mr. Foden, Mr. Fowler. Mr. Jones, Mr. A. Lamont,
Mr. J. Lamont, Mr. Norris, Mr. Richard Nosworthy, and
Mr. Wharmby.
THE object of tbis Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
January, 1877.
STRANGE VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Bronte, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Patemoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
■WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
v ▼ UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London :—Simpkin, Mabshail & Co.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“ Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book ”, will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie”
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanaga Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, W.O.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctual. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 3 p.m.
are discontinued, but Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &c.
Established seven years. Residence, 15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
MR. j. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
'RS. KANE AT HOME Tuesdays, Thurs¬
days, and Saturdays from three to five o’clock.—34,
Guilford-street, Russell-square, London, W.C.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MEDICAL MESMERISM AND GALVAN¬
ISM.—professor ADOLPHE DIDIER (30 Years
established) attends patients, and may be consulted daily at his
residence from 2 till 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Camden-hill,
Kensington.
Brighton. — apartments, pleasant
rooms, may be had, on moderate terms, at the house of
a Spiritualist, close to the sea, and near the Aquarium, Chain
Pier, Pavilion, &o. Address, “ Spiritualist,” 18, Atlingworth-
street, Marine Parade.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PL ACE, RU SSELL SQUARE, W.O
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of tbe Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance.
Manager—Mbs. A. C. Burke
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for l£d.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
Spiritualism in the bible identi¬
cal WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, II, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
1 two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
X> EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
JLAj logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Socitti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 88 Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
WANTED, A SITUATION as CLERK,
ACCOUNTANT, or MANAGER OF SHQP. Good
references; used to the book and newspaper trade; by E. W
Wallis, 15 St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end-road, E. .
% Itjajotjh tit ^ugrr.as of % fjSi{ii}tB$ attft pf|i^ of ^ptijiltiofiow.
Volume Tejh. Dumber Fifteen.
LONDON, FRIDAY, APRIL 13th, 1877.
MATERIALISATION PHENOMENA.
An article, by Mr. O’Sullivan, of Paris, printed in this
issue of The Spiritualist, sets forth how he searched the
medium before the beginning of a materialisation seance,
which was held in the presence of himself and the Count
and Countess de Bullet, and that as the result of such
search he is enabled to testify that the medium had no white
drapery or masks about him ; yet, afterwards, fully draped
figures came out of a test cabinet. The experiences of Mr.
O’Sullivan are the same as those of many who have pre¬
ceded him in such investigations. But if two living and
beautiful young women came out of that test cabinet,
wherein was the necessity for searching the medium, it being
inconceivable that he had two such living persons concealed
in his pockets ? The object in putting this question is to
ascertain whether the two visitants had living flexible features,
bearing no resemblance to those of the medium, or whether
they were mask-like faces manufactured or brought in by
unseen powers, possibly to represent the features of the
departed ?
We have closely watched materialisation manifestations
since they first began regularly in England, and in every
instance in which genuine phenomena were undoubtedly pre¬
sented under test conditions, the form has either been living
—in which case it has always borne a strong resemblance to
the medium—or it has been a death-like representation of
somebody else. On several occasions there has been
undoubted duplication of the features and form of the
medium, the two having been clearly seen together.
An hypothesis fitting such cases is that spirits being
divorced from material conditions, must either take on
somewhat the form of the medium, or must manufacture
such representations from material things pertaining to this
lower world, as to symbolise the presence of a departed
friend now in the higher life.
Perhaps if these manifestations were further developed, a
new order of materialisations would set in, and living,
flexible intelligent faces, manifestly those of deceased
friends, appear to five or six trustworthy and critical
witnesses at once in a good light. The evidence is strong
that such phenomena have been witnessed in America.
Possibly the spirit of the medium takes a large part in
manifestations of a certain class. The experiment once re¬
corded by Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald is very suggestive on
this head, as we have before pointed out. The mesmerist at
a public lecture at Blackb.eath, ordered a sleeping sensitive
whom he had never met till that evening, to go home in
spirit, and touch somebody in the kitchen; she said that she
had done so, and that they were much frightened ; a com¬
mittee appointed by those who were present at the mesmeric
lecture then went to the house, and found the servants in
a state of terror because one of them had been “ touched by
a ghost.” In this illustration we have a sleeping medium, and
the u double ” of that medium producing physical effects at
a distance under the control of a second intelligence of a not
very high order. The mesmerist was a black man. Substitute
an invisible intelligence for the black man, and in the illus¬
tration just given may be the whole philosophy of ordinary
materialisation stances. Again, the spirit of the medium
when freed from the body, may possibly object to the
absolute control of its earthly tenement by spirits whose
characteristics may not be too high, so may itself have much
to do with the production of the manifestations witnessed.
Many of the manifestations of modern Spiritualism cannot
be accounted for on the latter hypothesis ; take, for instance,
the messages about private affairs often given by the departed
in their own handwriting.
I IMPOSTURE AMONG MEDIUMS.
The majority of daily newspapers, conducted by men of
| average ability and morality, evolve from their inner con-
] sciousness numerous articles and paragraphs about imposture
j among mediums. We, who, to ascertain the very truth to
| its roots, have, in spite of all obstacles, attended probably
| more seances during the last eight years than anybody else
|j in the world, are able to testify that there is very little
| imposture among recognised mediums, but a great deal
] among those idle quill-wielders who carelessly inform their
I unintelligent readers to the opposite effect. The imposture
j among mediums is seen chiefly in those individuals who find
| it more popular, and much more profitable, to set up as
| u exposers,” and to show the genuine thing as legerdemain,
i than to act legitimately. But such people are in this
| dilemma: they cannot show how they do their best tricks
] —which are produced by almost demoniacal influence—so
they invent all kinds of excuses to avoid being brought to
| the point on this head. They assert, “ It would spoil our
exhibition to explain our modus operandi,” thereby admit-
| ting publicly that their object is to make money, not to
| expose untruth. No such position is taken up by honest
| mediums. They say :—u Hold us hand and foot. Certain
| things take place which perplex us as much as they
j do you. Form your own theory. We think with those who
1 have studied them for years, that they originate with
I spirits.” They take up this less remunerative position than
I others similarly gifted, entirely on moral grounds, because
I they are influenced by somewhat purer beings than those
| who produce these manifestations through the very lowest
j class of physical mediums previously mentioned.
The circumstance that alleged exposers do not expose, but
| avowedly keep the exact method of the purported exposure
| secret lest their daily trade should be ruined, is blinked by
| the ranker weeds of the daily press. The larger and more
| ignorant section of the public demands that Spiritualism
| shall be said to be imposture, consequently the more unscru-
1 pulous section of the daily press supplies the demand, and
j is therefore morally in close partnership with the impostors.
| Indeed, it is morally worse than the impostors because it
| is somewhat better educated, consequently better able to
[ recognise its real responsibilities to mankind here and here-
| after.
Thus, chiefly in America, there are certain swindlers prey-
j ing upon the public, mixing together scientific tricks,
I conjuring tricks, and real mediumship, and they are firmly
| supported by daily newspapers, who falsely assert them to
| be exposers, although they at their exhibitions refuse, for
j financial reasons, to expose their major marvels. Conse-
| quently, it is true that there are swindlers among mediums,
| but these are almost entirely confined to those who exhibit
| real mediumship as conjuring, and who are supported hand
j and glove by the editors of daily newspapers, and by a few
j shady men of science, who encourage the said swindling to
| the utmost, who never point out that their proteges on money
grounds refuse to reveal to their audiences how the alleged
| tricks are done—that not being the true object of the per-
| formances—and who in every way assist these impostors in
] blinding the public.
The real root of all this evil is found in the low level of
J education and morality of the general public. They demand
nothing better than the intellectual and religious food they
| receive, and.the supply naturally enough meets the demand.
| The creatures who execute their low behests are thus not the
| sole culprits, and it is unwise to expect the world to grow to
! spiritual maturity before its time.
! The Spiritual Scientist says:—“ Thomas Walker, the English hoy
f trance speaker, has sailed from San Francisco for Australia.”
170
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Apeil 13,1877.
THE HISTORY OF THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
BY JOHN CHAPMAN.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OP ORGANISED SPIRITUALISM IN LIVERPOOL.
In the autumn of 1862 two young men from the United States drew
the attention of the Liverpool public to some extraordinary phenomena,
called “spiritual manifestations.” They hired the St. George’s Lecture
Hall to display the manifestations which took place in their presence,
and a 'large gathering of wondering observers was present on the first
night to witness the proceedings. The Liverpool newspapers contained
reports of strange facts, which had much excited the public interest.
On the second night of the exhibition, however, a dispute arose about
the tying the knots which held the hands of the Davenports; this
ripened into a fracas, in which the cabinet was smashed by some
roughs, who rushed upon the platform while the war of words was going
on. The Davenports left the hall, and finally the town. An action at
law was brought by some persons present to receive the money which
they had paid for entrance; in this they succeeded. Strong things were
said and written detrimental to the Davenports, but the actual facts had
their effect upon several more thoughtful persons, and created a spirit
of inquiry amongst a few.
Although Spiritualism was thenceforth a matter of interest to a few
private individuals, it was not until April 26th, 1866, that public action
was taken by fifteen gentlemen holding a meeting at the Co-operative
Stores, Camden-street, and forming an organisation called “ The Liver¬
pool Psychological Society.” Its objects were “ The investigation of
the facts and phenomena of the science called Spiritualism.” A com¬
mittee was formed, and the following gentlemen were elected office¬
bearers, viz., Mr. James Wason, president; Mr. Andrew Leighton, vice-
president ; Mr. Richard Bewley, secretary; and Mr. George Wilson,
treasurer. The meetings were held at the Co-operative Store, every
alternate week, for a considerable time. Mr. Wason then took the
Gymnasium, in Lord-street, at his own expense, and placed it at the
service of the society. At one of the meetings Mr. Fegan-Egerton was
somewhat affected, and afterwards controlled to speak in languages not
his own, namely, French, Spanish, and Scotch. The first report of the
society was published in April, 1867 . A library was formed, and several
books were presented to the society by Mr. Benjamin Coleman, Mr. J.
Wason, and others. Mr. S. Guppy and the celebrated medium, Mr. D.
D. Home, respectively visited the society, and assisted by their counsel.
Some time after this the organisation broke up, the members were scat¬
tered, and there was not a vestige of a society for three years thenceforth
in Liverpool.
In December, 1870, several friends were invited to meet at Mr. Wall’s
Temperance Hotel, Islington Flags, and took upon themselves to form a
new society, upon the basis of the old one. At a subsequent meeting,
held on Wednesday, 4th of January, 1871, the plan was carried out, and
the following office-bearers for the first year were elected:—Mr. George
Glover, president; Mr. Ambrose Fegan-Egerton, secretary; and Mr.
George Wilson, treasurer. The members met weekly, recruits were
added to their ranks, and rules were drawn admitting as members
persons of all creeds and opinions; many joined as “ investigators,” and
the society increased in numbers from week to week.
At a members’ meeting held on the 3rd of May, 1871, it was announced
that Mr. Morse had written to say that he should be glad to visit
Liverpool, and to give his aid as a trance medium gratis, to com¬
mence Sunday services in Liverpool at Mrs. Spring’s Dining Hall; this
offer was cordially accepted. Consequently, on Sunday, May 12th, the
first of a series of evening services was held at the Dining Hall, 2,
Cornhill, Wapping. The chair was taken by myself. The following
night Mr. Morse gave a seance at the society’s room, 6, Stafford-street;
he was controlled by both his “ spirit guides.” The Sunday services
were thenceforth held once a month for some time. Many then expressed
their desire to have constant Sunday services, saying that as they had
discovered much truth by investigating Spiritualism, they should like to
listen every Sunday to the teachings of the spirits. The society, therefore,
inaugurated regular Sunday services, and engaged several mediums, of
whom Miss Barlow was the first. She addressed a meeting in the
trance state at 2, Cornhill, Wapping, on Sunday, the 6th of October,
1872. Afterwards Messrs. Johnson, Jackson, and Wood, Mrs. Butter¬
field, Mrs. Scattergood, and other mediums appeared upon the Spirit¬
ualistic platform in Liverpool.
During the whole of the first year of this regime, fifty-two ordinary
weekly meetings were held, besides five special general ones, and five
public lectures were given under the auspices of the society. On the
9th, 10th, and 12th of May, 1873, Mrs- Emma Hardinge delivered three
lectures in Hope Hall; the subjects were chosen each night by a
committee selected by the audience, and were respectively—“ Spirit¬
ualism ; its Progress and its Utility to the Present State of Society,”
“ An Explanation of the Phenomena of Spiritual Manifestations,” and
“ Whether the Evidence Afforded by the Phenomena Warrants a
Belief in Communion Between the Living and the Dead.” The last
evening was taken up with answering questions propounded by the
audience. The lectures were fairly reported in the local daily papers,
and proved successful; the audiences were large and intelligent, and
the labours of Mrs. Hardinge were the means of raising the standard
of Spiritualism in the estimation of the outside public. During the
year 1871 forty-four ordinary and five honorary members were added
to the society; a steady increase was observable in the average attend¬
ance of members, viz., from ten or twelve to thirty or forty. A vote of
thanks was passed to Mr. John Scott, of Belfast, for a collection of books
and pamphlets presented to the society’s library; also to Mrs. Spring
and others for presents made to the same. The receipts were for the
year 4>35 13s. 6d.; the disbursements, £35 4s.; leaving ajjbalance in
hand of 9s. 5d. The report of the first year’s proceedings concludes
ias follows:—“ In reviewing the work and progress of the past year as a
whole, your committee may congratulate you upon the position and
prospects of the society, and particularly upon the success attained in
one of its objects, viz., the disseminating a knowledge of the facts
| and phenomena of Spiritualism amongst the general public. This is
evidenced by the recent spirited discussions upon the subject, and
the criticism (mingled, it is to be regretted, with considerable abuse),
and large share of notice which our proceedings obtain from the local
press. The interest of the public in the objects of the society thus
j has been thoroughly aroused.”
I During the second year of the existence of the society it, by work
| and labour, fully upheld its position. A soiree of the society was
held at the Camden Rooms, Camden-street, in the course of the twelve
months. Mr. Morse gave two addresses under spirit influence, and one
| in his normal state. Mr. John Lament, in the absence of Mr. J. Wason
i presided; Mr. Morse also gave several seances in various parts of the
! town to private individuals, and at their own residences. His services
| were much sought, and he became almost a resident in Liverpool.
I Mr. Burns, of London, delivered three lectures under the auspices of
j the Liverpool Psychological Society, in the Wellington Hall, Camden-
I street, on Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday, April 21st, 22nd, and 23rd,
| 1872. The subjects were “ Spiritualism and the Bible,” “ Spiritualism
] and Science,” and “Spiritualism and Religion.” On Sunday Mr.
Burns took charge of the meeting; on the other two nights the chair
was taken respectively by Mr. John Lament and Mr. Joseph Shep-
| herd. This year the society engaged the Islington Assembly Rooms
i for regular Sunday services; the first was held on Sunday afternoon,
| November 17th, 1872, and it was an “ experience meeting.’’ In the
! evening Mr. Fegan-Egerton spoke under spirit influence to a goodly
I company, upon “ The Bible.” Mr. J. J. Morse paid three visits during
j the year to the society, and gave public lectures of a high character
I through his mediumship; also public seances of a very satisfactory
nature. The most important work done by the society was the holding
| of Sunday services, which had already achieved valuable results. The
of general expenses for the year were—outlay .£47 3s. 5d., income
| £47 12s. 9£d., balance in hand 9s. 4£d.
I The third year commenced with the adoption of a new code of rules
by the members. The title “Psychological” was retained, though
| some effort was made to change it to “ Spiritual.” The constitution of
; the society was thus set forth:—
| “We the undersigned agree to associate and to be governed by the
following constitution:—1. That the freest investigation shall be
allowed to members in relation to all matters connected with Spirit¬
ualism and cognate subjects, to the end that each may realise and per¬
ceive truth. 2. That no sectarian bias shall be allowed, and all dis¬
cussions upon politics and the religious opinions of individuals shall be
carefully avoided. Every member shall be free to give his unbiassed
opinion of Spiritualism and cognate subjects as his experience leads
him, and to ask any questions connected therewith. 3. The objects of
this Association are—mutual aid and co-operation on the part of its
members in the discovery of truth.”
In this year the following office-bearers were appointed:—Mr. James
Wason, President; Mr. John Lament, Vice-President; Mr. John
Chapman, Secretary; Mr. Joseph Dinsdale, Treasurer; Mr. John
Moor, Librarian; Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. George Shaw, and Mr.
John Lament, Trustees; and Mr. Edwin Banks and Mr. H. J.
Charlton, Auditors.
The Liverpool Psychological Society during the year added to its list
about one hundred members, which made the total number at the end of
the year about one hundred and thirty. The Islington Assembly Rooms
were utilised every Sunday morning, afternoon, and evening, for services,
and singing practice. They were also engaged for member’s meetings
and discussions on the Friday evening of every week.
THE FOUNDING OF THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
In the year 1873 the Liverpool Psychological Society convened a con¬
ference at Liverpool, and sent out invitations all over the nation, with
the intention of forming a national organisation of Spiritualists. It
appointed a committee to carry out its plans, and?! the committee pub¬
lished on the 27th of June in The Medium the following
“ National Conference at Liverpool.—At a meeting of the Conference
Committee of the Psychological Society of Liverpool, held on Monday,
June 23rd, Mr. Gay in the chair, the following programme was con¬
sidered and adopted as the business of the forthcoming Conference, and
while the committee earnestly desire delegates to prepare papers on these
questions, they are anxious to receive the titles of any other papers which
the delegates may wish to read, providing that the substance of such
papers is forwarded to the secretary on or before the 18th July, so that
the reading may be arranged for in a business-like way.
“Organisation.—National: 1st. The advisability and practicability
(financial, &c.) of a national union. 2nd. The best means of securing in
future, Annual National Conferences.
“ Local.—1st. The advisability of Sunday services and week-day
meetings. 2nd. The advantage of special buildings for spiritual
meetings.
“ Spiritualism in its Religious and Scientific Aspects.—1st. The
harmony existing between the Bible and the teachings of Spiritualism.
2nd. Spiritualism in accordance with natural laws. 3rd. The benefit of
physical manifestations to the community.
“ Mediumship.—1st. The peculiar temperaments of different mediums.
2nd. The arrangement of different mediums in a given circle for the pro¬
duction of desired results. 3rd. The duality of mediums.—4th. Can
any test be applied to distinguish genuine mediumship ? 5th. The best
method of developing mediums. 6th. The utility of private circles.
“Evenings. 1st. Seances. 2nd. Lectures. 3rd. Conversaziones.
—David B. Ramsay, Corresponding and Recording Secretary to the
Conference Committee, 16, South Castle-street, Liverpool, June 24th,
1873.”
ApeiIi 13, 1877. THE SPIRITUALIST. 111
On the previous week, June 13th, the society had put out the follow¬
ing announcement in The Medium, under the title of “ The Coming
Conference ”:—
“ The Psychological Society of Liverpool wish to make public, as far
as it can, this announcement—That on the 5th, 6th, and 7th of August
will be held the Annual National Conference of Spiritualists in the
above-named town, the basis of which will be a broad, free, and open
platform, where every grade of thought and opinion may be represented
whether of the scientist, religionist, or freethinker—all can meet upon
the ground of universal brotherhood and fraternity. The door will be
opened wide to admit all who 'wish to search out the truths of Spiritu¬
alism. It will recognise no head, but look upon all men as equal, and
as co-workers in the great field of truth, asking all true and earnest
labourers to come and assist in carrying on the great and noble work
of man’s universal redemption. The Psychological Society of Liverpool
wishes also all true and earnest investigators to sacrifice their own
interests for a time and unite to carry out the end in view, a programme
of which will be laid before the public in due time by the secretary and
committee appointed for that purpose.—John Chapman, Honoranj
Secretary?’
The Conference may be said to have been a representative one, as
about forty of the largest cities and towns of the nation were represented
on the three days on which the Conference was held, namely, the 5th,
6th, and 7th of August, 1873. The following list of the names of some
of those who attended will show its representative character:—
John Chapman, Liverpool; David Ramsay, Liverpool; William
Meredith, Liverpool; William H. Harrison, editor of The Spiritualist,
London; Robert Chatham, Liverpool; George Wharmby, Liverpool;
John Davidson, Liverpool; James Bowman, Glasgow; Dr. J. K. Clark,
Edinburgh; Miss Cherry Shepherd, Liverpool; E. J. Bowen, Liverpool;
Mrs. J. Dinsdale, Liverpool; Henry Pitman, Manchester; Mrs.
Elizabeth Ohlsen, Liverpool; John Lament, Liverpool; Arch. Lament,
Liverpool; Edward Dennis, Carlisle; William Burns, Carlisle; J. J.
Morse, London; Joseph Bamforth, Keighley; Robert Nelson, Glasgow;
Mrs. E. J. Bowen, Liverpool; Henry Morris, Liverpool; Mrs. Butter¬
field, Darlington; Mrs. Sarah Ann Spring, Liverpool; Miss Elizabeth
Leese, Liverpool; John Wrightman, Preston; William Richardson,
Liverpool; Robert Brannis, Liverpool; George Wright, Keighley; T.
Everitt, Hendon, near London; Mrs. Everitt; John Craig, Glasgow;
Joseph Shepherd, Liverpool; Enoch Taylor, Keighley; Mrs. Lewis,
Keighley; Andrew Higginson, Liverpool; George Shaw, Liverpool;
John Mason, Liverpool; Joseph Dinsdale, Liverpool; Joseph Pean,
Liverpool; M. A. Richardson, Liverpool; Peter Dutton, Liverpool;
William Davis, Liverpool; Peter Lawson, Liverpool; Mary Jones,
Liverpool; Edward Knox, Liverpool; William Bown, Wavertree;
Mrs. Groves, Liverpool; Agnes McLemman, Liverpool; H, J.
Charlton, Liverpool; Mrs. Charlton, Liverpool; Ambrose Fegan-Eger-
ton, Liverpool; Sarah Gunnis, Liverpool; Mrs. Walker, Liverpool;
A. Hebbleworth, Bacup; Dr. Hayle, Rochdale; P. Proctor, Liverpool;
Winifred Davies, Liverpool; George Dinsdale, Liverpool; Anne Gar¬
land, Liverpool; Mrs. Shaw, Liverpool; Mrs. Fumwell, Liverpool;
Thomas P. Fawcitt, Bishop Auckland; James Thornton Hoskins,
Reform Club, Pall Mall; Thomas Brown, Houlten; J. Burns, editor of
The Medium, London; Mr. Adshead, Belper; Mr. Manley, Uttoxeter ;
W. Wall, Liverpool; Dr. George Sexton, London; Rev. F. R. Young,
editor of The Christian Spiritualist, Swindon; Francis W. Monck,
Bristol; Miss Lees, Southport; Mrs. Lamont, Liverpool; Mr.
Mollis, Liverpool; Mr. Williams, Liverpool; Mr. Vernon, Uttoxeter;
Mr. Jones, Ulverston; J. W. Davidson, Edinburgh; Thomas Dewsberry,
Burslem, Staff.; Dr. William Hitchman, Liverpool; Edward Knox,
Liverpool; C. H. Farnham, New York; Thomas B. Griffin, Liverpool;
Richard Fitton, Manchester; Robert Wood, Liverpool; Isaac Abrahams,
Liverpool; J. B. Stones, Blackburn; William Brogden, Liverpool.
I need not call attention to the discussions which took place at the
Conference, as they were very fully reported in The Spiritualist and
Medium at the time; everything passed off with cordiality and good
feeling, and in consequence of that Conference, Spiritualism gained a
firmer hold upon the hearts and minds of those who had been seeking
its truths.
The following resolutions were passed:—
“ 1. That this Conference, being a representative one, do constitute
itself into a National Association, and elect from its own body, and
from the representatives of other societies not present, an Executive
Council, to administer the plans decided upon by the National Associa¬
tion for the coming year.
“ 2. That this Conference invite its president, Mr. T. Everitt, also
Messrs. J. C, Luxmoore, A. E. Lovell, T. Blyton, A. C. Swinton, D. H.
Wilson, R. Cogman, of London; also Dr. J. M. Gully, of Malvern;
Messrs. Andrew Leighton, J. Chapman, J. Shepherd, J. Lamont, and
T. Dinsdale, of Liverpool; Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Manchester;
Dr. G. B. Clark, of Edinburgh; and Mr. J. Brown, of Glasgow, to
form themselves into an executive head, with power to add to their
number, to carry out the objects of the National Association.”
These resolutions were both proposed by Mr. J. J. Morse, and
seconded by Dr. Clark; the latter remarked that the result of passing
the second resolution would be that the Council of the Association
could do some work at once in Liverpool, and clear off the expenses of
the Conference, leaving the London members of the Council free to go
to work with clean hands.
THE LATER WORK OP THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Physical mediumship has been cultivated considerably in the Liver¬
pool Psychological Society. The well-known medium, Mr. Fegan-
Egerton, has developed in this direction; Mr. Tom Eves also became a
trance and physical medium. Others, whose names I am not at liberty
to mention, have been developed, and some are presenting good physical
v | phenomena. Trance mediums also have been developed in the ranks of
51 the Society.
| In taking a retrospect of the work of the Liverpool Psychological
| Society, I cannot but be struck by the visible unity which has at all
! times marked its career. All concerned have worked with hearty good
| will, and though different opinions have sometimes clashed, yet the love
| of the cause has overruled any antagonistic feeling that might for a
I moment have prevailed; then all was peace and goodwill again. A
! great deal of anxious care and labour has been expended to bring about
i the present results.
) | From the auditors’ report for 1873 I extract the following:—“ The
j assets of the Society on the 30th June, 1873, consisting of books and
(| pamphlets unsold, furniture, &c., amonnted to ,£58 11s. 9d., against
j liabilities amounting to £31 4s., thus leaving a balance of £27 7s. 9d.
(j to the credit of the Society. In view of the foregoing and anticipating
(| results, your committee heartily congratulate the members upon the
) j general progress of the movement, and the increased tide of prosperity
| which grows broader as the society’s movements are becoming more
j | extended. The committee trust that the same harmony and good feeling
j which have hitherto characterised the deliberations and discussions,
] will continue to be shown at the future meetings of the Society, as your
(} committee feel that without forbearance and kindly feeling amongst the
| members, much of the work that remains to be done will be, if not
! altogether stopped, considerably retarded.—John Chapman, Secretary,”
/1 (To be continued,')
! The Religious Aspects of Spiritualism.—Most Spiritualists are
I Universalists in faith; they hold that as the spirit leaves the body, so it
j appears in the spirit world, that the more imperfect the man, here in
j | this life, the more imperfect he will appear in the next, but that his
j probation continues, though under more favourable auspices than he
11 enjoyed here. Knowledge is considered by them as man’s real saviour,
| and, therefore, the belief that some low spirits are led by the conscious-
j ness of their ignorance to come back to earth for the sole purpose of
/1 instruction at the hands of people yet in the flesh. Others are attracted
j to earth from partaking more largely of the earthly than of the
j! spiritual nature, and believing in the laws of affinity they claim that
j these are drawn back by their earth ties. Still others come to watch over
I earth friends, to warn them of danger, direct them in business, and
j act as guardian angels. Then, again, we are told that some from the
) | more advanced spheres revisit earth, impelled by the power of love—-
(| the God-principle—which they imbibe to a greater extent the more
! they grow in Imowledge and the higher they progress, and by their
I ministrations to humanity in general, give expression to this love.
I Spiritualists deny the possibility of any spirit getting beyond the pale of
! salvation, and believe that in process of time even the most wicked will
I be won to leave their wickedness and gradually attain to a condition of
I purity and consequent happiness.—Somerville Citizen, U. S.
[ | The Strongest Shadow of Modern Spiritualism. — Powerful
(I physical mediums are always impulsive individuals, strongly driven at
(| times by their passions, and of these passions jealousy of each other
> | sometimes rages to a most abnormal extent, so that particular mediums
! are noted for it, and, because of their measureless abuse of their rivals,
| have alienated most of their own friends, and hopelessly sunk ihem-
II selves in a quagmire of contempt. Experienced Spiritualists now never
(| pay the slightest attention to what one physical medium says against
(j others, or against persons the speaker does not like, except to believe the
|! opposite of what is stated, and that the medium is probably describing
(| his own personal characteristics. Physical mediums are considered to
(j be “ out of court’’ in criticising each other, and only land themselves in
} | disgrace by making the attempt; they sometimes fabricate worse things
(i about each other than are fabricated against the whole of them by
j ignorant disbelievers, who class them as impostors. This is the worst of
) j all the shadows, and the worst of all the dangers of modem Spiritualism,
(j because it is internal; but Spiritualists have determined to put an end
) ] to it. It has done much to lessen the prestige of mediums, and to
? i destroy respect for them; their influence is not one-half so great as it
I used to be before this special characteristic, among others, became known.
; j Mr. Williams, Mr. Eglinton, and a few others, have won golden opinions
(| by keeping silence about rival mediums. The lower the spirits, the
{] greater is their direct power over common matter; so persons thus
) influenced require close watching and kindly guidance while they are
(| blazing with jealousy or other passions.
(| Spiritual Phenomena in South Africa.—Mr. Berks Hutchinson,
) j surgeon-dentist, of Cape Town, South Africa, writes that he intended on
(I March 27th to leave there on a tour, partly of pleasure and partly
ij professional, through Europe; he will reach London in May. He
) | says that he has for years been the most active pioneer of Spiritualism
(| at the Cape of Good Hope, and is an ardent apostle of Andrew Jackson
j | Davis. In the course of a letter to The Cape Times he says:—“ Some
) ] two months since, for the first time, in a lighted room with six others
(] beside myself, I asked the control to try and raise the table if we all
j | took our hands off. One of the sitters, who is a physical medium
h immediately became controlled and commenced rubbing the table
(j violently with the palms of his hands. After twenty or thirty seconds
) i he took his hands entirely off the table and moved away some two or
< | three feet. The table now began to oscillate, then to rock like a ship
11 rolling. I must remark that whilst this was going on, two others of
) I the circle became entranced, and began gesticulating in a curious
(| manner, as if taking some part in the performance of the table. I now
> ] asked the control, if possible, to move it entirely off the ground, when
) | immediately the table (4 feet by 2 feet, four legs), tilted up about a foot,
(| first on one side and then on the other, very much like a beam balanced
j I on some invisible support. The table apparently made most strenuous
i efforts to raise the four legs simultaneously into the air, but owing to
\ i want of greater power it did not succeed,”
172
THE SPIRITUALIST,
April 13, 1877.
EASTER DAY, 1877. |
SPIRIT TEACHING. ' , .j|
May the blessing of the Supreme and All-good be on j
you ! We have somewhat to say to you, as our habit is at j
this season of resurrection and renewal of life.
We will leave the plain symbolism of the Christian festival, |
of which we have before discoursed. We have told you of j
conflict followed by victory. You have learned how the life j
of the Man, Christ Jesus, was a symbolic representation of II
the progress of spirit. It may be well that we remind you j
here of this symbolism. |
Descending from His Spiritual life in |he spheres of bliss, !
the Anointed One came to your earth to fulfil His Divine j
mission. Vailing in human flesh the radiance of His pure i:
spirit, He took a body in the manger of Bethlehem, and j
became man, with all the imperfections and frailties of |
humanity, subject to the sorrows, the temptations, the dis- j;
cipline through which alone progress is gained. |
In this read a type of the descent of spirit into matter as
its sole means of progress. Spirit, existent in the ages past, j [
having won for itself the requisite development, descends to | |
incarnation, so that by conflict and by discipline it may be | j
purified and made fit for the progress it cannot otherwise |
gain. j I
Born thus into the sphere of humanity, the Anointed One ] |
became subject at once to persecution and assault from a j I
Prince of the world. The powers of the sphere into which He | j
came were arrayed against Him, and sought to try and prove j j
Him. The word went forth to slay the Anointed One because j j
His royal claims were thought to be in conflict with the pre- i
tensions of the earthly monarch. | |
A type this of the conflict that besets the incarnate spirit |
from the moment of its entrance into the sphere of earth, j j
At the threshold of every new sphere of development stand, | j
as we have told you, the guardians from whom the benefits j
to be gained by entering it are won only after wrestling and | ]
agony, i.e., as afterwards explained, conflict. These blessings j
are not to be gathered idly and dreamily, without risk and j j
strenuous labour. Were it so, the benefit would cease to be. | i
It is in the conflict that the blessing lies, in overcoming the j j
foes, in victory after the battle is over. Lay it to your j I
account that this is so, and that for the incarnate spirit there | j
is always a persecutor who seeks to slay. ! j
Threatened by these enemies the young child was with- j j
drawn to Egypt, where He was safe, and where from a full j j
storehouse He gathered in a rich store of knowledge. Egypt | j
had been, since earliest days, the receptacle of mystic know- j j
ledge, and there was derived much of that mystic knowledge | u
that the Anointed One displayed in after years.
You will not need to seek far for the significance of this j j
type. Where shall the spirit, beset and threatened by the ! j
foes that throng around it, find its sanctuary at once and its j j
armoury more surely than in the mystic lore stored up for it j j
by those who have preceded it in trial, and have left for it i j
records of their experience. In the Egypt of esoteric lore is j j
that armoury whence the militant spirit may find power to j j
overcome, thoroughly furnished and equipped for the conflict, | I
instructed and edified by what it has learned. For, be it j
known to you, the withdrawal to Egypt has a double j j
significance. It is not only a retreat to a place of safety, but j i
a sojourning in a school of instruction. The spirit that J
seeks to withdraw into the esoteric sphere of instruction, so ! j
as to be edified there, draws from that edification its spiritual j |
weapons of conflict, the while it rests and refreshes itself in j
an atmosphere of comparative peace, Meditation, edification, j jl
growth to the full stature of the warrior — even as the j I
Anointed One grew from puny childhood to the vigour of j j
youth, and was edified in mind by the knowledge He acquired j !
in proportion as His body increased in strength. He increased, I j
as it is said, in wisdom and stature. i j
This closes a typical epoch in the symbolic life of the i j
Anointed One. The seed-time closes with the commencement j j
of the public life. The spirit that has nerved itself for the I j
life of progress and for development during the time of | |
incarnation beyond what is sought by the mass of its fellows, i j
is permitted to pass through a process of preparation, during j j
which it receives so much of truth as it can assimilate, prior I |
to the second period, the missionary period, as we may call
it, of its life on earth. You do not need to be told that it is
an essential condition of spiritual progress that selfishness in
all its forms be crushed out, that no gift be kept for private
and isolated use, but that in all things the precept be obeyed.
Freely ye have received, freely give.
So that which has been given must be shared with those
who seek to partake of it. The truth, in its exoteric form
at least, must be proffered to the world, while the inner and
diviner secrets must be cherished and kept pure, so that the
soul may refresh itself in the intervals of conflict, as the
Anointed One retired to the solitudes of the mountain-top,
that he might commune with himself in lonely meditation,
and be refreshed by association with those who were not of
earth. For him no companionship then. His spirit soared
too high, his associates were too exalted for the gaze even of
his nearest friends, save one, who on many occasions was
privileged to see the glories that surrounded the chosen
messenger of the Most High in his moments of chiefest
exaltation. \_Tliis was afterwards explained as referring to
Saint John, who on many occasions not specifically named,
enjoyed a near view of the glory of his Master.
Blessed in this respect are they who can journey with a
kindred soul, and derive mutual support and joy from an
earthly as well as a heavenly communion. The esoteric truth
loses no bloom by such handling. The lamp sheds no less
light, and that light no less pure, because another eye beholds
it, if only the eye be single and the sympathy sincere and
perfect. But it is rare that two can walk thus, even if they
be agreed, and there must always be for those who aspire the
mountain-top of silent reverence and prayer, to which they
resort alone, knowing that for each there is the peculiar path
which it is necessary for his feet to tread.
The life of instruction, complemented by the life of
aspiration, prepares for the public life of ministration.
When the Anointed One came forth from the seclusion of
His preparatory training, instructed in the wisdom of Egypt,
and nurtured in silent meditation, clothed in purity, animated
by charity, instinct with zeal, He went forth to His people to
preach the Gospel He had learned. There glowed within Him
a holy boldness for the truth, but He was no iconoclast. Hot
to destroy, but to fulfil, was His aim. Hot to lay desolate
and to waste, but to plough, and to till, and to sow the seed,
so that the crop might spring up, and the desert and the
waste place might blossom and be glad. The materials
ready at hand were used, the dross was purged away, and the
lifeless ceremony, touched by the magic of His word of truth,
was transmuted into the symbolism of a living verity. The
dry bones lived, the spirit returned to the. corpse, the dead
arose and stood upon their feet.
In all this, be it observed by the faithful watcher, there
was no rude severance, no harsh closing of an epoch, no gulf
between the present and the past. All was transition and
gradual awakening, just as it is in Hature now. There is no
rude severance between the death and resurrection of the
year. You hardly know what power has rolled away the
stone from the sepulchre in which the year lay buried. One
day all is cold, lifeless, cheerless, and you mourn over the
glories that seem to be past and gone for ever, replaced by
abiding gloom. But, by-and-bye, the change comes, not by
might, nor by power, as man sees, but by the potent spirit.
The sun shines forth, and his rays unlock the prison-house
in which the dead year has lain, and buds begin to peep, and
flowers to lift their heads shyly and half in fear, and the
emerald carpet grows beneath your feet, and the mantle of
tender green is spread around, and behold ! the dry bones
live. The season of resurrection has burst upon you, or
rather has grown upon you silently, a development of the
dead past. It is Hature’s yearly parable of regeneration.
Read the lesson in the life of the Anointed One. When
he came forth to teach his people wisdom, the whole of the
spiritual life of the Jewish nation was cold and bare as the
leafless tree in winter. The sap had ceased, it seemed, to
flow. The branches were bare and gaunt, devoid of their
seemly covering of leaves. The weary traveller should look
in vain for fruit, or seek a stray flower to gladden his eyes.
The death-plague was on all. He came, the Anointed
Messenger of God, the chosen Messiah, on his missionary
labours, the Son of Righteousness and Truth—the Son who
April 13, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
173
was also the Sun, for there was no difference there—shed his
beams of enlightenment and warmth on those dead,, dry,
naked branches, and see the change! Empty formalism
glowed again with spiritual truth, cold precepts were vivified
again into exuberant life. What had been said by them of
old time gained a new and extended significance. Social life
was elevated, reformed, ennobled. Religion was raised to a
pitch of spirituality it had never reached before. In place
of selfishness there was taught charity; in place of formalism,
spirituality; in place of ostentatious ritual, silent, secret
prayer; in place of open parade of religion—the seeking to
be seen of men—the seclusion of the secret chamber, the
lonely communing between self and God. In a word, vulgar,
empty, proud, unreal externalism was abolished and replaced
by the meek, spiritual, aspiring life of the soul, the truest
exemplification of which was not in the market-place, but
in the silent chamber; not in the Pharisee, but in the
Publican; not in the eyes of men, but before the searching
scrutiny of the Supreme.
The parable of Nature and of the Pattern Life runs through
the life of spirit too. Duly prepared, educated, edified with
such knowledge as it has been able to acquire, the spirit that
has passed its probation goes forth on its journey in the new
life. The dead past of formalism, of externalism, is trans¬
muted by the touch of spirit, and a new life opens. The
veriest physical fact gains a new significance as the spiritual
meaning that underlies it becomes plainer to the purged eye
of faith. The bare boughs are clothed with living green: the
dry bones of externalism that lay apparently dead arise
under the quickening touch of spirit and live a new life. It
is not that the old is abolished; it is that it is transmuted.
It is not that the duties of life are neglected: rather are they
discharged with a quickened zeal, and a more loving care.
It is not that the weary round of toil is shortened: it is that
its lengthened path is cheered and dignified by the spiritual
significance of even the meanest act.
Those dry and sapless forms of devotion that seemed so
cold and dead that the soul has often cried in despair,
is 0 Lord! can these dry bones live ?” are found to be touched
with life, and warmth, and reality as the resurrection spirit
quickens them. The old forms that have served their pur¬
pose are regenerated into a life more suited to the new
conditions. They live again with more than the old vitality,
with a loveliness more spiritual than that of the past. They
have renewed their youth, and it is seen by the spiritually-
enlightened that no atom of truth can perish, but is renewed
and re-combined as there is need of it in the laboratory of the
Master.
And so the spirit shares in the general resurrection that
surrounds it. It renews its life, soars to higher planes of
knowledge, learns deeper truths, and goes forth, in the
might of that knowledge, to teach to others the Divine
methods of enlightenment, development, and growth.
Not as man sees does it see: not as man acts does it act.
Beneath the most unpromising exterior it sees Divine
possibilities. The veriest cumberer it would not cut down,
save in so far as pruning may facilitate growth, and the
lopping off of dead wood may allow the young and living
branches to find place. Side by side with this public work
is the unceasing esoteric life of growth in spirit, a life of
aspiration and development, of communing with the spirit
of truth, of rising more and more above the material and
the earthy to the measure of the stature of the fulness of the
Anointed One.
Silent spiritual growth is the source of public spiritual
teaching.  - ■—
The closing scenes of the earth life of the Anointed One
carry their symbolic meaning too. It is the lot of a teacher
who combats the prejudices of an age to incur the enmity,
the scorn, the persecution that is the world’s requital for
unwelcome truth. You, who regard these records of the
Pattern Life as matter of history, can see now how impossible
it was that teaching such as His should meet with other fate
than it did. That prosperous shams should have been laid
bare without those who made gain by them being arrayed
against the daring innovator-—that pompous and pretentious
Pharisaism should have been denounced in terms more
vigorous than were bestowed on the Magdalene and the
Publican without setting the Pharisee in outraged wrath
against his accuser—^that the national religion, with its
cheap ceremonialism, and its easy path for those who could
pave it with gold, should be reformed, and the path made
easier for Publicans and harlots than for scribes and Pharisees,
without bringing down the wrath of those in place and
power on the despised Nazarene, who dared to lay his
impious hand on God’s own ark—this you can see to be
impossible.
He was too pure and good to escape envy, too uncom¬
promising and earnest not to provoke jealousy. His
doctrines were too searching to be popular; His life precepts
too spiritual to suit an age of luxury and ease. And so the
age that could not receive the advanced truth crucified Him
who taught it. The age of hollowness and impurity revenged
itself on the pure and holy Son of Truth by hanging Him on
the tree of shame between the representatives of crime.
So it was. So in many cases it is still in intent, if not
in deed. There have been reformers who have meted out to
j j an age, over which a wave of Divine enthusiasm has just
| passed, that aspect of truth which commends itself to them,
I | and so have found acceptance for their message, and have
j won honour and renown in its preaching. There have been
| j{ others, too, who have had more of the world’s wisdom and
j discretion, and so have been of higher service. But these
\\\ are rare. To most, as to the Anointed One, death comes
j I with contumely and open shame as the reward of truth.
I I Death to the Teacher, but resurrection and new life to His
i/j teaching. It is not till the instrument is lost sight of that
j the value of the message is realized. We need not draw out
j | the parable at length.
| j Hanging on the cross, the friends of the Christ were few
I indeed—a few women whose readier instincts and affections
m were true and firm in the hour of deepest darkness; and two
m of those who should have been nearest at hand, Joseph and
||| Nicodemus, the two, be it known, who had made least open
Jll profession, and had even seemed most cowardly. AH the
| | rest were fled. The teacher of new truth, the preacher of a
|1 new dispensation, where was he? Dead. And where was
|(| His gospel? Dead, too, to all appearance. None remem-
| | bered, none heeded it or him. But men judge hastily.
| I None knew who rolled that stone from the tomb’s mouth,
| save that it was done by that might of spirit wherewith ever
M and anon your world is regenerated, and death turned into
| | new life. An angel did it; and the same power that opened
| | that tomb and stirred its occupant whom men thought dead
| | and buried out of sight, availed to vivify His message and to
| | nurture it through evil and good report until it dominated
| | the nations and became in its age a mighty engine of
||| spiritual truth.
||| Turn now to the individual soul. Its lot is much the
j j| same. Whether its message of what to it is Divine truth is
I | one that makes its impress on the age or not: whether if it
j<l do, it be received as the needful word in season, or as the
| | impertinence of a meddling innovator, it will, almost surely,
| | have to make its way through conflict to acceptance. Such
| | is the Divine method of sifting. And in proportion to the
|n severity of that conflict will be the vigour with which it will
i|| be found to have taken hold of men. The roots will be all
11 the deeper and firmer fixed in proportion as the ground
| above has been trampled down by contending feet. Whether
| the life of conflict end as did the life we contemplate, or
| whether feebler zeal or larger discretion preserve the teacher
| from the same fate, matters little. The word of truth must
j pass through the conflict to final victory, even as the soul
| in its solicitude and isolation must contend with tempters
| and with foes till it becomes perfect through suffering, and
| wins the crown by the cross.
The life of the Christ during such time as he remained on it
| after his resurrection was symbolic of the change that pass«. s
| on the risen life of spirit. In the world, but not of it:
I moving in it as a visitor who conforms to but does not belong
| to it. He was animated by that most potent law of spirit
i which you may trace in all the ways of spirit-influence—the
I law of love. Whenever He appeared, whatever He did, this
| was the motiye. The records left to you, both meagre and
I erroneous as they are, are yet sufficiently full to show this,
i He fulfilled the law of love, and then ascended to His own
j proper sphere ; no longer seen, but felt: no longer a per-
1 sonal presence, but an effluence and influence of grace.
174
THE SPIRITUALIST. Apeil 13, 1877.
So the souls who voluntarily linger around your earth are
those whose motive-spring is love, or they whose mission is
animated by the same master principle. Personal affection
or universal love are the motives that draw the higher
spirits down to you. And when the duty is discharged
they too will ascend to the common Father and the Universal
God.
Be of good hope ! You are too apt to fancy that truth is
dead. When the cold dark days of winter are with you, you
are chilled. You forget the spring that has dawned on
many a winter past. You forget that death leads to resur¬
rection, and on to regenerated life—life in a wider sphere,
with extended usefulness, with nobler aims, with truer
purpose. You forget that death must precede such life—
that what you call death, so far as it can affect Divine truth,
is but the dying of the grain of seed which is the condition
of abundant increase. Death in life is the spiritual motto.
Death culminating in a higher life. Victory in the grave,
and through death. In dealing with spiritual truth do not
forget this.
In times of brightness and calm you may fear. When the
air is stagnant and the heat scorching, when the moisture is
dried up, and the fierce sun beats down with untempered
splendour, the tender plant may wither and fade. And so
in days of ease and smoothness, when all goes swimmingly,
when all men seem to speak well of the Word of Truth, you
may with good reason fear lest it fade, and its outlines be
blurred, and its tone assimilated to the conventional fashion
of the world. You may settle with yourselves that if all
accept unquestioned the truth presented to them, then that
phase of truth needs changing, and some stronger form is
requisite. But when it is bom in conflict be of good cheer,
for by such birth-pangs man children are brought forth,
whose vigour and energy shall suffice to resist attack, and
to carry on the Divine standard to a further vantage-
ground.
It was in some such sort that the life of the Anointed One
began and ran its course to the final consummation. It is a
parable for all time. Imperator.
What is the Explanation?—A private of the 36th Regiment,
named John Johns, native of Merthyr, shot himself with his rifle
yesterday while performing sentry duty at the Commissariat Stores,
Stonehouse. This is the third sentry who has committed suicide at the
same place during a comparatively recent period.—Daily Telegraph.
Taxation without Representation. — Lady Hampden resides at
Hendon, and twelve of her silver spoons were sold by auction there
last week. These had been distrained for Queen’s taxes. The lady is
a member of the Woman’s Suffrage Society, and for several years had
allowed a levy to be made on her goods, as a practical protest against
the exclusion of women householders from the Parliamentary franchise.
—Folkestone Express.
The Hon. Edward Pierrepont, United States Minister at the Court
of St. James, has received a largely signed petition from his countrymen,
asking him to do what he can in the matter of the attack upon Dr. Slade,
to prevent the latter falling a victim to the onslaughts of ignorance and
prejudice. All along, the American Minister might have shown more
sympathy towards his two fellow-countrymen than he actually did. Some
six xpenths ago much ridicule was showered upon him in American
newspapers for his own inquiry into Spiritualism; perhaps, therefore,
he'had a personal inclination to keep away from the Slade case as much
as possible.
The Newcastle Psychological Society.—The first general meeting
of the Newcastle Psychological Society, after its recent revision of
rules, took place on Wednesday evening last week, under the pre¬
sidency of Mr. Armstrong. The financial statements of various com¬
mittees appointed under the old rules and mode of working were laid
before the members ; they also set forth the receipt of various dona¬
tions from Mr. Chas. Blackburn and other gentlemen. The following
officers were elected, viz-President, Mr. J. Mould, St. Thomas’s-
crescent, Newcastle; Vice-Presidents, Mr. Hunter, Gateshead, and
Mr. Robson, of Newcastle ; Treasurer, Mr. Millar; Financial Secretary,
Mr. Pickup; Corresponding Secretary, Mr. H. Kersey; Auditors,
Messrs. Blake and Rhodes; Librarian, Mr. Pattison. A council of
eight was elected, namely :—Messrs. Haydock, Robinson, Compton,
Robson (of North Shields), Mowbray, Ashton, Wyld, and Coltman.
The members’ subscription for the future was fixed at five shillings
per annum, being made so low in the hope that Spiritualists in the
Newcastle district will subscribe to support the society as an organiza¬
tion at work for the whole district around Newcastle, as well as the
town itself. The new printed rules will be ready in a few days, when
they can be had on application to the honorary secretary, Mr. H.
Kersey, of Nixon-street; they will give full particulars of the future
scope of action of the society.
IDALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
I On Thursday evening, the 6th inst., Mr. William James Colville, of
Brighton, delivered a trance address at the rooms of the Dalston Asso¬
ciation of Inquirers into Spiritualism, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston,
London. There was a large attendance of members and friends, among
] whom were Mrs. Corner, Mr. J. Tozeland, Mr. and Mrs. Thos. Blyton,
i Mr. G. R. Tapp, Mr. John Rouse, Mr. R. A. March, Miss Thomson,
Mr. and Miss Pardo, Mr. W. H. Atkins, Mr., Mrs., and Miss Cook,
Signor Rondi, Mr. Edwin Dottridge, Mr. H. W. P. Makeham, Mr.
Thomas Wilks, Mr. T. Harris, Mr. A. E. Lovell, Mr. R. Lovell, Mr. T.
] Dale, and others.
| The Chairman (Mr. John Rouse); having intimated that the control-
| ling spirit of the medium would discourse on any theme suggested by
| the audience, several subjects were proposed. That selected by the
| vote of the majority was “The Contradictions of Spiritual Phe¬
nomena.”
During the singing of a hymn the medium passed into the trance con-
I dition, and an address of nearly an hour’s duration, a summary of which
is given below, was delivered through him :—
It is indeed a fact that communications of diverse and conflicting
| character are given by different spirits through different mediums. This
fact would not excite so much wonder and comment as it does were
| Spiritualists more conversant with the laws that govern communication
with the other world. Such communications are not always satisfactory,
and certainly not always final, there being just as much diversity of
opinion among spirits as among mortals. “ Then,” say the uninformed
among you, “ if reliable information on the subjects which so perplex us
here cannot be obtained, what is the use of spirit communion at all ?
If all worldly notions and ideas have their reproduction in the spirit
world, what is the good of receiving them again ? Nothing can be
obtained but an incongruous mass of fact and fiction.” Did they study
the laws of intercourse with the spirit world they must know that as the
spirit leaves the form so it comes back. It is only after the lapse of
ages that the spirit rises far above the earth plane to those spheres where
there is more true knowledge, and therefore more harmony than exists
on earth. The most high spirits communicating, and the guides of
great speakers, have asserted there is almost as much diversity of
opinion in the spirit-world as here. Every form of religion is there as
here, every school of theology, each side in politics, every grade of
scientific knowledge and literature.
The orthodox idea as regards the life hereafter is utterly valueless,
especially that portion which relates to man’s absolute condition in the
spirit world. The teaching of the orthodox Christian churches that
there are but two states, one of unutterable happiness, the other of
utter misery, and that after what is called death these are final, is
wholly removed from fact. A belief in purgatory or an intermediate
state is held by some, but they who have this glimpse of truth are in the
minority.
Spirits do not at once attain absolute knowledge of the conditions of
the world in which they live. The ideas of many ancient nations
respecting the hereafter were far nearer the truth than modern teachings.
Every spirit enters the spirit world exactly at that point of mental and
moral growth at which it leaves the body; it is either bright or dark in
proportion to the extent of its own spiritual development when it left
earth. There are many states or conditions of spirit life, each real and
apparently final to those within it. Higher spirits know there is no
finality, but that progress is eternal; they see not beyond a certain
limit, far searching as is their purified vision, but they know that
ultimate happiness has not been reached, even in the spirit world; that
evil has to be eliminated, darkness overcome, and error brushed away
before the full shining of the sun of celestial truth.
There is error in the spirit world, also long processes of education—
longer or shorter in proportion to the intensity of desire with which the
spirit seeks to attain to knowledge, purity, and truth. The great mass
of humanity are not notorious criminals or distinguished saints, but
men and women, conscious of the fact that each has within himself or
herself two distinct principles, one inclining to good, the other to evil.
They all experience times when the good overcomes the evil, and dark
hours when evil overrules the good. Yet, however vile, however they
may be shrouded in ignorance, or sunk in crime or degradation, there is
still the Divine spark within; there is that in the most debased soul
which reaches towards the Eternal Father. The cultivated man also
has this aspiration, only in greater degree. The wisest man knows that
there are vast heights of knowledge he has never scaled, depths of
wisdom he has never sounded.
Those who learn here in the school of humility, progress most
rapidly hereafter. The modest great minds really know the most.
Newton comparing his vast researches to the picking up of pebbles by a
child on the seashore, is a true example of this; it is such who soonest
learn the secrets of the spirit world. With the greater powers they
possess in their changed condition, vast fields of exploration open
before them, and ages only serve to enlarge their spiritual perceptions.
These grand spirits seldom return to earth to communicate individually,
but their mighty influence is felt in the progress of the human race, and
unconsciously, but surely, the philosopher and discoverer are subject to
their beneficent promptings. There are few on earth who have risen
to such heights of development that these advanced ones can return and
communicate directly through them. If every mediumistic person were
pure in mind and body, and exercised his gift simply for the purpose of
receiving truth—not for a livelihood or for any worldly motive—if those
who listened were also pure and like-minded, it is probable, nay, we
might say certain, that communications would be received pure and
reliable, that they would be truthful and to be depended upon. But all
human experience, that of to-day and of ancient times, teaches that
poor humanity is not elevated enough for this.
April ,13, 187
THE SPlllttfTJAlilST.
175
Many theologians love their theories rather than the truth for its own
sake. Like attracts like, especially in matters pertaining to the spirit.
Such persons naturally attract spirits having similar opinions to their
own, and the communications are necessarily coloured by the opinions
of the medium and the controlling influences. If such mediums could
but lay aside their doctrinal prejudices, they would obtain more truth
and less dogma. This may also be said in reference to other matters
besides religious teaching, to all points of less degree, to literature, to
physics, and it also holds good with the lower demonstrative phenomena
of Spiritualism. If the manifestations are desired for sport, for mere
idle curiosity, or a love of the marvellous, with no higher motive of
knowledge or edification, spirits will come who delight to deceive and
play tricks, who sympathise with those who will receive them, and take
pleasure in falsehood and mischief.
It is very important that every trance medium should have his mind
free from all preconceived ideas about the subject upon which he has to
discourse. If he holds strong opinions on the subject, he invariably
attracts spirits who hold similar views, and the communications will be
influenced accordingly. The light coming in through the window is
white, but if the glass is coloured, the light enters the room coloured
also. Under the best possible conditions, even, the messages are
influenced by the mind of the medium and others in the circle.
Come to the spirit world with noble and unselfish aspirations. See
that your mediums are carefully guarded from all objectionable and
untoward influences. Never forget that they are, more or less, affected
by the spiritual atmosphere of all those with whom they associate, and
this to an extent which less impressionable persons can scarcely appre¬
ciate. A medium may be truthful, and have trustworthy spirit guides,
but if he be surrounded by persons whose mental characteristics are of
an opposite character, his guides are compelled to withdraw from their
medium, and give place to spirits congenial to the mental atmosphere
which prevails in the circle.
Untruthful and contradictory communications are often the fault of
those who seek communion with the spirit world in ignorance of those
laws which we have endeavoured to explain to you. Many contradictions
may be prevented by the sitters themselves, in two ways. One, open
to all, is to make a resolute mental endeavour that you will seek truth
for its own sake, and act only from high and worthy motives. Another is
to do all you can to uplift humanity; to raise the pall of ignorance and
vice that covers so many in the body. Let every one strive to leave this
world better than he found it. In so doing he will elevate his own
spirit, while he renders the spirits of his fellow-men and women better
fitted to return and communicate when the earthly body is laid aside
for ever.
Do not complain that the spirits tell falsehoods and are wicked, be¬
cause they were sent away so from the earth, in which they found no
friends. Many have used their influence while living, 6n the side of
ignorance, instead of that of light and knowledge. Is it to be wondered
that spirits who lived wholly for the earth-life, who pass away reluctantly
under such conditions, should eagerly return bringing back those con¬
ditions with them? As mankind grows in goodness and knowledge of
truth, leading pure and aspiring lives while in the body, so will commu¬
nications from the spirit world become more pure and reliable, and con¬
tradictions and deceit will cease to trouble those who, in all sincerity
and earnest simplicity, hold communion with spirit.
At the close of the address several questions were answered by the
controlling spirits, and a long inspirational poem on “ The Search after
Truth ” was delivered.
After votes of thanks to Mr. Colville and the Chairman the meeting
terminated.    
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
A SPECIAL SOIEEE AND MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT.
A special soirie and grand musical entertainment is to be given at 38,
Great Russell-street, on Wednesday, the 25th inst., on the occasion of
the reopening of the reading-room after the recent great imprpvements
and alterations. Pains have been taken to make the programme as
attractive as possible, and among the performers are Mme. Ronniger, a
well-known Shakesperian reader; Mrs. Limpus and Mme. Schneegans,
members of the musical profession; Mr. Kitcat, an eminent violinist;
and Mr. E. A. Tietkens, well known in London society as an accom¬
plished tenor singer. The Misses Withall’s good taste in selection and
execution needs no commendation at our hands.
MEETING- OF THE COUNCIL.
Last Tuesday evening, at the monthly meeting of the Council of the
National Association of Spiritualists, Mr. Alexander Calder, president,
occupied the chair. The other members present were Mr. E. D. Rogers,
Mr. Morell Theobald, Miss Withall, Mr. Glendinning, Mr. Mawson, Mr.
R. Pearce, Mr. E. T. Bennett, Miss Houghton, Mrs. Desmond Fitz¬
gerald, and Mr. St. George W. Stock.
Six new members were elected, including Mr. Colville, trance medium,
of Brighton.
Mr. Morell Theobald read the Finance Committee’s report, which set
forth the balance in hand to be ,£88 14s. 5d.; it recommended payments
to the extent of £75 3s. 5d., and estimated the total outstanding
liabilities of the Association at £5.
The Secretary reported that £7 4s. had been collected in aid of the
work of Mr. E. W. Wallis. Also that the following subscriptions had
been given in aid of the improvements in the rooms of the National
Association of Spiritualists:—Mrs. Tebb, £1 10s.; Mr. Charles Black¬
burn, £5; and Mr. Martin Smith, £2 2s. An entertainment in aid of
the same object had been arranged for Wednesday, April 25th.
The annual general meeting of the members of the National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists was fixed for Tuesday, May 29th, at 6.30 p.m.
Questions relating to applications for loans of books, on payment, to
local Spiritualistic societies, were referred to the Library Committee.
The proceedings then closed.
(SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA IN PARIS.
BY THE HON. J. L. O’SULLIVAN, FORMERLY AMERICAN MINISTER AT THE
COURT OF PORTUGAL.
Your readers who have had so much in 1875 and 1876
| from your above-mentioned Paris correspondent about the
I materialisation mediumship of Firman, under the patronage
| of Count Bullet, may perhaps like to hear how I find it now
| on my return from California, after seven months’ absence.
I I have been here eight days, and have attended eight stances,
| chiefly alone with the Count, the Countess being present on
| two occasions, and twice, also, another lady, an occasionally-
| admitted and welcomed attendant.
We now have a far better light than before, namely, the
| peculiar electrical vacuum-tube arrangement of which you
| have received a description from the Count himself, who
I was the author of this application. I strongly recommend
| the British National Spiritual Association to procure one of
| these beautiful lights. If ordered from here it will cost
I about £10. Under this light the spirits bear an illumi-
I nation at least twice as strong as they used to be able to
I bear before from,a shaded candle or lamp. At a distance of
I about five feet from the light I can not only easily see the
I time by my watch, but read the written names of the airs
j on a musical box, all, by the way, sacred music.
The materialised spirits we have seen are the venerable
! and saintly “ Glaucus,” the two lovely girl spirits,
| “Alexandrine ” and “Nathalie,” my own mother, and
| “ John King,” who is the director of operations.
The power is not uniform every day. On the first two
j days we saw no spirit faces nor forms, but had only John
| King’s friendly voice from within the curtain of the cabinet,
j with a feeble view of his light outside of it. On all the
| other days we saw splendid materialisations. On the first
| two days we were told by John King’s voice that the atmos-
I pheric conditions were bad, and that he could not do better,
I but hoped for better the next day. To-day, the eighth, we
| had no other materialisation, but that of John King himself,
| though these were fine. He said, that the atmosphere being
I bad for showing the others, he had taken the day as a sort of
| “ benefit ” day for himself.
I repeat that the materialisations were splendid. Their
| faces were so distinct that their portraits could have been
| drawn. They showed at full length, in copious soft white
| drapery. The expressions of countenance were clear and
| marked. They would generally appear first with a trans-
| parent veil before the face. The veil would then be removed,
i The blue and violet colours of our light would cast upon
| them a genial whiteness of complexion, as they also did
| upon our own. “ Alexandrine ” had always a long curling
| tress of brown hair hanging down on one side of her face,
| which we could see distinctly waving backwards and for-
| wards. Curls of hair would be visible over the forehead of
| “ Nathalie.” My mother’s head was covered with a sort of
| coif, or drapery, showing no hair. “ Glaucus ” had close
| white hair surmounting his grand and venerable face.
| “ John King’s ” copious black beard was always strikingly
I conspicuous, while his whole face and form were what we
| could have sworn to, both from what we had often seen, and
| what we are all familiar with from his often re-produced
| portrait.
Now let me describe the cabinet. It is formed by a thick
curtain drawn across the rear end of a small oblong room.
| It admits of being opened in the middle, where the two
halves of the curtain meet and amply overlap each other.
Each side end admits also of being drawn back, so as to
show the spirit forms at either end next to the wall. In
! the left half of this double-meeting curtain there is a
lozenge-shaped window, with a small sliding curtain inside,
j The chair of the medium is in the middle, just behind the
middle opening of the two halves of the impenetrably thick
green curtains. There is ample space within, and “ John
Ij King ” says that is better than a small, close cabinet. The
spirit faces always appear first at the lozenge-shaped window.
| They then pass to the left end, drawing that end of the
curtain aside. They then come sometimes in the middle,
I and sometimes at the other end. We see their draped arms
| draw the curtain aside. They sometimes repeat these varied
exhibitions of themselves several times, prolonging them
more or less according to their ability; that is to say,
176
THE SPIRITUALIST,
April 13, 1877.
according to the power present. Sometimes they come well
out at the left side, clear beyond the curtain; sometimes
through the window; they rise quite up out of it to or near
the ceiling. At the end (where they are most completely
visible) they appear in full length, draped down to the floor.
Sometimes they rise upwards, their gauze-like drapery
sometimes lengthening out, sometimes rising upward so as
to clear the floor by one or two feet. They then, indeed,
look like floating angels. Sometimes they sink down,
their drapery shortening as they do so, until they almost
disappear through the floor. How can I give you in
word-painting any idea of these lovely, and marvellous,
and angelic sights ?
Several times we have seen two or three, and even four
of them together at the same time, and the medium (Firman)
asleep in his chair in the middle, the two halves of the curtain
being drawn aside to show this wondrous spectacle, with
“ John King” parading his moon-like lamp over all of them,
one after the other, so as to show the whole group, himself
inclusive, at the same time.
In writing you. these wondrous things, in the humble
character of reporter, I comply with his suggestion or
direction.
I have been welcomed back by these spirits in a very
affectionate manner. While the Count is the principal
personage, and is spoken to by John King with a certain
affectionate respect, I am an old friend, returned after a
long-distant absence. They look a great deal straight into
my eyes. They respond with movements of their head to
my unspoken thoughts or feelings addressed to them. The
Count is always “dear friend,” with a certain just superiority
of position, more sensible than describable. I am, more
familiarly, “dear old John,” whom they are so glad to see
back again. “John King,” for the first days, wished he
had the strength to give me a good clasp of the hand as he
often used to do. Yesterday, for the first time, he was able
to do so, and to-day he has repeated it. He was there, in
front of the curtain, with his light, and his face and form
well visible behind it. He first clasped the Count’s hand.
I held forward mine. He seemed almost to crush my
fingers, and to be about to pull my arms out of the shoulder-
joint by the way in which he shook my hand. I said yester¬
day, “ John, let me kiss your hand in gratitude for the
manner in which you have to-day shown my mother to me.”
He drew me forward to him, and himself applied his strongly-
bearded lips to my hand, and then held his hand to my lips,
and then placed his arm round my neck. Such is the affec¬
tionateness which now exists between us and these spirits.
He then kissed the hand of the Countess, who sat close
to me. She only comes to our seances occasionally. John
King always asks that she should come oftener. He says
that her presence animates and strengthens them. When it
is told that she intends to come the next day, he says that
he will do the best he can to please her, and will reserve force
for that purpose. And so he seems to do—economising, as
it were, a certain amount of “ force” possible to them—
always in subordination to the atmospheric conditions. To¬
day he raised the Count’s hand up till it almost touched the
ceiling, he (a tall man) standing erect and straining upward.
He did the same to me, who am not quite so tall, until I
had to put one foot on the rung of the chair and rest the
other knee on the table. He clasped our hands so hard
that he said afterwards that he hoped he had not hurt our
fingers. He expressed the great pleasure this gave him.
Let me here say one important thing in this connection.
I know your just and proper requirement of “ test conditions”
I know the necessity of them, in order to command the per¬
fect confidence and satisfaction of your readers. We have
long, long given up any such requirements for ourselves,
after an abundant and superabundant experience. But,
with a view to my purpose of writing you some general
account of this renewed experience of these seances, I yes¬
terday, before we began, went through a thorough search
both of the interior of the cabinet and of Firman’s person.
The only thing I did not explore with reference to concealed
masks, vast quantities of drapery, beards, heads of hair,
coifs and turbans, gold crosses, and so on, was a small,
thin pocket-book in Firman’s breast-pocket. This, I confess,
I did not open. Unless all these objects, enough to fill a
II moderate trunk, were concealed by him in that little pocket-
! book (thick enough to hold a few cards or letters), lean
! swear that there was absolutely nothing inside that cabinet
I but Firman as we would see him asleep on a cane-bottomed
! chair. And yet, there came all these various faces and
! forms, all this display and paraphernalia. They were mate-
I rialised spirits, and nothing else. Nothing else was mate-
I rially possible, under the most exhaustive search and
i scrutiny—under the most absolute “ test conditions.” Count
I Bullet confirms all I say; and I declare it all on my honour
| and my oath.
Another thing. At the same seance I have noticed the
| face of Glaucus smaller, considerably smaller, at one period
| of the manifestations than at an earlier one. At the window
j of the cabinet, and at the sides, several times reproduced, and
I abiding for perhaps a minute at a time, it would be quite
large, suggesting even sometimes the idea of its being
| swollen. A little later, when we would see it simultaneously
with another spirit, and with the medium visible at the same
| time, and John King promenading his moon-like light before
and over them, it would be fully a third smaller in size, while
the same in features and in ensemble, as though there was a
! greater condensation of the particles of temporary matter
j employed in these wondrous materialisations. This was un-
| mistakeable, and remarked upon, sotto voce, by both the
f Count and myself. I note it as a detail, for no detail in these
matters is without its importance. And it is a detail con-
| elusive against any theory of masks or tricks. The how
and the why I do not pretend to explain.
Still another. The “ John King ” who figures in these
| seances is evidently a highly religious spirit—even though
| still at times fond of cracking a joke more or less witty or
humorous. He always winds up with blessing and prayer
to the great and good God, the all-mighty and all-holy Spirit
whose permission allows us the privilege of witnessing such
| wonderful proofs of the reality of the spirit life (these are his
expressions, not mine). He often refers with great reverence
H| to that great and holy spirit, Christ. The other day he had
l| been speaking of the great advantage to these seances of being
| | confined to two or three persons in perfect harmony together,
j j and I said, “ Where two or three are gathered together in my
j I name”—when he caught me up with, “ Yes, there shall 1
I I be in their midst—and how could we do these if the great and
[ holy Christ were not in our midst ? ” He has more than once,
| | too, said, in substance, “ How strange and sad it is that there
i|| are so many Spiritualists who do not understand Spiritualism,
| | and who turn their backs upon religion ! ” Yesterday and to¬
ll day he alluded to “this happy season which commemorates the
|| resurrection of our Lord,[the holy Jesus” And to-day when,
| | as usual, he wrote at the close of the seance, through Firman,
I I what he wrote was (alluding to the absence of “ Glaucus ”
Hi to-day):—“ Dear friends, Glaucus has gone to the feet of his
j | Beloved Master Christ, and is therefore not here to-day. Oh!
|)| that I was only sufficiently advanced to go there! Good bye,
| I and God bless you always ! John King”
Such is “ John King ” as he shows himself to us. I do not
i | know how he, or spirits assuming that name, may show him-
vj self elsewhere.
A curious circumstance occurred to-day. John King had
| | been for some time showing himself to us by his own light,
jyj It would at times dwindle in size, and also weaken in
| | strength, and then again presently revive. Still it was not
j | at its best. It was not “ full moon to-day,” as he has before
| | expressed it. I suggested that he should draw strength
| | out of the Count’s head (as he more than once did before).
| | He accordingly applied the luminous round stone which is
| | his “lamp,” to the top of Bullet’s head, when we would see
|| clouds, as it were, play over its surface, promptly becoming
i | absorbed with a sensible increase of luminosity in the stone,
m “ See, see,” he said, observe the clouds that rise out of his
i | head like smoke ; see how magnetic he is” I could not see any-
.1 'j thing rising out of his head, but only the clouded or smoky
I I appearances on or in the stone as they would come and
j vanish. One lady friend present (a lady of wealth and dis-
) tinction, herself a medium) told me that she saw the top of
K j the Count’s head luminous, and light rising into the stone.
| | These smoky clouds converted into increased luminosity
| | suggested to me the idea of the dark paste smeared on our
1 ! boots presently to become polish. Strange that what John
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 13, 1877.
called smoke rising out of the Count’s head into the stone
should to this lady have showed as light, while to my
different eyes it was not visible at all except in its effect of
first clouding and then brightening the stone.
Paris, Sunday, April 1st.
A STRANGE INCIDENT.
Mr. Hudson Tuttle writes to the Banner of Light of March 24th: —
Mr. Malcom was evidently on the threshold of the unseen world.
An acute attack of an old disease had swiftly done the fatal work, and
the choking voice, fast-drawn breath, ashiness of lip, and peculiar light
in his eyes, gave unmistakable indications of rapid dissolution. For an
hour he had been motionless, when turning his face toward me, he said
with an energy remarkable for one in his exhausted condition:
t “ You know the charge made against me by Garey—how I have borne
public scorn and been regarded as a criminal of the most beastly kind.
Now at this moment, when I am about to enter another world, before
high heaven I declare my innocence. He perjured himself, swearing
to what he knew to be false, and that, too, for selfish ends. I have sworn
to punish him. Had I lived long enough I would have killed him like
a dog! ”
Here he fell back in a half-unconscious state, and I thought he had
-spoken his last. Anger and hate were on his countenance, terrible to
behold in one so situated. After a few minutes he recovered. I shall
never forget the look of revenge he gave, as, half rising on his elbow, he
almost shouted, “ Yes, killed him! and I now bid him, for the wrong he
has done me, to come to judgment! ” The last words were half
articulated in a hoarse whisper as he fell back, dead.
Ah! thought I, this is a terrible termination of a life of half a century!
I did not know how keenly he had suffered by the charges made against
him. That they were false there was no doubt, but at one time they
created a strong prejudice against him which nearly caused his legal
conviction. All the pent-up bitterness of years ultimated at the hour of
death, and his only regret seemed to be that he could not be spared until
he had gained revenge.
The strange part of this story is yet to be told. A few days after this
scene Mr. Garey, a man of robust health, and never sick a day in his
life, was suddenly taken ill, and his strange malady was entirely beyond
the control of his physicians. He became delirious, raved about Mr.
Malcom, who he said was an innocent man; called him by name,
and begged him to desist, to leave, and not torment him longer; im¬
plored forgiveness in tones which would have melted a heart of ice. He
grew weaker rapidly, and more incoherent, and at last choked to death
without any seemingly adequate cause.
His distorted countenance was fearful to behold, even in death.
Shall we believe that Malcom after death, retaining his desire for
revenge, gained power by some subtle means over Garey, and caused
his death? Or shall we refer it to the workings of a guilty conscience?
Which is more Important ?—A thoughtful and theological Teuton once
said in tones of horror, “ He believes in nodings. He does not believe
in Gott nor in ter tuyfel. Now when a man does not believe in Gott,
der he ish; but when he does not believe in ter tuyfel, ver ish he ?”
The Perils of Religious Excitement.—A few weeks ago a young
man, who had been attending the revival services at Chicago, shot him¬
self at his boarding-house while singing “ Sweet by and by.” A com¬
mercial traveller, who had listened to Mr. Moody’s sermons in the same
city, left his room in an Evansville, Ind., hotel one evening last week,
walked down stairs without so much as a collar to protect him from the
cold, and informed the clerk that he was going out doors to do penance
for his sins. Religious excitement had crazed his brain. On Saturday
night a young man, who had lost his reason through the same cause,
made a desperate attempt to wreck a train on the Erie Railroad. After
forcing open the switch, and obstructing the track near the bridge, he
seated himself on a freight car, and waited for another Ashtabula horror,
which happily did not come to pass. When he was arrested he
remarked that he had been reading about Mr. Bliss’s death, and was
anxious to see a big accident. These incidents illustrate the dangers
that are inseparable from emotional religion. The leaders of the Boston
movement cannot be too cautious. Let them remember that one of the
commonest causes of mental derangement is religious excitement. Let
them make their movement what their leader designs it to be—a revival
of wholesome, practical Christian work.—New York Tribune.
A Speculation.—At the New York Conference of Spiritualists just
held, Dr. Lewis said he adhered to his doctrine of the “ transfer of
mental states ” to account for all that others call “ spirit action.” He
knew a lock of a sick man’s hair to have been sent a Mrs. Tuft, who
knew nothing about the patient or his friends. She described the disease,
the pathology and patient, better than the patient could himself. Dr.
Lewis said there was no evidence this was due to disembodied spirits
rather than to a transfer of states. So of the case of a Chinaman to
whom a Yankee medium gave a letter she had written in Chinese
characters purporting to come from his father and mother who were
dead 3,000 miles away, and the Chinaman at the time did not know it,
but the latter told him of their death, which proved to be correct. He
accounted for this as a transfer of states. The “ double ” of the China¬
man went to China, saw his dead parents, came back, took possession
of the medium, and wrote the letter to himself, which she then gave to
him. So of the case of the sea-captain, well authenticated, named
Norway, who dreamed he saw his brother murdered under certain
circumstances which proved to have been true though they were thousands
of miles apart. It was the captain’s double. Wherever the solution of
the “ double ” would not fit the case, the person seeing “ a spirit ” was
hallucinated. *
177
j MURDER OF THE EDITOR OF THE BELIGlO-
I PHILOSOPHICAL JOURNAL.
(| f From “ The Spiritual Scientist?)
(i On Thursday of the past week, Mr. Stevens S. Jones, editor and pro-
S i prietor of The Religio-Philosophical Journal, Chicago, was shot and killed
) j by “ Professor ” William C. Pike, a phrenologist. The deed was done in
(j the private office of Mr. Jones, between one and two o’clock. Nobody
jij in the building heard the shots fired, and it was only through the con-
) i fession of the assassin that the discovery was first made. Pike went
n straight from the chamber of the dead to the police-station, and said to
(i the station keeper, “I’ve killed a man.’’ There was no appearance of
) | excitement in the man’s demeanour, and the policemen in the station,
h who are not unfrequently made the subject of grim practical jokes,
(j disbelieved him. Pike looked quite serious, however, and then they
) ] made up their minds that he was a lunatic, but he handed over a
(| revolver, which proved to have two newly-emptied chambers, and said,
(j “I have shot him in the offending part. I am a phrenologist and know
k where to shoot.”
(i Captain Buckley then dispatched Officer Kirch to No. 127, Fourth
II Avenue, to investigate. Kirch arrived at the tall building of The
Religio-Philosophical Journal a, little after two o’clock, and found the
(i usual bustle and stir which is to be seen at a thriving printing estab-
lishment, but nothing indicating that anything unusual had happened.
) i He went upstairs, and meeting some of the employes of the house, told
(j his errand. He had come to find the man who was shot. Nobody had
11 heard of a man being shot, but a search was at once begun; room after
)i room was gone through, and eventually they came to Mr. Jones’ private
u office, which was locked with a self-locking latch. No one answered
|! the summons. Some one looked through under the door and saw a form
|! stretched out on the floor. The door was broken open, and there, to the
(| horror and grief of all present, lay the lifeless body of the venerable old
j man as he had fallen from his chair. Mrs. Robinson, who lives in the
} | building, ran and lifted up his head. Mr. Jones was still breathing, but
(I quite unconscious, and in a few moments he passed away. He had his
11 hat on, and, from the position of the body and the undisturbed appear-
ance of the room, it was evident that he had fallen without a struggle,
I possibly without knowing what had happened. He had been shot, like
) j Lincoln, from behind. One ball had entered the base of the brain at the
junction of the spinal column. Another ball had penetrated under the
(j right ear. The murderer had evidently stood behind his chair, and
)\ had taken deliberate aim at the spot he knew to be a vital one.
) i It appears that Pike and his wife had up to a recent time occupied
(i rooms in the building owned by Mr. Jones. Pike called himself a pro-
| fessor of phrenology or physiology, or something of that kind, and was
) I regarded by the people about the building as a queer, outlandish sort of
(j a creature. “ The boys” were in the habit of calling him “The Philo-
(j sopher ” in derision. He and his wife, it is said, used to have quarrels
/! frequently, whether between themselves or with others who came to visit
(! them is not asserted; but, at any rate, they succeeded in annoying the
j i other occupants to such an extent that Mr. Jones finally concluded to
) j eject them. There was some back rent due, and Mr. Jones took Pike’s
(I note for twenty-eight dols., the balance owing him. Pike agreed to pay
Vj him by instalments, and Mr. Jones, with characteristic good nature, told
him he would take it at a dollar a week, or in whatever way was most
Cj convenient. Pike had paid up four dols. of the amount in this way,
vl reducing the note to twenty-four dols.
)i Some time between one and two o’clock in the afternoon the long*
(i haired phrenologist was descried by some of the boys in the office
vj approaching the building. They were heard to call out, “Here’s the
philosopher coming up.” Mr. Jones was in his private office about that
U time, attending to his work with his accustomed assiduity. It is situated
)\ at the rear part of the building, and is removed from the business offices
(presided over by his son-in-law, Colonel Bundy) by a long, narrow
(! passage. Here he pursued his editorial labours in comparative retire-
vj ment, so that the entrance of a visitor would be rarely noticed by any
of the employes.
(i About the hour before mentioned, Mr. Jones went into the business
v| office while Colonel Bundy was at dinner, and asked the clerk for the
)i note against Pike. It was handed to him, and he went back to his
(| room. That was the last time he was ever seen alive. As already said,
vl no one heard the report of the pistol, which was a No. One Smith and
)j Wesson, and does not make much noise in doing its deadly work.
(j On searching the pockets of the murdered man only two dollars in
| money was found in them. The note was not there.
I] No one was in the room with the murderer and his victim, and he
refuses to tell what passed between them before the deed was com¬
mitted.
Pike is a travelling lecturer on phrenology and psychology; he is not
i recognised as a professional phrenologist, nor does he claim to be a
I spiritual lecturer. He is described as a tall, cadaverous-looking man
j of sixty-five years of age, who looks like a maniac. He has a brother,
I William B. Pike, of the firm of Bates and Pike, lawyers, Rochester,
N.Y. His brother-in-law, Mr. P. H. Watson, is a well-known railroad
man, one time president of the Erie Railroad.
Mrs. Pike is a blonde of thirty-three years of age, born in Ireland, a
Roman Catholic. She has three daughters living with her brother at
Hammondville, N.Y. Mr. Jones resided with his family, a wife and
j daughter, at St. Charles, a suburb of the city. The business of the
| Journal will continue as usual.
The testimony at the coroner’s inquest indicating a scandal raised
against Mr. Jones by Mrs. Pike is utterly false. It will be noticed that
Pike refuses to tell what passed between him and Mr. Jones prior to
the murder. It is clearly shown that Mr. Jones had the twenty-four
dollar note in his possession when Pike entered the room; also that
Pike had it in his possession after the murder; lastly, that Mr. Jones did
i not have its equivalent in money about his person. Pike was com-
178
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 13, 1877.
mitted by the coroner’s jury for murder in the first degree, and his wife
as an accessory before the act. Both without bail.
The plea for the defence will be insanity.
BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OP MR. STEPHENS S. JONES.
Mr. Stephens S. Jones was born in Barre, Yt., on July 22,1815. His
parents were intelligent, liberal-minded people; his father was a farmer
in moderate circumstances; his mother was a woman of great executive
ability, many of whose traits of character her son inherited. He was
her only son. ' During childhood and youth his health was delicate, yet
he was trained to habits of industry from which he never departed. At
the age of nineteen Mr. Jones entered upon the study of law, and was
admitted to practice at the November term of Court—the first term held
by Judge Isaac F. Redfield at Montpelier, Yt. He entered upon a suc¬
cessful practice of his profession in Hyde-park soon after he was admitted,
and remained there until his removal to St. Charles, 111., in the spring of
1838.
He was married to Lavinia M. Camp, the daughter of Philo G. Camp,
on the first day of May, 1838, and on the 10th day of May they started
for their new home in Illinois.
For many years Mr. Jones confined himself to his profession and
ranked high as a lawyer. He was twice elected judge of the County
Court, and discharged the duties of the office to the general satisfaction
of the public.
At an early day in the history of railroads of the north-west, Mr.
Jones was actively engaged as a railroad man. At the age of thirty-
eight he was delegated by the Iowa Central Air Line Railroad Company,
as their sole representative at Washington, to obtain a land grant from
Congress to aid the State of Iowa in building four parallel roads, these
projected roads to run west from the Mississippi River across the State
of Iowa. For four years he attended upon Congress urging the propriety
of making the grant of land to aid in developing the resources of that
now great and prosperous State. Even the senators and representatives
from that State were opposed to the great central route on the forty-
second parallel, which was finally, through his perseverance, incor¬
porated into the grant which passed Congress in 1855.
Mr. Jones always belonged to the liberal school in religion. His
parents were Universalists, and he, for many years after arriving at
manhood, was an active member of that sect. He was generally the
presiding officer at the State conventions, associations, and repre¬
sentative gatherings of the order during the first fifteen years of their
history in the State of Illinois.
He dates his conversion to modern Spiritualism mainly to the perusal
of the work given through the early mediumship of Andrew Jackson
Davis, called Nature's Divine Revelations, and a Voice to Mankind.
The perusal of that book soon after its publication prepared his mind for
the reception of the truth of spirit communion as given through the
mediumship of the “Fox girls.” Once having been convinced of the
truth of spirit communication, he fearlessly proclaimed it on all proper
occasions, never obtruding his views, however, upon unwilling ears; and
in 1865 he founded the Religio-Philosophical Journal.
Mr. Jones has been well known for many years in Chicago, and has
enjoyed the esteem and confidence of all who had any dealings with
him. He has always been regarded as an upright, honourable citizen,
a man of great industry, and benevolent almost to a fault in his
disposition.   
THE BURIAL OF MOSES.
And he buried him in a valley in the land of Moab, over against Bethpeor,
and no man knoweth of his sepulchre unto this day.”—Deut. xxiv. 6.
By Nebo’s lonely mountain,
On this side of Jordan’s wave,
In a vale in the land of Moab
There lies a lonely grave.
And no man dug that sepulchre,
And no man saw it e’er;
For the angels of God upturned the sod
And laid the dead man there.
This was the grandest funeral
That ever passed on earth;
But no man heard the trampling
Or saw the train go forth.
Noiselessly as the daylight
Comes when the night is done,
And the crimson streak, on ocean’s cheek
Grows into the great sun.
Noiselessly as the spring-time
Her crown of verdure weaves,
And all the trees on all the hills
Open their thousand leaves ;
So without sound of music,
Or voice of them that wept,
Silently down from the mountain’s crown,
The gTeat procession swept.
Perchance some bald old eagle
On grey Bethpeor’s height,
Out of his rocky eyrie
Looked on the wond’rous sight j
Perchance some lion stalking
Still shuns that hallow’d spot,
For beast and bird have seen and heard
That which man knoweth not.
But when the warrior dieth,
His comrades in the war,
With arms reversed and muffled guns,
Follow the funeral car.
yj
| ) j
iu
i / •
jw
|)|
: (i
i |
nl
They show the banners taken ;
They tell his battles won ;
And after him lead his matchless steed
While peals the minute-gun.
Amid the noblest of the land
Men lay the sage to rest,
And give the bard an honoured place
With costly marble dressed;
In the great Minster transept
Where light-like glories fall,
And the sweet choir sings and the organ rings
Along the emblazoned wall.
This was the bravest warrior
That ever buckled sword ;
This the most gifted poet
That ever breathed a word;
And never earth’s philosopher
Traced with a golden pen
On the deathless page truths half so sage
As he wrote down for men.
And had he not high honour ?—
The hill-side for his pall
To lie in state while angels wait
With stars for tapers tall;
And the great rock pines like tossing plumes
Over his bier to wave;
And God’s own hand in that lonely land
To lay him in the grave,
In that deep grave, without a name,
Whence his uncoffin’d clay
Shall break again—most wond’rous thought—
Before the Judgment Day.
And stand with glory wrapped around
On the hills he never trod,
And speak of the strife that won our life
With th* Incarnate Son of God,
0 I lonely tomb in Moab’s land,
0 ! dark Bethpeor’s hill,
Speak to these curious hearts of ours
And teach them to be still.
God hath his mysteries of grace,
Ways that we cannot tell—
He hides them deep, like the secret sleep
Of him He loved so well.
Dublin University Magazine.
TO-MORROW.
I sit and muse beside the faded coals,
While night and silence hold their mystic sway,
And while the world, with all its freight of souls,
Wheels on through darkness to another day.
Across my spirit ghostly fancies creep .. .
Who shall dare prophesy to-morrow’s light ?
What if uncounted thousands, while they sleep,
Are trembling on eternity to-night ?
And still they haunt my heart, these dreams forlorn,
Vague bats of fear that sunshine would dismay ;
Though myriads of to-morrows have been born,
What if the last had perished with to-day ?
But no! the ancient ordinance yet reigns. . ..
Hours afterward, while seated wakeful here,
I dimly see, along my casement panes, .
The first pale dubious glimmerings appear.
Once more the old fated ways of earth begin ;
Some glad girl somewhere will soon wake and say,
While blushing, from chaste forehead to sweet chin,
One lovely rose, “ It is my wedding-day ! ”
And in some prison-cell, perchance even now,
Some haggard captive from his sleep is drawn,
To hear them, while cold sweat-drops bead his brow,
Nailing a scaffold in the ghastly dawn!
Edgar Fawcett, in The Atlantic Magazine.
iEtiTOsponTrence.
[Great freedom is given to cor respondent, iAho sometimes express opinions diametrically opposes
to those of this journal aud its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot he returned;
copies should be keptby the writers.']
A NEW SLATE-WRITING MEDIUM.
To the Editor of the “ Banner of Light.'
Sm,“-Our city is now in quite an excited state on the subject of
Spiritualism, by reason of the advent among us of a recently developed
medium, a former resident of our town, and well and favourably known
to many of our citizens. I refer to Mr. Charles Watkins, medium for
communication through the phase known as “ Independent Slate-Writ¬
ing,” more particularly exemplified through Dr* Slade.
I may say that this yoUng man, with the aid of those on the other
shore, is accomplishing a most satisfactory work in our midst, his
sittings being of such a character as to reach the most sceptical mind;
Many who have doubted now openly assert their belief, and express a
desire to aid the good cause. The communications are written between
the lids of a double slate in the full light of day, the investigators them¬
selves holding the slate, which is never for a moment out of their sight.
As if to make assurance doubly sure, some have brought their ,own
slates, which in a few instances have been screwed together with brass
screws. Mr. Charles Mason, of this city, a real estate dealer of some
prominence, received three communications inside double slates screwed
April 13, 1877. THE SPIRITUALIST. 179
together in this way, one of them being from his father-in-law, with
name signed in full. It seems to me such proof ought to be sufficient for
any who honestly desire the truth for its own sake.
I am informed that Mr. Watkins will soon visit the eastern cities, to
do whatever good he can. D. S. Critchley,
Pres, of First Society of Spiritualists.
Cleveland, Ohio, March 4th, 1877.
ANOTHER PHANTOM DOG.
Sir,—If it is of interest, a dog was accidentally shot in this dis¬
trict last autumn, and there are some fifteen respectable witnesses who
aver that the said dog still barks. For the first few weeks after his
untimely demise—nightly—and more recently, he appears to exercise
in this way about twice a week. I have not thought it worth while
to prowl about at night myself for the evidence, but do not think
there is much doubt about it. Kobt. Maitland.
Malvern Link, April 5,1877.
DR. SLADE—FREEDOM OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH IN HOLLAND.
Sir,—Please be kind enough to acquaint the readers of your most
valuable paper that, by decision of last night, Dr. Henry Slade and
Mr. G. Simmons have been elected honorary members of our
Spiritualistic Society, Oromase, here.
Dr. Slade is doing well here. His seances are simply marvellous.
We take great care of him. No Lankester “ or otherwise ” possible
here. A. de; Bourbon, the Secretary of Oromase, ad interim.
The Hague, March 5,1877.
MR. S. C. hall’s CHALLENGE TO MESSRS. MASKELYNE AND COOKE.
Sir,—Mr. Hall might have allowed Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke
much easier conditions than he has done, in perfect security that they
would not accept his challenge.
1. He might have left it optional with them whether Mr. Maskelyne
or Mr. Cooke should be the performer.
2. He might have given them an equal voice with himself in
nominating the committee, instead of claiming to nominate one-half
absolutely himself, and to have an absolute veto on half the remain¬
ing half.
3. He might have allowed them to limit their performance to the very
identical imitations of Spiritualistic phenomena which they have given
on their own stage, instead of requiring them to emulate certain
phenomena which they have never even seen, which they never professed
to expose, and which they may fairly say they don’t believe to have
ever occurred, under the conditions and in the manner in which Mr.
Hall believes them to have occurred. Or at least he might have given
them an opportunity of witnessing certain phenomena in the presence
of the committee, and have required them to imitate those phenomena
only.
It is, in fact, obviously unfair that, because they profess to imitate
and expose certain things which they have seen, they should, therefore,
be required to expose things which they have no reason to believe in
except the testimony of a gentleman who has a pecuniary interest at
stake in the matter, and that of a dozen of his friends.
On the other hand, Mr. Hall should require Messrs. Maskelyne and
Cooke to prove that they are not mediums. How can he know that they
are “ nothing else than clever conjurers ?” They may be mediums,
though they may never use their mediumship on the stage. A. Joy.
8th April, 1877.   .•
The first of the sermons by the Very Rev. Canon Gilbert, D.D., at
the Roman Catholic Church of St. Mary’s, Moorfields, on “ Spiritualism:
its Manifestations, and its Scientific and Religious Aspects,’’ has been
postponed for a few weeks.
The Employment of Mediums.—During the London season, now
beginning, Spiritualism makes faster progress in intellectual society in
the metropolis than during any other part of the year, and the demand
for the services of good professional mediums is greater than at any
other time. Much good may be done at this period by the holding of
numerous seances in private homes for the benefit of disbelievers, and
remembering the large amount of abuse which has recently been
showered upon Spiritualism, it would be well to hold none but test
stances, and with first-rate mediums. Some of the best mediums in
the provinces might perhaps obtain engagements in London at the
present time. It would be an advantage if some good medium, through
whom slate-writing is obtained regularly under unanswerable test con¬
ditions, were actively employed in town.
Dr. Maurice Davies’s Lectures.—A course of three lectures on
Modem English Poetry, with musical illustrations, was commenced at
21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square (the residence of Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory), on Wednesday evening last, at 9.30, to be continued on the
two succeeding Wednesdays, at the same hour. Dr. Davies, who has
just concluded a similar course in Holland Park, Notting-hill, took for
Ms opening subject, “ Vers de Societe,” wMch he traced from the time
of Anacreon, Horace, and Martial, down to the present period. Mr. A.
Tamplin, the accomplished organist of St. James’s, Westmoreland-
street, played an opening symphony on Mrs. Gregory’s unsurpassed
Mustel harmonium; he also filled the gaps between the parts of the
lecture in the same way. The main portion of the lecture was devoted
to Praed, from whose works Dr. Davies read extracts, as also from those
of Messrs. H. S. Leigh, W. S. Gilbert, and others, concluding with an
original poem, inspired, no doubt, by the genius loci, entitled “ A Seance
in the Sunshine.” The room was fairly filled by a select and apprecia¬
tive audience. The other lectures are to be “ Pathetic and Devotional
Poetry,” on Wednesday, the 18th; and on the 25th, “Humour—
English and American.”
1:1,1 ggsgag
| 'i I We deeply regret to state that Dr. Carter Blake is suffering from a
I! | severe attack of typhoid fever, caused by the opening of a drain at the
| ij | back of his house. His life is considered in danger.
111 The Case of Mr. Aldridge.—Mr. W. Eglinton, St. James’s House,
11[ i Walthamstow, has received the following further contributions for Mr.
j ij Aldridge:—Mr. G. H. Potts, 5s.; Mr. Starnes, Is.; Mr. Glynn, second
151 contribution, 6s. 6d.; and Mr. J. Norman, 5s.
| | The interesting article by Mr. Chapman in this number of The
IJ1 Spiritualist incidentally makes known that one American only—Mr. C.
111 H. Farnham, of New York—was present at the Liverpool Conference
jlj at wMch was founded the National Association of Spiritualists,
i j an Association destined to exert a widespread influence in connection
i j with Spiritualism which no man can as yet estimate. Who is Mr.
i | Farnham ?
jlj A Personal Narrative.—Mr. W. Wilkinson, in his Spirit Drawings,
j j says:—“ Incredulity of a fact, I take it, is that wide-spread weakness
j j of the human mind wMch is observed in men who have perfected their
j j opinions, and have no room for learning anything more. A new fact
j j for them is just one above the number that is convenient or necessary
| j for them, and had they the power of creating, or of preventing creation,
j I j the inconvenient fact should not have existed. Indeed, if admitted into
j I j their completed system, the ‘ little stranger ’ would destroy it altogether,
j j by acting as a chemical solvent of the fabric.”
Professional Mediums.—As persons alleging themselves to be
ijj spiritual mediums may set up as such when altogether unknown to
j I; Spiritualists, we have adopted the plan of refusing the advertisements of
i j individuals who so come forward, unless some few well-known and
j j respected Spiritualists have first in print certified the genuineness of the
j j manifestations. Supposing the advertisers to be genuine mediums
jlj they would have nobody inclined to defend them in the event of a
j j j malicious prosecution, if some well certified information about the genuine-
j i ness of their powers were not previously in the possession of Spiritualists,
j j On the other hand, if they chance to be impostors, the charge cannot be
j j j brought against us of having recognised them in a spiritual periodical as
j I j persons who ought to be permitted to advertise therein, thereby convey-
j j ing the idea to the public that they are recognised as mediums by the
j j Spiritualists of this country.
j j Another Witness Wanted.—CMcago has a coroner who is a cha-
j j j racter in himself. Coroner Dietzsch was early notified of the murder
j j of Mr. S. S. Jones of the Religio-Philosophical Journal, and proceeded at
j 1 j once to the Armoury. Full of business, the worthy official went down to the
I j cell where Pike was restlessly pacing backward and forward, apparently
II j communing with himself. After a little wMle the new comer managed
j j to gain the attention of the peripatetic, and after announcing himself he
j j notified the prisoner that an inquest would be held to-day, and informed
j j him that he had better arrange to have any witnesses sent for that he
J j might desire to be examined. Pike stood motionless a moment, and then
! j raising one hand replied in a hollow voice: “ There was no witness to
! j the deed but God.” The coroner was certainly discomposed at so
! ; unusual a reply, but it was only for a moment. His official dignity
j I asserted itself, and waving his hand, he answered: “Yell, He vont
j j come down and testify for you. You vas better get some other vitnesses
! j in dese cases. — Spiritual Scientist.
j j A Lecture by Miss Kislingbury.—Miss Kislingbury, secretary to
j j the National Association of Spiritualists, has been on a visit to Mon-
I I mouthshire. There are several Spiritualists in the various towns, and
j ! the subject of Spiritualism is not unknown among the labouring popu-
i j lation. Miss Jeffreys, who resides near Monmouth, is an active educa-
j I tional worker among the rising generation of farmers and labourers,
i ! and has established a working-man’s club and reading-room, and a
I j i night-school, in her own parish. On Sunday evening last Miss Kis-
j i lingbury addressed the members of the club on “ Labour, Material and
j j Spiritual,” setting forth that as the earth is made to yield its produce by
i i means of labour, so also are spiritual results attained only by working
j j for them; that in the spiritual state of existence which follows the death
j j of the body every man will reap as he has sowed; and that no one can
i j be rewarded for what he has not done. She introduced illustrations
j j from the Bible of the co-operation of spiritual beings with men, and
i I suggested that answers to prayer might, perhaps, be sometimes effected
I by the agency of those nearest and dearest to us.
Vaccination Statistics.—The conductors of daily newspapers are so
i j intent upon forcing their personal opinions upon the public, that, as
jij Spiritualists know, the facts on the unpopular side of a subject are
j j commonly suppressed, and accurate chronicling is rarely to be found.
| ! The following important statement on a disputed subject, about wMch
j i the public ought to have full information, should have been published in
j j a daily paper, rather than whence we take it, from a letter by Mrs.
j I j Mary C. Hume-Rothery, of Cheltenham, in The Croydon Chronicle:—
j|i “Allow me to ask Mr. Baldwin Latham whether, if he had entrusted
jlj £19,094 to a solicitor, or a man of business, for investment, and when
j j he called for an account was informed that ,£1,888 had been invested,
j|j and that £3,782 remained uninvested, he would consider the remaining,
jlj not even mentioned, £13,424 to be fully accounted for ? If so, his man
jli of business would certainly be likely to make a good thing of it. Now,
ijj this is the only style in which the missing 13,424 small-pox deaths in
jlj the Registrar-General’s report are ‘accounted for ’ as to vaccination or
jlj non-vaccination, the subject in dispute. Out of 19,094 deaths mentioned
ijj on the one page, where the total number of deaths from small-pox in the
j j year is given, we find on the pages where causes of death are classified
j j j only 1,888 vaccinated and 3,782 unvaccinated deaths recorded. The
jlj remaining 13,424 are not even mentioned. Observe they are not put
jlj down as not stated as to vaccination; they are absolutely ignored, as if
j j they had never been. Now, if this be Mr. Latham’s idea of being fully
ill accounted for it is not mine.”
180
THE SPIRITUALIST,
April 13, 1877,
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA AMONG THE CHINESE.
The following is from a review of a book* in The Times
of April 3rd:—
There is a Chinese proverb which asserts that, after all, u Men of
the four seas are brothers.’’ In order to prove the existence of a mytho¬
logical brotherhood between the benighted natives of China and our
enlightened selves, and so to help “ to bridge the existing gulf between the
two peoples,” Dr. Dennys has compiled the interesting work now before j
us. Much has been written of late years on Chinese songs, stories,
and superstitions, but most of it has remained little known, being
stowed away in unfamiliar volumes, or dispersed in stray numbers of
newspapers and magazines seldom, if ever, seen by Western eyes. Dr.
Dennys has, therefore, done good service in bringing together, and pre¬
senting in a readable form, the hitherto scattered contributions which
have recently been offered to students of Chinese folk-lore.
A CHINESE PLANCHETTE.
One of the closest parallels between European and Chinese supersti¬
tion is traced by the use of the planchette among ourselves and in
China. To this Mr. E. B. Tylor has already called attention, but the
account given of it by Dr. Dennys is well worthy of being carefully
studied, as is his description of the pranks played by Chinese mediums.
Instead of a slate, a table strewed with sand is used as a vehicle for
spiritual communications, which are traced by a pencil , made from the
twig of a peach tree. It seems that 1 the motions of the pencil are
quite extraordinary, and apparently not produced by the medium, on
whose open palms the handle of the pencil rests.” Irreverent lookers- i
on are sharply rebuked by the ministering spirit. After each sentence j i
the sand has to be smoothed, and while this is being done the whole j ]
company unite in praising the poetical talents of the spirit, which ]
responds by tracing on the sand the characters “ It’s ridiculous.” 11
When wearied it ‘‘jots down as if in a great hurry the two characters, j
‘Excuse me, I am off;’ ” whereupon the company say, “If there was ji
any want of respect or attention, great spirit, we beseech thee forgive us j
this sin,” after which the seance comes to an end.
PECULIARITIES OP CHINESE GHOSTS.
In superstitions the Chinese are remarkably rich, and their fantasies i
often take a peculiar form. A belief in ghosts, for instance, is common \
to both the East and West; but Chinese ghosts are somewhat singular, i (
Thus the disembodied spirits of suicides not only walk and talk, as they j I
frequently do here, but they attempt to induce those whom they have i j
left behind them to follow their example. There was once a haunted | (
house at Hang-Chow which a daring speculator bought cheap. The |
first night he spent in it he was suddenly aware of a woman who j
“ slowly approached, with a red silk handkerchief hanging to her neck, j |
and, having saluted him, fastened a rope to the beam of the ceiling, and j|
put her head in the noose,” after which it called on him to do likewise. | [
But he laughed her to scorn, whereupon she cried bitterly and went j j
away. “ And from this time the house was no longer haunted.” There j l
are some ghosts in China, it seems, which are cherished and worshipped, j
although they are not ancestral. Having hanged a cat, the owner of a 11
house will “perform certain ceremonies of fasting and requiems for it
seven weeks.” After that time the house is agreeably haunted by the | [
cat’s ghost, which, “ about the fourth watch of the night before cock- j r
crowing,” goes out stealing, and brings back to its owner rich spoils, j (
Foxes, moreover, have much ghostly power. Represented as “ living on j||
the debatable land which is neither the earth of life nor the Hades of in
death,” the fox “ enables ghosts of the dead to return to life, or himself i (
performs their terrible behest,” avenging the murdered by scaring the ||j
murderer. Thus, “ an accomplished scholar ” witnessed the following j (|
scene, which he related to Dr. Dennys. A friend of his was supposed i(j
to have murdered his wife. At all events, his house was haunted, his i [ i
late wife’s room worse than the rest, so that it had to be shut up. But j j I
one night the narrator persuaded his friend to go with him into that part i j
of the house. Before the two men had long been seated there, “in
walked the murdered woman clothed as of old,” went up to a corner, if
took from it a, bowl full of water, and carried it to him who had been i(j
her husband. He fell back screaming, and the ghost left the room, m
The friend ran to the door, but nothing was to be seen, nor had any- ! (j
thing unusual been observed except a fox. The house has been shut |} i
up, and the owner has gone elsewhere. But it is believed that “ the j I j
ghost of the murderer’s wife will torment him by means of a fox daily | j j
until it brings him to the grave.”
THE SEEING-MEDIUM SHIP OF THE EMPEROR YUEN TSUNG—FILIAL DEVOTION j|j
OF KO-AI AND OTHERS. 11 j
Of a more pleasant nature are the spirits which haunt men of letters. j||
The Emperor Yuen Tsung one day saw “little Taoist priests like flies” in
walking about in his ink, and they cried aloud, “ Live for ever; your i j i
servants are the spiritual essence of ink, the Ambassadors of the black I) \
pine. Whoever in the world has literary cultivation must have twelve j j
of us dragon guests in his ink.” One of the most pleasing traits of the i (i
Chinese character is filial devotion. Of it traditions record many in- ||j
stances. Thus when a certain Mandarin was to be beheaded in case j)|
the bell intended for the Bell Tower of Pekin did not prove a success, j j j
his fair young daughter, Ko-ai, consulted an astrologer on the subject, jj!
and learnt that it would be a failure “ if the blood of a maiden were not iti
mixed with the ingredients.” When the casting occurred, she cried Is!
aloud, “For my father!” and flung herself into the liquid metal. A i>!
bystander tried to save her, but only rescued one of her shoes. The in
bell turned out a great success. Only, its deep boom, when it is struck, j (i
is followed to this day by a low wailing sound like the cry of a woman i ji
painfully uttering the word hsieh, or shoe. And when people hear it i (|
[* The Folk-Lore of China, and its Affinities with that of the Aryan and Semitic Races, By N. ; (j
B. Dennys, Ph.D., F.B.G.S., M.R.A.S., author of A Handbook of the Canton Vernacular: i(i
London: Trubner and Co. 1876.] 4 “
j j they say, “ There’s poor Ko-ai calling for her shoe.” Nor has the love
(j of parents decreased even in these degenerate days: The Shanghai
j Courier of November, 1875, tells how a model son, finding that his
j mother was very ill and the local doctor would not help her because she
(| was poor, “ cut a great piece of flesh out of his left arm, boiled it down to
j j a broth, and gave it his mother to drink. It is said that she recovered.”
jj In May, 1874, also, the PeTtin Gazette records how “the Deputy
(j Governor of Honan petitioned in Reference to a dutiful daughter who
ji cut a piece of flesh from her arm” and gave it to her father to eat,
j j whereupon he recovered from a dangerous illness. All Chinese women,
j however, are not equally amiable. There exists, it seems, a sisterhood
i of young unmarried women who are sworn never to marry. If forced
j by their parents to do so, they kill their husbands by means of a drug,
j j one of the ingredients of which is an infant’s blood.
j CHINESE AND JAPANESE ILLUSTRATIONS OF “ ST. GEORGE AND THE DRAGON.”
I j What is most important in Chinese folk-lore is the light it throws
Ji upon that of other lands. In the stories which are current in China
ij and Japan we sometimes meet with “variants” of tales familiar to our-
j selves, and in those Chinese or Japanese “variants” some scholars
|j recognise slightly altered versions of Indian tales which have also
j drifted Westwards, and have undergone great changes in their long
j wanderings from Buddhistic Asia into all parts of Christian Europe,
j On our legends about St. George and the Dragon, for instance, Chinese
j and Japanese traditions throw much light. Nowhere does the atmos¬
pheric nature of the Dragon come out more clearly than in China
and Japan. Waterspouts are usually spoken of in native annals as
dragons; Thus we read that:—
i “ a.d. 1605. A couple of dragons fought at Whampoa and tore up a large
j tree, and demolished several tens of houses.
j “ a.d. 1608, 4th moon. A gyrating dragon was seen over the decorated
j summit of a pagoda ; all around were clouds and fog ; the tail only of the
I dragon was visible; in the space of eating a meal it went away, leaving the
j marks of its claws on the pagoda.”
One of the Japanese illustrations of a St. George and the Dragon, or
Perseus and Andromeda myth, is given by Mr. J, F. Campbell in his
“ Circular Notes,” and in it the dragon evidently personifies the storm,
its many heads cloudlike in form, its fiery tongues darting this way and
that like flashes of lightning. A “variant” of this story, quoted from
a Chinese work compiled towards the end of the 16th century, tells how
a mighty serpent was in the habit of devouring young girls. After nine
j victims had thus been eaten, a maiden named Ki offered herself as the
next victim. Cautiously approaching the serpent’s cavern, she placed a
j dish of rice and honey at its mouth, and watched it, having provided
j herself with “ a good sword and a dog that would bite at snakes.” When
j the’ serpent came forth and began to devour the luscious food the dog
hung on to it, and Ki slashed away at it till it died, after which she
entered the cavern “ and recovered the skeletons of the nine previous
victims, whose untimely fate she bewailed.”
MR. KWEI KU AND HIS GRANDMOTHER—A WARNING TO THEOSOPHISTS IN
RELATION TO THE PRACTICE OF WHITE MAGIC.
Among other familiar stories of which Chinese versions are quoted by
Dr. Dennys, may be mentioned that of Rip van Winkle. A woodcutter
unconsciously passed several centuries in watching two chess-players in
a cave. When he left them he found no vestige of his kinsfolk remain¬
ing, so, “retiring to a retreat among the hills, he devoted himself to the
rites of Taoism, and finally attained to immortality.” The “ Open
Sesame ” story is illustrated by that of a herdsman named Chang, who
found a magic cave, which opened at the words, “ Stone door, opeu;
Mr. Kwei Ku is coming.” One day his grandmother visited it with him,
and was shut in, for she did not know the formula. Eventually Chang
learnt from the cave demon that “his grandmother’s disappearance was
a matter of fate.” The myth, which has retained its original character
in China, has passed in Persia or among the Arabs into the mere robber
story of the “ Arabian Nights.” A curious “ Claimant,” or Amphitryon
story, resembling one which is very popular in Central Asia, runs as
follows:—A “ white dog versed in magic ” took the form of the husband
of a beautiful woman, and paid her a visit. But he happened to arrive
at the same moment with the true husband. Unable to decide between
the two claimants, she called in a magistrate. Suspecting the fraud, he
put the rivals into a cage containing a tiger which killed dogs but spared
men. Whereupon the tiger ate up the false husband, and the real one
recovered his wife. Among stories of a less supernatural kind may be
mentioned that of the boatman who lost his heart to a fair maiden, under
whose windows he passed every day. She died, after loving him so
cordially that when her body was dissected “ her heart was found to be
of iron, upon which was painted or engraved a picture of the boat, the
window, and the two lovers. This being shown to the bereaved boatman
he instantly expired”—about b.c. 350. The origin of the Chinese
puppet-shows also forms the subject of a singular story. A lady named
Oh was besieging a town about b.c. 260. Its defenders, knowing her to
be of a jealous disposition, “invented a puppet in the shape of a wooden
woman, which was made by strings and springs to dance on the battle¬
ments.” Alarmed at the idea of so fascinating a creature falling into
her husband’s hands, and becoming an addition to his seraglio, Oh
raised the seige. Since that time puppets of a similar kind, but smaller,
have amused the Chinese mind. We may conclude with a story which
conveys a moral warning to over-economical statesmen. A certain
king gave orders that his war-horses should be employed in mills during
times of peace. Much saving was thereby effected; “ but no sooner
were the troops called out for war, than the cavalry found that their
horses would only go in a circular direction, and they accordingly fell
an easy prey to their antagonists.”
Next Sunday Mr. Morse will lecture at the Meyerbeer Hall,
Liverpool,
April 13, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
iii
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C. ;
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical, Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume's “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANOHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information. about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, US. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERS ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 8s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. IL, by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, hut
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this hook,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNAT URAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.O.L. This newlymublished book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritnal-
sm to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vota, crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of. acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spint Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supcmaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and /Science: the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Sims; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell>
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of ajtrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Yala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. fid.; cheap edition,
7s. fid. „
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olpott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book censists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM/MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A Danskin, 4s. 6d. -
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
8s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. fid.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), fid.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will
2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. fis.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, fis. fid,
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. fid.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Take. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, MD., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle, fis. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott, fis.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. Cs.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism, fis.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post,
fis. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By 0. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1766. 2s. fid.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. fid.) 4s.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. Jamea Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vois.| 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Beformer.
The Thinker.
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
~ ~ ' II.
HI.
IV. „ .
v. „ •
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology. . .
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . . .
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health .
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures ....
.?. d.
15 0
7 6
7 6
7 0
7 6
7 6
7 6
8 6
7 6
6 0
7 6
2 0
7 6
3 6
7 6
2 G
3 0
7 0
fi 0
7 6
7 fi
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) ...
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by Thb Spibitualist Newspaper .
Keys of the Creeds . . . , . . .
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A hook containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) ....
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) ....
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) .
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . ...
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen .
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A, Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 18
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Talcs and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A . 10
Awas-I-Hind,’; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . .2
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . .12
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B.A. . . ,3
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three veils. ... .... 18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed;
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale ..... 10
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.AS.
Special edition for Schools • , , . 1
s d.
24 0
14 0
6 O
18 0
12 0
16 0
7 0
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Doten: 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 0. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each. .
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE-LIFE OF WILLIAM -.jENTON, by J. H.
Powell. Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard, fid.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard,
fid.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Ado! vims Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE 4OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds »ys of
this little pamphlet; “There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” fid.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. fid.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young fid.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d,
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. 0. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF.SCIENCE? by William
D, Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM by Dr. R. T.
Hallock, 2s.
nr
THE SPIEITUALIST,
Apeil 13, 1877,
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
4 scientifically accurate description oj Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits,'.and
SIMULTANEOUSLY WITNESSED BY THE AUTHOR AND OTHER
'Observers'in London.
• By WILLIAM H. HABRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38,' Great Russell Street, London, - TP. (7.
Or of Messrs. Colby- and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
•Boston, U.S.
Opinions oe the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated.the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour jiot
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the' genuineness of the communications alleged to be-
given by the spirit's of .the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a prioH objections to Mr. Harrison's opinions we
shall not now enter. .We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test'which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (Which'is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.’’-—Public Opinion.
“At the outset of his'booklet Mr: Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic thfcoats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with-assertions of the most dumb¬
founding' nature.’’—London Figaro.
f Although'the‘author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for¬
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
““ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to. have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. :He states occurrences and, events, or what he be- ;
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which , are the ordinary concomitants, of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and 'antecedently impossible.”—Sou th Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, Ted edges. ' Brice Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.b.
By Royal Letters Patent
“ KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES-THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR,
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash'will'not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis; ’ * ’ v
The above fact renders THE “ KRINE COSMETIC ” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery- as well as for the
•Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers' at 8s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W. ;*’ or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,1
Sloane-sqnare, S.W.
, Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal ■ magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena'
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D., ( -
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the/ medical
academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
-The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for, the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about animal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postag -4d. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 2d. '
Spiritualism in the bible iden¬
tical with MODERN: SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
‘•Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
IFE BEYOND , THE' GRAVE : described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Aye Maria-lano, London,' E;C.’ *
SPIRITtIALISM:
New Works on its Phenomena, Philosophy, and
Present Position.
BY “M.A. (OXON.) ”
I HAVE been frequently asked to publish a book on Spirit¬
ualism. The facilities which I have enjoyed for personal
investigation, my acquaintance with the literature of the
subject and with prominent workers in it, and the attention
that I have paid to the investigation of its various phases, have
seemed to many to fit me for such a duty.
It is easier asked than done. A book on Spiritualism, if it
did but sketch the subject, should be very voluminous; and,
.when written, it would be found to omit more than it dis¬
cussed or recorded. I cannot write such a book; nor do I
think it desirable that any such attempt should be made in the
present state of our knowledge.
But I do think it very important that any person who has
special facilities for observation should use them, and record
itheir results as best he can. In this belief, I have kept careful
records of what I have seen, and from time to time have pub¬
lished Essays and Reviews on the published opinions of others.
I have also printed a number of chapters of Personal Research
in the Phenomena and Philosophy of Spiritualism, and have
selected, from a mags that have been automatically written out,
certain Spirit-teachings.
I propose to collect and complete these works.
First, I wish to print a volume of Essays and Reviews.
It will contain, in addition to a number of Reviews of works
of standard American authors—Olcott, Sargent, Tuttle,
; Crowell, and others—and a long Essay on the Transeorporeal
; Action of Spirit, which have already appeared, much original
matter riot yet published. A special feature of the book will
be the introduction to’ general, readers of the best books on
Modern Spiritualism.
The volume will be published at 10s. if sufficient names are
enrolled as subscribers to show that such a book is wanted,
and will pay expenses. I decline pecuniary risk.
I propose hereafter (but not now) to issue two other works,
—one “Spieix Teachings,” dealing with the religious aspect
of-the question ; the other, “ Reseaeohes in the Phenomena
and Philosophy- of Spieitualism,” dealing with the whole
subject in its experimental phases, and with the theory and
philosophy of it. These will come in due time if they find
a place.'
For the present I put forward only “Essays and Reviews.”
The following friends have kindly formed themselves into a
committee with a view of carrying out business arrangements.
Those to whose name * is prefixed will. receive names of
:Subscribers, and Mr.; Percival, ’the Treasurer, will receive
subscriptions as they become due.
Details of publication will be given when it becomes clear
that the book .will meet a demand. Unless a sufficient number
'of copies—about 500—be subscribed for I shall consider that
tit is not wise to print.
I respectfully beg that no business letters may be sent to
me, as my time'is already overtaxed.
“M.A. (OXON.).’’
Names of Committee. -
♦Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Gr.een-street, Grosvenor-sq., W.
Mrs. Fitzgerald, 19, Gambridge-street, Hyde Park, W.
*Mrs. Tebb, 7, Albert-road, Regent’s Park, N.W.
*S. T. Speer, Esq., 13, Alexandra-road, N.W.
*0. C. Massey, Esq., 96, Portland-place, W.
T. Shorter, Esq, 28, Prince of Wales’-road, N."W.
*B. Coleman, Esq,, 1, Bernard-villas, Central-hill, Upper
Norwood.
F. W. Percival, Esq,, 15, Conduitistreet, Bond-street, W.,
Treasurer, to whom all Names are to be sent in,
together with all subscf iptions when payable.«
■Subscribers-who do not wish their names to be published,
; should inform Mr, Percival to that effect.
HOWTO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
. on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found'in nearly every household.
\ Let, the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
’rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
i shall enter it,'and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wpoden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
■its top' surface. Whether, the hands touch each other or not
is usually of-no importanc’e. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently. accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand 'from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, blit not always, considerably delays the
. manif estations.-
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and-some sheets, of clean writing paper on the table, to write
' down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for Such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or. unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely,- to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is 'under¬
stood.’ If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage?” Should,three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ?") Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask'“Who is the medium?’’ When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen. questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
’Virtues and all the failings of, humanity.
. THE SPIRITUALIST FUND.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION FOR 1877 AND 1878.
' £ s. d.
Le Comte de Bullet  50 0 0
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq. ....;..  $0 0 0
Martin R. Smith, Esq  20 0 0
Alexander Tod, Esq,       15 0 0
Charles Blackburn, Esq   10 0 0
Alexander Oalder, Esq  10 0 0
N. F. Dawe, Esq     10 0 0
G. O. Joad, Esq 10 0 0
The Hon. A. Aksakof   10 0 0
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D  10 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart   10 0 0
M. R.1  10 0 0
James Mylne, Esq  10 0 0
X.         10 0 0
B          6 6 0
C.T    5 5 0
George Sutherland, Esq    5 5 0
T. E. Partridge, Esq    5 0 0
Thomas Grant, Esq  5 0 0
The Countess of Caithness  5 0 0
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun  5 0 0
A Friend  5 0 0
B       3 0 0
Mrs. E. Dixon   2 2 0
The Rev. W. Whitear    2 2 0
Dr. Baikie......      2 2 0
Miss Whitear   2 2 0
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq.; M.R.1  2 2 0
Mrs. Lowe   - 2 2 0
S. J. H    2 2 0
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.8  2 2 0
W. C. Pickersgill, Esq       2 0 0
W     ,200
G. V.   ;    2 0 0
S. T. Speer, Esq., M.D  2 0 0
W. M. Buchanan, Esq., M.D.  .200
A. Yacher, Esq   2 0 0
Colonel Olcott  2 0 0
The Baroness von Vay  1 10 0
George Lee, Esq    - 1 1 0
G. R. Tapp, Esq      110
Mrs. Maltby...    110
B. W. Pycock, Esq.    110
Mrs. Nosworthy .-...  1 10
C. T. Hook, Esq.    j  11 0
Major Menars '.    110
A. Glendinning, Esq '.   110
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S  110
D. Fitz-Geirald, Esq., MS.TeLE  l 10
Mrs. Hennings   110
Dr. George Wyld   110
Miss Allen      110
W. P. Adshead, Esq.   110
John Mould, Esq.    110
J. P. Turner, Esq.      110
J. T. Dodd, Esq .....'.    1 10
Mrs. Jeffreys       110
Miss Douglas         10 0
John Scott, Esq .'.   10 0
J. C. Ferguson, Esq    10 0
A. C. Swinton, Esq.     100
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory     100
Mrs. Tyndall      100
Lieut.-Col. Jacoby     1 0 0
John Chapman, Esq  10 0
G-F. Green, Esq      0 10 6
Mrs. E. K. Beeby  1  0 10 6
R. Catling..;...„....      0 10 6
E. R           0 10 6
J. Hare, Esq.       0 10 0
M. J.Walhouse, Esq..;...    0 10 0
A Friend      0 10 0
A Friend      0 10 0
T. H       0 10 0
Miss Pearce...    0 5 0
j.t.m;     0 5 0
Subscriptions to' this Fund should be remitted to W. H
Harrison, 38; Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTI8M0 INITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete.- Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
ANTED.—A LADY MEDICAL CLAIR-
YOYANTE, for the Diagnosis of Disease. Apply to
Mrs. Burke, 8, Upper Bedford-place, Russell-square, W.U.
A GENTLEMAN, a powerful developing
MEDIUM, is now open to receive ladies and gentlemen
of position for private development for the various phases of
mediumship. For terms apply, in first instance, by letter only,
with real name and address, to 0. James, 2, Yernon-place,
Bloomsbury-square, London, W.O.
Spntalisi JUtoapp-e*;
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Half-a-
crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“The Spiritualist” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not-lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the. Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street,
London; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the; first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
anuual subscription of IQs lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s. 1,'Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.O.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & ,Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and'St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. ALLEN, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O,
