A F(ECOF(D Of THE
PROQREff Of THE., fCIEfICE y\ND ETHI03 OF fPIfITUyVEI^M.
No. 7.—Vol. I.
LONDON: TUESDAY, MARCH 15, 1870:
Published on the 15th of every
Month; Price Threepence.
THE HANDLING OP RED-HOT COALS UNDER
SPIRIT INPLUENCE.
On one occasion, in the presence of four other wit¬
nesses, we saw the remarkable manifestation, so often
mentioned in the journals devoted to Spiritualism, of
the handling of red-hot coals by Mr. D. D. Home while
he was in the trance state. The fire was a large one.
He turned over the coals quietly with his hands, and
then selecting one half as.big again as an egg,* he
resumed his seat at the circle, held the red-hot coal on
the palm of his hare hand over the table, and sat talk¬
ing to those present till the coal was black, and nearly
cold. At a guess, the time he held the coal thus, one
short interval of half a minute excepted, was about four
minutes. He then dropped it into the fender, put his
hand into the fire again, and selected the largest coal
in it. This coal nearly covered the palm of his hand
with its base, and it stood six or seven inches high,
something like an irregular pyramid. As he walked
about the room, with this coal on the bare palm of one
hand, the coal was so brightly heated, that at first it
threw a ruddy glow upon the walls of the room;, and
when he resumed his seat, and held it over the table as
before, the heat it emitted was felt upon the faces of
the members of the circle. This coal he held thus for
more than five minutes, giving trance communications
all the time.
The first coal, while upon Mr. Home’s hand, was too
hot to be laid hold of by those members of the circle
who tried to take it at the request of the spirit speaking
through the medium. He then remarked that one
lady present had a portion of the same mediumistic
power ; placing the hot coal upon her hand' he. allowed
it to remain there about half a minute, and, nothing,
but a sensation of gentle warmth was felt. While this
coal was still red, he curved his other hand close over
the top of it, and the coal could be seen glowing
through the spaces between his fingers ; while he held
it thus enclosed, he brought his hands* before*the eyes
of one or two witnesses in succession, that -they might
clearly examine it glowing between his fingers.4, ‘While
this was being done his hands were, of course, exposed
to 1 he full heat due to contact; radiation, and convection
currents. Some other remarkable manifestations: took
place at this seance, and after it was over,' when Mr.
Home was in his normal state, in reply to ,a question,
he said that the spirits tell him that while he handles
red-hot coals, they send a current of sOtne of the forces
tinder their control down his arms and hands in such a
way as to prevent injury from heat. This seance took
place-at the residence of Mr. C. F. Yarley, C.E.'; but
Mr. Yarley was on the continent at the time.
In the evidence given by Mr. H. D. Jencken,F.lt.G.S.,
before the Dialectical Society, it will be remembered that
he deposed that he had seen Mr. Home place his face on
the top of a coal-fire, in such a way that the flames*
played between his locks of hair, but that no injury or
pain resulted.
The Banner of Light, of the fifth of last month, con¬
tains the following statement by Lord Adare, about the
facts witnessed at a seance held at the house of Mrs.
Hennings, at Norwood:—
“He (Mr. Home) went to the fire, poked up the
coals, and putting his hand in, drew out a hot burning
ember, about the size of an orange; this he carried
about the room as if to show it to the spirits (who, he
said, were present),' and then brought it to us; we
all examined it. He then put it back in the fire and
showed ns his hands; they were not in the.least
blackened or scorched, neither did they smell of fire, but
on the contrary of a sweet scent, which he threw off
from his fingers; at us.across the table. Having ap¬
parently spoken to .'Some spirits, he went back , to the
fire, and with his hand stirred the embers into a flame;
then kneeling down, he placed his face right among the
burning coals, moving it about as though bathing it in
water. Then, getting up, he held his finger for some
time in the flame of a candle. Presently he took the
same lump of coal he had previously handled and came
over to us, blowing upon it to make it brighter. He
then walked slowly round the table, and said, ‘ I want
to see which of you will be the best subject. Ah!
Adare will be the easiest, because he* has been the most
yith Dan.’ Mr. Jencken held out his hand, saying,
VPut it in mine.’ Home said, 1 No, notouch it and
see.’- * He 'torched it with the tip of his finger and
burned himself. Home then held it within four or five
inches, of Mr. Saul’s and Mr. Hurt’s hands, and they
could not, endure the heat.., He came to me and said ‘
‘ Now if you are not afraid, hold out your hand.’ I did
so, and having made two rapid passes over my hand,, he
placed the coal on it. I must , have held it for half a
minute—long enough to have burned my hand fearfully;
the coal felt scarcely warm. 'Home then took it away,
laughed, and seemed much pleased. As he was going
back to the fire-place, he suddenly turned • round ■ and
said,£ Why, just fancy,1 some of them think that only
one side of the ember was hot.’' He told me to make a
hollow of- both of my hands; I did so, and he placed
the coal in them, and then put both his on top of the
coal, so that it was completely covered by our four
hands, and we held it there for some time. Upon this
occasion scarcely any heat at all could be perceived.
Again at Ashley-house, after the measured elon¬
gation of Mr. Home’s arms, Lord Adare says:—
“ Walking over to the fire-place Home took from thence
with his hand a red-hot glowing ember about the size
of a small orange. Mrs. G. [the names are given in
full, but I omit those of persons unknown to me, and
who might object to publicity] became nervous, fearing
that hd would request her to take it. He, however,
went to Miss D., and said, ‘ Now, if you have sufficient
faith, let me place this coal in your hand.’ She
replied, £I have faith, but I cannot overcome the
physical dread; pray do not ask me to take it.’ Home
then placed it on the Master of Lindsay’s head, but
immediately took it, crushed it in his hand,, and threw
it. away, because it had become • black. But presently
he took, another red-hot ember from the fire, and hold¬
ing it in his hand, spoke a few words to Miss D. on the
subject of faith. She held out her hand, and he placed
the coal in it. Miss D. was not in the least burned,
and said it felt rather cold, like marble. After allowing
it to remain a few seconds, Home took the coal , and
requested Miss D. to touch it; she placed her fingers
pea'r it; but withdrew them immediately^ saying .that it
burned her.1 He then placed it in Mr. Bi’s hand.” -Earl
Dunraven adds in a note : “ I am informed by Miss D.
and the Master of.Lindsay; that Lord Adare has" omitted
(o state, that Mr.. Home put this coal between his coat
and shirt, under the’'arm,>and that no mark of singeing
or burning was visible oh the shirt:”*'
The Countess M. de .Fqmar, wrjtes ’to Lord Dur^-,
raven an account of a seance held at'Lady-——’s,-'afi
Brighton, in which she says : “-Mr. Home went to the
fife and took out a large red-hot mass of coal, which-he
held in his extended hands and blew upon it to keep it
alight. He walked up and down the room with it;
then went to Lady——and wanted to put it in her
hands, but she drew. back. He then said: ‘ No, you
must not have it, for you have no faith ; it will burn
you.’ Lady G. extended her hands, saying,: ‘ I will
take it without fear, for I have faith.’ Mr. Home then
placed the burning mass in hei’ hands, and she did not
feel it at all hot, although she held it for . at least one
minute. It was afterward put on a sheet of paper,
which directly began to blaze, and had a great hole
burned in it.”
. This matter, says the Banner of Light, is of such ex¬
ceeding interest to men of science, as well as inquirers
into the marvellous, that we copy entire some more
testimony—a letter from the well known authoress,
Mrs. S. C. Hall, to the Earl of Dunraven :—
“ 15, AsMey-place, July 5, 1869.
“ Dear Lord Dunraven,—You have requested me to
recall the circumstances, of a seance that took place here
several weeks ago. \ I have^much pleasure in doing so ;
but I never take notes. I am, however, certain of the
facts,’though I shall not W able to place them in the
order in which they occurred."
. “We were-nine (a -greater number than Mr. Home
likes) ;'we were seated found the table, as usual, in the
small drawing-room, which communicates with a much
larger room,; the folding.-doors were pushed back into
the wall, and the po.rtiers unclosed. I think there was
one lamp burning .over the table, and a very large fire
was blazing away in the large room. I know that there
was a great deal of light. The Master of Lindsay, Rev.
Mr. Y. and his wife, Mr. Hall and myself, Mr. Home,
and the Misses Bertojacci were present. We sat for
some little time before the tremulous motion, that1 so
frequently indicates stronger manifestations, commenced;
but it was quickly followed by raps, not only on the
table, but in different^parts of the room; the table’was
moved up and.down—lifted perfectly off the ground—
made ‘light’-and“heavy’ at the request of one:or two
of the gentlemen present; and, after the lapse-of, I
suppose," nearly an hour’ Mr: Home went into, a trance.
Presently he ,pushed his chair, or the chair was pushed,
quite away from the table.- He got up, , walked about
the room in his usual manner; went to the fire-place ;
half knelt on the fender stool; took up the poker and
poked the fire, which was like a red-hot .furnace, so as
to in crease, the.heat; held -his - hands over the fire for
some time, and-finally drew* out-of the fire with his
hand a large lump of live burning coal, so large that he
held it in* both hands, as he. came from the fire place in
the large room into the small-room, where, seated round
the table, we were all watching his movements. Mr.
Hall was seated nearly opposite to where I sat; and I
saw Mr. Home, after standing about half a minute at
the back of Mr. Hall’s chair, deliberately place the
lump of burning coal on his head ! I have often won¬
dered that I was not frightened, but I was not; I had
perfect faith that he would not be injured. Some one
said: ‘Is it not hot?/ Mr. Hall answered, ‘warm,
but not hot.’ .Mr. Home had moved a little way, but
returned,’still in-a trance; he smiled, and seemed quite
pleased, and then proceeded to draw up Mr. Hall’s
white hair over, the red coal. The white hair had the
appearance iof <. silver . thread over the red coal. Mr.
Homo drew the" hair into a sort of pyramid, the coal,
still red, showing beneath the hair; then, after, I think,
four or five minutes, Mr. Home pushed the hair back,
and, taking the coal off Mr. Hall’s head, he said (in the
peculiar To W-voice in which, when in a trance, he always
.speaks),., addressing Mrs. Y., ‘Will you have it?’
She drew back, and I heard him murmur, ‘ Little faith,
little.faith,’..
: .‘-‘ Two* or three attempted to touch it but it burned
their fingers. T said, ‘ Daniel, bring it over to me; I
do not fear to take it.’ It was not red all over, as when
Mr. Home put it on Mr. Hall’s head, but it was still red
in parts. Mr. Home came and knelt by my side; I
put but1 my right hand, but he murmured, ‘ No, not
that, the other hand.” He then placed it in my left
hand, where it remained more than a minute. I felt
ijt; as my husband had said, ‘ warm,’ yet, when I stooped
- down to- examine the coal, my face felt the heat so much
That I was obliged to withdraw it. After that, Mrs.
Y—— took it, and said she felt no inconvenience.
When Mr. Hall brushed his hair at night he found a
quantity of cinder dust. Mr. Home was elongated, and
all the manifestations that evening were very remark¬
able; but, I believe, your Lordship requested me to
relate only what I remember of the coal test.
“ Dear Lord Dunraven, sincerely yours,
“ Anna Maria Hall.”
(Mrs. S. C. Hall.)
Of course if these manifestations were the only ones
obtainable through Mr. Home’s mediumship, they would
be more severely criticised than now may be deemed
necessary. A wet hand may be momentarily dipped
with impunity into melted iron or copper ; the sudden
transformation of the liquid into vapour tends to
chill the skin, and during the instant the chill lasts, a
thin layer of vapour lies like a cushion, between the
metal and the skin. This is why blacksmiths can for
an instant lick a white hot poker. Gonjurors, who
handle hot things, are said to previously toughen the
skin of the hand, by repeated washings with diluted
sulphuric acid. In Mr. Home’s case, the question resolves
into one of length of contact, and temperature at the
point of contact, carbon not being a very good conductor
of heat. The first coal which we saw lying steadily on
his hand, was so hot at first, that its reflected light made
the skin of his hand appear to be incandescent for a
little distance all round the edge of the plane of contact.
The second and larger coal he carried about the room at
first, so that it was not so minutely examined at the
point of contact; it was not shifted from its one place
on the hand until he threw it in the fender.
The Rev. Charles White, of the Free Christian Church,
Netting Hill, recently delivered a lecture on Spiritualism, in
the Shire Hall, Haverfordwest. The tenor of his remarks
was to .the effect that modern Spiritualism consists of a little
truth and much falsehood.
50
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 15, 1870.
I&qwtts of JTlmmgs.
[When reports of the speeches of spirits are printed in this Journal, non-
Spiritualists should understand that spirits out of the body are wise or
foolish, truthful or untruthful, just the same as spirits in the body. More¬
over, they are but individuals, so do not know everything. The statements of
a spirit are but the assertions of an individual; but by comparing the state¬
ments of many spirits, it may in time be possible' to discover in what points
they agree, and to sift out the unreliable communications. Many spirits
cannot see each other, any more than we can see them, and as some of them
are thus in different states of life, it does not follow that contradictory
messages are therefore untruthful. Spirits are of different religions, conse-
sequently their teachings do not altogether agree; there is no more uniformity
in the next world than in this one. It is the business of this journal to report
facts, so we are in no way responsible for the religious, scientific, or any other
teachings given by individual spirits.']
THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.
MAX MULLER ON THE SCIENCE OE UELIGION.
On Saturday morning, February 19th, Professor Max
Muller, M.A., LL.D., delivered the first of four lectures at
the Royal Institution, upon “The Science of Religion,”
Prince Christian presided. The theatre of the Institution
was well filled, and among the listeners present were Dean
Stanley, of Westminster; Professor Tyndall; Sir Henry
Holland, Bart., M.D., F.R.S.; Mr. J. M. Peebles; and Mr.
Moncure D. Conway.
Professor Max Muller began by pointing out what very
great progress the science of language has made, since he
first advocated its claims at the Royal Institution, chairs of
Sanscrit and Comparative Philology having of late been
established at many of the chief universities in Great Britain
and upon the Continent. On the present occasion, while
advocating the founding of a science of religion, he felt in
much the same position as when he advocated in that theatre,
several years ago, the study of language as a science. He felt
that he had chosen a subject on which it was scarcely possible
to speak without giving offence, for many people think reli¬
gion too sacred a subject to be touched, whilst others class it
with alchemy and astrology, and think it beneath the notice
of a man of science. The truest reverence is to give the sub¬
ject close examination. Although he should be most careful
against giving offence, he knew that some things he should
have to say would jar upon the ears of many, quite as much
as did the title of the lecture.
The science of religion is not all gain, for it entails the loss
of many cherished ideas, but the gain is immeasurably higher
than the loss. A few hundred years ago, the belief that
Hebrew was the original language of the world, was accepted
almost without question, and sometimes was made a matter
of faith. Of late the fallacy of this notion has been demon¬
strated; it is now known that the invention of words was left
to man, and that languages originate from the workings of
the human mind. Some look upon religion as so many tradi¬
tions handed down to Jew, Christian, Hindoo, and so on,
but the word religion is also used in a different sense. There
is a faculty of religion in the mind, independent of all this,
and without that faculty no religion would be possible; in all
religions there is a longing for the infinite, and a belief in the
love of God.
The foundation of a science of comparative theology will
not be complete, until all the religions of the world have been
analysed and classified, and as a science this subject has
never yet been seriously taken in hand. The materials for
such a science were not within reach in olden times, but now
they surround us in rich profusion. The Emperor Akbar,
250 years ago, had a passion for the study of religions, but
he could not get possession of many of the sacred books
which are now m the hands of students, and if at present we
have not English translations of all of them, it is our own
fault. Of late years also, very much knowledge of the re¬
ligions of. savages has been gained, and this unveils much
about religions in their early growth. Now, we have not only
these materials, but we have the rules of critical analysis.
We know that the questions to be settled about any books are
—When was it written? Where? By whom? Was the author
an eye-witness ? Had the [writer any party feeling ? Was
the whole book written at once, or at different times, and how
can we separate them ? We must know the most ancient form
of every language, before we can begin the work of compara¬
tive philology, and so must it be with the study of religion,
for religious tenets change with time. Buddhist literature
teems with accounts of miserable miracles, yet Buddha him¬
self ordered his disciples not to perform them, except by
hiding their own good deeds, and confessing to the world their
evil actions, and Buddha says nothing about the castes of
modern times. While Buddha was in the world his presence
was sufficient for his disciples, it was only after his death that
they began to put his deeds on record, and everything that
could glorify their beloved master they seized upon with
avidity. Those who made suggestions in opposite directions
had no chance of a hearing, dissension and sects sprang up,
and very shortly words equivalent to “ unbeliever ” and
“ heretic ” were invented. Then, as in other religions, the
secular power was invoked, to settle disputes about creeds and
canonical books. King Asoka, among others, was called upon
to decide what books were sacred.
Canonical books require more stringent criticism than others.
In the science of religion no partisans are wanted, who wish
to lift up or depress Christianity in comparison with other
religions—the same close rule and method must be applied
impartially to all. This is a favourable time for the work,
and no creed but Christianity and perhaps early Buddhism,
would have tolerated a scientific investigation of religion at all.
Comparative philology has already done much efficient work.
It has proved that the notion that Pagan religions and ideas
of one God are not corruptions of the ancient Jewish religion
—that theory is now entirely abandoned. The languages of
antiquity are not like those of the present day, for many words
change their meaning by lapse of time ; the same words also
often do not mean the same thing in different languages. To
learn the truth, ancient thoughts must be applied to ancient
words. For instance, what we call “Divine guidance,” the
ancient Jews called “ a pillar of cloud,” and the fault is ours
if we do not understand their words, and believe in the mate¬
rial instead of the spiritual. More than half the difficulties
and disputes in the history of religions, arise from this inter¬
pretation of ancient words by modern thought^. Is it likely
that the Hebrew and the other Semitic languages should have
escaped changes by growth, such as have changed all other
languages, and should we not try to get at the ancient meaning
rather than the modern interpretation ? Before the Gods of
the Trinity had been worshipped, one supreme Deity had been
made by the ancestors of our race, and He was known by a
name which has never since been erased. The ancient religion,
after its rust and dirt have been removed, will come out bright
and clean and pure; it will be the word of God revealed where
it alone can be revealed—in the heart of man.
On Saturday, Feb. 26th, Professor Max Muller delivered
his second lecture on the same subject. The auditory, as
before, was a very large one. Prince Christian presided, and
among the listeners were H.R.H. the Princess of {Wales, the
Princess Louise, the Queen of Holland, General Sir William
Knollys, and the Countess of Macclesfield. The lecturer
began by speaking of the four great book-religions of the
world—Christianity, Mosaism, Mahometanism, Brahminism,
the religion of the Zend Avesta, Buddhism, and the reli¬
gions of Confucius and Laotse. The religion of Fo, in
China, is nothing but a corruption of Buddhism; the
latter religion, in fact, covers the greater part of the
habitable globe. He then spoke of the religions of Africa,
with their strange worship of snakes and ancestors, and vague
ideas of one God, the father of the black as well as of the
white. Among the Polynesians there are whisperings about
one Divine being, and there are ideas of a future life. After
speaking of the religions of the American Indians, he remarked
that the vast panorama of religions offers a rich field for
investigation by the student, who is puzzled where to begin
his work.
Nothing much can be done until the religions are classified,
and then each scholar can go on with his own branch of the
work. It may be thought that the simplest classification is
the division into “true and false religions,” but that would be
like dividing earthly languages into “ one’s own language, and
the languages of all the rest of the world. ” (Laughter and
applause.) Such a classification is useless for scientific pur¬
poses. Another classification, quite as worthless, is their
division into “ revealed and natural religions.” With us, all
religions but Christianity would then be classed as “natural,”
and a scientific Buddhist could not accept the definition.
Many philosophers of the last century, after examining differ¬
ent religions, found that there were certain principles which
all of them shared in common; moreover, when all that seemed
miraculous and irrational was taken from the New Testament,
this natural religion remained behind. These investigators
however, soon found out that no philosophy could take the
place of religious faith. The divisions of religions into re¬
vealed and natural religions, would be useless, because then
our science would be denied by all but Jews and Christians.
Buddha himself, in his teachings, appealed only to the light
within him, but his followers claim for him enormous powers.
His earliest pupils called him “omniscient,” but as he made
mistakes about the shape of the earth and the movements of
the heavenly bodies, modern Buddhist theologians limit his
omniscience to the articles of his faith, and in these he is
declared to be infallible. This is very much to the credit of
the candour of the theologians. When the founders of nearly
all the religions of the world claim some revelation as the
foundation of their teachings, it is clear that the classification
of religions into “revealed and natural” will not do for scien¬
tific purposes. Besides, if we granted that Christianity and
Judaism were the only revealed religions, they would also be
natural religions, for no religion can be entirely separated from
natural religion without destruction. Natural religion sup¬
plies the only ground upon which revealed religion can stand,
and without this support revealed religion is degraded into a
creed which unreasoning people must be made to accept, igno¬
rantly and without questioning. When Joshua tried to re¬
claim the backsliding Jews, he set before them the claims of
the gods of other nations and of their former god and religion,
and closed by asking them to choose that day the God whom
they would serve. Man, therefore, possesses a power of
choosing, based upon natural faith, and this power he has the
right to exercise.
Another suggestion might be that religions should be
divided into three classes—monotheistic, dualistic, and poly¬
theistic. This would be useful in s>ome respects, as there
would be an agreement in the number of the deities, but in
other respects it would be an incongruous mixture. Besides,
it would exclude some religions—Atheism for instance. His
hearers might be surprised at his calling Atheism a religion,
but it is a fact that the religion of Buddha was from the first
purely Atheistic, and taught the highest morality long before
the advent of Christianity; it did not even erect an altar “to
the Unknown God.”
On Saturday, March 5th, Professor Max Muller delivered
his third lecture on the “ Science of Religion.” Prince
Christian presided, and among the listeners present were the
Dean of Westminster, Professor Tyndall, Mr. C. F. Varley, C. E.,
Sir Henry Rawlinson, K.C. B., Mr. J. P. Gassiott, F. R. S., and
Sir Henry Holland, Bart., F.R.S,, President of the Royal
Institution.
Professor Max Muller said that upon surveying the religions
of the world without prejudice, it is possible to see that they
are separated by strongly marked divisions. In old times
there was a stronger relation between religion and nationality
than there was between language and nationality. In those
early times the religions were very simple, and confined to a
few words, including the name of the Deity, and also of His
attributes, such as goodness, purity, and holiness; in time also
words for “ altar” and “sacrifice” were in some cases invented.
Religion in those early times may be defined as a simple dialect
of human speech, dependent upon the resources of the language.
In Asia and its. peninsula of Europe, there are three great
streams of languages—the Turanian, the Aryan, and the
Semitic,—and some of these languages, as he maintained,
could only have been petrified and rendered so lasting because
of similarity of religion and politics on the part of the people
who spoke them.
The Chinese language is the earliest representative of Tura¬
nian speech. The religion may be called “monosyllabic,” for
it consists of the worship of a host of single deities—the
spirits of the earth, the air, the woods, and the streams; the
Chinese also worship the spirits of their ancestors, who are
supposed to still possess the power of influencing human
affairs. The nature of the ancient religion of China is known
from the writings of Confucius alone ; yet in reality he was
but the transmitter of a more ancient religion still, and he
says so himself. The religion of the Semitic races is pre¬
eminently the worship of God in history—of God as a ruler
and founder of nations ; the words used by all the Semites for
“ God ” represent strength and authority. Some of the ancient
gods of the Semites were stronger than others, hence the
Semitic Gods had a natural tendency to flow together, and to
make the one God of later times. The ancient worship of the
Aryan races has been carried into other lands by that pushing
people; they do not worship nature, but God in nature. The
Aryans before their separation—that is to say, before Sanscrit
was spoken in India, and before Greek was spoken in Europe
—had a religion which can still be to some extent ascertained.
By picking out those words which are the same in French,
Italian, and Spanish—words which must have been derived
from a common source, it is possible to learn something of the
religion, manners, and daily habits of the people who lived in
ancient Italy; and by this method alone it is possible to prove
that before Spanish was spoken in Spain, or French in France,
ancient Italy had kings and lords, and was highly civilised.
On the same principle we can learn something of the ancient
Aryan people, by searching out from among the languages of
Europe and Asia the words which they spoke, and ascertain¬
ing their original meaning. By this method it has been ascer¬
tained that the Aryans had kings, and towns, and houses,
and their idea of the “ Highest Good ” was enshrined in a
name which isyet retained over half the world. That name was
“ Dyaus* pitar ” in Sanscrit, and the same words are traceable
in Latin, Greek, and German. These words are facts, and
help to show us that in pre-historic times the Aryans wor¬
shipped an unseen Being, with the highest name which they
could find in their vocabulary. . “Dyaus pitar” meant
“heaven father,” who became the “Zeus” of the Greeks,
and until comparative philology laid bare the secret, we knew
not what sacred records lay enshrined in the unholy name of
“Ju-piter.” Thousands of years have passed away since the
Aryan races have separated, yet in these high and exalted
times, when we wish to utter the name that is highest and
most dear, we can but use the words of our forefathers, and,
instead of saying “Heaven Father,” say “Our Father which
art in Heaven.”
The Semitic languages are much more closely bound to¬
gether than the Aryan languages, making it so easy to collect
identical words, that few scholars have as yet thought it
worth while to devote their abilities to the task. Yet it
would be well to do so, to discover the nature of the language
spoken by the ancient Semites before they separated, that is
to say, before Hebrew was Hebrew, and Arabic was Arabic.
The names used for “God” in all the Semitic languages mean
“king,” “strong,” or “powerful.” The ancient Semitic
race had many deities, and the names of many of these
deities were fixed before the race separated to form the
Hebrew, Arabian, Ethiopian, Babylonian, and other nations.
One of the most ancient names for “God” was uEl," or
“ strong, ” and this name was applied not only to the true gods,
but to the false gods of the Gentiles. “ Allah” is derived from
the ancient word “El,” thereby proving that the same God
belongs both to the Hebrews and to the followers of Mahomet.
Another name given by the ancient Semites to one of their
favourite deities was “ Baal,” who was by no means a strange
god to the Jews, and was probably worshipped by them
among their other gods, before the flood, since he was wor¬
shipped by nearly all the Semitic nations, after they separated.
The Semites had also female deities, one of whom was Baall, and
another Allat—the feminine of Allah. Even in Southern Arabia
there are traces of the worship of the ancient goddess Baall.
Some of the names were given to their gods by the Semitic races
after the separation, so these names are found only in the
languages of one or two of the modem Semitic nations;
Jehovah is an example, and this name, after many tortuous
changes, was the origin of the name of the young and
beautiful ‘ ‘ Adonis ” of the Greeks. The name Jehovah was
the same in the Jewish and Babylonian nations. The pre¬
historic period of the Semitic race is now therefore historic in
the strongest and most accurate sense of the word. There was
a primitive religion among the Semitic races, and a god named
El, long before .the god of the Jews was worshipped by the
Hebrew nation.
Turning now to the Turanians and their languages, less
interest is felt in the subject; for what have we with them in
common ? We are Aryans ourselves, and our religion is partly
Semitic, but what have we to do with the Turanians, with their
yellow faces, high cheek bones, and slanting eyes ? It is true
we have little in common with them, except our common
humanity, yet if we look into the bright Chinese eyes, we
shall see that there is a soul within, and that the God whom
they mean, is the same God that we mean. The Turanian
languages are of a shifting nature, and have not yet been
sufficiently, studied to yield much information as to their
origin. The Chinese believe in a vast number of spirits, and
they worship the spirits of the departed. Two of their most
ancient spirits are the spirits of heaven and earth, but the
spirit of heaven “Tien,” is older than the spirit of earth.
“Tien” means—exalted one—peerless—high—Lord of Heaven.
The Chinese sacred books speak much of the decrees and will
of heaven, and say that Tien moulds man as a potter moulds
clay. The Chinese pay very little respect to any of their gods
but the chief one, and adopt the advice of Confucius, who said,
‘1 Respect the gods, but keep them at a distance. ” Among
the Mongolians and Tartars there are traces of the ancient
Chinese religion, but not of the name of the god Tien ; their
chief god is sometimes called “Father,” and sometimes the
“Old One.” They worship spirits. “ Jumna-la,” the name
of the ancient god of the Finns, means the “god of the sky,”
or the “thunderer.”
Last Saturday, Professor Max Muller delivered his fourth
and closing lecture at the Royal Institution. Prince Christian
presided, and among the listeners in the very large meeting
were H.R.H. the Princess Louise, Lord Stratford de Red-
cliffe, Earl Stanhope, the Dean of Westminster, Mr. C. F.
Varley, C.E., Dr. John Tyndall, F.R.S., Lord Clanwilliam,
Mr. E. Fournier, and Mr. J. P. Gassiot, F.R.S.
Professor Max Muller said that a lawyer is apt to see an
angel in his own client, and anything but an angel in the
client of his professional neighbour ; in like manner there is
too much tendency in these days, to view the religions of our
neighbours with anything but charity. In thus ignoring the
beauties of other religions, we assume for our own specialities
which its founder never claimed for it, and if comparative
theology drives away this bad feeling towards the honest con¬
victions of our neighbours, it will do a good work, and it is
high time this work were begun. He did not deny that the
ancient religions were imperfect, but it is certain that Socrates
and Plato were not worshippers of stocks and stones.
Although he could now speak fearlessly on theological sub¬
jects, there'was a time when it would have been impossible,
when religion was supported by fire and sword and fiery zeal,
when it was taught that all idols were to be overthrown, and
their worshippers cut up. But now we are not afraid of the
progress of the worship of Jupiter. In the religions of other
people there is always something which is good, and if the
myriads who do not think with ourselves are to be cut down
and cast into the oven, then must we be of less value than the
sparrows, for God cares for them. (Applause.) A mother
may offer her infant a full repast, yet the infant is not pre¬
pared to receive it, so may God have offered truth to man from
the beginning, yet the people were not sufficiently advanced to
receive the boon. God is no respecter of persons, so doubtless
all who love Him, and work righteously, will be accepted by
Him in the end. Religion is always oscillating between two poles
* Pronounced “Touse''
March 15, 1870*
THE SPIRITUALIST.
51
—between teachings fit for children, and teachings fit for men;
when it approaches too close to the one pole it becomes mere
superstition, and when it approaches too close to the other it
becomes mere philosophy. How much “ this wicked world,” as
it is called, may be improved when we give each other credit for
good motives 1 for that course will reform even the man who
has bad motives; so will it be when we view with more
charity differences in religion. If the different religions of
the world are the work of the devil, then indeed is his king¬
dom divided against itself, for there is no religion which does
not teach “ Do good, and shun evil.” “ Do good, my boy,”
was once the advice of a father to his son, and in those words
were included all the law and the prophets. He would take
the liberty of reading in the original tongue one of the hymns
of the Rig Yeda. [Here .the lecturer read the extract. ] This,
doubtless, to his hearers was, like spirit-rapping, “ unintelli¬
gible and, to a certain extent, spirit-rapping it was—rapping
at the door of the Royal Institution.* But fortunately it was
a spirit-rapping which could be interpreted, so he would read
the interpretation. [The interpretation was to the effect that
God made the heavens and the earth; that God was angry
with man; and that man, after purifying himself, should pray
to be absolved from his sins.”] Here, then, were noble
thoughts, in a hymn written at least 3,000 years ago. Next
he read some extracts from the Zend Avesta of the Persians,
containing pure and noble ideas, followed by extracts of like
character from the teachings of Buddha. Although Buddhism
ignores all feeling of dependence on a higher power, so is
utterly different from Christianity, there are strange coinci¬
dences between the two religions, so that some of the Buddhist
parables would seem to have been taken from the New Testa¬
ment were it not certain that the Buddhist records are much
the oldest of the two. For instance, a disciple of Buddha
meets a woman who was an outcast, near a well ; she
told him that she was a transgressor of the customs of society,
but he replied, “ I did not ask thy caste. Give me to drink.”
The lecturer then spoke of other coincidences, after which he
told how Confucius taught—“ What you do not like one to do
to yourself, that thing do not do to others.” He then pointed
out that there was something good, even in the mythologies
of the Greeks and Romans, when they were examined in a
charitable spirit, and added that research would prove that
the ancient religions were the only ones which were possible
at the time, taking into consideration all the surrounding con¬
ditions. He knew it might be asked whether the religion of
Moloch were true, which taught that people should burn their
sons and daughters in the fire, and that questions of a like
nature might be put about other religions. But weapons like
these were very dangerous to those who used them, because
others might ask, Could that be a holy religion which burnt
men because they did not believe in the Virgin Mary, or in
some of the interpretations of the attributes of the Son of
God—a religion which teaches the reality of eternal punish¬
ment? People who argue thus, will never reach the real
spirit of religion. We must study all religions as much as
possible, in that light in which they appeared to their
founders. He then explained how the early languages, being
poor in words, abounded in metaphor, and one great mistake
often made in these days, is to accept literally what was
spoken metaphorically ; he also explained how it is utterly
impossible to know the original meaning of many things in
the Old and New Testaments, without a previous acquaint¬
ance with ancient languages and comparative philology.
When we begin to leave off forcing literal interpretations,
and seek more for the spiritual truth in our religions, it will
teach us to be much more charitable, both at home and
abroad. (Applause.)
The lecture then closed. This brief summary of four lec¬
tures full of wisdom and the result of years of research, of
course does anything but full justice to the speaker. When
the lectures are published in full, the book will be one of the
most remarkable and valuable works printed in this genera¬
tion. Professor Max Muller knows far more about the lan¬
guages of the Chinese and Brahmins than the Chinese and
Brahmins know themselves, and in his general acquaintance
with the ancient and modern languages of the world, he stands
without a rival. .
THE SERVICES AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS.
SPEOTOATIONS ABOUT THE DEITY—THE DOCTRINE OF ETERNAL PROGRES¬
SION—SPIRITUALISM AMONG THE AMERICAN INDIANS—THE RESULTS OF
A DREAM—SPIRITUALISM AS DEFINED BY MR. PEEBLES.
The Sunday evening meetings of Spiritualists at the
Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-street, Langham-place, Regent-
street, will be continued regularly, and the services begin at
seven o’clock.
Mr. J. M. Peebles, American Consul at Trebizond, lectured
at the Cavendish Rooms on Sunday evening, Feb. 27th. He
commenced—The inspired psalmist once said, “ Oh worship
the Lord in the beauty of holiness.” It is not more in harmony
with nature for water to seek its level, or the mystic needle to
point to the North Pole, than for man to worship. Wherever
man has been, he has left marks of his worship of God. The
power to ask the question, “ What is God ? ” implies to some
extent the power to answer it, and God is infinite life and
truth, and gladness, and intelligence, and love. God has
implanted in man a belief in a Superintending Existence,
guiding all worlds; we do not comprehend him, we cannot
even fathom ourselves. We can only grasp and digest what
is inferior to ourselves. He supposed that God was not a
personal being with a definite shape, but that God is in the
universe, and just as much present to-day as in the days of the
patriarchs. Directly you personalise God you localise Him ;
whatever you localise you limitise, and whatever you limitise
is imperfect and may be destroyed. He could only say with
Jesus, “ God is a spirit.” He thought that man was the ulti¬
mate of the rest of the earthly creation, and that all the lower
forms of life and matter are localised in him, from the oyster
to the monkey, upwards. He did not mean that man was
made of the primates, but of the spiritual ultimates of the
primates. There is reason to suppose that there is a portion
of the spirit of God in every human being, and that this
Divine portion never becomes impure ; it is only when this
innermost purity tries to externalise itself through the spirit
body and the material body, both of them containing and
being surrounded with inharmonious conditions, that troubles,
and sorrow, and suffering afflict the progressing mortal.
The Lecturer next stated that the condition of man is one
of endless progression. If they asked, “ Is God a progressive
Being ?” he would answer at once in the negative. But if
God 'does not progress, and man does, will not man in the
end reach Him, and be lost in Him ? No; for the progression
* Professor Max Muller teaches, in effect, that the study of religion as a
science will reconcile the beliefs of the world. Mr. Varley testified long
ago that the study of Spiritualism as a science tends to do the same thing,
as will he seen on reference to the last page of this journal.—Ed.
of man is finite, and no number of finite movements will
reach the infinite. It is a fact capable of mathematical de¬
monstration that two lines may continually approach each
other, yet never meet; also, in the attempt to divide the
number ten by three, on the decimal principle, one may keep
on carrying figures until the whole universe is filled with
them, yet never get to the end. No aggregation of finites
can make up infinity. A man should never bow down in
sackcloth and ashes before his Creator, but stand up in the
glory , of his manhood, as a being destined for eternal pro¬
gression in the spheres. Spiritualism does not teach that God
is a tyrant and angry with man.
He would tell them some of his experiences among the
North American Indians, who have many very good healing
mediums among their tribes. About two years ago, the
American Congress appointed a committee to meet the
Indian tribes at the foot of the Rocky Mountains, to make
peace treaties. The committee consisted of General Sherman,
General Sheridan, General Taylor, Colonel S. F. Tappan, and
others. He (Mr. Peebles) was invited to accompany them,
and he did so, in consequence of which he spent nearly two
months among the Indians, and learnt much about their
habits and religious views. Some one thousand Indians met
in council, drawn up in half-moons, near the confluence of
the rivers North and South Platte ; the discussion then began,
and old grievances were brought up. General Sherman, a
kind-hearted man, but shrewd withal, put some questions
about one point in which the Indians had broken a former
treaty, and these questions rather puzzled the chief speaker
on the other side, who was known to the whites as “ Old
Spotted-tail.” Being puzzled he refused to give an im¬
mediate answer, and summoned to his side a young Indian,
who directly afterwards ran away, and for nearly one hour and
a-half from that time, not a single word would the old Indian
chief, or any subordinate chief, lisp, but when the young
man came back, old Spotted-tail made a most eloquent speech.
He (Mr. Peebles) afterwards ascertained that nine days before
the council met, a celebrated medicine man among the
Indians had begun to prepare himself to hold converse with
the Great Spirit, and to give advice to the tribes. By being
calm, perspiring, and taking little food, he became passive
and negative enough to enter the clairvoyant state, and thus
the advice was given. There was not a single Indian youth
to be seen in all that council, and on inquiry he was told that
three days before it began, orders had been issued that all
young Indians should absent themselves from the camp, be¬
cause the chiefs did not wish them to become contaminated
by the vices of the Christian whites.
General Sherman has very good impressional powers.
General Harney also, had told him (Mr. Peebles) that his life
had once been saved by a dream. General Harney is now a
dignified old man, about seventy years of age, and he said
that about forty years ago he was engaged in the war with
the Florida Indians. One night, at about eleven o’clock, he
sent one part of his army to attack the Indians, but the latter
discovered the movement too soon, and surrounded their op¬
ponents, who were thereby placed in great danger. Harney
started to the rescue, and at break of day, found himself and
his followers in a valley, and in great danger. He felt a
drowsiness suddenly come over and overpower him, so that
he dropped to the ground, and dreamt that he was surrounded
by the enemy, with only one possible way of escape, through
a deep gorge. He saw the rocks and the gorge distinctly, and
thought that he and his followers entered the gorge, and
covered themselves with black mud, so that at a distance they
looked like negroes, and in this disguise escaped. The negroes
were friendly with the Indians. He then awoke, and not far
off saw the entrance to the very same gorge he had seen in
his dream. They found a pool lined with black mud, they
covered themselves with the mud, and escaped, because in
the distance they were taken by the Indians for negroes.
Spiritualism, he said, is not Sectarian; it must never be
allowed to crystallize into a sect. Institutions do not grow,
but souls do. Creeds to thinking men are as shrouds and
coffins. Spiritualism is a phenomenon and a philosophy—a
science and a religion. It needs no handle—requires no prefix
—to make it palatable. Policy, not principle, resorts to ex¬
pedients. There could be no term more significant and far-
reaching than Spiritualism, because spirit alone is substantial,
permanent, eternal. “ It is the Spirit that giveth life,” wrote
the ancient apostle.
America, with its estimated eleven millions of Spiritualists,
has Bible Spiritualism, Christian Spiritualism, Eclectic Spiri¬
tualism, Harmonial Spiritualism, and Spiritualism unadorned
by adjective or epithet. Those who affirm Spiritualism
squarely, and relish the food the truth affords, constitute about
nine hundred and ninety-nine of every one thousand in the
United States. In England you have Christian Spiritualism,
scientific Spiritualism, and plain natural Spiritualism with no
embellishments. France gives us radical Spiritualism and re¬
incarnation Spiritualism. Several of these definitions are dis¬
tinctions without differences, and forcibly exhibit the law of
diversity in unity. But differ as we may in our theories,
when pushed into the mythic realm of speculative theology
our facts are one. On this common ground, then this broad
platform of tolerance and good will, let us stand a banded
brotherhood of true souls—stand like polished shafts of light
and truth in the Temple of the Eternal.
As a Spiritualist striving to conserve the good found in all
religions, past and present, seeking constantly to lead a holier
life, looking trustingly for higher unfoldings of truth and
fresher developments in the fields of science, I extend the
fraternal hand of fellowship to each and all, and in this
hand buds and blossoms the olive-branch of peace. “ By
this,” said Jesus, “ shall all men know that ye are My dis¬
ciples, if ye have love one for another.” What matters
nationality, clime, or dogma to God, who beneficently
“ sendeth rain upon the just and the unjust ? ” What cared the
Good Shepherd of Judea about the colour or names of the
sheep constituting the flock ? ” “ Other sheep I have,” said
He, “ which are not of this fold, them also I must bring, and
there shall be one fold and one shepherd.” What will it be
to angels when the curtain of immortality is uplifted and you
stand in the presence of those glorified Hosts ? The question
will not be asked, Were you a Christian Spiritualist, a radical
Spiritualist, or a re-incarnation Spiritualist; but did you live
up to the light you had received as soul-convictions ? Were
the heart’s affections right and the life-purposes pure ? Did
you feed the hungry, clothe the naked, provide for the orphan,
sympathise with the sorrowing ; or scripturally expressed, did
you “ go about doing good?” These determine the immediate
conditions, the heavens and the hells of the future existence.
Progress pertains to all worlds. Angels are the teachers of
spirits, and spirits come to instruct and spiritually enlighten
mortals. The more philosophical of the Swedenborgians be¬
lieve in the “ continual mitigation of the hells while many
nominally orthodox clergymen, rejecting the doctrine of eter¬
nal torments, accept as a truth this teaching of the spirits—
the final restoration of all souls.
Spiritualism does not say “ believe my creed but “ feed my
sheep.” Does not say “ worship in my church but “ wor¬
ship as your own conscience dictates.” And, does not insist
so much upon the saying, as the doing of prayers, that the
heart’s best affections may be baptized into a love holy and
heavenly. In fine, Spiritualism is that “ other angel,” that
the Revelator John saw “ flying in the midst of heaven,’’ and
preaching the everlasting gospel of immortality—the gospel
of “ peace and good will to men.”
He loved the living gospel of Spiritualism, because it shows
so much of the kindness and love of God. Pain is only an
angel leading us back to nature and truth ; sickness purifies
the physical organisation, and disappointments strengthen
individuality of character. Even Jesus, it is said, was purified
by suffering, and there is no eternal endless evil in the universe.
He was so organised that he could not love a hateful object.
Human love is a thing which comes out like the flowers, to
drink in the dewdrops, and to rejoice in the sunlight of
heaven. Human love is a great reforming power, and its
binding influence was never more plainly shown than when
William Penn made his treaty with the Indians, by the rolling
river, under the old elm tree’s shade.
Mr. Peebles then eloquently described Penn’s interview
with the Indians, after which he spoke of. the influence of
woman, and he closed by speaking of the high moral influences
of Spiritualism, and the happiness and power of the love of
God.
The hall was well filled, and the speaker was listened to
with close attention throughout.
PRIVATE SEANCES.
MEDIUMSHIF IN THE DAYS OF MOSES—CURIOUS PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS
—VOICE MANIFETSATIONS AND THEIR PRODUCTION—THOUGHT—READING
— MANIFESTATIONS AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS—A “ DIALECTICAL ”
MEDIUM.
On Wednesday evening, February 23rd, at a stance held at
the house of Mr. T. Everitt, 26, Penton-street, Pentonville,
eight persons in all were present. Mrs. Everitt was the
medium.
Directly the sitting began, the floor of the room began to
shake with a tremulous motion, which continued more or less
for about half an hour; once it was sufficiently strong to cause
some of the furniture to rattle. Raps came upon the floor
and upon the table, and spelt out short messages. The first
message requested Mr. Peebles, who was present, to read from
the Bible the sixteenth chapter of the first book of Samuel,
beginning at the fourteenth verse. The quotation begins
with the following verses :—
“ But the Spirit of the Lord departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from
the Lord troubled him.
“ And Saul’s servants said unto him, Behold now, an evil spirit from God
troubleth thee.
“ Let our lord now command thy servants, which arc before thee, to seek
out a man, who is a cunning player on an harp: and it shall come to pass,
when the evil spirit from God is upon thee, that he shall play with his hand,
and thou shalt be well.”
The narrative then tells how David was brought to Saul,
and the last verse says:—
“ And it came to pass, when the evil spirit from God was upon Saul, that
David took an harp, and played with his hand: so Saul was refreshed, and
was well, and the evil spirit departed from him.”
Raps once more came upon the table, and requested Mr.
Peebles to read also the eleventh chapter of Numbers, from
the 23rd to the 29th verse, as follows :—
“ And the Lord said unto Moses, Is the Lord’s hand waxed short ? thou
shalt see now whether my word shall come to pass unto thee or not.
“And Moses went out, and told the people the words of the Lord, and
gathered the seventy men of the elders of the people, and set them round
about the tabernacle.
“ And the Lord came down in a cloud, and spake unto him, and took of
the spirit that was upon him, and gave it unto the seventy elders; and it
came to pass, that, when the spirit rested upon them, they prophesied, and
did not cease.
“But there remained two of the men in the camp, the name of the one was
Eldad, and the name of the other Medad; and the spirit rested upon them;
and they were of them that were written, but went not out unto the
tabernacle: and they prophesied in the camp.
“And there ran a young man, and told Moses, and said, Eldad and Medad
do prophesy in the camp.
“ And Joshua, the son of Nun, the servant of Moses, one of his young
men, answered and said, My lord Moses, forbid them.
“ And Moses said unto him, Enviest thou for my sake 1 would to God that
all the Lord’s people were prophets, and that the Lord would put His spirit
upon them!”
The raps then requested Mr. Peebles to offer up a prayer,
which he did, thanking the Almighty for the privilege and
the happiness, of permitting communication between mortals
and departed friends.
Other messages were then spelt, and finally the spirits
requested that a musical box in the room might be set going.
All this time the vibrations of the floor continued. There was
a good light in the room. The table, which was a large and
heavy one, rectangular in shape, now and then moved and
kept time with the tunes, without contact with human hands.
When the music began, the patter of feet, or what sounded
like feet, was heard dancing in splendid time to the music,
and this lasted for perhaps nearly twenty minutes, in the
course of which time an arm chair with nobody touching it
moved about slowly, and on one occasion made a run of fully
six inches in the direction of the table. Then a request was
made by raps that the light be put out. After fifteen or
twenty minutes in darkness, by means of the direct spirit
writing (described in another column) the message was given
“ You do not give us the right conditions to enable us to
speak.” The inquiry was made “ What is the matter ? ” It
was then spelt out “ You are sleepy.” Two of the company
then owned to being in that state, and one remarked that he
did not know before that it was not a favourable condition, as
passivity of the members of the circle is always advantageous.
John Watt then took up the tube and touched several persons
with it, after which his voice was heard, at first near the
medium (who was in a mesmeric sleep), then floating
about near one end of the table, afterwards close up
to the ceiling over the centre of the table, and from that
position he spoke during the rest of the evening, in a strong
clear voice, which fell at intervals when the power weakened.
In answer to questions, he said that he could not see common
matter except by an effort of will-power, neither could he see
the members of the circle. He could see the spirits of some
of the members of the chcle—such as were in his sphere—and
the others he could see indistinctly, in consequence of his
necessarily having, to some extent, taken upon himself some
material conditions while producing the manifestations. He
did not want to see common matter at that time, therefore he
did not see it; on much the same principle as a man looking
at landscape through a window—he does not see the pane of
glass, because he does not want to, yet he can concentrate his
attention upon it if he likes. The spirits of all the persons
52
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 15, 1870.
present were of necessity in the spirit world. Spirits can read
the thoughts of each other and of mortals, but not at all times ;
thoughts are words to spirits in the same sphere. Spirits
have the power of concealing their thoughts if they like, and
of concealing themselves at will bypassing into another state.
He produced the voice manifestations by forming a kind of
lungs out of the emanations from the members of the circle ;
he did not use any of the organs of the medium, not even the
lips, but only her breath. He also used some of the breath of
the persons present, which was why he often put questions to
those who were silent, to keep them talking, so as to furnish
him with more power. He wished that people would not
come in a desultory way to spirit circles, but that a few would
attend regularly to receive a steady course of instruction and
information ; very little knowledge was gained, and much
time wasted, under present conditions. His reward for the
work of producing the manifestations was the consciousness
of doing good. When very great names of very high spirits,
such as Moses, Michael Angelo, Bacon, and so on, are given
through mediums, these spirits are not in direct communi¬
cation with the medium, but the message passes down through
a chain of mediums among the spirits, till at last it reaches
the recipient, and is often much coloured by the channel
through which it has passed. Sometimes low spirits assume
great names, and give them for purposes of deception.
In answer to questions put by Mr. Peebles, he said that he
did not hear any raps at the public service at the Cavendish
Rooms on the preceding Sunday evening. Such manifesta¬
tions he did not mind on a week night, but he thought it best
to omit them on Sunday. Many of the spirits were of the
same opinion in this matter, but he did not know whether all
were. One disadvantage was, that if they continued the
tappings, strangers would come there and imitate them, and
get found out, so as to throw discredit on the real manifesta¬
tions. As Mr. Peebles did not like the idea of answering
questions put by the audience at the close of the Sunday
•evening meetings, after the listeners had been brought into a
serious train of thought, it was worth consideration whether
those present should not be invited to write the questions
they wished to ask, on the understanding that he would
answer them from the platform at the beginning of the follow¬
ing Sunday evening.
After a little more conversation the seance was closed, by
John Watt pronouncing a benediction and saying, “ Good
night, dear friends, good night.”
Dr. Dixon and Mrs. Dixon, of Great Ormond-street, were
present at this stance.
On Wednesday evening, March 2nd, at a meeting of Mrs.
C. Berry’s circle, a gentleman, a member of the Dialectical
Society, whose name we have no permission to publish, and
who three weeks since was developed into a medium, was en¬
tranced, and made to go through some operatic singing. A
spirit also spoke through him, and expressed the greatest sur¬
prise and awe, at finding himself back surrounded once more
by the conditions of earth-life. When in his normal state,
the gentleman said that since the development of his medium-
ship, the spirits had made him speak on phrenology, a subject
he knew nothing about; they had also made him speak in
foreign languages, of which, in his ordinary condition, he
knew not a word. One day, the spirits entranced him against
his will, in presence of some of the other members of the
Dialectical Society.
Mr. P burin said that a vast multitude of spirits out of the
body, like those in the body, do not believe that communica¬
tion between the two worlds is possible ; hence when one of
these makes the trial, and finds himself back again, it is na¬
tural to be awestruck and overwhelmed. Some spirits in the
other world, like some still in earth-life, think it wicked to
communicate with their friends.
In the course of the evening John King and Ambo made
their voices heard, and a short and quiet conversation fol¬
lowed.
SPIRIT-SEEING IN CRYSTALS.
Last Thursday night Mr. Kenneth R. H. Mackenzie, E.S. A.,
E. A.S.L., gave a short lecture5at 15, Southampton-row,
Bloomsbury, W.C., on “Spirit-Seeing in Crystals.” Mr. ‘C.
F. Varley, C.E., F.R.G.S., who chanced to be among the
listeners, was unanimously invited to preside over the meeting.
The President, in introducing the lecturer, briefly remarked
that the question of crystal-seeing, which in his opinion was
closely allied to the odic force of Reichenbach, often seen
to issue from magnets, would probably give investigators the
first insight into the connection between the spiritual and
material forces, for there must be a connection somewhere.
Mr. Mackenzie said that his attention was first drawn to
Spiritualism in 1853, by the perusal of the book written by
Judge Edmonds and Dr. Dexter; he was necessarily somewhat
startled by the contents of the book, and he and his friends
tried to obtain the phenomena of table-moving and raps at
home, but with such indifferent success that after a time they
ceased their experiments. In 1856 he by accident met Mr.
Hockley, of Croydon, who had long been experimenting with
crystals, and who placed all his notes at the disposal of the
lecturer. From that time he (Mr. Mackenzie) closely followed
up the subject, and made notes on the spot of all the facts
witnessed, which notes now make a great many volumes of
manuscript. The late Earl Stanhope gave much time to the
investigation of crystal-seeing.* A crystal or mirror is placed
before the eyes of the sensitive or medium, who first sees a
dense cloud form in the mirror, followed by blackness • after¬
wards come flashes of fire or light, and then come visions of
distant places, persons, or so-called spirits. He used the expres¬
sion “ so-called ” because he had not entirely given up the idea
that these might be subjective phenomena, and he did not want
to bind himself or others by his remarks. Crystal-seeing is more
or less known in many parts of the world; everybody has heard
of Dr. Dee and his magic crystals, also how mirrors were used
by the magicians of old. The spiritual communications he
had recorded in the volumes before him contained such a web
of truth and falsehood as his hearers would scarcely consider
to be possible. He then read a minute description of the in¬
terior of a laboratory of one of the ancient alchemists and
magicians;! among the instruments described by the eye-wit¬
ness was one just the same as a particular form of the plan-
chelte of the present day ; there was also a crystal vessel and
a crystal ball with “perpetual fire” flashing inside. Some of
the knowledge of the ancient magicians was possessed by the
* The untimely death of the late Earl Stanhope prevented the completion
of his great reflecting telescope, six feet in diameter, and longer in focus
than Lord Rosse’s giant instrument. He was distinguished both as a
scientific man and a statesman.—Ed.
| One “Benjamin Tochla,1' who died about the beginning of the seven¬
teenth century, in Germany. The description of the laboratory is published
in the Aurifontina Chymica, 1680.—Ed.
Rosicrucians. who were a very different body to the present
Loudon so-called Rosicrucians. The London society is to all
practical intents and purposes a social club, and its business
for the most part nonsense. Balls of rock-crystal were once
much used for crystal seeing, but they are very rare and diffi¬
cult to obtain. Artificial crystals, egg-shaped polished pieces
of glass, are also much used. Seeing in mirrors differs in no
way from seeing in crystals, except that the pictures or repre¬
sentations are larger. The spirits Of the mirrors say that
there are many wandering spirits bound to the earth, who
make raps and move tables, but cannot produce the higher
phenomena of crystal vision; the rapping spirits on the other
hand declare themselves to be a much better sort of people
than the crystal spirits; and the writing spirits say that they
are infinitely superior to the crystal and rapping spirits.
(Laughter.) Swedenborg seems to be communicating to people
all over the world at the same time, and the mirror spirits say
that those spirits who assume his name come from a lower sphere
than themselves. The mirror spirits say that they are not in
the mirror, but that they can reflect into it whatever they
wish to communicate. Sometimes they show themselves, and
sometimes they show a book or scroll, containing the message.
They have told him that every person in the world has a
“ double” or atmospheric spirit, and that the bodied and dis¬
embodied spirits of the individual perform all the acts of his
life, but not at the same moment. The theory is that there is a
place of record of all the acts of each individual life, and that
when the earthly spirit is troubled, the atmospheric spirit is
troubled like a shadow in water. It is a curious theory. At
times, by crystal-vision, persons in distant places may be seen.
One day, a seeress was looking into one of his mirrors, and she
saw in it the Royal College of Surgeons, with a little figure
walking in front, who announced himself to her as Dr. Dixon,
and said that he wanted to see Mr. Mackenzie at about eight
o’clock that evening, to tell him something about Mr. .
This vision was seen between twelve and one o’clock in the
day; he (Mr. Mackenzie) wrote down the details at once in a
book. The medium had never heard of Dr. Dixon. He then
tied up and sealed the book, and asked a friend to write upon
the outside of the wrapper, that he had seen it tied up and
sealed at that hour. The signature was given, and in the
evening he called upon Dr. Dixon, who at first sight of him
said that he was so glad to see him, as he wanted particularly
to tell him something about Mr. . On being questioned,
Dr. Dixon said that he had been walking in Lincoln’s-inn-
fields in the morning, and wishing very much to see Mr.
Mackenzie about the said Mr. . After these statements
were made, he (the lecturer) gave Dr. Dixon the sealed parcel,
and asked him to read the contents, the accuracy of which
astounded him. On another occasion, while Captain R. F.
Burton, the celebrated traveller, was performing his perilous
journey to Mecca and Medina, a seer was looking into one of
Mr. Mackenzie’s crystals, and said that she saw Captain
Burton very strangely dressed, in a tent, with sand and palm
trees outside; an angry man came in, and Captain Burton
laughed at him, offering him his pipe ; this made the man
more angry still, and then’Captain Burton drew out a pistol.
When Captain Burton returned to England, the record of this
vision was shown him; he said that it was all true, and a
faithful description of the only squabble he had while he was
in the desert. Captain Burton then wrote an attestation in
the book that the account was perfectly true.
It is a strange thing, but you can call your own atmospheric
spirit into the mirror yourself. “ On one occasion,” said the
lecturer, ‘ ‘ I called myself into the mirror, and asked | what
year it was with him.’ He said that ‘it was 1865.’ I said
‘ It’s only 1862 with me; what am I doing in 1865?’ (Laughter.)
Then a large building was seen in the mirror, there was a
public platform in it, and I was addressing a public meeting
therefrom. Much to my surprise this came true afterwards, for
I attended the British Association at Birmingham, in 1865, and
spoke upon a public platform about anthropology and kindred
subjects. ” One somewhat eccentric spirit, who gave the name
of Captain Anderson, sometimes appeared in the mirror; once
he showed them a picture which he said was at the Crystal
Palace, and which they went and found there; on several
occasions he told them what was taking place in the private
families of people who were unknown to the seer. He simply
narrated facts, attested by those who had no object in making
false representations ; he ofiered no theory as to spirits being
at the bottom of them, or otherwise. His mother was a few
years ago a writing medium. She had communications from
a spirit who called himself Samuel Jennings, and who said
that he was a curate, first at Dover, and afterwards in
Wales. On making enquiries at Dover, he found people
there who knew that such a clergyman lived in the
town at the time mentioned by the spirit. In May,
1865, he was ill, and a spirit who gave the name of Dr.
Mizaldus prescribed for him. It was not until yesterday
(Wednesday) he knew that a doctor of that name had ever
lived, and then, as Dr. Carter Blake could bear witness, he
found jthe name in the British Museum Library. Mizaldus
lived at Montluc, France, in 1550, and was the author of
at least fourteen books ; his prescriptions on record in the
books resembled those the spirit gave at Mr. Macken¬
zie’s house. The physic had a beneficial effect. Neither he
nor his mother had heard the name of Dr. Mizaldus, a remark¬
able one, before fit was written through her mediumship.
Those who have the power of crystal seeing are often unedu¬
cated, and some of them have the greatest dislike to use the
faculty; many people are seers and do not know they possess
the power. One medium he knew went into a cold and rigid
state while looking in the crystal. Once, and only once, he
met Mr. Home, and asked him what he could see in the crys¬
tal? Mr. Home looked for a time, then said he could see
nothing; this gave him rather a favourable idea of Mr. Home,
because if he had wanted to deceive him he would certainly
have seen a great deal. Messages have sometimes been trans¬
mitted by visions in crystals.
Dr. Carter Blake, F.G.S., Lecturer on Anatomy at West¬
minster Hospital, said that much testimony had been given by
the lecturer, but very little evidence. He thought it quite
possible that a Samuel Jennings existed before Mr. Mackenzie
had the spirit message: in fact, he thought he had heard the
name of Jennings before. Then as to Mizaldus, Mr. Mac¬
kenzie was a man of very extensive reading, and he might
have once known the name, and afterwards forgotten it.
Although he asked for more evidence, and was a sceptic, ne
did not think that scientific men should place themselves in
opposition to phenomena which may be observable. He had
read some of the evidence given before the Dialectical Society,
and was glad to see that a part of it was given by the chairman,
a scientific man of the highest standing, and one who knew
what is pure evidence. He thought that scientific men should
not place themselves in opposition to any form of human
thought.
Mr. C. F. Varley said that it was extremely interesting to
find that, from almost pre-historic times, up to the present day,
the records of all countries contained accounts of spiritual and
psychological phenomena. These agree amongst themselves
in a remarkable manner, as to the way in which spirits have
manifested themselves to mankind. The present movement
is the same tale over again, but with a much more extended
variety of mediumship. Last Saturday Professor Max Muller
gave a most interesting lecture at the Royal Institution, on
the “ Science of Religion.” He proved philologically that the
people who preceded the ancient Chinese, as well as those from
whom the Aryan race derived their language and customs, had
theological worship, and believed in one supreme deity; they
also knew of spiritual communion, which ultimately became a
prominent part of their religions. They have very early records
of mesmeric phenomena, as well as of spiritual manifestations,
which are to this day well known and practised in all eastern
countries. At frequent intervals, in various parts of the world,
these phenomena have cropped up in a manner which cannot
rationally be attributed to chance, much less to delusion.
Socrates philosophically demonstrated the existence of the
soul after the dissolution of the physical body, and the ten¬
dency of modern science is to confirm and not to destroy that
belief. One of the great standpoints of science is the inde¬
structibility of force, and, when any investigations tend to the
contrary, it is at once concluded that the data are incorrect.
Now what is life if not a force or combination of forces ? It
must, therefore, like other forces, be indestructible—eternal.
(Applause.)
Mr. Mackenzie, in answer to various questions, then said
that the mirrors used by spirits are devoted or consecrated to
their use, and they object to employment of them for shaving, or
any other purposes. Those persons who have the power of “call¬
ing” spirits in mirrors have very rarely the power of “ seeing ”
also. One day he and his friends tried to get a translation of
some Assyrian inscriptions; one of the spirits fetched another
who he said understood such things, and the latter asked that
the pictures of the inscriptions should be laid before the mirror.
The seeress saw him place a long roll over the plates, and
when he lifted it up, the scroll was covered with printed marks,
apparently accurate copies of the writings on the plates. He
rolled up the scroll, and appointed a time for them to be
present again to receive the translation. The seeress was there
at the appointed hour, but owing to some misunderstanding
as to the time, the other persons were not. The spirit was
there at the instant appointed, as is always the case, but finding
the auditory absent, he exhibited a scroll for one instant, to
show that he had a translation, then put on an indignant look
and walked off. They never saw him again. As to what Dr-
Carter Blake said about evidence, what could be more complete
than the written attestation of Captain Burton, who had such
a high reputation to lose ? Captain Burton said that the facts
were unquestionably true. Did Dr. Carter Blake say that the
Captain had written a wilful lie ? He (Mr. Mackenzie) was not
in the habit of reading books on such subjects as those written
upon by Dr. Mizaldus, but if he had ever heard Mizaldus’
name before, how could that account for his mother writing it
out ? As for the facts he had seen, and faithfully recorded at
the time, he was ready to take his volumes of manuscript into
any court of justice, and affirm that he had witnessed all the
facts stated therein. The facts were strange ones, but Mr.
Varley, without fearing the opinion of the world, had very
nobly given testimony in public, that facts equally strange
were true.
Mr. Burns said that one person then present in the room
had been to one of Mrs. Mary Marshall’s seances, and found
everything unsatisfactory and inconclusive ; another person,
also in the roam, had been to Mrs. Marshall’s and received
the most unquestionable evidence of the existence of de¬
parted spirits. Perhaps the latter person was what Mr.
Mackenzie would describe as a good “caller” of mirror-
spirits, the said caller being probably a person who possesses
powers complementary to those of the medium.
Very warm votes of thanks were unanimously accorded to
the lecturer and the chairman, and the proceedings closed.
Ip Dr. Newton, the healing medium, leaves New York
on the day at present fixed, he will reach England about a
week before the end of April.
Sunday Services for Spiritualists.—At the close of
the Sunday evening meeting at the Cavendish Rooms, the
proceedings at which are reported in another column, a short
discussion took place about the desirability of making the
meetings permanent. Mr. Luxmoore made a sensible speech,
to the effect that one or two public addresses from incompetent
speakers will do Spiritualism more harm than six months’
work by competent men will do good. He therefore thought
that the committee, who have very wisely secured the right to
use the hall for a lengthened period, should print a prospectus
letting the public know the particulars of the plan they are
asked to aid. This advice has been followed, and it is emi¬
nently satisfactory to find that the permanent engagement of
Mr. J. M. Peebles to conduct the meetings is contemplated.
The prospectus is incomplete, in that it does not state who
the members of the committee are, whether they are to be
elected by the other subscribers or by themselves ; in short,
no “ constitution ” is published.
A Musical Medium.—Last Wednesday, Mr. Jesse B.
Shepard arrived in England from New York, and he has
shown us extracts from American newspapers, stating that he
has very remarkable musical powers, conferred upon him by
spirits. One of the published descriptions of his seances is
signed by five members of Congress. He cannot read music,
and until his mediumship was developed, knew nothing of it.
One newspaper says—“ He is the greatest male soprano living.
His voice is clear and full, and cannot be distinguished from
that of a female soprano. It is certainly one of the most
remarkable gifts ever conferred upon the male sex. Our
readers can form some idea of the power and scope of his
voice when we say that he rises to E flat, which is only one
note below the great Jenny Lind, and equal to the famous
Parepa.” In playing musical instruments his fingers are
moved with great velocity. Another newspaper states—
“ His voice in one instance reached to high D flat, apparently
with perfect ease. He says that he can reach E flat. His in¬
strumental performances are equally fine ; he rendered some
of the most difficult passages with perfect ease and without a
false note. The most remarkable feature of his playing is that
he can reach an octave and a half (12 keys), and frequently
does so in making a long run. He is only about nineteen years
of age.” We believe that to-morrow evening he will be
present at a meeting at 15, Southampton-row, Holbom, W.C.,
when those who are present will have an opportunity of wit¬
nessing his powers, and of forming an opinion for themselves,
respecting the extent to which he is aided by unseen friends.
March 15, 1870.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
53
CHARGES FOB, ADVEBTISEMEHTS.
1. Advertisements of Public Companies, Half-a-guinea per
sixth of a column, or every portion of sixth of a column.
2. General Advertisements, Five Shillings per twelfth of a
column, or portion of twelfth of a column.
Note.—Advertisements at the foregoing rates will be
^displayed ” so as to occupy the full space paid for, but
advertisements at the following rates will be in closely set
type.
3. General Advertisements, Half-a-crown per first five
lines or portion of five lines, and Fourpence for every line in
addition.
4. Situations Wanted, or Apartments to Let, One Shilling
per first four lines, or portion of four lines; Threepence for
every line in addition.
Ten words are allowed to the line, and six figures or
initial letters count as one word.
When five or more insertions of the same advertisement
are paid for, twenty per cent, reduction will be made in the
above rates.
The power is reserved of refusing to insert any advertise¬
ment.
Advertisements and remittances should be sent to the
Publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's
Church-yard, London, E.C., or to Mr. J. Bttbns, 15,
Southampton-row, High Holborn, London, W. C.
Cfl Ctfmsjjmbtnts.
All letters should be brief and to the point, as the amount
of space available for correspondence is at present small.
Communications intended for the Editor should be by
letter only, addressed to the care of the Publisher, Mr. E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's Church-yard, London,
E.C. Until the Spiritual movement in England, together
with this journal, have both grown considerably, time cannot
be spared for personal interviews on subjects connected with
the literary worh of The Spiritualist, but all letters will
meet with careful consideration.
The Spiritualist is a periodical intended to give great
freedom of expression to all the different shades of opinion
to be found among Spiritualists. There will therefore be
very little uniformity in the ideas promulgated in this journal,
more especially in the correspondence columns. Under these
circumstances every reader will find occasionally something
in The Spiritualist which he or she does not like, but the
right of reply remains. This freedom of thought given to
others, the Editor claims for himself, and those who do not
like the contents of leading articles, can write against them
in the correspondence columns. This plan is thought better
than that of reducing the contents of the journal to a
pale weak mediocrity, by inserting only those contributions
which please everybody. The preceding remarks are not
intended to imply that those who have crotchets which they
cannot get printed anywhere else, can find an outlet for them
here, for none but those letters which are considered worth
publication will be inserted.
Notices of Public Meetings in connection with Spiritualism
should be sent to the office several days in advance.
^0 Swfrsmkers.
The first twelve numbers of The Spiritualist will be
forwarded regularly by penny post to subscribers, who remit
four shillings in payment, to Mr. E. W. Allen, Publisher,
Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's-churchyard, E.C. No notice
will be taken of orders received unaccompanied by a remit¬
tance.
“The Spiritualist” is published on the fifteenth day op every
MONTH; THE OTHER JOURNALS DEVOTED TO SPIRITUALISM ARE PUBLISHED
ON THE FIRST OP EVERY MONTH. THERE IS THEREFORE A FORTNIGHTLY
. SUPPLY OF NEWS.
TUESDAY, MARCH 15, 1870.
THE PHENOMENAL PHASE OE SPIRITUALISM.
Many Americans who visit this country have remarked
that Spiritualism here is as yet in its phenomenal phase
only, and that Great Britain is now in exactly the same
position with regard to Spiritualism as America was
fifteen years ago. Admitting that we are fifteen years be¬
hind the Americans in Spiritualism, as well as in some
other movements which are essential to national happi¬
ness, there are very good reasons for thoroughly investi¬
gating spiritual phenomena, before attaching much credit
or discredit to the alleged teachings of Spiritualism. If
telegraphic instruments, instead of being machines, had
each the faculty of colouring and altering the messages
they transmit, it is evident that we ought to know what
amount of error is introduced by each machine, and
what machines transmit messages with most accuracy.
Until this is done we should not he justified in attri¬
buting to the sender of the message all the ideas con¬
tained in the message as delivered to us. In the early
stages of mediumship, very much of the thoughts of
the medium are often mixed up _ with the communica¬
tions, though the names, and dates, and localities,
unknown to the medium, and given in the messages, as
well as many other facts, prove the presence of a com¬
municating intelligence, other than that of the medium.
.Hence it is a wise course to thoroughly investigate the
lower phenomena of Spiritualism before attaching
implicit credence to messages coming even from truth¬
ful spirits. The messages from spirits given publicly
through Mr. Morse, for instance, are by some sceptical
outsiders, who have never tested physical manifesta¬
tions, assumed to be impostures, whilst a few very cre¬
dulous Spiritualists consider them to he absolutely true.
Investigation, however, has proved that the majority,
if not all, of the original messages are truthful, but that
errors get into a portion of them because of the diffi¬
culty of transmitting them through the organisation of
the medium. When any medium has intensely biassed
opinions upon one particular subject, whether it be
politics, sectarianism, teetotalism, or any other “ ism,”
communications through him on those subjects are very
likely to be coloured. A strict Buddhist, for instance,
not being open to receive truth in all directions, may
refuse to hold communication with any spirits who do
not believe in Buddha and his teachings. Such a
medium may he surrounded by good spirits, who, to
some extent, humour him in his views, and try to
gradually enlarge the narrow mind of the warped
instrument they use ; or he may be surrounded by the
undeveloped spirits of Buddhists who have just left the
world; or again, there is the alternative that he may
he surrounded by low and idle spirits, who amuse
themselves by hoaxing him. Until we understand more
about the amount of error likely to he introduced into
messages passing through any given mediumistic instru¬
ment, we need not haste to quit the investigation of the
phenomenal phase of Spiritualism, and in the mean¬
time should accept all the communications with a
reasonable amount of caution.
SPIRITUALISM AND POLITICS AT NAPLES.
The Anti-CEcumenical Council met in St. Ferdinand’s
Theatre, Naples, on the 9th of December last, under the pre¬
sidency of the convener of the meeting, Count Ricciardo, a
Spiritualist, and a member of the Italian Parliament.
The President, at the close of his opening address to the
vast audience present, submitted the following questions to
the congress for discussion :—I. Religious liberty, and the
best means for rendering it full and permanent. II. The com¬
plete separation of Church and State. III. The necessity of a
code of morals, independent of religious belief. IY. The
establishment of an international association to promote the
principles of freedom, and the general good, intellectual and
moral.
The secretaries read letters of adhesion and approval from
Garibaldi, Victor Hugo, and many other distinguished patriots,
authors, thinkers, in Europe, Mexico, United States, Brazil,
Chili, West Indies, the Grecian Isles, and some of the cities of
Asia and Africa. Signor Damiani and Mr. J. M. Peebles were
present among the audience.
Mr. Peebles, in course of a speech, gave the following as
his definition of the principles of Spiritualism, and we quote
his words from a New York paper called The Universe:—
“ As a general definition of Spiritualism, the following is
submitted: Its fundamental idea of God—the infinite spirit-
presence, imminent in all things. Its fundamental thought is
joyous communion with spirits and angels, and the practical
demonstration of the same through the instrumentality of
media. Its fundamental purpose is to rightly generate, edu¬
cate, and spiritualise all the races and nations of the earth.
Spiritualism, considered from its philosophical side, is
rationalism, from its scientific side, naturalism', and from its
religious side, the embodiment of love to God and man, a pre¬
sent inspiration and a heavenly minister. In the year 1900,
it will be the religion of the enlightened world. It underlies
all genuine reform movements, physiological, educational,
social, philanthropic, and religious, and spanning all human
interests with holy aim, it seeks to reconstruct society upon
the principles of a universal brotherhood, and the strict equa¬
lity of the sexes. Desirous of greater knowledge touching
the relations of spirit with matter, and of men with God and
the intelligences of the surrounding world of spirits, Spiritua¬
lists study and reverently interrogate the laws and principles
that govern the phenomena and occult forces of the universe,
the histories of the past, and the experiences of the present,
anxious to solve those psychological and spiritual problems of
the ages—man’s origin, capacity, duty, and final destiny.
Interrelated with spirit and matter in their varied evolutions,
and with the highest inter^ts connecting all worlds, Spiritua¬
lism is neither supernatural in philosophy, nor sectarian in
tendency; but broad, catholic, and progressive—the voiced
truth of God through nature to the rational soul—a science, a
philosophy, and a religion. Contemplated from the mount
of vision, it may be compared to a temple whose outer foun¬
dations are upon earth, and whose golden dome is in heaven.
Its facts, its workmanship, are embellished by the fingers of
angels, and its principles are upheld by the hand of God.
Thanking you for your patience in listening to a stranger in a
language that few of you understand, I close with the senti¬
ments:—May Italians speedily possess all Italian territory;
may proud historic Rome be its capital; may capital and
country constitute one united Republic, and may that Republic
be sustained by the enlightened influences of education, jus¬
tice, universal suffrage, the equality of the sexes, and the
beautiful peace principles of love and wisdon.”
On the second day of the session, while a fiery Frenchman
was speaking eloquently of the value of republican institutions
and of freedom in religion, and hundreds of listeners were
applauding, up rose an officer scarfed and ribboned, and said,
“In the name of the laws I pronounce this meeting dissolved ! "
An intense feeling of indignation, which broke into murmurs,
pervaded the meeting; it seemed as though a storm were
about to burst, when President Ricciardo rose and said,—“ I
beg of you to disperse quietly—quietly and in order.” In this
manner the meeting was brought to an unexpectedly prompt
conclusion.
SIR DAVID BREWSTER AND SPIRITUALISM.
A book has just been published, entitled The Home
Life of Sir David Brewster, and is written by his
daughter, Mrs. Gordon.* In that part of the book
relating to his experiences in Spiritualism, extracts
from his own letters and diary are given, from which
we quote the most interesting portions:—
“ London, May, 1851.—I have been at two mes¬
meric seances, one with Dr. Macdonald and the Duke
of Argyll, at a Mrs. Holmes’, who utterly failed in her
clairvoyant pretensions. A Count Possenti mesmerised
her. The other was at Dr. Ashburner’s, where I saw
things that confounded me.”
In a letter, dated London, April 25th, 1851, he tells
of a breakfast party at the house of Chevalier Bunsen,
and says that the great subject of talk was spirit-rapping
and the moving of tables. He adds:—
“ Just as we were discussing the subject, Mr. Bunsen
received a letter from the King of Prussia, saying that
the experiment was made at the palace by the royal
party, who were alone, and no conjuror present. Three
of the young ladies had each letters from Berlin, men¬
tioning these experiments, which sometimes fail. One
letter stated that it succeeded three times out of
seven. ... Of course it is nonsense, and there must
be some trick in it. , . . Mr. Monckton Milnes asked
us to breakfast with him to-morrow, to meet Mr. Galla,
the African traveller, who assured him that Mrs. Hayden
told him the names of persons and places [in Africa
which nobody but himself knew. The world is obviously
going mad. . . . An American whom I met at Rogers’
the other day, told me that hundreds had been sent to
lunatic asylums in consequence of the communications
made to them by the spirit rappers. . . . The spirit-
rapping is exciting great interest in London, but very
few believe in it, and there are many facts which tend
to prove that it is done by some machinery or apparatus
by which the hands and feet of the medium may pro¬
duce the observed phenomena.”
The following is the most important note of all:—
“ London, June, 1855.—Last of all I went with Lord
Brougham to a seance of the new spirit-rapper, Mr.
Home, a lad of twenty, the son of a brother of the late
Earl of Home. He went to America at the age of
seven, and, though a naturalised American, is actually
a Scotchman. Mr. Home lives in Cox’s Hotel, Jermyn-
street; and Mr. Cox, who knows Lord Brougham,
j invited me to accompany him in order to assist in
finding out the trick. We four sat down at a mode¬
rately-sized table, the structure of which we were
invited to examine. In a short time the table shud¬
dered, and a tremulous motion ran up all our arms;
at our bidding these motions ceased and returned.
“ The most unaccountable rappings were produced
in various parts of the table, and the table actually rose
from the ground when no hand was upon it. A larger
table was produced, and exhibited similar movements.
“ An accordion was held in Lord Brougham’s hand,
and gave out a single note, but the experiment was a
failure; it would not play either in his hand or mine.
“ A small hand-bell was then laid down with its
mouth on the carpet, and, after lying for some time, it
actually rang when nothing could have touched it.
The bell was then placed on the other side, still upon
the carpet, and it came over to me and placed itself in
my hand. It did the same to Lord Brougham.
“ These were the principal experiments; we could
give no explanation of them, and could not conjecture
how they could be produced by any kind of mechanism.
Hands are sometimes seen and felt; the hand often
grasps another, and melts away, as it were, under the
grasp.
“ The object of asking Lord Brougham and me seems
to have been to get our favourable opinion of the exhi¬
bition, b ut though neither of us can explain what we
saw, we do not believe that it was the work of idle
spirits.”
Whatever Sir David Brewster may assert to the con¬
trary, Lord Brougham died a believer in Spiritualism:
he has also placed his opinion on record in writing, as
will be seen upon reference to the last number of this
journal.
In the book now under notice, Mrs. Gordon attempts
no explanation of the phenomena, beyond simply quoting
a letter of an advertising character, from a philosophical
instrument maker named Eaulkner, published in the
Standard a few months ago. Eaulkner asserted that
he had fitted up the houses of. several persons with
electrical apparatus to make spirit rapping noises. On
being asked for references to persons whose houses he
has thus fitted up, he has admitted in writing that he
has never fitted up anybody’s house with such apparatus,
except that of Mr. Addison, a man who is not a Spiri¬
tualist, and who asserts all Spiritualists to be impostors.
Genuine Spiritual manifestations take place in any
house, and are not confined to the home of the medium;
the raps also, do not sound like noises mechanically pro¬
duced, for they are phenomena of “life,” and are full of
expression.
* Edinburgh: Edmonston and Douglas. 1869.
t This is a pure and very modest assumption on the part of the write
The facts of nature are quite independent of the sayings, doings, and
opinions of men. Mr. Home never invited them to the s£anct at all—Ed.
54
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Maech 15, 1870.
^oetoj.
OUES.
IT chanced on a beautiful summer night,
"When the moon was young, when the stars were bright.
And the blossom slept in the tender light,
And dreamed of the zephyr’s sighs,
That a wondrous spell in our home was wrought,
Of hopes and fears and bewildering thought,
By a fairy flower that an angel brought,
Prom the gardens of paradise.
The south wind fluttered its perfumed wings,
And essayed the song that the bulbul sings;
And the firefly sparkled in mystic rings,
Like lamps at a fairy ball;
The young leaves whispering sweet and low.
In a tongue that only Dryads know,
Made love to the waves that danced below,
To the chant of the waterfall.
The cloud-ships lay in the far-off west.
With their masts and spars and sails at rest,
Or floated along in an idle quest,
Of some bright Elysian Isle;
And fairy gondolas here and there,
Moved down the streams of the upper air.
And moved their prows to the shadow stair,
Of some Gothic palace-pile.
So the hours of that summer-night were told.
The starlight faded from river and wold,
And morning, in garments of purple and gold.
Awakened the sleeping earth;
But the cherub form with its face so fair,
Crowned with a glory of golden hair—
Like the morning and sunshine gleaming there—
Still nestled beside our hearth.
The Universe.
(tarespontjence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers'].
THE BIBLE-SPIEITHALISM COHTBOTEESY.
SlE,—I read my friend Mr. Pearce’s letter in yonr last with
great regret, and I know that some excellent Christian men,
who had begun to be interested in Spiritualism, have been
much shocked by it. And no wonder ! Our Christian friends,
though some of their views may be erroneous and illogical,
hold their creeds, naturally enough very sacred ; and it savours
to them very much of blasphemy when they see the Bible
treated with no more respect, and as of little more authority,
than other books. I sympathise to some extent with Mr.
Pearce in his complaint that W. H. evinced in his letter a
little want of charity towards those who have ventured to
express sentiments at variance with his own ; but I do not
think it is a sufficient answer to W. H. to attempt to prove
that the biblical narratives are incredible, for that is only
supporting, instead of confuting W. H.’s position—that there
is a class of Spiritualists who seem only too glad of an oppor¬
tunity of making attacks upon “ Moses, Jesus, and the Bible.”
Would it not rather be wiser for W. H. and Mr. Pearce, and
every other Spiritualist, to avoid altogether the discussion of
theological tenets in Spiritualistic publications 1 For what
has Spiritualism to do with the questions that have been
raised—the Divinity of the Lord Jesus and the inspiration of
the first chapter of Genesis ? As a Swedenborgian I hold both
most completely, even though I am a Spiritualist also. And
what is more, notwithstanding Mr. Pearce’s attempt to dis¬
prove them, I think I could show—if I regarded a Spiritual¬
istic publication as the proper place for it—that in so believing
them I violate neither reason nor common sense. I am, in
fact, rationally convinced of. their truth, and I do not for a
moment anticipate that any spirit will ever expect me to
abjure them on his authority alone ! If I ever meet with such
a one I shall suspect him to be a departed Pope, and shall
refuse to have anything to say to him.
But I will say no more, for I write this with the simple view
of inducing you to discourage theological controversies in your
columns, and in order to assure inquirers that a belief in
Spiritualism and a belief also in the inspiration of'the written
Word of God are by no means incompatible.
Old Palace-road, Norwich. Edmund D. Rogebs.
March 4, 1870.
Sib,—In the last number of the Spibitualist I read a letter
from Mr. C. W. Pearce, of South Stockwell, in reply to one by
W. H. The purpose of Mr. Pearce appears to be to condemn
certain propositions advanced by W. H., one of which is the
divinity of our Saviour. Alluding to the statements set forth
in the first chapters of Matthew and Luke, Mr. Pearce demurs
to this dogma, submitting the same to the “ test of reason.”
Arguing from the analysis of natural law as it exhibits itself
in the generation of the human race, he comes to the conclu¬
sion that Jesus being a man, He must necessarily have had a
human father. Speaking of the perfection of the Creator’s
laws, he says, “ One of these laws is that before a child can be
conceived, there must be a union between man and woman.”
Of course there must, in the fulfilment of the natural law of
propagation, and there needs no dogmatism to prove a fact
known to the most ignorant savage. But the observation
cannot apply to the conception of Jesus of Nazareth, for that
was supernatural. It is a subject of such great delicacy, that
in its very nature it is scarcely proper, however carefully
treated, to be placed before the eye of the general reader, j
but were it not for this consideration, Mr. Editor, I could by a
little anatomical and physiological detail, place the matter in
such a plain and simple point of view, that the immaculate
conception of Jesus Christ could be no longer considered such
a great mystery and improbability. I will conclude by
putting the question to any sceptic who may read this letter,
—“ Do yo.u believe in a God the Creator of the universe ? ”
None but an atheist,. we know, will deny it. Well, then,
surely the Being who could create the universe could perform
such a trifling operation as the impregnation of the germ of a
human being, and for the stupendous purpose of rescuing a
sinful world from its lost condition. It was a miracle indeed,
and great was its object. But there are persons who make
this fact a great stumbling-block, because it is contrary to
natural law. Yet such is the caprice of human nature, that
they will go to a seance, impelled by curiosity, and witness
certain facts which in the present condition of scientific
knowledge can only be accountd for on the presumption that
what takes place is through spiritual agency, fully believing
the same, and are thoroughly satisfied with the genuineness of
the manifestations, yet demur to the immaculate conception of
Christ. Now, if a spirit, often no doubt an ungodly one, can
enter into, or in some manner physically influence dead, inert
matter in the form of chairs and tables, causing these articles
of furniture to cut extraordinary capers round a room, and
often for no good practical purpose, surely the Father of
spirits could for a special mighty purpose cause the immacu¬
late conception of a human being. Yerily, this is straining at
a gnat and swallowing a camel.
J. G. Gebbans, Surgeon, fye.
7a, Wyndham-place, Bryanston-square.
P.S.—I could say much more on the above subject, but fear
occupying too much of your space. I will by your permission
recur to it on a future occasion.
Sib,—I am very much pleased with Mr. Pearce’s letter
printed in your last issue, especially with his want of reve¬
rence for Tertullian. Who on earth was Tertullian, that his
opinions should bind mine ? The man is dead and buried; I
cannot become personally acquainted with him or his friends,
or know much that is reliable about this antiquated indi¬
vidual. The evidence of one or two respectable intelligent
men, living now—in civilised times—in London, is worth more
than the evidence of a hundred dead and buried worthies,
who lived when the world was only half-way out of its state of
primitive savagery, and whose sayings have come down to
us through the hands of priestly and political mountebanks.
History, books, and the press, have almost always as yet been
under the thumbs of the powers that be, and it is only within
the last forty years that absolutely reliable history, giving all
sides of disputed subjects, has risen into being. ’ Let those
Englishmen who worship antiquity carry their precepts into
practice, paint their bodies as their forefathers, the ancient
Britons, did, divest themselves of superfluous clothing, and
make beastly savages of themselves generally. Modern civili¬
sation would then pronounce its verdict upon the worshippers
of tradition, barbarism, superstition, and antiquity, by lodging
them in the nearest police-station.
March 12th, 1870. A. P.
The Glowwobm : The First Australian Newspaper on
Spiritualism. Melbourne, Uecember 31s£, 1869.
A close examination of this newspaper, with its super¬
fluity of words printed in italics and small capitals,
with its trenchant style, and its many words which
would appear to be ill-spelt to any but a good philo¬
logist, revealed that somebody was at the helm of the
new journal, whose writings are not unknown in one
section of Great Britain. Long before seeing the name
in the imprint, we were perfectly certain that Mr. B. S.
Nayler, late of Milford, South Wales, has full control
of The Glowworm.
This new newspaper deals principally with the re¬
ligious aspects of Spiritualism. As the writer is well
versed in the literature and early history of the Bible,
and has a forcible and convincing method of expressing
his ideas, many good answers to sectarian attacks upon
Spiritualism may be drawn from the columns of the
little Australian journal. The Glowworm reveals very
clearly that the phenomena of Spiritualism which are
witnessed in Melbourne bear the same characteristics
as in every other part of the globe, and that the burden
of the first messages given by the spirits is “ Love—
Love—nothing but Love.” Among the spiritual com¬
munications of interest in the journal, is one from the
mother of Mr. Nayler, dated April 15th, 1869, in which
she says:—
r There are many millions of spirits who do not know of such
a method of communicating, and others to whom such a pro¬
cess is new; therefore they have to learn the modus operandi.
You must wait with patience the unfolding of the law. It is
only a very short time since I understood this way of holding
communion with you. Previous to it my only way of in¬
fluencing you was by impression, which mode I always
exercise as well, though you are not cognizant of the fact.”
In another message, dated March 25th, 1869, his
mother said:—
“ My dear son, blissful beyond comparison with aught on
earth, is this my home. The language we speak is of the soul.
We do not commune orally, but by our eyes. Everyone’s
condition, thoughts, and desires, are known by the aroma
which surrounds them, and we do not, cannot hold communion
with all—only those with whom we are in affinity, or, that
their personal spheres attract us, so that we are all linked
together in the bonds of love. There is no discord here in
our heavenly home—truly one of many mansions prepared
for all the children of the earth. Each one will find their
home here ; some in brighter and more glorious homes than
others, but all, that place adapted to their wants and desires.”
The Glowworm also contains messages from Mr.
Nayler’s father, and one dated December 2nd, 1869,
from Dr. J. Field, who quitted the eartb-life at Milford,
Pembrokeshire, in May, 1864. In one portion of tbe
paper Mr. Nayler states that John Wesley often made
his home at the house of his (Mr. Nayler’s) grandfather,
Mr. George Merry weather, at Yarm, in Yorkshire, and
that Wesley privately owned that he did not believe
in eternal damnation, a doctrine which he purposely
ceased to preach in public, though he said nothing
openly about his belief in the universal restoration of
all mankind.
In a list of eminent Spiritualists published in The
Glowworm are the names of Lyndhurst, Bulwer Lytton,
De Morgan, Bobert Chambers, William Howitt, Ash-
burner, Elliotson, John Stuart‘Mill, Tennyson, Yarley,
Sir Charles Wheatstone, Professor Hare, Washington
Irving, Abraham Lincoln, Bobert Dale Owen, Judge
Edmonds, Horace Greeley, Longfellow, Whittier, the
Emperor of the French, Yictor Hugo, Guizot, Leon
Favre, and Garibaldi.
The Glowworm, from beginning to end, is filled
almost entirely with the argumentative writing of the
editor, and it might, with much more accuracy, be
entitled, Mr. B. S. JSfayler’s Opinions of Spiritualism.
This is a mistake, because readers do not care for a
continual supply of the opinions of one person, however
good they may be, and the newspaper ought to contain
reports of what is now taking place in connection with
Spiritualism in Melbourne. There is plenty of internal
evidence that The Glowworm is not under the control
of a practical journalist, and we fear that its life is
almost certain to be a short one, unless a considerable
change be made in description and arrangement of the
matter it publishes. However, failure in a good cause
is better than success in a bad one.
The second number only of The Glowworm has reached
us, and no statement is made in it whether it is pub¬
lished weekly or monthly, but probably it is intended
to be a monthly journal.
The Food Joubnal. Published Monthly. London, J.
M. Johnson and Sons, March 1, 1870.
This is is a new and valuable periodical, since it gives
attention to food and its adulterations, and has several
medical and other gentleman of ability among the con¬
tributors to its pages. Butter is now very largely adul¬
terated with various kinds of grease, and with silicate
of potash. Yast quantities of tea, made of dirty leaves
which have been previously used, and in some
cases have begun to putrefy, are regularly imported
from China. A journal is greatly needed which will
work hard to keep such unpleasant impurities from
entering the human body. Among the articles in the
number of the Food Journal now under notice, is one
by Dr. J. Muter, from which it appears that among the
many substances used to adulterate coffee are chicory,
roasted roots, peas, and acorns, also saw-dust, lupin
seeds, oak bark, and baked horse’s liver. The raspings
of loaves and stale sea biscuits^are very much used to
adulterate coffee. The journal also contains a good ar¬
ticle by Mr. E. Fournier, on the disadvantages of a potato
diet. Potatoes do not contain all the ingredients neces¬
sary to support life, but potatoes and ground bones, or
potatoes and milk, make very nutritious diet. It is a
principle in political economy, “ the cheaper the food
the lower the wages of the population,” therefore it is
to the money interest of capitalists that the bulk of the
people shall be supplied with cheap rather than pure
food. The practical effects of the working of this prin¬
ciple may well be investigated by the Food Journal.
MRS. EYERITT’S MEDIUMSHIP.
Some of the remarkable Spiritual manifestations,
which so often take place through the mediumship
of Mrs. T. Everitt, of 26, Penton-street, Pentonville,
have, from time to time, been published in the periodicals
devoted to Spiritualism, so it is thought that the follow¬
ing brief account of the development of her powers as
a medium will be of interest. The particulars are
furnished by Mr. Everitt.
About thirteen or fourteen years ago, Mrs. Everitt
left London for a few days on a visit to Mr. G. W.
Bitten, of Saffron Walden, Essex ; and in his house first
saw what was then called “ table-turning.” At first
she sat at a distance from the table, and refused to go
near it; but afterwards, being pressed by her friends,
she joined the circle ; the table continued to move, and
she could see, by the hands of the members of the
circle, that the power moving the table came from
below it, and not from their hands on the top. On the
following Sunday some very heavy “ thumps ” came
upon the floor of the room, while Mr. Bitten was read¬
ing a sermon ; he then looked up, and said to his niece,
“ If you are not quiet, I shall discontinue reading.”
She replied, “ It’s not me, uncle.” The noises grew
louder, and he accused her a second time. The thumps
then became so violent, that Mrs. Bitten said that it
was “ the devil,” upon which tremendous blows were
heard upon the floor, so that they were all frightened,
and left the room. Mr. Bitten went down and searched
the cellar beneath the room, but could find nothing to
account for the violent blows.
Mrs. West, a friend of Mrs. Everitt’s, witnessed these
things also, and, on their return to London, they tried
to get some “ table-turning ” at home, in Mr. Everitt’s
present house. Tiltings of the table were obtained f'
the name of Mr. Everitt’s mother was spelt out, and
she answered test questions so as to fully prove her
identity ; in fact, documents had to be examined after¬
wards to ascertain ,the accuracy of some of the state¬
ments she made. Other sittings took place, and it was
soon noticed that the manifestations only took place
while Mrs. Everitt was present; she was very nervous
about it, and would not believe that these things took
place through her mediumship. About three months
after her return from Saffron Walden, the spirits gave
her the following message:—“ You have often wondered
how we were able to produce that noise which you
heard at Mr. Bitten’s; we were able to produce it
through Mrs. Everitt—she is a rapping medium. Mrs.
West is a tilting medium.” From that time she be¬
lieved that the manifestations came through her medium-
ship. * During the first three months after her return
* It is often the case, that when two undeveloped media meet at a circle,
the spirits can give powerful manifestations for the time, hut little or none
when the two persons are separated. Somebody besides Mrs. Everitt, at
Saffron Walden, must have contributed to the medium power which made
the first manifestations so striking.—Ed.
Maech 15, 1870.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
55
from Saffron Walden, table-motions only were obtained
through Mrs. Everitt’s mediumship; but the move¬
ments were of a marked character, for once a small
table moved without contact with anybody, and at
another time, at supper, the table rose from the ground
with all the things on it. At the end of the three
months slight “ ticks ” or raps were heard, and these
quickly grew more powerful, till before another three
months had passed away, tremendous blows would come
upon the floor, “ as if,” says Mr. Everitt, “ somebody were
striking the floor from the kitchen underneath with a
log of timber, jarring the whole house up to the top
windows.” For a whole year the physical manifesta¬
tions increased in power.
It was not meaningless noise, but always showed
that there was an intelligence behind, or using this
power, for it sometimes gave very startling information,
and by her placing only one finger on a small table, it
would sometimes walk along the passage, and up and
down stairs. During all this time Mrs. Everitt was
very timid; she could even hear the spirits walking
before and after her sometimes. These things did not j
come by her will or wish, and she seemed to care very
little about her mediumship ; it was a very considerable
time—perhaps two or three years—before she would
let the spirits use her hand as a writing medium,
although they often asked her permission. She let
them write messages by means of the planchette,
shortly before she allowed them to write through her
hand.
Yery often at the seances the power was so strong
that the spirits would shake the whole house from
cellar to garret, and the vibrations at last loosened
the hold of the ends of the rafters in the brick¬
work of the front of the house, so that the floors
of the upper bed-rooms were in danger of falling
through. Mr. Everitt accordingly had to have the
brickwork of the two upper storeys of the front of his
house wholly rebuilt, and after this expensive opera¬
tion was performed, he was told by the spirits that the
damage had been done to give evidence that the mani¬
festations were real, and not mental impressions. Since
the rebuilding, the house has not been shaken so vio¬
lently, although powerful vibrations are often set up.
It was in November, 1867, that the audible spirit
voice was first obtained through the mediumship of
Mrs. Everitt. Miss Nichols (now Mrs. Guppy) called
upon Mrs. Everitt, and they had a dark seance. Fruit
and flowers were brought by the spirits, who then
changed the places of the sitters, and asked Mrs.
Everitt to go to the other side of the room. A peculiar
low whisper was then heard, as if somebody were
trying to articulate; this frightened Mrs. Everitt and
Mrs. Guppy; but the former was then thrown into a
trance-sleep for the first time, and the spirit John Watt
first made himself known to the mortals present. He
gave an account of himself, saying that he was a native
of Torquay; that he was an engineer by trade; that
he left this world at the age of thirty years; he was
not married in this world, but has since met with his
conjugal partner, whose spirit name is Mercia. He
speaks of her as a pure spirit, for she never breathed in
this world, as she was still-born. During the next ten
or twelve sittings, John Watt always refused to use a
paper tube; but at last he took it, 'and then could
speak very much louder. Later still, other voices were
obtained through Mrs. Everitt’s mediumship. John
Watt often sends an assistant of his, Joseph Smith, of
Torquay, to talk to the circle when his other work will
not let him come himself; his assistants also often get
everything ready before his arrival, so that he may
then begin to speak at once. One day, about two years
ago, Mrs. Hardinge came to the circle, and from that
time a spirit, who gives the name of Znippy, and says
that he was born on one of the South Sea Islands,
has often spoken with an audible voice through Mrs.
Everitt’s mediumship. He says that he came over
with Mrs. Hardinge in a big ship, and that he “ died ”
in America when about fifteen years old. Now and
then departed friends of persons who have casually
visited Mrs. Everitt’s circle, have come to talk with an
audible voice, and, in some instances, have satisfactorily
proved their identity.
In connection with Mrs. Everitt’s mediumship, a very
curious circumstance once took place, tending to show
that perhaps, the eastern superstition as to efficacy of
charms and amulets originally had a foundation upon
facts. On the 25th March, 1868, Mrs. Everitt went to
a seance at the house of Mrs. Gregory, near Hyde-park,
and a ring was taken off her finger, in the course of the
sitting. When she came home she searched for it, but
it could not be found. Next day, March 26th, John
Watt said that the ring was in his possession, and that
Mrs. Everitt’s spirits were throwing their influence into
the ring to strengthen her mediumship. For three or
four weeks afterwards, John Watt’s voice and the other
manifestations were very weak, and John Watt said that
the power could not be regained till she had the ring
back again. Twenty-nine days after the ring was
taken, Mrs. Everitt was at a dark seance, at the house
of Mr. Childs, 21, Offord-road, Islington, and was told
that the ring had been brought back. A light was
struck, but they could not see the ring on the table, or
anywhere else, and a seeing medium who was present
said, “ Look under the Bible.” There, sure enough, was
the ring, returned in a house several miles distant from
that at which it was taken off. The spirits said that
they would put the ring on again when the light was
extinguished. The ring was placed on the table, the
light was put out, and instantly Mrs. Everitt said, “ It’s
on ! ” A light was struck, and the ring was found on
her finger, behind another ring of exactly the same size,
though whether it passed over, under, or through it, or
neither, nobody knows. It was done instantaneously,
and Mrs. Everitt felt herself lifted from the chair at the
instant it surrounded her finger. From the day of the
return of this ring, Mrs. Everitt has been in better*
health than she ever was before, for up to that time she
was generally ill the day after a seance. Often, after¬
wards, while narrating this story of the ring to others,
Mrs. Everitt would take it off her finger to show to the
listeners. John Watt said, last October, he would pre¬
vent her from doing that again, as the influence of those
I who took the ring marred its beneficial effects upon Mrs.
Everitt. Accordingly, on awaking one morning she
found the ring on another finger, and discovered that it
fitted very closely, and could not be slipped over the
first joint to be taken off; in fact, the only way to get
it off now, is by the file, or by chemical reagents.
On another occasion also, Mrs. Everitt had a ring taken
away, and returned at a distant place.
Unlike most other voice mediums, Mrs. Everitt is
usually, though not always, in a mesmeric sleep while
the spirits speak with audible voices. Direct spirit
writing is also obtained through her mediumship, and
it began three years ago; they exercised full control of
the pencil at first trial. Darkness, unfortunately, is re¬
quired for this manifestation. Sentences are written
out with enormous velocity, only one or two seconds
being required to write sentences of twelve or twenty
words, and then the pencil is thrown down on the table.
The pencil does not make a scratching noise while
writing, but a rattle, as if the point were making a
rapid shower of taps upon the paper.
All mediums are usually very nervous, but Mrs.
Everitt is exceptionally sensitive. The presence of
strangers at her seances of a suspicious or antagonistic
disposition, is felt by her at once, and gives her absolute
physical pain. Hence it is not often that anybody is
invited to her seances, who has not previously been
present at other manifestations, so as to know the
reality of spiritual phenomena beforehand, and to come
to the circle in a more affable frame of mind than is
usually the case with strangers. She has given the
Dialectical Society no facilities for investigation,
although by chance, one or two members of the
Society have been present at some of her seances.
All along, she has taken very little interest in her
own mediumship, but began to value it more when, a
few months ago, she saw the character of a man’s life
entirely changed in consequence of the manifestations
made by her spirits, when nothing else could possibly
have reclaimed him from drinking, swearing, and other
vices. Mr. Everitt is a respectable master tailor, who
has been in business in Pentonville for many years, and
neither he nor Mrs. Everitt have ever accepted any
payment from those whom they have permitted to
witness the manifestations. Mr. Everitt is often be¬
sieged with letters, asking permission to be present;
at first he answered them, till he found them too great
a tax upon him, and that he must either leave them
unnoticed, or keep a clerk. Mr. Everitt wishes these
facts to be publicly known, that those who write may
not attribute his silence to want of courtesy.
Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A., the Countess de Pomar, and
many others, have publicly testified to the genuine
character of the manifestations obtained through the
mediumship of Mrs. Everitt. The following letter,
which was originally published in the Spiritual Maga¬
zine, describes one of the most remarkable seances ever
witnessed in her presence :—
“26, Penton-street, Pentonville, Feb. 22nd, 1868.
“ SlE,—The following are a few facts in connection with
our spirit circle:—In the first place, I may here state that we
are now always directed by spirit intelligences as to when and
where we shall hold our seances; sometimes we are told whom
we are to invite, and it is pleasing to know that this is done
with an evident knowledge of, and consideration for, my busi¬
ness and other engagements.
“I wish that some one who attends our meetings, and
whose powers of description are more graphic than mine,
would send you some account of the interesting conversations
and communications that are given * audibly ’ by spirits.
‘ John Watt ’ is the name of the spirit who attends our
seances, and speaks to us more than any other spirit whose
individuality and identity has, by the last three months’
experience, been proved to my mind most conclusively. In
more ways than it is possible for me to enumerate here, he
has identified himself with the best interests of the medium,
and he tells that it is his special privilege to have charge of
this circle.
“ He has informed us that he has been in the other world,
according to our reckoning, about thirty years ; that he was '
ill about six months, and died of consumption ; that he was
(when in this world) an engineer, and helped to get out the
plans for the first line of railway from London-bridge to
Greenwich.
“ On one occasion, a medium who was a seer, described
what he saw at our s6ance. He said we appeared to be sitting
under a blue dome, round the bottom of which was a gold
band ; and at the top was an opening with another gold band
round it, and over this opening was a reddish cloud, in which
appeared a beautiful, angelic face ; that, we were told, of the
presiding angel at our circle, and, it was added, the spirit who is
speaking looks up to him when he wants any information, and
sometimes hesitates in answering us till he gets permission.
“ When having a seance at Mrs. Berry’s, ‘ John Watt ’ said,
11 wish you had a seer here to describe the glorious sight over
you.’ We asked him if he could not tell us. ‘Well,’ he said,
‘ if your spiritual sight were opened, you would see a beautiful
blue dome, like the dome of a cathedral, filled with stars,
but which are angelic faces ; and at the top is the presiding
angel. Ah 1 it is a glorious sight; I wish you could see it.’
“ We have asked him about the seasons in the spirit world :
he says, ‘ that every one lives in the temperature that proceeds
from himself, and which is therefore best suited to his state.’
He said, ‘ The sun never sets, it always appears in the east;
and strange as it may seem, to whichever quarter the angels
are going, their faces are always turned towards it; they have
no night—but morning, noon, and evening.’
“ I will now give you an account of the most remarkable
seance it has ever been my happiness to witness.
“ Mrs. E , this evening, had a most violent head-ache,
and when ‘ John Watt ’ came, he said, ‘ Good evening,
friends, I see your medium is out of condition, I shall not be
able to stay long.’ We asked him if he could not remove the
head-ache ; he said, ‘ I will try.’ He took the tube and made
passes over Mrs. E ’s head, which soon removed the pain.
He then said, ‘ Mr. Everitt, you have a message for me, have
you not V I said, ‘ Yes.’ He said, ‘ I know all about it; go
on Friday.’ And after he had arranged our meetings for the
following week, Mrs. E exclaimed, ‘ There’s a beautiful
light!’ We looked, and all saw a light rising towards the
centre of the room, like the moon in its first quarter; it
moved across the room, and disappeared ; then arose from
the same place, and ascended to the ceiling, a most beautiful
constellation of stars, as many as ten or twelve in number,
all twinkling brightly, appearing and disappearing so that it
was impossible to count them from the quickness of their
motion; then came a comet like Halley’s, with two streams
of light diverging from the head, and another, and another :
so that there were several of them near the centre of the
room. And then, in another part of the room, a much larger
light appeared, and remained near the ceiling; in front of it
there was a dark embankment of clouds, and from behind
them this light streamed up continuously, similar to what
may be seen sometimes before the rising of the sun. This we
were told, represented the dawning of Spiritualism ; and it is
worthy of remark, that the heads of the comets were turned
towards this great light.
“ ‘ John Watt ’ kept asking us how we liked the lights, and
told us to keep our eyes open, as we should see more wonders;
and so it was, something fresh was continually presented—a
spirit hand, a spirit arm, a spirit form, was seen to pass
through the light, or appear above our heads. The lights
were seen for full an hour by the twelve persons who were
present, and who testify to the truth of this statement.
‘John Watt’ told us that we should in time see spirits and
angels in that light which they themselves produce. At his
suggestion we then concluded the seance with prayer.
“I append the names and addresses of those present;
namely,—Mr. and Mrs. Everitt, 26, Penton-street, Pentonville;
Mr. Charles Everitt, 26, Penton-street, Pentonville; Mr.
White and Mrs. Wise, 30, Bahere-street, Goswell-road; Mr.
Jones and Miss Jones, 34, Eahere-street, Goswell-road; Mr.
Towns, 32, Lloyd's-row, St. John’s-street-road; Mr. Davis,
Old-street-road; Mrs. Ridley, 11, Brunswick-square, Hackney-
road ; Mrs. Childs, 21, Offord-road, Caledonian-road; Mrs.
Sparey, 3, Cambridge-place, Kingsland-road.
•   Thos. Eveeitt.”
Some very powerful physical manifestations have recently
been obtained by Mr. Collier and a few friends, at Forest
Gate, Essex.
A coebespondent informs ns that Mr. John Jones, of
Enmore-park, South' Norwood,) delivered a lecture on
Spiritualism in St. John’s Hall, Clerkenwell, about three
weeks ago, and that the listeners were much interested.
Last Thursday the Daily Telegraph had a long article
written by one of its “ funny ” men, about one of Mr. Morse’s
public seances at 15, Southampton-row, W.C. We have no
space to quote the article, which was not a specially disagree¬
able one, and if it gave its readers inaccurate ideas, at all
events it is of a better tone than the articles on Spiritualism
which were commonly published a few years ago by the
misleaders of public opinion.
Spibituaeism at the Antipodes. — A private letter
from Mr. W. D. Meers, of Dunedin, New Zealand, dated
December 23rd, 1869, has just been received by Mr. George
Childs, of 21, Offord-street, Islington, N. In the course of
the letter Mr. Meers states that much interest in Spiritualism
is evinced in Dunedin, but as the people there have only just
began to make experimental trials the manifestations are not
yet sufficiently developed to be of a very striking character.
In Australia Spiritualism has made more progress, and Mr.
Meers says the editor of the daily paper at Dunedin told him
that the Spiritualists in Melbourne intend bringing out a
weekly or a monthly paper in connection with the movement,
and that the Melbourne Argus has recently published two very
favourable articles on the subject.
Spiritualism in Halifax.—Mr. J. M. Peebles delivered
a lecture last night in the Mechanics’ Hall, Halifax, York¬
shire, in which he called attention to the value of reason as
one of the most precious gifts given to man by the Almighty,
and as a faculty which must be applied to all subjects,
whether theological or otherwise. He then spoke of the pro¬
gress of religious ideas, and of the origin and progress of
Spiritualism in Europe and America. To-night he will speak
of the Bible proofs of Spiritualism, and of mediumship. To¬
morrow he will speak of the book religions of the world, and
of the relations of modem Christianity to the primal teachings
of Jesus ; on Thursday he will speak of the objections made
to Spiritualism by the uninformed.
ANSWEES TO COEEESPONDENTS.
A. G. (Glasgow).—Kept over again for want of space.
T. N. 0. (Jamaica)..—A parcel has been sent as desired.
B. S. N. (Melbourne).—The first ripples of the waves of Spiritual¬
ism have spread nearly all over Wales, but practical acquaintance
with the phenomena is at present confined chiefly to Merthyr
Hirwain, and Llanelly.
A. B. (Stoke Newington).—The publication of your letter would
only start an angry and endless theological dispute. Shall be
glad to hear from you on another subject. Remittances intended
for the publisher, should not be enclosed to the editor. On appli-
tion at the publishing office the amount will be returned.
THE SPIRITUALIST
March 15, 1870.
56
FACTS FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
The phenomena seen at spiritual circles are
so extraordinaiy, and so unlike those coming
■within the ordinary range of human experi¬
ence, that it is quite right not to accept them
on the testimony of others. Bach individual
should witness and test them personally, and
believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
is gained that denial is impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM: DESERVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses that the phenomena of Spiritualism are
actual facts, and not imposture or delusion, has of
late years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Robert
Chambers, Mr. C. F. Varley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
Mrs. S. 0. Hall, and others, all made affidavits
strongly in favour of Mr. Home. The following
was the affidavit of Mr. 0. F. Varley, O.E.,
F.R.G.S., M.R.I.:—
“ X, Cromwell Fleetwood Varley, of Fleetwood House,
Beckenham, in the County of Kent, Esquire, make oath
and say as follows:—
“I have been a student of electricity, chemistry, and
natural philosophy for twenty-six years, and a tele¬
graphic engineer by profession for twenty-one years,
and I am the consulting electrician of the Atlantic Tele¬
graph Company, and of the Electric and International
Company.
“ About nine or ten years ago, having had my atten¬
tion directed to the subject of Spiritualism by its spon¬
taneous and unexpected development in my own family
in the form of clairvoyant visions and communications,
I determined to test the truth of the alleged physical
phenomena to the best of my ability, and to ascertain,
if possible, the nature of the force which produced them.
“Accordingly, about eight years ago, I called on Mr.
Home, the defendant in this suit, and stated that I had
not yet witnessed any of the physical phenomena, but
that I was a scientific man and wished to investigate
them carefully.
“He immediately gave me every facility for the pur¬
pose, and desired me to satisfy myself in every possible
way, and I have been with him on divers occasions
when the phenomena have occurred. I have examined
and tested them with him and with others, under con¬
ditions of my own choice, under a bright light, and have
made the most jealous and searching scrutiny. I have
been, since then, for seven months in America, where
the subject attracts great attention and study, and where
it is cultivated by some of the ablest men, and having
experimented with and compared the forces with elec¬
tricity and magnetism, and after having applied me¬
chanical and mental tests, I entertain no doubt whatever
that the manifestations which I have myself examined
were not due to the operation of any of the recognised
physical laws of nature, and that there has been present
on the occasions above-mentioned some intelligence
other than that of the medium and observers.
“ The subject of coqrse offers many opportunities and
inducements for fraud, and I only speak of what I have
myself seen and tested. Since my acquaintance with
Mr. Home began I have pursued the enquiry, and I have
found engaged in it able, learned, and scientific men,
who are. convinced as I am, that the physical manifesta¬
tions are but the introduction to an extensive field of
mental and physical knowledge which will in a great
measure explain and reconcile the beliefs of all ages and
nations. I know of several instances both in Europe
and America in which this course of study has awak¬
ened the perception of the purest and loftiest truths and
principles. There have been ho doubt oases in which
the intellect has been too feeble for the stimulus, and
has been overpowered by it, just as frequently results
from excessive application to religion and other exciting
topics, but such cases have not come within my own
observation.
.“Mr. Home, like several other non-professional me¬
diums whose cases X have studied, was passive during
the occurrence of the manifestations. He, like ' the
other mediums, is extremely susceptible to external in¬
fluences, and has a mind better suited to receive impres¬
sions than to prosecute enquiries. I willingly testify my
entire conviction of his truthfulness and honesty.
“0. F. Varley.”
It also came out in the evidence given at the
trial, that Mr. Home had been the invited and un¬
paid guest of the Emperor and the Empress of the
French, the Emperor, Empress, and the late Em¬
press Dowager of Russia, the Grand Duke Con¬
stantine, the King of Prussia, the late King of
Bavaria, the late King of Wurtemburg, and the
Queen of Holland. Mr. Home says that all his
life he has never taken a farthing of pay for his
seances. In March, 1869, the* Spiritual Magaeine
gave the names of the following gentlemen as
those who have long been investigating the sub-
ject:—
“Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., Fleetwood-house, Becken¬
ham Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., ,9, St. Mark’s-crescent,
N.W.; Professor De Morgan,' 9l, Adelaide-road, N.W.;
Captain Drayson, B.A., Woolwich; Dr. J. M. Gully,
The Priory, Great Malvern: Dr. J. J. G. Wilkinson, 4,
St. John’s-wood-villas, N.W.; Dr. Dixon, 8, Great Or-
mond-street, W.C.: S. C. Hall, Esq., 15, Ashley-place,
Victoria-street, S.W.; Newton Crosland, Esq.; William
Howitt, Esq., The Orchard, Hare-green, Esher, Surrey;
Robert Chambers, Esq., St. Andrew’s, Edinburgh; H.
D. Jencken, Esq., Kilmorey-house, Norwood; J. G.
Crawford, Esq., 52, Gloucester-crescent, N.W.; W. M.
Wilkinson, Esq., Oakfield, Kilbum; Lord Adare, 5,
Buckingham-gate; The Master of Lindsay, Grosvenor-
square.”
Mrs. De Morgan has written a book, entitled
From Matter to Spirit (Longmans), where she1
gives many interesting particulars, the result of
ten years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in his .preface to the book, says
“ I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by
a rational being to be capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground
firm under me.”
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President
of the British Association at Norwich in 1868,
spoke very highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, F.L.S. -Mr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist. Professor Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
action ” theory explained all the facts. A friend
wrote to him detailing things he had seen which
were inexplicable by that theory. Hare at once,
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
result was that he came into communication with
some of his own departed relatives. He then
made mechanical telegraphic machines, which
were intelligently worked by spirits while the
apparatus was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote a book recording all these
facts. That book is now in the British Museum
Library. Judge Edmonds, of New York, is another
very eminent American Spiritualist, who has also
written interesting books on the subject. Recently,
in England, 'discount Adare has written a book
bearing testimony to the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and movements of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley.
Signor G. Damiani, a Sicilian gentleman living
at Clifton, has written a pamphlet, still in print,
in which he severely censures Professor Tyndall,
Mr. G. H. Lewes, and others like them, for refus¬
ing to investigate the subject. He further offers a
reward of 1,000 guineas to any respectable, scien¬
tific or educated men, who will investigate the
subject and prove it to be an imposture. The
following are his words:—
“ I now offer you two challenges.
“First, I challenge you, or either of you, or any of
the public who, like you, disbelieve in the genuine cha¬
racter of spiritualistic phenomena, to deposit in the
hands of any well-known London banker whom you or
they may name, the sum of five hundred guineas; and
I pledge myself to immediately deposit in the same bank
a like amount,—the ownership of such sum of one thou¬
sand guineas to depend upon my proving by evidence
sufficient to establish any fact in history or in a criminal
or civil court of justice.
First—That intelligent communications and answers •
to questions put, proceed from dead and inert matter in
a manner inexplicable by any generally recognised law
of nature.
“ Secondly—That dead and inert matter does move
without the aid of any mechanical or known chemical
agency, and in defiance of all the admitted laws of gravi¬
tation.
“ Thirdly—That voices appertaining to no one in the
flesh are heard to speak and hold rational converse with
men.
“A jury of twenty-four gentlemen, twelve to be chosen
by each party (such jury to consist exclusively of mem¬
bers of the learned professions and literary men), to
decide whether or not the facts contained in the above
propositions are conclusively proved per testes—i.e., by
witnesses of established character. A majority of
the twenty-four to decide. If the verdict be that these
facts have not been established, the thousand guineas
are to belong to the party accepting this challenge; if
the verdict be that these facts are established, the thou¬
sand guineas to be mine.
“ Secondly—Immediately after the above wager being
decided, either way, I offer a like challenge of five hun¬
dred guineas (to be met on the other side in like manner
as above)—the ownership of the second sum of one
thousand guineas to depend upon the establishment of
the facts contained in the propositions already given, t>y
experiments conducted in the actual presence of the twenty-
four gentlemen who have decided the previous wager;
the verdict of the majority to decide in this case likewise.
“ In either case, the seances are to be conducted in any
public or private building which the jury may select,
and which may be available for the purpose.
“The result of these challenges (if accepted and de¬
cided) to be advertised by the victorious party, at the
expense of the defeated party, in all the London daily
papers.
“ I hope this is plain English.
“ Awaiting a reply to this letter, and to the challenge
with which it concludes, I am, gentlemen; your obedient
servant, G. Damiani.
“Clifton, Oct. 1,1868.
“P.S.—Letters addressed ‘Sigr. Damiani, care of
Manager of West of England and South Wales District
Bank, Corn-street, Bristol,’ will always reach the writer.”
In addition to the above evidence, there ia the
testimony of numbers that the modem spiritual
manifestations are realities. Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New America estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United. States at rather less than
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybody has made. There are no accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
HOW TO EORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family
friends and relatives, often gives the most satis¬
factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno-
niena. At. the same time, as no fully developed
medium is present among those who have never
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will be no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for every one successful
new circle thus started without a medium, there
are six or seven failures, blit no accurate statistics
on this point have yet been collected. When
once manifestations have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive sittings. The following is a good plan of
action:—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but
cool rather than warm—let arrangements be made that
nobody shall enter it, and that there shall be no inter¬
ruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
Wet, damp, and foggy weather is bad for the production
of physical phenomena.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit round an un¬
covered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands
in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
■touch each other or not is usually of no importance.
Any table will do, just large enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it
sometimes, but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may be
obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, except with well-developed
physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, but an
aerid feeling against them is a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature. A prayerful,
earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits;
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely, to avoid confusion, let one person only speak,
and talk to> the table as to an intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean
“Yes,” one means “No;” and two mean “Doubtful,”
and ask whether the arrangement is understood. If
three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, aud spell us out a
message? ” Should three signals be given, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations?”
Probably some members of the circle will then be told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will be
afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the
medium ? ” When spirits come asserting themselves to
be related or known to anybody present, well-chosen
questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as spirits out of the body have all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms
of other forms of mediumship than tilts or raps
may make their appearance. Information respect¬
ing the many kinds of mediumship will be found
in Mrs. Professor De Morgan’s book, From Matter
to Spirit, published by Longmans; and this is a
good book to read before trying to start a new
circle..
There are in England several very interesting
circles for physical manifestations, where the
spirits speak with audible voices, but, unfortu¬
nately, total darkness is a necessary condition.
Non-spiritualists who are inquiring into the sub¬
ject should have nothing to do with dark seances,
which should be held only by those who know
each other, since they offer so many facilities for
fraud. When any circle regularly obtains power¬
ful physical manifestations, they may desire to sit
for the voices. The very slightest glimmer of
light must be excluded from the room, while the
members of the circle sit round the table in the
ordinary way. One or two paper tubes, each
twelve or eighteen inches long, with an orifice
about an inch-and-a-half in diameter, should be
placed on the table. They may be readily made
by rolling up a piece of music and tying a few
pieces of cotton round the rough tube thus formed.
In the early stages of a voice-circle these tubes
are necessary for the use of the spirits, but after¬
wards they may be dispensed with except when
the weather and other conditions are unfavour¬
able. When first trying to obtain the voices the
spirits may not be able to lift the tubes from the
table, afterwards they often get them up in the
air a foot or two and let them drop again. When
they get full control over them they can carry
them about up to the ceiling and to all parts of
the room, and they talk to the members of the
circle often while floating about above their heads.
Very beautiful luminous phenomena are some¬
times shown by the spirits at dark circles. While
sitting for the voices, the spirits will tell by the
ordinary table signals how they are progressing in
their work of getting control of the tubes.
The hood but not expensive
CLOTHING ESTABLISHMENT.
T. EYERITT & SON,
26, PENTON-STREET, PENTONVILLE, N., :
Desire to call attention to their new and well-selected
stock of SPRING AND SUMMER FABRICS.
Fancy Trousers from 14s. 6d.; Black Doeskins from
16s. 6d. (all wool); Frock or Dress Coat from from the
woaded fast-coloured cloth, £2 2s.
Style, Fit, and Workmanship guaranteed.
JOSEPH BARKER’S AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
Now ready, neatly hound in cloth, price 2s. 6d.
Teachings of experience; or,
Lessons I have Learned on my Way through
Life.
London: James Beveridge, 9, 10, 11, Fullwood’s-rents,
Holhom, W.O.
HUMAN NATURE, a Monthly Record
of Zoistic Science, Intelligence, and Popular
Anthropology. Recent numbers give full details of the
extraordinary Manifestations through the celebrated
Medium, D. D. Home, Esq., with philosophical reason¬
ings as to the nature and cause of the phenomena: a
new series of lessons on Phrenology and the Tempera¬
ments is being given, containing some new instructions
of great value to the student; first-class Portraits of
eminent men and women, with Biographies and Phreno¬
logical delineations are frequently introduced; a serial
Tale of great power and beauty; articles on Physiology,
Diet, Temperance, and Health; translations from Con¬
tinental Works and Periodicals; treatises on Mesmerism,
Clairvoyance, Spiritualism; reviews of Books; reports
of Lectures, Meetings, and Societies, renders this the
cheapest, most varied, and instructive Periodical of the
kind in the world. The fact that this Periodical is en¬
tirely unbiased and devoted to the truth respecting all
the topics on which it treats; is a point not to be over¬
looked f by . all earnest investigators, ! whatever their
opinions may be. Post free, 7s. per annum, or 6d. per
month from the Booksellers. James Burns, Progres¬
sive Library, 15, Southampton-row, Bloomsbury-square,.
Holbom, London, W.C.
THE PROGRESSIVE LIBRARY and
SPIRITUALIST DEPOSITORY has been re¬
moved from Camberwell to No. 15, Southampton-row,
Bloomsbury-square, Holbom, W.O.
There is* a Publishing Office and Shop for the sale of
Books; a Circulating Library of all Works on Spiritualism,
&c.; a Reading-Room supplied with the Spiritual and
Progressive Publications of the World; a Drawing-
Room for the -special use of Ladies and Subs’cribers;
Private. Rooms for Stances, Committees, Meetings, &c.,
and where all information respecting the Cause and the
Progress of events may be obtained.
The Subscription, entitling to all the privileges of the
Establishment, including the use of two Books at a
time from the Library for home perusal, is 21s.per annum
A well-assorted Stock of Stationery, Periodicals, cur¬
rent Progressive Literature, Standard Works, Cheap
Books and Tracts, Blanchettes, Materials for Writing
and Drawing Mediums; also Works and Appliances on
Phrenology, Physiology, Health, and Dietetic Reform,
Temperance, Hydropathy, Gymnastics, Mesmerism,
Clairvoyance, Anthropology, &c., will be kept on sale.
As the responsibilities incurred in establishing this
“ Home for Spiritualism ” and the Science of Man are
very heavy, the Proprietor earnestly solicits the kind
co-operation and support of all who sympathise with
the enterprise. Strangers in London should at once
call at the Progressive Library, where they may hear of
Lodgings and get other useful information.
J. Burns, Progressive Library, 15, Southampton-row,
Bloomsbury-square, Holbom, London, W.C.
The shritual magazine, pub¬
lished Monthly, contains all. the news of Spiri¬
tualism, and psychological articles by writers of ability.
Publisher, James Burns, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom
W.C.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT, the Chief
Weekly Newspaper on Spiritualism in the United
States, may be ordered through Mr. James Burns, 15
Southampton-row, Holbom, W.C.
MR. J. L. OLIVE, Professor of Modern
Spiritual Science, 1, Gibson-place, Warrington-
crescent, Maida Vale, W. Mr. Olive is prepared to afford
information relative to Spiritualism, the Development of
Mediumistic power, &e., with facilities for investigation
of Phenomena. Reliable advice based on large medical
experience, and aided by beneficent Spirit Intelligences,
may also be obtained for the relief of ailments of Body
or Mind. Consultation Fee, One Shilling.
On the first of every month.
THE TRUTHSEEKER, a Review,
devoted to the advocacy of reverent free
thought in matters pertaining to Religion.” Edited by
the Rev. J. PAGE HOPPS. Price Threepence.
London: Triibner and Co., 60, Paternoster-row. Man¬
chester: Johnson and Rawson, and John Heywood; and
through all booksellers and agents.
“THE NEWSPAPER PRESS ’’—THE PRESS ORGAN
THIS JOURNAL is the adopted and re¬
cognised Representative of the Newspaper in¬
terests, and the medium of intercommunication between
Proprietors, Editors, Reporters, Correspondents, Pub¬
lishers, Printers, and all parties associated with News¬
papers.
Subscriptions, 4s. per annum, post free, payable in ad¬
vance.
London: E. W. Allen, Publisher, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
TJ1EMALE
MEDICAL
Vice-Patrons:
SOCIETY.
His Grace the Duke of Argyll, K.T.
Her Grace the Duchess of Argyll.
The Baroness de Rothschild.
The Countess de Noailles.
President:
The Right Honourable the Earl of Shaftesbury, K.G.
. Treasurer:
Henry Charles Stephens, Esq., 171 Aldersgate-street, E.Cj
Honorary Secretary:
James Edmunds, Esq., M.D..
Lady Secretary :
Mrs. Blangy.
Bankers:
The London and County Bank, 441, Oxford-street.
The Female Medical Society is established for the
following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated
women in the practice of Midwifery, and the treatment
of the Diseases of Women and Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities
for learning the theory and practice of Midwifery, and
the accessory branches of Medical Science.
Midwifery and the accessory branches of medicine
offer a wide field of honourable and lucrative employ¬
ment for educated women; also a means of intellectual
culture and social tisefulness to lajdies who may not be
dependent upon their own exertions. For want of
properly qualified ladies the best portion of the practice
of midwifery has drifted into the hands of gentlemen,
though female practitioners still attend the bulk of the
population. But any person may undertake the duties
of a midwife. Proper means of study have never been
provided for women, and there has never been any
public examination, by which women when well qualified
might be distinguished from those who are illiterate and
unqualified.
The Society has carried on for five years the Ladies’
Medical College, which has taught the theory and prac¬
tice of Midwifery and the accessory branches of medi¬
cine. Eighty-two ladies have already availed themselves
of its advantages, and many of these ladies are settled
in practice, and succeeding admirably.
A life subscription of ten guineas, or an annual sub¬
scription of one guinea, constitutes a member of the
Society, but stamps or other small contributions will be
gladly received.
Lady subscribers of not less than one guinea are
invited to visit any Lectures in which they are likely to
be interested.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses
of the College, and all particulars as to the operations of
the Society, may be obtained of the Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4 Fitzroy-square, W.
Cheques to he crossed London and County Bank.
l*TO. 1 of The Spiritualist is from be-
_Ln ginning to end a compact mass of good evidence
that the facts of Spiritualism are true: It contains a
summary of the evidence given before the Dialectical
Society by twenty witnesses of eminence and ability; it
also gives the testimony of respectable non-Spiritualists;
therefore it is a valuable publication to place in the
hands of non-Spiritualists, and should be selected for
that purpose rather than later numbers of the same
journal, as the later numbers will run out of print first
and should be ordered while they are still obtainable by
those who wish to preserve them for binding. A few
copies of No. 1 should be kept on hand for the benefit of
non-Spiritualists, but later numbers should be retained in
the possession of the early friends of the movement,
before they become scarce and unobtainable. Covers
with stringed backs, to keep copies clean till required
for binding, 2s. 6d. each.
London : E. W.’ Aglen, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.; or' J.
Burns, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom, W.C.
The only Cheap Weekly Horticultural Journal.
' 2d. "Weekly; and in Monthly Parts, lOd.
THE GARDENER’S MAGAZINE for
. Amateur Cultivators, Collectors, and Exhibitors
of Plants, Flowers and Fraits, for Gentlemen’s Gar¬
deners, Florists, Nurserymen, and Seedsmen; for Na¬
turalists, Botanists; Bee-keepers, and Lovers of the
Country.- Conducted by Shirley Hibberd, Esq.,-
F.R.H.S.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
And by Order of all Booksellers and Newsagents in
Town and Country.
(intents.
Handling of Red-hot Coals under Spirit Influence 49
Reports op Meetings—The Royal Institution.—Max
Muller on the Science of Religion   50
TSej Services at the Cavendish Rooms.—Speculations
about the Deity—The Doctrine of Eternal Pro¬
gression — Spiritualism among the American
Indians—The Results of a Dream—rSpiritualism
as defined by Mr. Peebles ... ...    ... 51
Private Stances.—Mediumship in the Days of Moses
—Curious Physical Manifestations—Voice Mani¬
festations and their Production—Thought-Read¬
ing—Manifestations at the Cavendish Rooms—A
“Dialectical” Medium  ... 51
Spirit-seeing in Crystals  ... 52
Leader :—The Phenomenal Phase of Spiritualism 53
Spiritualism and Politics at Naples   53
Sir David Brewster and Spiritualism  53
Poetry:—Ours .,. ... ...       54
Correspondence :—The Bible-Spiritualism Contro-
yersy ... ... ...     54
Book Notices :—The Glowworm—The Food Journal 54
Mrs. Everitt’s Mediumship      ... 54
Paragraphs::—Sunday Services for Spiritualists, 62;
A Musical Medium, 52; Spiritualism at the Anti¬
podes, 55; Spiritualism at Halifax, 55.
Answers to correspondents    ...' 55
Printed for the Proprietor by James Beveridge, at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High
Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and
St George the Martyr, London, and published by E.
"W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
