AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE,
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 103.—(Vol. V.—No. 7.) LONDON: AUGUST 14, 1874. Published Weekly; Price Twopence*
Contents
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION 0
SPIRITUALISTS.
F
The 1874 Conference:—Discussion on Mr. Cooper's Paper on Physical
Manifestations—Will Physical Manifestations Cease after a Time?
—The Direct Spirit Voice—The Carrying of Substances by Spirits
—Conditions Influencing Physical Manifestations—Spiritualism in
Darlington—Mr. T. Everitt on the Direct Spirit Voice—Mr. Everitt
on Direct Spirit Writing—Spirit Identity—The Handling of White
Hot Coals by an Entranced Medium—Supposed Influence upon
Mediumship of the Death of Friends of the Medium—Materialisa¬
tion Manifestations—How is the Direct Spirit Voice produced ?—•
The Sensations of a Trance Medium—Spiritualism in the Provinces
—The Reverend Maurice Davies on Spiritualism and the Church
of England    ... ...   73
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism:—The Report of
the Council—Election of Officers — Friendly Alliance with the
National Association        80
The Conference at the Crystal Palace     82
A Trance Address on National Organisation  ... ... ... 83
A Piano Carried by Spirits      83
The British Association at Belfast     84
Paragraphs:—The Christian Spirit of a Swedenborgian—Curiosities
Exhibited at the Soiree—The Birmingham Spiritual Institute  84
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion. LONDON: SlHPKIN, MARSHALL & CO.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock. .
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
XNSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance Medium).
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Mr. Morse will sail for the United States on Thursday, October 15th, 1874.
He has a few vacant dates for September next; early application is
necessary.
Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.1’—Spiritualist.
The address quite riveted the attention of the audience.”—Eastbourne
Chronicle.
“ He spoke for nearly an hour-and-a-half. Not a hitch occurred. The
address was more or less argumentative throughout, in parts it was really
eloquent.”—Brighton Guardian.   — ^
MR. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
All letters should be addressed to his private residence, Warwick Cottage,
Old Ford, Bow. E.
rno THE READERS OF “ THE MEDIUM.” Answer
Jft. to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.") Published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny.
The British National Association op Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
promote the study of Pneumatology and Psychology; to aid students and
inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal the means of sys¬
tematic investigation into the now recognised facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by
careful scientific research; and to direct attention to the beneficial in¬
fluence which those results are calculated to exercise upon social relation¬
ships and individual conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of
every class, whether members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and
all inquirers into psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing to
become affiliated, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. Louis Freeman. Vork-hill Farm, Loughton, Essex, of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1874.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mx. John Lament.
Secretary.
Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. G. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. R. Casson.
Mr. D. Gay.
Mr. T. B, Griffin.
Mr. Riece.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Enox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Casson.
Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. John Lamont.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
Mr. Bretherton. | Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY
having engaged Mrs. O. L. V. TAP PAN for Sunday, August, 30th,
MR. MORSE, whose regular engagement with the above Society falls on
the same date, has kindly consented to withdraw in favour of Mrs. Tappan.
The above society would esteem it a favour if one of the numerous Spirit¬
ualist Oommittees in the provinces could engage Mr. Morse's services for
the above date. For addrdss see Mr. Morse's list of meetings.
ORATIONS ON SPIRITUALISM. — Matylebone
Music Hall, High-street, Marylebone. Dr. Sexton, M.A., LL.D.
(Editor of The Christian Spiritualist), will deliver (D.V.) at the above Hall,
a series of Orations on the above subject, on Sunday evenings, August 2nd,
9th, 16th, and 23rd. Reserved Seats One Shilling, and other seats free by
ticket only, to be obtained of the following gentlemen:—Mr. J. Burns, 15,
Southampton-row, W.O.; Mr. F. Oowper, 838, Edgeware-road; Mr. J.
Maynard, 108, Lisson-grove; Mr. Whitley, 2, Wellington-terrace, Bays-
water; Mr. J. Hooker, 83, Henry-street, St. John’s-wood; Mr. T. Whitting-
ham, 27, Warren-street, Fitzroy-square; and of the Secretary, O. White,
46, Dorset-street, W. Admission Tickets for these Orations must be
obtained on or before the Saturday previous to their, delivery.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug, 14, 1874,
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING- of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Association are
1; Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man!s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tern., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
wh|en other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Biohard Fitton, Secretary pro tern.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. B. Barber.
Committee
Mrs. Barber, J Mr. E. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, ] Miss Banger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—'Mv. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Bichard Pearce.
YERT soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
into Epgiand the subject attracted attention in fClerkenweil and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to1 the formation of
this Association.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whjlst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Service’s are held bii Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Ghoswelf-road, and pthpr meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings •' the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
into closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Booms, 30. Parkfleld-street, Islington. 
NEWCASTLE SOCIETY
FOR
PROMOTING ENQUIRY INTO MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
OLD FEEEMASON’S HALL
CvyEXR’S CQTJRT),
NEWGATE STBEET, NE WOASTLE-ON-TYNE.
President.—Mr. Armstrong.
Treasurer.—Mr. John Miller. Secretary.—Mr, F. Pickup.
Seances are held for Members and Friends on Sunday Evenings, doors
open at 6.30, to commence at 7; and on Tuesday and Thursday evenings,
doors open at 7.30, to commence at 8.
On no account will anyone be admitted after the time announced for
commencing the meetings, except on special occasions, when permission
must be obtained from the sitters who form the circle at the time of
application.
Tickets of Admission may be had of the Committee.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIEITUALlSM. (Established 1870.) Booms, 74, Navarino-rpad,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly; 6s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 6s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Buies on application to the Secretary.
ALFBED E. LOVELL, President.
A. M. GBEENE, Hon. Secretary.
Becently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
YMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “ An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
TRUBNER AND CO.’S PUBLICATIONS.
THE HONEYMOON. Bemembrance of a Bridal Tour through Scotland
By the Count de Medina Pomar. Now ready. In two vols., Crown 8vo
Price 21s.
MB. BOBEBT DALE OWEN’S WOBKS.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDABY OF ANOTHEE WOELD. With
Narrative Illustrations.^ An enlarged English Copyright Edition.
Post 8vo., p.p. 412, cloth, 7s. 6d.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS WOBLD AND THE
NEXT. With Illustrative Narrations. Crown 8vo., pp. 456, cloth, 9s.
THEEADING MY WAY: Twenty-Seven Years of Autobiography. Crown
8vo., pp. 344, cloth, 7s. 6d.
“ A very pleasant little book.”—Saturday Review.
THE CBEED OF CHRISTENDOM its Foundations contrasted with its
Superstructure. By W. B- Greg. Third Edition. With a new Intro¬
duction. Two Vols., crown 8vo, pp. 272 and 290, cloth, 15s.
ENIGMAS OF LIFE. By W. E. Greg. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo., pp. xxi.—
3,08, cloth, 10s. 6d.
Contents:—Eealizable Ideals—Malthus Notwithstanding—Non-Survival
of the Fittest—Limits and Directions of Human Development—The Sig¬
nificance of Life—De Profuudis—Elsewhere—Appendix.
THE DESTINY OF MAN, The Storm King, and other Poems. By
Frederick Griffin. Fcap. 8vo., pp. vi. and 90, cloth, 2s. 6d.
London: Trubner & Co., 67 and 69, Ludgate-hill.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
dVeoswrer.—Herbert N. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane
Offices.—64, BEBNEES STBEET.
Hon. Bee.—Mrs. Lowh (Louisa).
HRNRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PE ACTIO AL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER. LETTEB-
PBESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, H^GH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Spiritualist Ne wspaper.
THE “ PIONEER OF PROGRESS ” PRINTING AND
PUBLISHING COMPANY,
4, KINGSGATK STREET, HOLBOBN, LONDON, W.C.
In the Printing Department every arrangement has been made for the
prompt execution of all orders. Printing tof ail kinds done cheaply and
well. Estimates given.
In the Publishing Department is kept a complete assortment of
Spiritual, Progressive, Reform and Miscellaneous hooks at wholesale and
retail prices. London and country agents supplied with all kinds of
Spiritual Literature in one parcel immediately on publication. Terms:
Cash Payments. Catalogues of books, giving prices, &c., may be had upon
application.
TO SPIRITUALISTS AND OTHERS.—All who desire
to read the literature of Spiritualism and other progressive move¬
ments, should subscribe tp
THE “ PIONEER OF PROGRESS ■’ LIBRARY,
Which contains a large collection of Spiritual and other Progres¬
sive Works. Additions of new and choice hooks are being made
daily.
Terms: £1 Is. per annum. 10s. 6d. Half-yearly. 2s. Monthly. Cata¬
logues 3d. eadh.
FVERY THURSDAY MORNING.
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS/'
A Weekly Record of Spiritualism, Scientiflc and Ethical.
And contains articles by Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton, “Fritz,”
Rev. Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes, Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, and otper
general information.
ONE PENNY.
Published at 4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn; Wholesale Agent, F. Pitman,
20, Paternoster-row, London, E.C., and can he ordered of any bookseller.
INVESTIGATORS AND ENQUIRERS into- Spiritualism may obtain,
gratis, all information concerning tjie yarious societies, national and local,
Seances, mediutns, lecturers, &e.
All communications to be cfddressed, George Farmer, 4, Kingsgate-street,
Holborn, 'W.C.'
ARTHUR MALTRY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MASER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6d., First Series.
FAG-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with ah introduction, by J- M- Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st apd 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d,, or 5 franps yearly.
BEYERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist.
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
REYUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycbologiques,
fondS par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1- franc Published by the Societe Anonynie, 7. Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable te M. Leymarie.
VOiLUJWE flYE. JSTUJVIBE^ ^EVEJ^.
LONDON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 14th, 1874
Established in 1869.
HARGKE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for eivery ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Eeduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
^Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply, of “ The Spintualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane'
E. C., should always be informed of such impedirnents and irregulati-
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him, by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
TTie Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. 0. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78. Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Bruaswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Alien, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total'cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRIT D ALISM.
Presidents.
Mr. F. Oowper. J Mr. C. Hunt.
Treasurer.—Mr. Whitley.
Librarian.—Mr. Maynard, 103, Lisson-grove.
Secretary.
Mr. C. White, 4, Gray-street, Manchester-square, W.
The Membership Subscription is Is. per Quarter, which admits to full
fellowship, including use of books from the Progressive Library. Seances
are held weekly, to afford members an opportunity of becoming acquainted
with the Phenomena. Members are assisted in the formation of new
eircles. A public meeting is held every Wednesday evening at the
Hall of Progress, 90, Church-street, Paddington, at 8 o'clock.
THE 1874 CONFERENCE.
The Second Annual Conference of theBritisli National
Association of Spiritualists closed on Friday evening last,
when the concluding papers were read at the meeting at
the Crystal Palace. Altogether, its career has been very
successful, and the beneficial influence it has exerted
has been felt by Spiritualists throughout the whole of
this country. At the morning meetings the attendance
was at first thin, but it increased day by day. About
150 persons were present at the opening $oiree, or
nearly as many as the Beethoven Rooms would accom¬
modate comfortably; thus it was a much smaller soiree
than the first one inaugurated by the National Associa¬
tion at the Cleveland Hall, nearly all the members of
the Council as well as other energetic Spiritualists
being now out of town. Last week was selected by the
Conference because it was thought by the committee
that that time wo aid be more convenient for country
members, but from personal inquiry of many of those
present, we ascertained that they would have come to
town just the same had the meeting been called at any
other time, so this experience will serve as a guide on
future occasions. Shortly before Parliament meets
would probably be the best time for London Con¬
ferences. Indeed it would be best not to fix any hard
and fast time for the Annual Conferences, since the most
eligible period for them will vary a little, according to
local conditions, which is why the British Association
for the Advancement of Science has the choice of at
least three months in the autumn for the holding of its
meetings. It was wisely resolved at the Conference,
last week, that the proposed annual meetings and the
Conference meetings should be amalgamated, to avoid
the necessity of calling Spiritualists together from dis¬
tant localities more than once in the year. Some little
discussion took place, which we shall print next week,
as to the most eligible place for holding the Conference
next year, the general opinion being that it must
depend upon the invitations sent in from provincial
towns, leaving the Council to decide in which of the
places it is likely to pass off most successfully. We
believe that the expenses of the Conference just closed
amounted to about .£30, or nearly the same as the
expenses at Liverpool; but an official statement will
be published shortly.
The following is a continuation of the report of the
proceedings:—
DISCUSSION ON MR. COOPER’S PAPER ON PHYSICAL MANI¬
FESTATIONS.
The report published in these pages last week, detailed the
proceedings of the Conference as far as the reading of the
paper on Physical Manifestations, by Mr. Cooper of East¬
bourne, on Wednesday afternoon, August 5th, when Dr.
Sexton occupied the chair.
WILL PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS CEASE AFTER A TIME?
Mr. John Chapman, of Liverpool, said that he doubted
whether the time would ever come when the physical manifes-
74
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 14, 1874.
tations of Spiritualism would not be needed; he thought it
best that the manifestations should go on to the end of time.
If they were to be abolished, men would have to fall back
upon the teachings and philosophy of Spiritualism alone, and
then creeds would spring up. When the early Christians per¬
secuted those in their own body and among Pagans as well,
who obtained the manifestations, creeds soon began to crys¬
tallise. In like manner, if the modern manifestations were
abolished, Spiritualists would be left with testimony alone, to
show what had been done in former years.
Mr. Malcolm Taylor, an American medium, said that his
spirits told him that in time the physical manifestations would
cease, becatise men would become so spiritualised themselves
as not to need them. Mrs. Tappan’s spirit guides had told
her the same.
THE DIRECT SPIRIT TOICE.
Mr. T. Everitt, of Hendon, said that in reference to the
conditions influencing physical manifestations, sometimes it
was absolutely necessary to obey instructions, and when that
Was done there was no question about the success of the seance;
at least it was so through Mrs. Everitt’s mediumship. But
manifestations of a like kind would at other times take place,
apparently spontaneously, without any special conditions at all.
Once he heard the direct spirit voice in daylight, but could
only get the word, “ yes,” and not, “ no,” in reply to ques¬
tions ; the voice was not more than a whisper. On another
occasion his sister-in-law was ill in bed in the middle of the
day, and called out that her departed sister was speaking to
her; Mrs. Everitt then heard the same voice, and ran down
stairs for him; when he entered the room he heard it too.
The sun was shining at the time.
Mr. Malcolm Taylor said that spirits told him and his
partner, Mr. Bastian, that they could materialise physical
organs of speech which were not visible by natural eyesight,
but that darkness enabled them to make those organs
stronger, consequently the voice was then louder. Sometimes
manifestations had occurred in a house after they had left it
six months ; the spirits told them they could get emanations
from them, werewith they could produce manifestations after
that lapse of time.*
Mr. D. Eichmond, of Darlington, said that spirits in com¬
municating had to reach down to men; some persons they
could reach more readily than others, and those persons he
thought were in advance in their own minds as well as in
spiritual constitution. He had heard the direct spirit voice
for twenty years, but it could not be heard by others who were
present.f He did not know what was the difference between
himself and others who could not hear it. The Shakers, who
did not marry, had spiritual manifestations long before they
appeared in the Fox family; he thought that the husbanding
of the vital force otherwise used in the propagation of the
species, was favourable to the evolution of spiritual phe¬
nomena.
Mr. Chapman—Does the voice ever express different opinions
from your o,wn ?
Mr. Richmond—Certainly. Many spirits speak from what
they feel and not from what they know; sometimes they
speak from impulse.
THE CARRYISTG OF SUBSTANCES BY SPIRITS.
Mr. John Lament, of Liverpool, said that sometimes
spirits seemed to have enough power to set aside conditions.
Some twelve months ago, a young woman in his employ was
not well, and her condition was examined by his sister-in-law’s
Indian spirits. They instructed her to take twelve baths at
stated intervals, with a specified quantity of salt and alum in
each bath. She forgot to order the alum, and at about a
quarter past seven one evening, shortly before the chemists’
shops closed, she felt as if a drop of cold water had fallen
upon her left arm; it began to run down her arm, and she
thought that it was a cockroach, but a little piece of alum fell
out of her sleeve; this reminded her of the prescription, and
the necessary quantity of alum was at once sent for. He was
satisfied as to the truthfulness of the girl in the matter. On
one other occasion when she neglected to obey the instructions
about the baths, being tired, the spirits told her of it through
the mediumship of Mrs. Archibald Lament. The wife and
* Messrs. Herne and Williams were often instructed by the spirits to
leave their empty stance room in darkness for hours, and the spirits cen¬
sured them if they entered it or opened the door during the specified
time.—Ed.
t How then does he know that it is direct ? Will a sheet of paper placed
against his ear cut off the voice? Will the agitation of air necessarily
produced by the voice, if it is outside his ear, deflect an otherwise steady
candle flame?—Ed.
sister-in-law of Mr. Bowen in Liverpool were powerful
mediums. Once, through Miss Clark’s mediumship, the
spirit brought pills which they said they had made them¬
selves, and they placed them on the bed-quilt.
CONDITIONS INFLUENCING PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS.
Mr.iMalcolm Taylor said that sometimes spirits could mani¬
fest powerfully in spite of adverse conditions. Once some
rough men came to one of Mr. Bastian’s dark seances on pur¬
pose to make a disturbance ; they began kicking the instru¬
ments about and playing tricks. The spirits gave such
manifestations as to thoroughly startle them, but Mr. Bastian
had a fit after the seance. Notwithstanding this, the manifes¬
tations are always better when the conditions are good instead
of bad.
Dr. Sexton asked what were the requisite conditions ? How
far did conditions depend upon the sitters and how far upon
the spirits ? In his house they had obtained the best results
without any set conditions whatever; at other times they
would comply with conditions ordered by the spirits and get
nothing. He had had his bed moved about by spirits, and he and
all the members of his family often saw spirits walking about
the house. They frequently met them on the stairs, and the
spirits appeared to be solid and material enough, but they
had never touched them. He (Dr. Sexton) was often much
exhausted by sitting at seances, and once after Mr. Ashman,
the healing medium, had visited him, he felt so weak as to be
quite faint, so it was clear that the presence or absence of
certain persons tended to give or take vitality from others.
He was happy to be able to make a statement as to the relia¬
bility of Mr. Malcolm Taylor’s clairvoyance, for at the soiree
at the Beethoven Rooms Mr. Taylor walked up to Miss
Sexton, whom he did not know, and had never seen before,
and told her that he saw the spirit of her “Aunt Polly” near
her. The name was right.
Mr. Thomas Shorter, editor of the Spiritual Magazine said
that the late Dr. Ferguson, whose reliability they all knew,
had a daughter of the name of Virginia, who was a medium.
When somebody was ill in the house, the spirits told her
to take an empty basin, and to go on stirring inside it with a
spoon; soon a liquid appeared in the basin which grew
thicker, and when used as medicine it cured the complaint. He
did not think that spirits were by any means all-powerful, or
sure of producing the results which they desired, but that
Spiritual manifestations were of the nature of scientific ex¬
periments, which might sometimes succeed and sometimes
fail. He was glad to see Mr. Eichmond at the Conference,
for Mr. Richmond was the first man who brought information
about Spiritualism to England, and on his arrival began to
spread the news in Yorkshire.
Mr. Malcolm Taylor said that once, at one of Mr^ Bastian’s
dark seances, a light was struck suddenly, and an arm about
four feet long, but just like his own, was seen flying back
into his shoulder. At times there was a perfect resemblance
of the spirit hands and arms to those of the medium, Mr.
Bastian, and at other times they were different.
SPIRITUALISM IN DARLINGTON.
Mr. Algernon Joy, honorary secretary, then read a paper
by Mr. T. P. Hinde, Secretary to the Darlington Spirit¬
ualists’ Association, on Spiritualism in Darlington. It set
forth that Spiritualism there had attained to that stage
wherein the ministers of the orthodox churches, seeing that
they had lost some of their prominent members, were direct¬
ing their uncompromising antagonism against the cause, and
the religious portion of the community was advised from the
pulpit to hold aloof from its investigation. In every in¬
stance, however, Spiritualism had been triumphant. Some
few months since a Presbyterian clergyman advertised that
he would preach against Spiritualism. Notes of his sermons
were taken, and it was considered^ advisable to engage
Mr. Monck to reply to him on the following Sunday, which he
did most effectually, before an audience of 1,200 people, the
largest hall in the town being crowded in every part and
hundreds unable to obtain admission. The bulk of the
audience consisted principally of the religious portion of the
community, the lecture being timed to catch this class, as they
were returning from their places of worship. The Theatre
Royal was also engaged for a Sunday evening and Mr. J. J.
Morse addressed from 1,200 to 1,500 people in a most impres¬
sive and successful manner. Some few months ago, a very
encouraging gathering in the form of a soirfr, took place at
the north end of the town, conducted by Spiritualists in that
district, when upwards of sixty friends sat down to tea, after
which several local Spiritualists gave their experiences.
Aug. 14, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
75
Another soiree was held in the large room, Ridsdale-street,
at the east end of Darlington, inaugurated by the Spiritualists’
Association as their first quarterly gathering, in July last.
After tea Mr. J. J. Morse, and a select choir of singers, pre¬
sided over by Mr. C. T. Longley, principal tuner to Mr. J. W.
Marshall of Darlington, kindly gave their services. Mrs.
Tappan had done and was doing a great work in that part of
the country ; her audiences in Darlington had not been large,
but intelligent, and they had, been well repaid for. the steps
they took in bringing her to that town. The power of the
spirit as demonstrated by her wonderful orations had been
the means of gaining a hearing for the cause, in quarters to
which it would not otherwise have penetrated. One of the
most noticeable aids to advancing the truth in Darlington and
district, was by the visit of Miss Lottie Fowler in the early
part of last winter. Tests were given to the confounding of
all cavillers, and the strengthening of the faith of believers.
Within the last month a Wesleyan minister denounced
Spiritualism as an exhibition of the “ rankest weakness, wick¬
edness, and blasphemy,” which outrageous attack was replied
to by Mr. Mark Fooks. The reply was courteous, but uncom¬
promising, and the moral feeling of the community, though
indisposed to favour the Spiritualists, condemned the un¬
charitableness displayed by the reverend objector. Neither he
nor any of his flock ventured to reply to the gentleman who
thus defended the cause. Spiritualism was gradually spread¬
ing, not perhaps so rapidly since the Liverpool Conference as
previously, if professed adherents were to be taken as the
criterion. In the number of professed believers, however,
there had been a good numerical increase, until there were
now one hundred in the town as compared with not
more than about half-a-dozen two and a half years ago.
Numbers of others had had more or less evidence and were
covertly favourable. Attempts at organisation, owing to local
and even geographical causes had resulted in only partial
success; a nucleus, however, exists, which holds meetings for
conversation, singing, and worship on Sundays, and gets up
meetings when it is thought desirable to do so. The work has
been greatly aided by the personal labours and persevering
sacrifices of Messrs. Hinde Brothers, who place a commodious
and comfortable room at the service of all interested in the
subject of Spiritualism. Messrs. Hinde say, “ In reviewing
our past experiences whilst members of denominations, our
past lives were spent in uncertainty and oft o’ershadowing
gloom at the approaching future spiritual life; but Spiritualism
came as a bright messenger of mercy and of love, splitting
asunder the thickly-gathering clouds of doubt and fear, re¬
vealing to us the glorious vision of the many mansions in our
Heavenly Father’s house, where our loved ones gone before
are waiting to welcome us in their midst. What we are there¬
fore doing for Spiritualism in Darlington is a mere drop in the
ocean compared with the good we have derived. Cheerfully
have we received, and cheerfully do we give. For the British
National Association of Spiritualists, so long as Truth, Charity,
and Love is your motto, may you flourish as a green bay
tree.”
The Conference was then adjourned.
ME. T. EYEBITT ON THE DIKECT SPIRIT YOICE.
On Thursday morning, August 6th, the business of the
Conference was resumed under the presidency of Mr. Adshead,
of Belper.
Mr. Thomas Everitt read the following paper:—
Mr. President and respected Friends,—In this paper I shall
confine the few remarks I have to make to my own experience
in connexion with the direct voice and direct writing. Not
having had any experience of direct painting, I cannot speak
from personal knowledge upon that subject, although I believe
it is produced with the like rapidity, and in the same way as
direct writing, and is the more astounding manifestion of the
two, on account of the many colours used in a few seconds
upon one surface. Mediumship is, perhaps, the most mys¬
terious and perplexing, the most fascinating and wonderful,
and, at the same time, the most interesting and important
subject on which it is possible for the human mind to be
engaged. Many students, in fheir early experiences of the
miscellaneous and ever-varying psychological phenomena have
thought that they had discovered theories that would explain
all the difficulties of this modern unfoldment of invisible
realities, and although some have clung to them until the
last drop of the life-blood has been wrung out of their specu¬
lations, they have at last, by the overwhelming mass of evi¬
dence, been compelled to give them up, and accept the only
true solution of these marvellous things.
It must be conceded I think, by all who have paid
careful attention to the subject, that mediumship in
general is beset with inexplicable difficulties, not only to
the theorist—who is often thrown upon his beam ends by
facts occurring outside his speculations, and beyond his calcula¬
tions, and which his theory does not cover—but also by the
person who is patiently searching for truth for its own sake.
It is equally perplexing to the mediums themselves, who, as
a rule, I have found to be very superficial thinkers upon spiritual
matters, perhaps for this reason among others, that they know
that what takes place in their own sphere when in their
normal state is a fact of which they have no doubt whatever,
and therefore have no occasion to speculate upon it, any more
than they have to stop and question the ordinary events and
occurrences of every day life.
We know that mediums are the subjects of influences and
states over which they have not the least control. For in¬
stance, Mrs. Everitt has passed from a natural into a spiritual
state, without knowing that any change had taken place. She
has been singing with us, when suddenly her voice has
ceased, but after we had sung several lines of the melody she
joined us again with the same pitch of voice. We asked her
“ why she left off singing ?” She denied that she had done so,
and declared that she had sung every word of the melody with
us. The explanation of John Watt, the controlling spirit, was
this, that he simply removed her out of our state into his,
without her knowing it. She has passed instantly, in the
twinkling of an eye, out of a conscious active existence in the
natural world into a conscious existence in the spirit world ;
she left friends here, and joined friends there. The one was
as real and as natural as the other, but she does not know
how she leaves this world and is present in the other, or how
she leaves that and is present again in this. Swedenborg in¬
forms us, that “ man is an inhabitant of two worlds; that as
to his spirit he lives in the spirit world, as to his body he
lives in the natural world; that his spirit breathes a spiritual
atmosphere, and his body the natural atmosphere.” But the
breathing of these two atmospheres does not give two separate
and distinct existences, as they are breathed simultaneously.
For the direct voice, as you are aware, a cardboard tube is
used. This is picked up from the table by an invisible being,
and carried about the room, striking the ceiling, the sitters,
and the table, at almost the same instant of time, and while
this is going on the medium is sometimes clapping her hands.
This has been done repeatedly by Mrs. Everitt, proving that
the power or force moving the tube so intelligently, and with
such precision and rapidity, is independent of her organism.
John has always told us that he uses nothing belonging to the
medium but her breath, and to test the accuracy of this
statement, when she has held her lips and tongue between her
teeth, still the voice has spoken ; she has also put her hand
to her mouth to see if he could then speak. In each case
there was an evident obstruction to the free utterance of the
voice, but not to the same extent as would have been the case
had he made use of her lips and tongue to speak with. When
I have put my own hand oyer her mouth, the voice has been
unable to make itself heard. It has so annoyed Mrs. Everitt
that John could speak when her hand was to her mouth, but
not when mine was, that John has been obliged to throw her
into the trance state, and while on the other side in all pro¬
bability she had has explained to her how it was, for the vexa¬
tion and annoyance had passed away when she returned to her
normal state again. To me it was evident that John could
not while my hand was placed over her mouth collect the
medium’s breath, and he has always told us that he uses
the medium’s breath to enable him to speak to us. There is this
remarkable fact confirming the above statement—while John
has been talking Mrs. Everitt has tried repeatedly to speak,
and although her tongue and lips have moved, there has been
no sound. John has then struck her on the head with the
tube, and told her to be quiet. We have remarked she was
not talking. ” No,” John has replied, “ but she was
trying.” Thus it appears necessary both for spirits out of
the body and for spirits in the body, to use the natural
breath to give audible utterance in this world. Hence I
cannot say positively that I have ever heard the medium and
the spirit, or two spirits, speaking at one and the same time;
but I have heard many times, and so have others present,
Mrs. Everitt when singing at the full height of her voice,
suddenly stopped in the middle of a note as if she had been
struck dumb by a flash of lightning, and the spirit has caught
up the remainder of the note and finished it, and continued
| singing with us, the voice floating round the room.
We have conversed with John several times alone, he stand-
76
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 14,1874.
ing apparently in front of ns, turning the tube first to one
and then to the other, answering onr questions and giving us
information, I have been engaged in prayer with Mrs.
Everitt’s right hand in my left, and the spirit floating about
on my right side and above my head, uttering to the petitions
offered a solemn “ Amen,” I feeling his movements by the
motion of the air. These have been most solemn and soul¬
stirring occasions, I can assure you.
ME. EVEBITT OS’ DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING.
But we must pass on to another most interesting phase of
mediumship, namely, direct writing. This, like the direct
voice, is to the dwellers in this sublunary sphere wrapped in
mystery and surrounded by inexplicable difficulties. You
cannot subject the process to analytical experiment, or explain
it by any of the mechanical or other known laws, but our
inability to explain it, either from ignorance, or from living in
this lower sphere, where the senses are too dull to apprehend
it, does not alter the fact. Scores of unimpeachable wit¬
nesses are ready to bear testimony to the fact that many
hundreds of words have been written in a few seconds, under
such circumstances as to render it impossible rationally to
account for it in any other way than the one assigned by the
spirits themselves.
When these writings were first given us, the spirits used to
write first on one side jof the paper and then, after we had
read it and they had collected sufficient power, they would
write on the other side of the same paper a continuation of
the same subject. I only know one way in which the sceptical
mind can account for this, namely, that the first piece of
writing was a duplicate of what appeared on the second, and
that the first piece of paper was removed by the medium or a
confederate, and the second piece substituted. No doubt, if
conjurers wished to imitate this phase of mediumship, they
would have recourse to some such trick. But truth has
nothing to fear or to conceal; it will bear the light of reason
and reflection, and will become clearer and brighter the more
we look at it, and love it, and use it for its own sake.
On one occasion one of the papers had been written upon,
and, before we had finished reading it, two gentlemen said
they must leave to catch the last train. The invisibles were
rapping for us to put out the light, and almost instantly we
heard the peculiar ticking noise which indicates writing, and
on relighting we found the other side of the same paper
covered with small, legible writing. One of the two gentlemen
said “ Will you be good enough to let me look on the other
side of the paper.” He then exclaimed “ I am certain this is
the same piece of paper, for I noticed that flaw; ” and the
other gentleman said, “And I observed that mark in it.” They
were two slight blemishes in the paper. These two gentlemen
were perfect strangers to us, but the evidence to them was
most conclusive.
It was a flaw in the paper, observed by the keen eye of
Mr. A. L. Henderson, that convinced him of the truth of
direct writing. A broken pointed pencil was once used by the
spirits and made two marks instead of one. We tried it and
found that the writing from the pencil produced two marks,
which was conclusive evidence that that pencil had been used
to produce the spirit writing. Mr. Nisbet, Mr. Bennett, Mr.
Theobald, and others have obtained direct writing upon their
own marked paper. I have myself initialled two pieces of
paper and obtained direct writing upon them. This is one.
It contains 786 words written in seven seconds. But some
may very naturally ask, i Could not the medium do it, seeing
it is done in the dark ? ” My answer to that is that the
writing is very superior to anything I have ever seen her pro¬
duce in the light, much less could she produce such writing
in the dark. There are also many Latin paragraphs in these
writings. Where did they come from? Certainly not from
the medium’s mind, for she does not know a word of Latin,
nor from the brain of any who were present, for with two
exceptions, no Latin scholar was present when these Latin
paragraphs were given. T verily believe that no human
being could produce such writing as that—and that is
'not the best specimen we have received—under the same
circumstances (total darkness) although he should try for
a thousand years. “But,” you ask again, “could not
the spirits use the medium to produce the writing when
entranced?” Yes, certainly they could; but with two or
three exceptions she has never been entranced when the direct
writing has been given, and we have had not less than fifty
pieces, varying in the number of words given at a time from
20 to 936. On one occasion I heard her Binging aLL the time
the writing was going on.
There are many other considerations why it would
be impossible for the medium to have produced these
writings. For instance, we have sixteen papers on the same
subject, and in these papers a great many ancient authors
are referred to. Mrs. Everitt has never read or seen a
single book by any of these authors, and with a few
exceptions their names had never been heard by her before,
much less did she know the age they lived in, the
country they belonged to, the works they had written, or
the arguments they made use of in defence of the doctrines
and teachings which these worthy self-sacrificing men had
publicly avowed. She had never seen, to the best of her
belief, and does not know even now from personal knowledge,
whether there are such books in existence, or if there ever
have been; much less could she quote from them. But
supposing even that all the works referred to in these papers
were in the British Museum Library, and that the medium
had without let or hindrance free access thereto, would it not
be a very improbable supposition that the wife of a tradesman,
and the mother of a family of children, could or would leave
her home duties to hunt up ancient authors, with no other
object or motive in view than that she might have the plea¬
sure of deceiving her fellow-creatures, and that too upon one
of the most solemn and sacred subjects that ever touched
human hearts, or claimed human attention? To be brief,
besides the above reasons there are physical and mental
difficulties which preclude the possibility of their being pro¬
duced by the medium. The physical impossibility is the
marvellous rapidity of their production, as many as 936 words
having been written in six seconds. The mental difficulty is
that the medium has not a logical mind. Like most females,
she takes a short cut by jumping to conclusions. She does
not, indeed cannot, argue out any proposition, by the ordinary
rules of logic. Now, the papers referred to show that the
author or authors are not only well acquainted with ancient
lore and the classics, but also possess very high ability as
logicians. For the above reasons we conclude that the
medium, from sheer incapacity, both mentally and physically,
could not have written these papers, nor any other human
being under the same circumstances. We are therefore
absolutely driven, after looking at the subject from every
conceivable point of view, to conclude respecting their pro¬
duction, that they come from a supernatural source, and were
written by supernatural means.
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
Mr. H. T. Humphries said that in 1868 he was assisting Mr.
D. D. Home in preparing for the press Mr. Home’s second
volume of Incidents of my Life. One morning Mr. Home came
to his chambers and wrote, “ In the autumn of 1863,1 was at
Dieppe ”—then he rose and said that he must leave. He (Mr.
Humphries) placed the piece of paper, with others, in an old
book used as a portfolio, and put them away in a drawer,
where they lay for three years. Nobody but himself had
access to the drawer, which he kept locked. When, three or
four years later, Mr. Home again set to work at his book, on
opening the old portfolio he (Mr. Humphries) found the
aforesaid piece of paper in it, but written across it was the
single word “ Elliottson.” He showed it to a press friend, who
at once said, “ That is Dr. Elliottson’s writing; I know it
very well.”
THE HANDLING OE WHITE HOT COALS BY AN ENTRANCED
MEDIUM.
Mr. W. H. Harrison said that a spirit who claimed to be
Dr. Elliottson, once communicated with Mrs. Hennings, of
Upper Norwood, through Mr. Home’s mediumship, and told
her some details about an interview he had had with her many
years previously, and about which Mr. Home, so far as she
knew, could have known nothing. Once, at a seance at Mr.
Yarley’s, he (Mr. Harrison) had seen Mr. Home place his
hand in an unusually large and bright coal fire, and pick out
a white hot coal as large as a cricket-ball, which he held in
that one hand for some minutes, till it had cooled down to
blackness, but was then still very hot to others who ventured
to touch it. Dr. Elliottson then claimed to be the spirit con¬
trolling the manifestations, and he said that the spirits were
sending a stream of some imponderable fluid, of which earthly
science as yet knows nothing, down Mr. Home’s arm to his
hand, and that so long as they kept that stream flowing, the
heat could not attack the skin. A man might dip his finger
into molten iron for an instant without being hurt, because
the heat would transform the moisture on the skin into vapour,
and fox an instant the layer of vapour round the finger would
THE SPIBITUALIST.
77
Aug. 14, 1874.
prevent the metal from tonehing the skin, but the finger must
then be rapidly withdrawn. He particularly noticed that the
coal was so white hot quite down to the level where it touched
the skin of the hand, that the light reflected by the skin very
near the bottom of the coal, made the skin itself appear to be
in a state of ignition; at the time this observation was made,
the hand and coal were about eighteen inches from his
(Mr. Harrison’s) eyes, and held there till the coal was
black. The amount of light emitted by the coal was not
apparently enhanced by surrounding darkness* for the room
was well lighted by three gas flames, immediately over the
place where Mr. Home sat, holding the coal; and in spite of
all this gaslight, the glow from the coal was so strong when
Mr. Home went to the fire and first took it out, as to illumi¬
nate the paper on the wall above the mantelpiece when about
a yard distant from the paper. He had seen Mr. Home
handling hot coals in the trance state several times since then,
but not under such remarkably conclusive conditions. Mr.
S. 0. Hall had seen him handling hot coals, and testified
that when one, while still red hot, was placed On the top of
his (Mr. Hall’s) head, it did not burn him.
Mr. T. Everitt said that he could confirm what Mr. Har¬
rison had said. He had seen Mr. Home, in the trance state,
handling hot coals.
SUPPOSED INFLUENCE UPON MEDIUMSHIP OE THE DEATH
OE EEIENDS OE THE MEDIUM.
Mr. H. T. Humphries said that the decease of two indi¬
viduals, both firm friends of Mr. Home, seemed to increase his
powers as a medium very greatly; one of those friends was
Hr. Elliottson, and the other Ada I. Mencken. The mani¬
festations grew more scientific in their nature on the one
hand, and more powerfully physical on the other; in fact,
there was a marvellous increase in his medium power.
MATERIALISATION MANIFESTATIONS.
Mr. J. J. Morse said that some of the substances used at
physical seances by spirits, appeared to be drawn out of the
body of the medium through the head. He had been at a
seance at Liverpool, where a hand was seen drawing what was
apparently luminous phosphorus, out of the head of the
medium.* There was no smell of phosphorus. At voice
circles he had heard the medium and the spirit speaking at
the same time.
Mr. Chatham, treasurer to the Liverpool Psychological
Society, said that recently full form manifestations had been
obtained through the mediumship of Miss Clark. The
controlling spirit called himself “ Pomp,” and the medium was
very cold when he was materialising through her.' He had
heard Pomp and Miss Clark speak at the same time.
Mr. Harrison—Does Pomp resemble the medium in features ?
Mr. Chatham—Not at all.
Mr. Harrison—How many times have you seen him
distinctly ?
Mr. Chatham—Twice.
Mr. Harrison—Did others see him distinctly at the same
time ?
Mr. Chatham—Yes.
Mr. Archibald Larnoht—Pomp bears no resemblance to the
tnedium.
Mr. Morse—He is very different to the lady in features.
Mr. John Lament—1 have seen Pomp, and he does not
resemble the medium.
Mr. Harrison—How many times] have you seen him
distinctly ?
Mr. J. Lament—Twice, but, the light being low, only once
distinctly.
Mr. Harrison—Then we are dealing with experience gained
at one seance only* You are aware that one materialised spirit
appears in London sometimes with and sometimes without a
beard. Are you sure that at your one seance there was no
resemblance to the medium in the lines of the nose and eyes ?
Mr. J. Lamont—I saw none, but others might testify dif¬
ferently. There was a beard on the face. I may say, how-
ever, I have been at a seance with a gentleman in private life,
a man of the most undoubted integrity, and there was a strong
* At one of the earliest of Messrs. Herne and 'Williams’ materialisation
dark seances, We and others present saw a delicate hand with a lace sleeve
about the wrist, over Mr. Herne’s head, quietly with a “picking” motion
drawing streams of something like liquid glowing phosphorus from the
fop of his head. The greatest length of the stream of phosphorus was
about three inches, extending in a vertical column from the head to the
points of the fingers above. Every now and then the hand came down, and
rubbed the phosphorus over the hair; till Mr. Herne took fright at the light
Coming from the fop of his head, and exclaiming “It must be fire devfi,”
ran out of the room.—Ed.
resemblance between the materialised spirit and the medium.
Once at Miss Clark’s seance Pomp kissed a witness, who felt
the beard. I have heard Pomp and his medium speaking at
the same time.
Mr. Harrison—Did that witness, who was so close as to be
kissed, see the face ?
Mr. Lamont—No. The face was then in darkness.
Mr. Harrison—What colour was the face ?
Mr. J. Lamont—Bather dark. (He here compared its
complexion to that of the face of a young lady present, who
was not particularly dark.)
Mr. Chatham—I think the face was paler. The voice of
Pomp is very much like that of the medium.
Mr. J. Lamont said that Miss Clark was a very respectable
person, a member of a private family which had no motive
for deception.
Mr* Harrison—I have raised no question of genuineness,
for that is one which need not hamper a meeting like this;
there is no instance on record of experienced Spiritualists
being deceived for any length of time as to the genuineness
of mediumship (hear, hear), so that of Miss Clark may be
safely admitted on the testimony of our Liverpool friends.
My questions deal only with the facts connected With the
mediumship.
Mr. Malcolm Taylor said that spirits in materialising could
make up anything. Once he was at a seance where a mate¬
rialised head appeared with a magnificent show of hair. A
lady present said that it was her departed husband sure
enough, only he was bald, and never had hair like that. The
spirit then very obligingly put out his head a second time,
when it was bald. (Laughter.)
Mr. Algernon Joy said that Miss Showers’ Lenore, who was
a mischief-loving spirit, gave away a very few fibres of what
she said was her hair, which she did not cut, but broke off,
and which afterwards proved to be tow. He thought she did
it as a joke. •
Mr. Harrison said that he had just returned from Teign-
mouth, where he had been present at some very interesting
seances through the medittmship of Miss Showers; he had
asked Lenore what she meant by giving away tow, and getting
her medium into trouble ; she laughed, and seemed to think
it capital fun, moreover Peter afterwards gave him a liberal
allowance of tow the same evening, as the hair of a mate¬
rialised “ lady.” He had every reason to speak in the highest
terms of Miss Showers and her mediumship.
HOW IS THE DIRECT SPIRIT VOICE PRODUCED?
Mr. T. Everitt said that once in daylight, when Mrs.
Everitt was not entranced, she had a vision, in which she saw
the spirits producing manifestations. Above' the circle of
mortals she saw a circle of spirits, who were gathering emana¬
tions from the heads of the sisters below; the substance
could be manipulated, and they were surrounding the medium
with it. Another spirit then seemed to pass into the medium
with a shock, and then came out and moved about, using the
substance which the other spirits had collected. Then she
saw a hand and arm formed from the substance around tbe
medium. She saw a face formed; it was unnatural, and
much like a mask; it appeared and disappeared several times,
as if it were not easy to keep it materialised. She saw a
portion of a face and a throat formed, and from the throat
extended a kind of elastic tube to the mouth of the medium,
to convey the breath.
Mr. Malcolm Taylor said that Mr. Bastian could sometimes
sit with his mouth full of water, and get the direct spirit
voice, but not when his nose was also stopped. The flow of
breath appeared to be necessary. He could get the voice
when some persons hands were held over his mouth, but not
when other persons placed their hands there.
Mr. Harrison said that Mr. Morse, Mr. Chatham, and
Mr. Lamont, testified that they had heard the medium
and the spirit speaking at the same time, whereas Mr.
E'/eritt, with his many years of home experience,
had never heard them speaking together. He (Mr. Harrison)
had attended an enormous number of seances with many well-
known mediums during the past six years, to ascertain un¬
doubted facts before attempting to lay down principles, but he
had never once heard the direct spirit voice and the voice of
the medium at the same time, so his experience was the
same as that of Mr. Everitt. It did not follow that the obser¬
vations of the other [three speakers were wrong, but only if
accurate, their experiences were exceptional. When the
voices followed each other quickly, he had often heard en¬
thusiastic listeners say—“ There, did you hear then ppeakiug
together ?” when they had net done so.
78
THE SPIBITUALIST.
Aug. 14, 1874.
Mr. Everitt paid that sitters often made the same remark
at his circles, when the voices merely followed each other
rapidly.
Mr. Cooper said that he had often heard the spirit and the
medium interrupting each other when both wanted the use
of the breath.
Mr. Malcolm Taylor said that he had never heard Mr.
Bastian and his controlling spirit talk distinctly at the same
time; perhaps, while Mr. Bastian was murmuring the spirit
could speak.
THE SENSATION'S OE A TRANCE MEDIUM.
Mr. J. J. Morse next read a paper’on “ Trance Mediumship,”
in which, after instituting a comparison between mesmeric
and spiritualistic trances, which he believed to be almost iden¬
tical, the one being produced by spiritual and the other by
human agency, he related his own experiences as a medium as
follows:—“ The first feeling I experience is, usually, a species
of electric current passing mildly and gently down the arms,
on the outward sides, culminating in a shock as it reaches the
hand. The regions of ideality, sublimity, benevolence, venera¬
tion, causality, eventuality, comparison, and also firmness and
constructiveness are more or less excited. The current I have
mentioned induces a pleasant soothing effect; and a stupor,
accompanied by a sensation similar to falling backwards into
nothingness, terminates my consciousness. My return to con¬
sciousness is seemingly like rising up out of a deep void,
accompanied by a buzzing, dizzy sensation in the head;
sometimes accompanied with severe bodily fatigue, but more
frequently with nervous exhaustion. By the aid ‘of its will
power, the operating spirit joins its external sphere with the
external sphere of the medium. By the aid of such union, the
spirit is enabled to project its will power into the nerves and
their centres. By the command thus obtained the spirit virtu¬
ally works the organism of the medium as though it belonged to
it (the spirit), and for the time being puts the rightful owner
out of doors, and by the muscular and nervous control
thus effected, the spirit is enabled temporarily to re¬
establish a conjunction with a material organism similar
to that under which we are enabled to manifest through our
own bodies. The value of this class of mediumship is simply
incalculable, as affording a deeper insight into the mysteries
of the human structure, and of revealing thp existence of an
extra mundane intelligence. I will now call your attention
to the second division of trance mediumship—that is, the
“ psychological control;” and it is here that I am the better
able to discuss the personal experiences I have related. Let
me state, though, that I am of opinion that this class of con¬
trol grows out of, or is the unfoldment from, the class of
control we have just discussed, and that for its satisfactory
manifestation it should be preceded by the automatic medium-
ship. Such, certainly, was the case in my own development.
The susceptibility that has been developed during the “ out¬
ward” phase of trance mediumship, or automatic control,’’
now enables the operating spirit to control the nerves first,
and through them it reaches the mind of the medium, in¬
spires and impresses it, and develops a facility and clearness
of expression immensely transcending the normal utterances
of the subject. But such mediumship is, as a rule, but in¬
differently fitted for “test” purposes. The mediums I am
now dealing with exhibit the higher degrees of psychological
and mental phenomena, and belong to that range of effects of
this kind produced from nervous and mental action. There¬
fore, it would appear that a different quality or degree of
the “force” or “ power” used must be necessary to produce
these results. The paper then proceeded to discuss the ques¬
tion of what educational and spiritual benefit had been or
could be conferred by this class of mediumship, arguing that
the spiritual benefit was very great indeed. Summarising the
statements he had made in that connection, the writer said
—Trance mediumship is of two classes, the automatic control
and the psychological control. The automatic 'control is
effected by inducing coma, and controlling from the muscular
and nervous departments. The psychological control is effected
by also inducing coma, but it is the exhibition of a nervous
and mental control and impression. The two distinct grades
of phenomena necessitate separate actions to induce them,
and a subtle force or power having an affinity for the portions
of the organisms affected must be an admitted necessity.
Such a power is admitted in connection with mesmerism. As
the phenomena connected with trance mediums are analogous
to the mesmeric phenomena, the identity of the force used in
each case seems self-evident. Therefore, I put these theorems
before you in concluding this department of my paper: (a.) That
there is a force, or element, surrounding the medium, par¬
taking of the material and mental characteristics of that indi¬
vidual. (6.) That by their will power, and aided by the
external “surrounding medium” or “psychic-force sphere,”
the spirits are enabled to control either the material portions,
or the mental portions—or each combined—existing with the
medium, (c.) That if the spirits control the material portions
only, automatic mediumship results, thus establishing test
mediumship. (d.) And if the mental parts are controlled in
conjunction with the material, the former preponderating, the
psychological control obtains, thus establishing missionary or
educational mediumship. (e.) Thus is admitted the existence
of Serjeant Gox’s “ psychic force ” as a means to an end. But
not as the means and end also.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE PROVINCES.
Mr. Morse then made a few statements about Spiritualism
in the provinces, and referred to letters he had recently
received. He said that there were three organised bodies of
Spiritualists in the United Kingdom which had real life in
them. One was the British National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, the second was the Liverpool Psychological Society,
and the third was the Newcastle Society of Spiritualists;
there were some other societies, and not! a few new ones were
rapidly springing up. Mr. W. Peck, of Cardiff, wrote to him
that the movement was progressing satisfactorily there, and
Mr. Bees Lewis wrote from the same place that a society had
just been established there with twenty members, who sent
their greetings to the Conference. Spiritualism was pro¬
gressing slowly in Manchester; the local society there had no
president, and he wondered why they did not ask Mr. Charles
Blackburn to take the office. Mr. H. Swire wrote that they
had no loqal society in Bradford, Yorkshire. In Halifax there
is a society which has a hall of its own. Spiritualism has
begun to strike root at Barrow-in-Furness, and has progressed
sufficiently to be opposed by the clerical section of the com¬
munity. Mr. Dent is secretary to the society at Heckmondwike,
Yorkshire; the Spiritualists there rent a hall in the town, and
have taken out a license for public worship, which entitles
their meetings to protection, as religious services, from dis¬
turbance. At Walsall, where Mr. Blinkhorn is very active,
the movement is much opposed by the dissenters. Mr. J. L.
Bland wrote to him—“ We are a poor divided lot in
Hull;” they ought to organise and pull together. Spirit¬
ualism has begun to spread at Sherborne, Dorsetshire. At
Newcastle it is in a tolerably healthy condition; the Spirit¬
ualists there have rented a hall and suite of rooms right out,
and established a society under the presidency of Mr. Arm¬
strong, with Mr. Hare as vice-president. There are two good
mediums in Newcastle, namely, Miss Wood and Miss Fair-
lamb. As regards Wales, in Merthyr, Mr. Hulbert, of High-
street, is the leading spirit, and in Llanelly and Cardiff the
movement is growing quietly. Beyond this, little interest in
the movement is publicly displayed in the Principality.*
Provincial Spiritualists informed him (Mr. Morse) that they
took great interest in the National Association, and wished to
know what it was going to do. Imputations had been thrown
out against it, but he knew that the ladies and gentlemen
connected with it were upright and intelligent, and that there
was no foundation for any imputation of low motives. He
thought provincial Spiritualists would join the Association
rapidly when they saw that it did not intend to confine its
operations to London, but would do what good it kconld all
over the country.
Mr. E. D. Bogers proposed a vote of thanks to Mr. Morse
for his paper, and the morning’s proceedings cfkne to a close.
THE REVEREND MAURICE DAVIES ON SPIRITUALISM AND
THE CHURCH OE ENGLAND.
On the afternoon of Thursday, August 6th, Mr. T. Everitt
presided over the first part of the proceedings.
The Bev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., rose and said—When
first I suggested the title of this paper to those in authority,
it was rather objected to as being theological, and calculated
to promote sectarian views—possibly foment sectarian strife.
Theological beyond a doubt it is ; and I freely confess my in¬
ability to deal with this subject from any but a theological
point of view. It has, of course, also a scientific aspect,
which I am utterly incompetent to handle. It is as a
clergyman, pure and simple, I approach it, and only in
* How is it that Swansea—the most intellectual of the large towns in
Wales—is not in the van in this movement ? As a general rule, Spirit¬
ualism prospers in the more intellectual localities, and spreads downwards,
whereas in Wales the process appears at present to be reversed.—Ed.
Aug. 14, 1874.
THE SPIBITUALIST.
79
that way—that is, I suppose, in the theological way—can
I make it the subject of any remarks to you. Those who
know me will, I think, feel quite sure that I shall not, in so
treating it, tread upon anybody else’s corns. In fact, my
remarks will be in a measure apologetic, justifying my
own position in carefully examining Spiritualism, as I have
now done for many years, from my stand-point as a clergy¬
man of the Church of England. I argue that I am bound
from my position to make that examination; and I shall also
try to show that those who belong to the same religious body
with myself have special reasons for carefully and respectfully
examining the claims of Spiritualism. With members of other
bodies I can of course have nothing to do; and I should con¬
sider it an impertinence if I were to presume to speak to them
in any but the most general way—as, for instance, on the
social bearings of the matter. To-day, however, I am not
speaking in a general but a special way. I am speaking
as a clergyman of the Church of England to members of
the same communion. Some years ago I read a paper at the
Beethoven Booms, under the title, “ Am I a Spiritualist ? ”
and I believe the subsequent discussion left it pretty much
an open question whether I was or not. I do not know that
I am going to make anything like a confession of faith now.
Some dear old ladies—male and female—among the unini¬
tiated look upon me, I know, as a “ dreadful man,” because
I sit at seances. Some have given me over for lost as being a
medium—a circumstance of which I am not myself aware.
Others again, among the initiated, regard me as a hopeless
sceptic because I do not accept for gospel everything the
tables tell me, or credit spirit mediums with an infallibility
which I attribute to no one—not even the Pope or the Arch¬
bishop of Canterbury. This is only the story of the old man
and a certain noble animal. Without actually unbosoming,
I may say that—unlike that historic character—I have So far
pleased myself that I am quite satisfied I am doing right in
my investigations. If I can also please you in showirg my
reasons why, I shall be very glad. If I do not I cannot
help it.
On the broad question of theology I can conceive no single
subject which a clergyman is more bound to examine than that
which purports to be a new revelation, or at all events, a large
extension of the old; and which, if its claims be substantiated,
will quite modify our notions as to what we now call Faith.
It proposes, in fact, to supply in' matters we have been
accustomed to take on trust, something so like demonstration,
that I feel not only at liberty, but actually bound, whether
I like it or not, to look into the thing. I do like it, I confess
so much freely ; but that is not to the purpose. My own likes or
dislikes are exceedingly unimportant. 1 feel that as a clergyman,
I am bound to ask, “ Is Spiritualism true or false?” and,I do not
quite see how I am to solve that question if I do not examine.
Some people I know do decide, both in the negative and
affirmative, without examination. It may be a defect on my
part; but I cannot. I suppose I am not what some people
would call “ intuitional.”
As a reasonable being I might claim the right to examine
such a momentous question, but as a clergyman (though
I know clergymen are not always reasonable beings in these
matters), I feel not merely at liberty, but bound to do every¬
thing in my power to see whether, in Mr. Home’s words—and
I have heard none more epigrammatic—this Spiritualism be a
gigantic fraud, or the most important revelation that could
possibly be made.
And this preliminary appropriateness of the subject of
Spiritualism for theological examination is increased rather
than diminished, when from the general case of a clergyman
in any denomination, we pass to that of myiown particular
position in the Church of England as by law established. You
are many of you aware of my intense regard for orthodoxy ;
and I really have been considerably exercised when my anxious
critics have lifted up their hands and said, “ And you a cler¬
gyman of the Church of England ”—as though it would not
have mattered if I had been a Methodist or an Unitarian, but
a clergyman of the “ Establishment ” to shake hands with
John King or hold conversations with Katie! One might
think the whole edifice of Church and State was compromised
in my unworthy person! Now, once more I claim it as
my very justification for such irregular practices that I
am a member of the Church of England. If I were
a Boman Catholic I should have to consult my director on
the subject. We have had a good deal of discussion lately
as to whether the Church of England is Catholic or Pro¬
testant, and it seems no more likely to be settled than
whether I am a Spiritualist or not. If it were once definitely
settled that we were Catholic, and that spiritual direction
was a part of our system, then, of course, I should consign
my conscience to the keeping of Dr. Tait, Dr. Jackson, or
one of the Archdeacons of London or Middlesex; but then
I don’t think we are Catholic in that sense. I rather agree
with the apparent paradox that we are Catholic because
we are Protestant; that is, that instead of submitting
our conduct to directors, we act — as I think rea¬
sonable men should — according to the dictates of our
conscience. If I at all understand the position of the
Church of England, that is very much of its essence. I by
no means contrast or compare it with other systems to their
disadvantage. Simply accepting my position as a clergyman
in a Church which secures to every one of her members the
right of private judgment, I cannot see it as other than my
duty to exercise that judgment, supposing I am right in my
previous position, that this subject of Spiritualism is fit for
theological discussion at all. But I even go more into detail
than this. It is sometimes brought as an objection against
the Church of England, that with all this freedom of
inquiry she blends a certain amount of authority—that
faith, as well as reason, has a place in her elastic
system. That is one of my chief sources of satisfaction
at my position in the Church of England; that she does
appear to me so perfectly to fuse faith with reason. If I felt
it incumbent upon me to develope faith only, I would go
to Borne—if reason only, I would go to the most rational
body I could find ; but I find in this investigation of Spirit¬
ualism the greatest need of faith to check the results of
inquiry, while I recognise the necessity of investigation to
prevent faith from degenerating into credulity; and, be I
right or wrong, that appears to me the very attitude of mind
proper to a member of the Church of England. ,
I have to apologise for continually saying “7 think this;”
“ I hold that.” It is not that I wish to foist on you my ipse
dixit as an article of faith. I only tell you how I regard my
position in the Church of England as binding me in a very
special manner to make the inquiries in which you are
engaged.
Of course the cobbler is always ready with his maxim,
“Nothing like leather,” and no doubt I have the same
tendency as most men to exaggerate the importance of my
own craft. Bnt there is this to be said that the Church of
England is an eminently respectable corporation, and with a
large section of society monopolises the title of “orthodox.”
I am not saying this should be so: I only say I think it is so. If
I be right, then you can see that it would be most unfortunate
to introduce anything like gratuitous antagonism between the
doctrines of the Church of England and the creed you profess.
Whether your creed is right or wrong is not for me to tell you;
but it is most important for me that I should assure myself.
And while I recognise that my own duty clearly is to examine the
principles you profess, I find this to be eminently their character¬
istic, that they readily assimilate with those of my own church.
I see nothing revolutionary in them. You have no propaganda.
You do not call upon me, as far as I understand, to come out
of the body I belong to and join yours, as so many other bodies
do ; but you ask me simply to take your doctrines into my own
creed and vitalise it by their means. That has always
attracted me powerfully towards you. You are the broadest
I Churchmen I find anywhere.
So, then, and still without forcing upon you my individual
opinion of the truth or falsity of the matter—which I am
modest enough to believe is quite indifferent to you, I can, you
see, not only justify the examination of Spiritualism—not only
do I even feel it incumbent upon me to examine it—but I re¬
gard with the greatest complacency the possibility of accepting
its teaching to the fullest extent. I do not feel that it would
in the least clash with the doctrines of the Church of
England.
Some time ago I had|a long conversation with a worthy, but
most illogical old physician on this subject. He had been
hearing me preach a sermon on “ Unconscious Materialism ”
from the text, “ God is not a God of the dead, but of the
living. All live to Himand I had trodden on two par¬
ticularly soft corns of his. First, he was one of those who held
that at so-called death the spirit slept with the body for some
indefinite number of ages, when both were to be reawakened
and reunited. In opposition to this, I took the Parable of
Dives and Lazarus to prove that directly after departure
from this world, the men there spoken of—and that by the
very highest possible authority—were living men in a
world of life and activity. He also held, in face of the
assurance “ flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom
80 THE SPIRITUALIST. Aug. 14, 1874.
of God,” that it was this same fleshly body which sur¬
vived. Well, I told him what I had seen in my long ex¬
amination of Spiritualism; and he was much struck by it.
He went so far as to credit me with sanity, and told me he
was surprised to And any sane person give the slightest credit
to the phenomena, mind, not to any particular deductions
from them. He would take the earliest opportunity of testing
them for himself, which I assured him was the right thing to
do, and then, if he found that what I told him was true, he
would—do what do you think?—come home, and burn hit
Bible and Prayer Booh, feeling that the Church of Eng¬
land was no longer the place for him. What was the
result of his investigations I never learnt. He went his
way, and I saw him no more ; but he is a type of a certain
school of thought in the Church of England, and I daresay
in other communions as well — good, earnest, illogical,
pig-headed people, with whom it is simply throwing away
time to argue. They do infinite harm in this way. They
promote infidelity by making people afraid to look their Bible
in the face. They take, for example, such instances as the
hand at Belshazzar’s feast, or the witch of Endor calling up
the spirit of Samuel, or the apparitions of the saints which
Slept at the time of Christ’s resurrection, and they say,
“ Believe, or be damnedand then when the same things
are said to occur under our own noses, in the nineteenth
century, here in London, they do not say even, “ Doubt or be
damned,” but they say, ‘ ‘ Deny or be damned. Don’t examine;
it’s wicked. You musn’t investigate; it’s wrong—that con¬
stant verdict of the dogmatist—it’s wrong.”
Surely that is not the spirit we are of. I cannot accept
that as the teaching of the text. “ Prove all things. Hold
fast that which is good.” How can I fulfil my ordination now
to banish and drive away all erroneous and strange doctrine,
unless I examine first to find out whether it is erroneous,
instead of jumping to the conclusion that it must be erroneous
because it is strange to me.
The canon of the church tells me that, as a clergyman of
the Church of England, I must not presume to exorcise spirits
without license from my bishop. I have often speculated as
to what would be the result of my application if I went to
London House or Fulham, and asked Dr. Jackson for a
license to exorcise instead of a leave to officiate in the diocese.
The fact, however, of that canon standing where it does shows
one thing, at all events—namely, that the doctrines you hold
have formed part of the system of the Church of England.
They have fallen into abeyance; and some of her members ask
why, and seek to revive them. I Cannot see that they incur the
charge of disloyalty for doing so; nay, to sum up the few remarks
I have made, I feel that the careful investigation of the pheno¬
mena known as modern Spiritualism is incumbent upon every
member of the Church. Should the result of such examina¬
tion be the conviction that you are right, that certainly need
not involve the alternative that the Church of England is
wrong. Nay, I venture to think—though this is only my own
opinion (valeat tantum)—that the opinions 1 have found to be
held by many Spiritualists may prove not only a valuable col¬
lateral aid to faith in general, but a real bond of attachment
to the Church of England herself.
The conclusion of this report will be published next week.
I)ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
Os the evening of Thursday, July 30th, the eighth half-
yearly general meeting of this Association was held at its
rooms in Dalston. There was a good muster of members;
Mr. Algernon Joy and Miss Kislingbury, Hon. Secretaries to
the British National Association of Spiritualists, were also
present. In the absence of Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, president,
the chair was taken by Mr. George Blyton.
The minutes of the last half-yearly general meeting, and the
notice convening the meeting having been read, the Chairtnan
called upon Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen to read the Report of
the Council for the half-year ending 30th June last. The
Report was as follows:—
THE EEPOBT OE THE COUNCIL.
The report of the Council, which is hereby submitted to the
members of the Association for approval and adoption, is for
the eighth half-year ended 30th June, 1874. The progress
made during that period in connection with the ordinary
weekly seances has not been so well sustained as your Council
would desire, and as the importance of the work in hand
deserves; yet they hope that the share taken by the Associa¬
tion in disseminating a knowledge of Spiritualism—with its
attendant phenomena, and with this knowledge a higher sense
of the whole duty of man—may not have been in vain.
Many seances of a very interesting character have been held
during the past term, among which your Council would
specially mention those at which Miss M. Rosina Showers
attended in the months of January and February last, the
phase of mediumship observed on the occasions here referred
to being the voice manifestations, the medium remaining in
her normal condition during the production of the voices in
question while the number and distinct individuality of each
of the voices were most marked, and were the means of ex¬
citing a very considerable amount of attention. With reference
to the materialisations characterising her mediumship, your
Council note that several members of the Association have
had frequent opportunities of observing and forming their
opinion upon this phase of Spiritualism, and would recommend
for your perusal the printed evidence of certain members, who
testify to having seen the spirit “ Florence Maples ” and the
medium, Miss Showers, at one and the same time. Your
Council have to deplore the indignity to which Mrs. and Miss
Showers, members of the Association, were a short time since
subjected to—the particulars of which have been published.
Your Council have also much pleasure in drawing yotir
attention to the great development of the materialisations and
physical manifestations given through the mediumship of a
life member of the Association, which have been witnessed by
several members, and reports of some of which were most
carefully given by William Crookes, F.R.S., in the Spiritualist
and other periodicals, and whose valuable scientific experi¬
ments deserve the thanks of all Spiritualists.
In accordance with the intimation made in the last report,
the fourth annual public lecture was duly given under the
auspices of this Association on 20th January last in the
Luxembourg Hall, Dalston, when Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan
gave an admirable discourse to a full and appreciative
audience on the subject of “ A Few Suggestions Concerning
the Methods and Purpose of Investigating Spiritualism.” Mr.
J. C. Luxmoore, J.P., one of the life members of this Associa¬
tion, presided on the occasion, and in his opening address
introduced Mrs. Tappan most favourably to her audience.
Mr. Thomas Everitt, of Hendon, delivered a very able and
interesting lecture before the members of the Association on
the 30th April last, the subject of which was “ An Answer to
the Question—What is the Use of Spiritualism ?” The lec¬
ture was listened to with great interest. A number of ques¬
tions were replied to by Mr. Everitt at the close, and many
direct spirit writings, obtained through the mediumship of
Mrs. Everitt, were examined by those present.
On the evening of 26th February last, Mr. Frank Herne, the
noted physical medium, visited the Association with Mr. F. M.
Parkes. A most interesting seance followed, particulars of
which are to be found in the record book.
The Council have to report that the vacancy consequent
upon the resignation by Mr. Thomas Blyton of the office of
honorary secretary and treasurer has been filled by the ap¬
pointment of Mr. A. M. Greene, in whom they have found a
most valuable and efficient officer. Mr. T. jBlyton has been
appointed member of Council.
A number of very interesting specimens of spirit photo¬
graphy have been given to the Association by Mr. F. M.
Parkes, an amateur photographer, who has also supplied a
carefully-written account of the nature of the manipulations
in connexion with their production. These are on the table for
inspection by members at any time.
With reference to the financial condition of the Association
your Council regret to report that at the end of last half-year,
a balance of .£3 3s. Id. stood to the debit of the Association.
The cause of this is attributable to a loss of £4 15s. over the
fourth annual public lecture, in January last; although it was
discouraging in a pecuniary sense, your Council feel assured
that the members of the Association will not regret the outlay.
Seven notices of resignation have been accepted during the
half-year, while eight applications for membership have been
entertained. Your Council have been reluctantly compelled
to remove the names of seven persons from the list of mem¬
bers in conformity with the powers invested in the Council by
Rule VI. The present nutuber of members on the books, after
deducting those removed from the lists, is 44 as against 50
at the end of last year.
Mr. Joseph Stephens, one of the members of your Council,
has reluctantly resigned his seat; and it rests with the xhem-
Aug. 14* 1874,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
81
bers to elect from their body a President, a Council of not less
than five, and a Honorary Secretary and Treasurer, for the
current half-year. (Signed) George Buxton, for President.
30th June, 1874.
On the motion of Mr. Thomas Wilks, seconded by Mr.
Henry Cook, the Report of the Council was unanimously
adopted.
ELECTION1 OE OEEICEES.
The following officers were then formally [elected for the
current half-year—viz., Alfred E. Lovell, President; Mrs. C.
Ada Blyton, Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Messrs. George Blyton, Thomas Blyton, R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
A. Ferguson Black, and Thomas Wilks, Members of Council;
and Mr. A. M. Greene, Honorary Secretary and Treasurer.
EBIENDLT ALLIANCE WITH THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
The Chairman then read a letter from the British National
Association of Spiritualists, inviting affiliation,
The following letter from Mr. G. R. Tapp was then read :—
To the President of the Dalston Association of Enquirers into
Spiritualism.
Stanway Cottage, Newport, Mon. July 28th.
Mx dear Sir,—As I am unable to attend the half-yearly
meeting of our Association on Thursday next, I have thought
it right to give my opinion by letter upon a question of much
importance to us, which will then come before the members
for discussion—viz., the proposed affiliation of the Dalston
Association to the British National Association, and I beg
that you will be'so good as to cause this letter to be read to
the meeting.
As a member of both Associations, and having the interests
of each of them at heart, I feel sure that what I say will not
be construed in any invidious sense. I would wish to act for
the good of both Associations, but I feel veryjstrongly that the
interests of our own Association have a prior claim to our
regard, and should be first considered in this matter.
The Dalston Association, to which our first allegiance is
certainly due, was founded four years ago—before the British
National Association was even thought of. During that time,
thanks to the energy of its officers, it has done a good work
thoroughly and well—in a quiet and unostentatious way it is
true—but none the less effectually for that. Whatever it has
undertaken, it has fully performed, and it has never failed
through attempting that which was beyond its strength. The
question, therefore, for our members to consider is—What ad¬
vantage will their own Association gain by affiliating itself to
the British National Association ? At present, it seems to me,
that the advantage will be wholly on the side of the British
National, which will gain the public countenance and support
of one of the oldest London Spiritualist societies—no small
acquisition in itself—and fresh members from its ranks. But
what will the Dalston Association receive as a quid pro quo
for this? Simply, it would appear, an assurance that its
freedom of action will not be interfered with—nothing more 1
I think, however, we are entitled to expect something more in
return, from the much younger but stronger Association.
In a leading article, published some months back in The
Spiritualist, it was stated that if local and other societies
affiliated themselves to the British Association, the latter
might assist them with grants for lecturing purposes, to clear
’ off small debts, &c. If the delegates of the British National
are prepared to definitely offer us such assistance, well and
good; but is the British National yet in a position to do this?
Apparently not. It needs all its funds to carry on its own
work, and make for itself “ a local habitation and a name.”
Although it has been in existence nearly a year, it has not
even elected its President, or set up permanent offices ; and
its proposed “ institution ” and “ lecture rooms ” are still in
nubibus ! No doubt it will, in time, achieve all these desirable
things; but it seems clear to me that until that time arrives
it will not be in a position to materially help our own or any
other local Association in return for affiliation.
I am not aware that any London Association has yet affi¬
liated itself to the British National Association; but our
members are doubtless aware that when the affiliation pro¬
posal was put before the Clerkenwell Association at their
general meeting, it was resolved that the consideration of the
question should be deferred for six months, until it was seen
whether the British National Association could afford them
any definite assistance in return for affiliation.*
* The principle enunciated throughout this letter is that friendly alliances
to carry on good work should not he made, unless money can he thereby
gained by the Dalston Society; the St, John’s Association expressed no
I would respectfully urge upon my fellow members that the
Dalston Association should adopt a similar course, and that
the consideration of the affiliation of the Dalston Association
of Enquirers into Spiritualism with the British National Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists be deferred for six months, until the
half-yearly meeting in January, 1875.
George Robert Tapp.
The following letter from Mr. W. H. Harrison was then
read:—
Hazel Down, Teignmouth, July 29th, 1874.
Dear Mr. Buxton,—You ask me as a member of the Dalston
Society to express an opinion about its suggested alliance
with the National Association. Not being a member of the
Council of the latter, I do not know on what grounds it has
recommended other societies to unite with it, but as the pro¬
posed alliance will give it no power to interfere in any way
with the Dalston Association, but will give the latter a voice
upon its own Council, and as it is desirable that all rational
and disinterested individuals and organisations should try to
work together for the good of the whole movement, instead of
quarrelling with each other, my vote, were I in town, would
be unhesitatingly in favour of affiliation, which means nothing
more than a friendly recognition of each othep by the two
societies, and a desire to work together should circumstances
permit. The National Association, the Dalston Association,
and the Liverpool Psychological Society,* are the largest and
most effective organisations yet established in this country,
and are all well managed; they would set a good example did
they officially establish permanent friendly relations with each
other. There are some good associations in Scotland, and
some smaller societies in Yorkshire, which would also do well
to join. It should not be a matter for consideration by the
members “ what the societies are likely to be able to gain
from each other if they recognise each other,” for each at
present has enough to do to look after itself. The question is
merely one of shall we have dissension in Spiritualism rather
than friendly united action, and shall not each society express
a desire to work with its neighbour provided there be no inter¬
ference whatever with its present individual freedom ?
William H. Harrison.
Mr. Henry Cook moved, pro forma, “That the Dalston
Association do affiliate with the British * National Asso¬
ciation.”
This was seconded by Mr. Thomas Blyton, who thought
that affiliation of local societies would tend to produce more
harmony of feeling amongst the body of Spiritualists.
Mr. Algernon Joy, a member of both societies, pointed out
that affiliation cost nothing either in money or principles; it
rendered neither society liable for any of the debts of the other,
nor committed either to the opinions of the other. If at any
time the affiliated society should disapprove of the proceedings
of the other, the former would be at liberty to withdraw from
its affiliation. Nothing was risked by it, and if only the
friendly feeling which could not fail to arise from a mutual
recognition and declaration of brotherhood, were gained, it
would be worth having, under the circumstances. There were
other advantages to both societies, and therefore to the cause
©f Spiritualism generally. No doubt it would be a great
advantage to a struggling infant like the National Association
to have the countenance and moral support to be derived from
its recognition by so old and respectable a society as the
Dalston. On the other hand, the latter would have a voice in
the management of the former, by appointing a member of
council, and would no doubt derive benefit from the services
which the universal and central character of the National
Association would enable it to render more effectually than
they as a local society could repay them, though no doubt such
services would be to some extent mutual. They would con¬
sist in the interchange of information, which in some cases it
might not be desirable to make public; of introductions of
members of the one society to the other; of papers, spirit
drawings, writings, photographs, and books, as loans or gifts,
according to circumstances and inclination, and of friendly
offices of all kinds, not easy to predicate definitely. If all
societies and individuals hung back from joining the National
Association until they saw what it was going to do, or how it
succeeded, it then never could succeed. What it most de¬
pended upon was the wishes and energies of its members, and
such, sordid ideas, and it is quite certain that no honourable Spiritualistic
body would ever accept union with any public body governed by such
motives, which it is to be hoped are not those of any other member of the
Dalston Society. The principle laid down in the letter is—“Never make
friends unless you think you can get cash out of the}r pockets.’’—Ed.
* The Liverpool Society has allied itself to the National Association.'^Lo.
82
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 14, 1874.
upon funds, for both which requisites the existence of mem¬
bers was necessary. Without members there could be no Asso¬
ciation. If Spiritualists wanted to be a power, and to spread
the knowledge of Spiritualism to the utmost, each one must
put his shoulder to the wheel, and by joining the National
Association make it as universally representative as possible,
And influence its course of action by voting and expressing his
opinion therein; and not stand by with his hands in his
pockets, leaving a few individuals to do everything and have
it all their own way, and then perhaps call them ambitious,
and in the superiority of his critical wisdom condemn them
for having done it all wrong. One great advantage of the
National Association was that any information which it might
be in its power to bestow, would, from the universal and
representative character of the Association, be untinged by
any selfish, personal, party, or trade interests.
Mr. Pomeroy Tredwen observed that as the Dalston Asso¬
ciation was one of ‘ ‘ enquirers ” only, they might damage their
position with the outside public, and therefore their utility to
the cause of Spiritualism in bringing in recruits, if they
committed themselves by affiliation with a society avowedly
spiritualistic.
Mr. Wilks supported this view.
Mr. Joy could not see that they committed themselves in
any way by affiliation, and
Miss Kislingbury pointed out that enquirers generally began
by reading Spiritualist papers, and that the Dalston Associa¬
tion therefore committed itself quite as much by advertising
in the Spiritualist as they would by affiliation with the
National Association.
An amendment was moved by Mr. Thos. Wilks to the effect
that the further consideration of the subject be deferred sine
die, which was seconded by Mr. E. P. Tredwen. The vote
was put to the meeting, resulting in the amendment being
carried by'a majority of one.
THE CONFERENCE AT THE CRYSTAL PALACE.
Two meetings of the Conference were held last
Friday at the Crystal Palace, under the presidency of
Dr. Sexton, and a report of the proceedings will be
given in a future number. Among the gentlemen on
the platform were Mr. Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. E. T.
Bennett, of Eeigate j Mr. Adshead, of Belper; Mr.
John Lament, of Liverpool; Mr. R. Cooper, of East¬
bourne ; and Mr. Algernon Joy. A paper by Mrs.
Woodforde was among those intended to be read at the
meeting, but by some accident it had been mislaid;
however, we publish it here in full:—
THE INIXUENCE OE SPIEITUALISM UPOX HUMANITY.
“ In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.
And the earth was without form and void; and darkness was
upon the face of the deep.”
“ In the beginning 1” By such vague words the puny mind
of man has sought to pierce the depths of eternity, and to
find God—find Him at His work—find Him who is eternal,
who hath had no beginning, and will have no end, in the act
of commencing His grand work of creation,—of forming a
world in nature wherein this latest crowning work, man,
might live, move, and have his being. In the majestic
language of this beautiful allegory is presented to us by in¬
spired word, by painters of an age long past away, a picture
of what was supposed to have been the way in which God
created the world and the human race destined to dwell in it.
Science has since revealed to us another way which bears upon
its face the verisimilitude of truth. The veils of the distant
past obscure to our eyes the first existence of man upon this
planet. The ancient writers of the book called the Word of
God, resorted to allegory to paint appropriately their imaginings
on this subject. It was said that the first man and woman,
like infants fresh from the womb of time, ungarmented, in the
purity of their innocence, walked and talked with God in a
paradise, wherein they found all things needful for their
sustenance and happiness. A lovely and poetical picture it is
indeed of the beginning of creation, when it pleased God to
express Himself in nature. Then all was peace, joy, in¬
nocence : the delicious happiness of that perfect time is
beautifully pourtrayed in the simple but expressive -language
of the allegory; and a striking picture of spirit-communion is
presented to our mind in these words, “ They heard the voice
of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day,”
and in other passages where Adam is described as talking
with the Creator. These first children of God drew into their
souls the very breath of Spiritualism, and were Spiritualists
of the first degree, for, communing with God, their lives
were fashioned according to the dictates of His spirit,
and were the expressions in humanity of the Divine harmony
of angelic existences. In obedience to the highest dictates of
their spiritual life, they experienced the bliss of this most
perfect state—the state of open communion with the spirit-
world. But a cloud crept over the scene, when breaking
through the laws of order and harmony, they hearkened to
evil whisperings from the world of spirits : then the influence
upon their lives became disastrous, and they fell from their
high estate. So much for the ancient allegory. It is suffi¬
cient as a picture of the origin of humanity and of the birth
of Spiritualism, for Spiritualism is coeval with man—the grand
prerogative of immortal beings; not,^s is supposed by the
ignorant, a new invention of Satan, the Father of Lies, to
delude man and entrap him into hell. From the very begin¬
ning man communed with the spirit-world: throughout all
time has he received from the world of mind above him
revelations suited to his growth: revelations of an existence
for himself superior to this fleshly one; and revelations of the
existence of a God,—a God whom he,has too often formed (to
suit the gross imaginings of his ignorance) into shapes mon¬
strous, grotesque, hideous, revolting; and whom he still so
fashions, alas ! even in this much boasted nineteenth century.
But by that light, beaming from the perpetual Fountain of
Light, conveyed to us by the aid of Spiritualism, the false con¬
ceptions of ignorance will be corrected, and a sublimity of
Deity revealed, before whose radiance and glory the imagina¬
tion must at present fall back dazzled.
The influence of Spiritualism upon humanity has been to
keep alive within man the feeling that he himself is a spirit,
and to elevate him to a higher knowledge of God. This bene¬
ficent influence may be traced back along the pages of history.
Through communion with the world of spirits man has re¬
ceived all revelation. Adam was said to have talked with
God Himself; the ancient prophets and seers were inspired
by the angels of heaven; and when Christ, angel-guarded
and protected—the very Prince of' Spiritualists, appeared, we
have in His life the highest exhibition of mediumistio gifts.
From no human lips, touched by the sacred fire of inspiration,
have we received such grand and holy teachings, such pure
and perfect lessons. They are sufficient as a code of morality,
and pure spiritual living, unto all time. The divine man (the
highest embodiment of divinity which has ever blessed our
planet) was the first to remove some of the clouds which had
obscured the ineffable beauty of God; from Him we first
learn of the God of love; but after He ascended into scenes
of glory in the spirit-world, men industriously drew the cloud-
veils over the beauty again, and transformed the words of
Christ to suit their own fantastic -fancies.
Man has arrived at a period of his existence when he is
ripe for new revelations. He has rusted long enough in the
old fallacies, which have owed their fungoid growth to the
darkness of ignorance; the fires of a new inspiration are
ready to thrill through his frame with quickening ardour, and
leap as forked lightning from his tongue. Were the fathers of
the coming race to be content to go on dragging the cumbrous
vehicle of antiquated creeds and dogmas at their heels, the
sons would kick in the shafts, and batter it to pieces in their
impatience for the new free life of a richer, fuller knowledge.
There are no limits to the permitted powers of mankind, when
exercised in accordance with the laws of God. Man has
obtained dominion over the earth and sea; he has chained
the lightning to do his bidding, [and he is to ascend into
heaven itself, and draw down to earth its treasures of wisdom.
But this is nothing now,—it is an old privilege; the seers and
prophets of the past, from Abraham to Jesus, from Sweden¬
borg to Andrew Jackson Davis, have led the way.
Modern Spiritualism is an elaboration, a perfecting of the
Spiritualism of past ages. The voice of God has gone forth
along the phalanxes of angels in tones of divinest harmony,
calling men of earth up higher. The circles of bright ones
above have joyously taken up the word: bands of our heavenly
brethren have been organised to bring down to us the glad
tidings, and to facilitate ways and means of communication
between the two worlds of spirit and matter. The star of a
Aug. 14, 1874.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
83
new science has ascended above the horizon; ’tis the science
of open communion between the two worlds; and spirits,
quickened with the life and power of this new knowledge,
throng to our earth to teach it to us ; stretching across the
black gulf of the Unknown, loving hands to grasp ours, and
make us feel that humanity is immortal, and brotherly love
imperishable. Fear, begotten of ignorance, has fled like dark¬
ness before the dawn of day. There is no room for fear upon
the bosom of that Divine love which at this day is revealing
new harmonies and perfections in His creation. Reverently
shall we mount the golden ladder stretched down to us by
the hands of our spirit-brethren to catch new glimpses of
beauty from the veiled face of Deity, ’Tis He who permits us.
Shall we then pick up the jewels He throws at our feet
and, examining them distrustfully, call them hell-stones
cast down by Satan to lure us on to perdition ? No!
Waving the broad standard of our majestic, beautiful Spirit¬
ualism, we will clothe ourselves in the wedding garments of
faith and trust; and go forth to the millennial feast of
nations,—that feast of truth which is to join all the peoples of
the earth in the bonds of one faith, and one pursuit, the
eternal pursuit of righteousness, peace, and love.
We are but preparing the way for future generations of
spiritualised beings, who again will walk and talk with God
in paradisaical gardens; that is to say, with the angels of
heaven, the most perfect embodiments of God which can ever
be revealed to our lower powers of comprehension. Already
some of our more advanced Spiritualists enjoy the blessings
of a communion which to the uninitiated world seem the
wildest dreams of a deluded enthusiasm. Already have we
revelations, by the means of our much decried Spiritualism,
which elevate those who accept them into a new existence.
Spiritualism is, and will be the new Saviour of the human
race. Is then this influence good—or is it evil ?
A TRANCE ADDRESS ON NATIONAL
ORGANISATION.
At the soiree of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, held last week at the Beethoven Rooms,
Harley-street, Cavendish-square, under the presidency
of Mr. Benjamin Coleman, Mr. J. J. Morse passed into
the trance state, and the following is a portion of the
address then given by one of his controlling spirits :—
Once upon a time a man owned a piece of land, un¬
cultivated and unbuilt upon, so he resolved that upon
it he would build him a house; thereupon he sent for
bricklayers, and plumbers, and glaziers, and carpenters,
and they brought unto him wood, and stone, and metal,
and glass, which things they cast about in disorder.
Then a noisy and talkative friend, seeing the confu¬
sion, said, “ What’s all this rubbish ?” “ I am going
to build a house,” was the reply. “ But a house is
perfect symmetry. How, in the name of common-
sense, do you expect to get such results out of such
disorderly materials.” “ Why, we must have a dust
and a mess first; afterwards every bit of stone and
metal will fall into its proper place.” Then workmen
came, and all was hurry, bustle, skurry, and drive, so
the friend said, ** How are you going to marshal all
these people ?” Notwithstanding his objections the
friend resolved to build a house all by himself, so
-he dug out a hole, and made a great mess. In
the meantime the first house was finished, and the
friend said, “ How in the name of- goodness did you
create this beautiful and fairy-like structure ?” The
reply was, “We did it by all pulling together;—that is
the process by which we succeeded in getting up this
concern.” The friend went home, and what became
of him the narrative I am quoting does not say, but
some time afterwards the ruins of a house were found
where he had been digging, and a board above it with
“ To Let” inscribed thereupon. In these days Spirit¬
ualists are the materials pitched down to build a house,
and without organisation the house cannot be built. The
unity of man means universal co-operation. My story
of the house is typical of the story of the British
National Association of Spiritualists. Uneducated
ability makes a mess of building a house ; cohesion and
co-operation are the elements required; dissension
causes general confusion. Suppose the moon were to
take a “hump” and say, “I won’t work with the
earth,” astronomers all agree there would be a great
disturbance—perhaps in the money market (Laughter),
the various planets would be agitated, and perhaps the
sun himself would be disturbed in his dignity. If you
would succeed, you must unite. If you would fail-
why, kick out and knock everybody about. The angels
above wish that some of the professed adherents of
Spiritualism would live more in harmony. (Applause.)
A PIANO CARRIED BY SPIRITS.
BY G. NEVILLE.
Thineing it may interest the readers of the Spirit-
uaiist, I send you an account of a most extraordinary
seance held at my residence through the mediumship of
Mr. C. E. Williams, on Sunday the 2nd of August.
There were present Mrs. Ross-Church, Miss Ross-
Church, and Master Erank Ross-Church; Mr. and
Mrs. Campbell; Mr. Ellis; Mr. C. Hellmore;
Mr. C. Colnaghie (all personal friends); my wife
and myself. All sat round the drawing-room
table joining hands; those of the medium were held by
my wife and Mr. Ellis. The gas was put out, and a
hymn sung. In a few minutes beautiful spirit lights
were seen floating above us. Hands came, and amongst
them those of ayoung child—warm and soft—touched us.
A fan was taken from the table and each person fanned;
delicious perfumes pervaded the atmosphere; and a
bell taken from the table was rung high above us,
touching the ceiling, and replaced on the table. A
violin moved all over the room, chords were struck, the
instrument resting in turn on the heads of most of us.
We then heard the well-known voice of “ Peter,” who
after greeting all those he knew, calling them by name,
and recognising Miss Ross-Church, whom he had not
seen for many months, began moving things on the
table, touching us, and otherwise expressing his delight
at once more being with us, who look upon him as an
old friend. He then went to the piano and opening it,
struck three notes; there was a crash caused by glass
falling to the ground, and Peter’s voice plaintively
said, “ Oh, Mrs. Neville, I’ve broken a glass. I am
so sorry.” She answered that “ the pleasure of having
him with us was worth many glasses.” He then
discovered some wine-glasses, and decanters, one of
sherry, the other of claret (which I had placed on the
top of the piano for safety, as I thought), and much to
our surprise brought each of us a glass. We then asked
him fol the wine, which was brought and poured out,
Peter making only one mistake, namely, that of pouring
the claret down my sleeve, instead of into my glass.
I expostulated with him. He replied^4 You could not
hold it straight.”
We then heard a noise as if a large article of furniture
were being moved, and Peter asked for a light. On
procuring one, what a scene of confusion was before us.
The decanters, glasses, candlesticks, &c., were on the
table, all placed there by Peter, and to crown all, the
84
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 14, 1874.
piano, •weighing Ijshould say over three hundred weight,
was moved from the wall and placed behind Mr.
Williams’ chair. It must be distinctly understood that
the medium’s hands were held during the whole seance,
as also those of each person present.
We then sat for the materialised form of t( John
King.” The hapk drawing-room was used as an ex¬
temporised cabinet by one folding door being left open,
and a curtain hung across the aperture. We formed a
semicircle. Mr. Williams retired into the cabinet;
two or three hymns were sung, and in about ten
minutes we were gratified at hearing the voice of King,
who said, “ I am afraid I cannot materialise, as there
is not enough power, but I will try.” We begged him
to make an effort, and after singing another hymn we
saw the spirit light and the handsome face of King
distinctly, both floating, as it were, about eight feet
from the ground; at the same time we heard the
medium coughing in the next room. King greeted
those he knew, saying “ he could not shake hands, not
having power enough to form them ; that in future we
must not let Peter use so much before he appeared.”
Many questions were asked and answered, and after
his customary “God bless you,” he gradually faded
away; and so ended one of the most delightful seances
I ever witnessed.
Por the instruction of those who do not believe in
the pure faith of Spiritualisin I must add this—Mr.
Williams came to my house alone ; he knew a few of
those present but slightly; he had never been in my
drawing-room for one instant without my accompany¬
ing him, and he was watched throughout the evening
most jealously by one of my friends, who was some¬
what sceptical, but who is now a firm believer in the
truth and honesty of the mediumship of Mr. Williams.
9, Regent’s-park-terrace, Gloucester-gate, N.W.
THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT BELFAST.
[From our own Correspondent.)
Bblfast, Wednesday Morning.
Propessob Tyndall will preside this year over the meeting
of the British Association for the Advancement of Science,
and will deliver his opening address on Wednesday evening
next. Professor Huxley and Sir John Lubbock will deliver
the evening lectures. The Anthropological,Section, in which
Spiritualism is likely to crop up if the subject should, come
before the Association at all, will hold its meetings in one of
the lecture theatres in Queen’s College. Those who come to
the meeting from London have the choice of four routes,
namely, via Holyhead, Liverpool, Fleetwood, Barrow, and
Stranraer ; the latter is the shortest sea passage, but the
Fleetwood route, per rail from Euston, is considered by the
Belfast people the chief line of communication. The Midland
Railway has a very good service via Barrow, and the Holy-
head route is the one by which the mails are sent. The
private lodging accommodation here is likely to be sufficient,
but the apartments at the disposal of the Association, are
chiefly in two groups at opposite ends of the town, whereas
all the meetings are held at one end, in the vicinity of Queen’s
College; there is, however, expeditious communication with
the other end of Belfast by means of trams and cars. All
preparations for the Association meetings are progressing
favourably; there are no local dissensions like those which
marred the Edinburgh meeting. The town, however, is in an
unhappy state, in consequence of about 30,000 men in con¬
nection with its staple trade—the manufacture of linen—being
out on strike; they have been doing nothing for some weeks,
but are peaceable and orderly.
As the method of procedure of the National Association of
Spiritualists, with its annual Conferences, is now very similar
in kind to that of the British Association, those interested in
perfecting the laws and constitution of the former, cannot do,
better than to compare them with those of the latter. The
assistant secretary, Mr. George Griffith, M.A., of Harrow,
would probably give information about its rules if asked after
this meeting is over, but for the next two weeks he is sure to
be very busy. If the suggestion made at the recent Conference
is carried out, and popular scientific lectures established in
connection with Spiritualism, we shall then have a British
Association of our own, a Royal Institution of our own,
and ja scientific newspaper of our own. Thus Spiritualism
will be completely independent of alleged scientific men,
who ignore the most important of all the sciences, namely,
that which tends to give information relating to the life of a
man during millions of years, instead of only the three score
years and ten, popularly supposed to be alone open to his
accurate knowledge at present.
Miss Kisiixgbttbt, one of the honorary secretaries to
the National Association, has left town until the end of
October. Her address is Crickleaze, Combe St. Nicholas,
Chard, Somerset.
The Christian Spirit oe a Swedenborgian.—Mr.
W. H. Harrison has received the following letter (dated Aug. 6)
from a stranger to him :—“ Sir,—As a reader of Swedenborg
for twenty years, I beg to tell you that Swedenborg was not
a ‘ spiritual medium,’ as asserted by you at the Conference of
Spiritualists, and reported in the Daily News of this day, and
I think you ought to have known better than to propagate
such a falsehood.—J. Gunton, 262, Brixton-road.
Curiosities Exhibited at the Soiree.—Among the
curiosities exhibited at the soiree of the British National
Association of Spiritualists, was some writing done by the
infant boy of Mr. and Mrs. Jencken, aged five months, the
pencil having been placed in his hand by invisible agency.
There were also some specimens of direct writing, done by
the agency of spirits through the mediumship of Mrs. Everitt.
Mrs. Fitzgerald lent several photographs, the spirit
faces on which had been recognised, and a dried flower
which had been brought through closed doors at a seance in
her own house; also a turban of white muslin twisted by the
hands of the spirit Peter, and placed on Mrs. Fitzgerald’s
head at the same seance. Mr. Coleman lent a small oil paint¬
ing, produced in the space of four minutes without human
agency, through the mediumship of David Duguid. Pieces of
Katie King’s dress, veil, and hair were also shown under
glass, lent by Mrs. Cook and Mr. Coleman.
The Birmingham Spiritual Institute.—A local or¬
ganisation under the name of “-The Birminghan and Midland
Spiritual Institute,” meets at 5'8, Suffqlk-street, Birmingham.
Its president is Mr. Jabez Lpnes, and its corresponding secre¬
tary Mrs. A* Franklin. The object of the Institute is to give
information and facilities to all persons who may wish to
investigate Spiritualism, and its rooms are open from 7.30
p.m. to 10 every evening. Members are entitled to use thp
reading-room, to have access to its library of valuable works
on the subject of Modern Spiritualism, and to the use of the
seance room, in which room a certain number of friends meet
and form spirit circles. The society has been the means of
doing much good in Birmingham and the surrounding dis¬
tricts. The committee desires specially to call attention to
ijhe open circle held on Thursday evenings at eight o’clock.
This little Birmingham organisation, we are sorry to say, is
not in a very flourishing condition; but as one of its leading
members is now lecturing in the United States, and has pub¬
lished in the Banner of Light that he means to give all the
profits to the Birmingham Institute, its members had better
hold together perseveringly, and take care that the society
lives within its income.
TNSCRUTABLE are the laws that govern the incidence of
JL some of the, greatest calamities.—A RAILWAT ACCIDENT is, to
any particular person, a (theoretically) remote contingency, hut it may
happen, as a matter of fact, the very next journey undertaken. The risk,
in a pecuniary sense, may now be covered FOR LIFE by a single small
payment.—Apply for prospectus of the
RAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSURANCE COMPANY
Limited,
to
THE MANAGER, 42, POULTRY, LONDON, E.C.
OB to
MR. THOMAS BLYTON, AGENT, 12, HIGH-STREET, BOW,
LONDON, E.
Aug. 14, 1874
THE SPIRITUALIST.
111
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
ISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can be consulted on either
Medical op Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
12 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 21, Princes-
street, Hanover- square, two doors from Regent-street.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Oambridge-streetj Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21, Green-street. Grosvenor-square, "W
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hiU, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple,E.O.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryans ton-square, W.
Boss-Church, Mrs. (Florence Marryat), 21, Colville-road, Kensingston-
park, W.
Smith, Martin R., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thomham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Kepingale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath, 8.E.
Davies, Rev. C. Maurice, D.D., 44, Nether wood-road, West Kensington-
park, W.
Dawe, N. F., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-rpad-terrace, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road North,
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A.S., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.O.
Harper, Robert, 6, South-street,- Finsbury, JS.C.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphries, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-street, Hyde-park, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Blaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.D.
Meers, W. D., care of T. Everitt, Holders-bill, Hendon.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., United University Club, S.W.
Pearce, O. W., F.S.S., 14, Burnley-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29, Dalyell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, M.A.,M.D.,-LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road,[01dKent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Showers, Mrs. Frederika, Hazel Down, Teignmouth.
Snelling, G. F., Gamden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. O., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietkens, E. A., 18, Oakley-square, N.W.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxfprd and Cambridge Club, Pall SJall,
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terface, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Onne-square, Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
N. F. Dawe, Esq., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. {Home Corres¬
pondence)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. {Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary.
Mr. Louis Freeman, York-hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. 1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Crder of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hummonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor of the Progressive Spiritualist, Melbourne,
Australia.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James MyIne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. Constant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Au^tAiSK
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Rue de Rome, Paris.
W. Lindesay Richardson, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Pafist
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Pans.
Gr. C. Wittig, Esq., Numberger Strasse 85, Leipsie.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bemard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Tears estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Gampden-hill, Kensington.
R. W. Gr. SCORET, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bushi
W. Please write.
Messrs, harry bastian and malcolm tay-
LOR, Physical and Mental Test Mediums from America. Seances
every evening, except Sunday, at Eight o’clock. Tickets 5s. each. Address
36, Keppel-street, Russell-square.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIYE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 161, Hampstead-
road, London, N.VT. To be seen by appointment only. Terms, on applica¬
tion by letter.
JY. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your'Letters.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERRD by R. W. Flint,
39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmqnds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
VISITORS to LONDON will find Comfortable Bedrooms
and Good Attendance at Mrs. Jackson’s Table dCHote. Moderate
Charges. 3, Torrington-street, Torrington-square, London, W.O. 
WANTED, for a Lady Spiritualist, the services of a
YOUTH, under 16, or a very YOUNG'GIRL, as Private Secre¬
tary. A good Grammarian indispensable, and one who can also write
French preferred. Address, Hope, care of Mrs. Garraway, 23, Thurloe-
square, S.W.
WANTED by a Married Couple (Spiritualists), with a
little girl, for a permanency, & small HOUSE, or part of a house
(npfumished), to consist of bedrooni, two parlours, and a kitchen. Must
be in good repair, and healthily situated. Vicinity of Highbury, Dalston,
or Hackney Stations (North London Railway), preferred. Rent, inclusive
of all taxes, mpst he moderate. Letters to be addressed to, “Advertiser,”
care of Thus. Blyfon, 12, High-street, Bow, London, E.
A GENTLEMAN whp is a Spiritualist, and ppssesses
great healing power, residing in a healthy locality amongst the
Derbyshire hills, having undertaken the charge of a gentleman suffering
from sun stroke, desires to meet with another patient somewhat similarly
affected. Terms moderate. For further particulars apply to “H” care of
Mr. F. A. Binney, Solicitor, 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Mohammed and Mohammedanism: Lectures
delivered at the Royal Institution of Great Britain in February and
March, 1874. By R. BOSWORTH SMITH, M.A. Crown 8vo., 6s.
“ A view of Mohammed’s life and doctrines, perhaps more faithful and
more just than any that has before been published.’’—Academy.
"“ A learned, able, and eloquent volume . . . acute thinking, judicial
reasoning, and eloquent exposition.”—Scotsman.
SPIRITUALISM
FROM A NEUTRAL STAND-POINT.
A Resume of Evidence—pro and con.
BY H. VENMAN.
Post-free for 13 Stamps.
Ingle & CO., 20, Pimlico-road, London, S.W.
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyermaw.
Price Threepence, j-To be had of W. H. Terry, 96, Rnssell-street, Melbourne
and all Australian Booksellers.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 14, 1874.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism! deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. G-. Atkinson, Esq., F.G-.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D. ; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.I Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Sillier, Esq:; Mrs. J. G. Sillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kiseh, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Eobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; 0. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred E. Wallace, Esq., F.E.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ T. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
Bitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table wfll do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters-breaks the circle by leaving the table it Sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom pf the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
AN APPEAL TO SPIRITUALISTS AND FRIENDS.
HE Spiritualists of Sowerby Bridge have, up to the
present time, held their meetiogs in a cottage at Causeway Head.
This has now been found inadequate, and in order to carry out more pro¬
gressive principles, a new Lyceum has been built to seat'about 300 persons in
Hollin’s-lane Sowerby-bridge, along with eight dwellings which are
intended to endow the Lyceum at-some future time, when they can be
freed from Mortgage. The Building when complete, will cost above £1,500
of which £1,000 has been obtained on mortgage at the rate of 5 per cent,
per annum, which leaves a debt of over £400. An Appeal to the friends
of Spiritualism is proposed. It is desired that 300 friends will kindly give
£1 each; the remainder will probably be raised at home. Mrs. Cora L.
V. Tappan has kindly consented to open the New Hall, and she heads the
list with a donation of £5. Several friends in the out-district have already
promised £1 each. The Bradford friends are arranging for a benefit of
two Orations to be given by Mr. J. J. Morse, of London, some time in the
month of August.
This is earnestly put before the friends of the movement, as it is impossi¬
ble to borrow money on a School, or Lyceum, owing to the actions of the
School Board And as this is the first building in the kingdom of Great
Britain, belonging solely to Spiritualism, and as the money will shortly be
due to the various contractors, it is hoped that those who can do something
for the cause will do so. The projectors are all working men, and this is
one of the boldest attempts to carry out the true religion or science of
Spiritualism. It is intended to open the new Lyceum on Sunday,
August 2nd, 1874.
To those who are not in a position to give the amount, smaller sums may
be sent, and to those who cannot give money, tracts, books, spiritual
periodicals, and back numbers of the London Spiritual papers will be thank¬
fully received. As a library is connected with the Institution, those who
can help with books will do good in many ways. The friends are thankful
for the support and encouragement that have already been given, and
kindly solicit further favour and support.
Donations for this great object can be forwarded to the Secretary,
Henry Lord, Union street. Beech,
July 14th. Sowerby-bridge, Yorkshire.
Zist already promised.
£ s. d.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan.., ... ... ... 6 0 0
Twelve other friends £1 each ... , ... ■ 12 0 0
* A Friend at Oldham  .1 0 0
A Ditto at Manchester    ... 10 0
H. J. L  ... ... ... 20 0 0
National Association of Spiritualists, London 6 0 0
John Lamont, Liverpool   ... 1 1 0
E. Broadbent ...   10 0
J, G    ,...200
Three Friends   1 12 6
J. Milner ... ... ... ... ... ... 100
J. C. and J. S. .;  7 6
Wm. Jackson   ... . 2 0 0
E. Holt  10 0
Benjamin Swaine, 3rd Donation ... ... 1 0 0
A Bath Friend   ... ... '... 10' 0
Two Spiritualists  4 6
Proceeds from Mr. Tappan’s Oration ... 6 10 0
£61 6 6
A parcel of 8 Books and Tracts from James Baistrick, Leeds.
Mr. James Bums has kindly given his services on Sunday, August 9th,
1874, for the benefit of the new Lyceum.
P.S.—The amounts and other gifts will be acknowledged in the London
Spiritualist periodicals.  
OOO REWARD.—MASKELYNE & COOKE.
AN EXPOSE
OF THE FALSENESS OF THEIR PRETENSIONS.
By ALGEBNON JOY, M.I.O.E. (IOTA).
London: E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane.
Price One Penny.  
Just published, price 2s.
CURATIVE MESMERISM,
BY
PEOFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, or from
Bailliere & Co., King 'William-street, Strand.
JOHN BRAT,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper, kept on sale.
GENTLEMAN, formerly Master of a Church Grammar
School, thrown out of occupation through his adoption of
Spiritualism, will be grateful if any brother Spiritualist will put him in
the way, directly or indirectly, of procuring in London, or elsewhere,
employment as PRIVATE SECEETABY, Tutor, Master of School, or
otherwise. Address: Alpha, 18, Atlingworth-street, Brighton.
Printed for the Pi'oprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
. Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.O.
