AMD JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[EEGISTEEED FOE TBANSMISSION ABBOAD.]
No. 146.—(Vol. YI.—No. 24.) LONDON: JUNE
11, 1875.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence*
foments.
Spirit Teachings. No. XXXIV.   .... ...
Spiritualism in St. Petersburg. By the Hon. Alexandre Akeakof,
Eussian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St,
Stanislas        * 
National Association Library •     ... ...
A Sketch in.Dark Colours )  
An Experimental Circle in New York 
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Action of the National As¬
sociation in relation to the Persecution of Spiritualists in Paris—Last
Week’s Soiree—The Case of M. Leymarie and Mr. Firman—The
New Qalvanomatric Apparatus for Testing Mediums during Mate¬
rialisation Stances   282
Stances with Miss Showers    :...   283
Reply to the Attack upon Spiritualism by the Archbishop of Toulouse 284
The Persecution of Spiritualists in Paris. By J. L. O’Sullivan  ' 285
Correspondence:—Spiritualism in Barrow-in-Furness—The Rev. Dr.
Vaughan on Spirit Intercourse—Sunday Lectures by Dr. Sexton—
Moral Influences at Seances—A Curious Phase of Witchcraft—Spi¬
ritualism and Conjurors—Publication of Trance Messages given
through Mr. Duguid’s Mediumship  I ... 286
Paragraphs:—Dalston Association of Spiritualists, 281; Spiritualism
in Russia, 281; Mr. Morse’s Return, 285; Spiritualism in Dalston,
288; Mesmeric Healing, 288; Lecture by Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan ... 288
East London spiritual meetinos. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. \ Supported by voluntary contributions.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Foub'per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager,
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per'annum, exclusive of postage.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
EJ. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not iu stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist', Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c, &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6 J. Single copies may be ordered. Terms cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to Mr. BARKAS),
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy 8vo
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel swedenborg : ms life and
WRITING. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the
Doctrines and the other-world Experiences of the,Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth, also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav¬
ings, by C. H. Jeens—I. Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Sbara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg's House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden,
borg, aged 80. "
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size. 3s.; small size. Is.
BEYERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
BRUTISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposa1
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year
1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, at which
all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the Spiritualists of the chief
towns in the United Kingdom, were represented. The amount of the
annual subscription to the National Association is optional, with a min¬
imum of five shillings a year. Each member has a single vote at the
general meetings, and is eligible for election to all offices.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury,
Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.C., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules
may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Wobum-street.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected with Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
in addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
A Seance coom can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
THE
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
ITS
WILL HOLD
NEXT CONYERSAZIONE
On Wednesday, July 21s#.
These meetings have been organised at the request, and for the benefit of
Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting friends and members,
and of discussing matters of interest connected with the Spiritualistic move¬
ment.
Music and other entertainment will be provided at each meeting.
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of interest is re*
quested for exhibition.
Hours, from 7 to 10.30 p.m.
Admission by Tickets only, to be obtained in advance of the resident
secretary, Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALI STS.
PRIZE ESSAYS.
The Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists offers
THE GOLD MEDAL OF THE ASSOCIATION,
Or the sum of £20 in money, for the best Essay upon the following subject:
The probable effect of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral, and
Religious Condition cf Society.
Second Prize, £10,
The competition is open to all British born or naturalised British sub¬
jects, and to all Foreign members of the British National Association of
iSpiritualists.
■ The essays to be forwarded, not later than the 1st October, 1875. to the
Resident Secretary, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.G., of
whom further particulars can be had on application.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 11, 1875
u
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOG f, MES¬
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY,
OST SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “ THE SPIRITUATAST" NEWSPAPER,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON, W.C. *
(Entrance in Woburn-street).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A standard work
containing interesting and well authenticated facts, proving the reality
of spirit communion. It also contains an elaborate essay defining the
author’s views of the relationship of Spiritualism to the Christian
Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD,
by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorbing interest, replete
with well authenticated narratives describing manifestations produced
by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of the Dialec¬
tical Society. This committee consisted of literary, scientific, and
other professional men who investigated Spiritualism for two years
without engaging the services of any professional medium, after which
they published the report. Original edition, 15s.; abridged edition,
5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM,
by "William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever published to scientifi¬
cally demonstrate the reality of some of the physical phenomena of
Spiritualism. 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Alfred
Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly argument in
reply to Hume’s Essay on Miracles. It also records a large number of
interesting spiritual manifestations, and contains some of the personal
experiences of Mr. Wallace. 5s.
LANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE, by Epes
Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well authenticated spiritual
phenomena. Information about the relationship of Spiritualism to
Religion and Science is also given. 6s.; New edition, 7s. fid.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey. A brilliant,
well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly bound, with gilt
edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S.. This book consists of
essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific aspects of Spiritualism.
3s. fid,
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR SPIRITUALISM EX¬
PLAINED, by Fritz. A practically useful work for inquirers, giving
general information about English professional and non-professional
mediums, also about the periodical and other Literature of Spiritualism.
3s.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant at Law, An
introduction to Psychology. This book admits the reality, of some of
the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but argues that they are pro¬
duced by an alleged Psychic Force, unconsciously governed in its
action by the thoughts of the medium or the spectators. 8s. The
first vol. of this book, which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of
print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev. F. G.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly published book contains Facts and Traditions
relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions, Wraiths, Warnings and
Witchcraft. The author admits the reality of Spiritual visitations hut
considers Modern Spiritualism to be diabolical. He, however, gives
valuable facts, previously unpublished, and prints the only authorised
and complete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCE OF SPIRITUALISM, by
M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains experi¬
ments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Frte Will. 2s. fid.
ARCANA OF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vols., 12s.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clairvoyant. 8s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND, by Maria M. King. 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, by Lizzie Doten. Best edition, gilt.
10s. fid.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE, by Lizzie Doten. Last edition,
gilt. 10s. fid.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem by Lizzie
Doten. 2s.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard. -6d.
MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E. Newton. Is. 3d.
LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H. Powell, Is. 3d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s. Gd.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive principles.
5s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD.
Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid. •
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by CoL BL S. Olcott
14s. > j
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epa* Sargent.
7s. fid.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7*.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MESMERISM,
ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY.—Continued.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. Vol. L, 7s. 6d.
Vols. II and III 8s. each.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. Gd.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s trans¬
lation.) 7s. fid.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. Gd.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles. 7s. Gd.
STATUVOLENCE, OR ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM.
7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHTSIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma Hardinge.
15s. •
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 6s. Gd.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting little
book, containing Messages given by Spirits through the Writing Me¬
diumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by Adolphe
Didier. 2s.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr, Bucknill and Dr. Daniel
H. Tuke. 25s.
PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY, by Serjeant Cox. Is.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS.
S. d.
Natures’ Divine Revelations     17 0
The Physician, Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia    7 6
The Teacher. „ II. ,,   7 6
The Seer. „ IIL „      7 6
The Reformer. „ IV. „   7 fi
The Thinker. „ V. „    7 6
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis    7 6
A Stellar Key to the Summer Laud  .' '.  4 0
Arabula, or Divine Guest   7 6
Approaching Crisis, or Truth®. Theology       5 0
Answers to ifiver-recurring Questions from the People   7 6
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual  ;  3 6
Death and the After-Life   4 0
History and Philosophy of Evil     4 0
Harbinger of Health           7 6
Harmonial Man, or Thoughts for the Age   4 0
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memorander.)   7 6
Philosophy of Special Providence     3 0
E’ree Thoughts Concerning Religion   4 0
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers  8 0
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse   6 6
The Inner Life, or Spirit Mysteries Explained   7 6
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves   7 6
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings  5 0
Tale of a Physician, or Seeds and Fruits of Crime     5 0
Diakka, and their Earthly Victims     3 0
Congugal Love; Truth v. Theology    3 0
Morning Lectures...  7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS.
s. a.
Oriental Religions (Johnson)         24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recom¬
mended by The Spiritualist newspaper  2 6
Keys of the Creeds      5 o
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing Interesting
particulars and legends relating to Buddhism   14 0
Thrae Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel)  5 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes)  18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal)  5 0
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal;    ,. 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen  7 6
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1875.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.—Mr. Edwaid Hope, 74, Russell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitchman, Messrs. John Priest.
R. Casson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. G,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
HE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
VOMJJVIE £IX. ]MUJV!BEF{ TWENTY-FOUR.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JUNE 11th, 1870.
SpMtalxst
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTSThree shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition/ Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Boduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters- containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptiohs:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of '•'■The Spiritualist'''' in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
• City agent. Our publisher,:Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Bochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., '383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Eichard Eoberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
n AUSTEALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Bussell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. B. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Olarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Bandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Biley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct ff om the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe
and London, is one shilling.
C1EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroj-square, W.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
NO. XXXIV.
[/ did not see that any good end could he served by
reiterating objections which I was far from considering
that Imperator had met. I regarded his reply as ajoiece
of special pleading. I never denied the claims put for¬
ward by him, and he ignored utterly what seemed to me
of the last importance. I considered that I had a com¬
plete right to require proof which should satisfy my own
judgment as to identity, and which should establish in my
mind a conviction that I was not the sport of my own
fancy, or of a delusion, or of an organised attempt to
deceive. So I simply stated again what my difficulty
was, saying that it had not been met, and that a threat of
withdrawal only made matters worse. I professed my
readiness to wait, to review what had been said, and to
hear and weigh anything that might be added. But I
stated firmly that I could go no step further until my
judgment was satisfied. I pointed out that vague denun¬
ciation was not ivith us considered to be reply, and that
a frame of mind such as mine was not fairly described in
terms that had been used. Moreover, I submitted that to
tell me that Jesus Christ refused all tests save those of His
own choosing—while undoubtedly a strong point—was per¬
haps a dangerous argument to advance. As to the threat of
withdrawal, I said that it would only be to leave me in
my present state of uncertainty, not to say of disbelief,
and its result must be to cause me to throw over the
whole matter as a tangled web which I could not unravel:
which might be useful if one could disentangle it, but
which might be useless and unprofitable, and which pro¬
bably was not worth the trouble. The answer came at
once:—]
Friend, we have weighed what you say, and we are
disposed to recognise the cogency of your reply. We
did not intend in the words which we felt constrained
to employ to censure your desire for information, but
rather the attitude of mind which seemed to prescribe
to us conditions with which we felt ourselves unable to
comply. And we intended to convey forcibly to your
mind the impression which was made upon us by con¬
stant opposition, or at least by the perpetual presence
in your mind of anxiety and mistrust. Such inhar¬
monious conditions hamper us. "We have a mission to
* In The Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of
some remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-road, St. John's-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extractsthey gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium free, to a large extent, at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently the “spirit teachings” printed above,, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chionological order from a mass which bas been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature ihat
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is nude. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many; each gives his name and detai'sof his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all Cm sea unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to he correct in every particular. The hamlS
writing pecuii«r to the communicating intelligence is always preterved
and the individuality remains throughout the same.—Ed.
278
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 11, 1875.
discharge, and we are not content to wait and waste
precious time and opportunity. We have a work to do,
and it must be done; if not through this circle of friends,
then through others. And we did but state our intention
of withdrawing from you because we accepted your own
statement that it was impossible for you to go forward
until we had complied with your conditions. We could
not do so, and felt the necessity of withdrawal. We
have no wish to break the connection we have formed,
and to undo the work which has been so laboriously ac¬
complished. It may be that in the futurewe may influence
you more fully. It may be that rest and reflection may
help us and you. We urge you to ponder and meditate,
and to ask only at rare intervals for communications in
circle. Only when an earnest desire for communion
exists will we give it. We are not desirous indeed to
add anything to what has already been given. The
additions to our circle which you speak of are not
desirable. Every such addition involves a change of
conditions which causes much anxious care and trouble
to us, which we do not grudge when there is prospect
of advantage. In this case there is not, and we must
discourage the scheme.
All attempts at physical experiment with yourself
we absolutely forbid. You are certainly unable to bear
the strain which such could involve; especially now,
you set too much store by mere physical marvels. They
are at best subsidiary. And you run risk of injury by
sitting in strange circles. We discourage all such
attempts. They do but retard progress, and will end
in injury and disappointment. Such a course is never
beneficial to you; and though we have not interfered
to prevent you from joining other circles, we tell you
that we must repress such attempts now. If we are to
work with you, you must seclude yourself from other
influences. This is essential. If you do not, you
render yourself so far the worse for our work, and run
grave risk of possession by intelligences whom you
would avoid, did you know more of the risk you run,
and with whom we could have no part. You err in
supposing that your power is of value to other spirits in
other circles. We prevent that; and you will gain no
proofs in that way, nor be of service in helping other
mediums ; rather the reverse. We cannot allow you
to be so used.
Eor the .present we do not enter further into the
points raised. Did we not know integrity and truth to
govern your mind, we should long since have ceased to
take pains which yield so little fruit. Ignorance has
caused you to do much that you would not have done
had you been wiser. And though our friends have not
aided us as we hoped, we have desired to do all we can
to benefit them and you. But there is a limit to our
power and will in such matters, and we should act
unwisely did we attempt to force on you that for which
collectively you are not fit. Hereafter it may be done;
now we see it is impossible to do more. We shall not
attempt fresh efforts. We cannot spend further time
and pains on that which, you have convinced us, is
useless. Your arguments prove at any rate that your
mind has not grasped the true nature of our work. We
are not able, nor indeed are we willing, to comply with
the suggested tests which you prescribe. It is not thus
that conviction is assured, and God’s messengers
avouched. Compliance would but cause further
demands; and conviction cannot be established by any
such material means.
Meditate rather on what has been done. You have
put aside what we have laid before you. We do not
blame you for honestly rejecting what does not com¬
mend itself to you. But this done, we have no
alternative. The choice is of eternal import, and you
appear to have made it; whether wisely, time will show
you; and it may then be possible for you to undo some
of the effects of your choice. We would even yet hope
that a careful review of your position may induce you
to retreat from it. + Imperator.
[On the following day, Oct. 4, 1878, the writing was
resumed. Some of it is so 'purely personal that I prefer
not to print it. The gist of it all was the reiteration of
the claims previously made, and the concession of some
points which I had insisted on, especially that of the
threatened withdrawal. On this point the reply shows
such evidence of pure human reason, and is so typical of
the logical method in which this intelligence has always
dealt with my arguments, that I print it as it stands,
though so personal in its nature, It was written with
great clearness and rapidity, and entirely without know¬
ledge on my part of what the substance was until it was
complete.']
I, the servant of God, the minister of the Most High,
and the guide and guardian of your spirit, implore upon
you the divine benediction. The Holy and Loving
Eather bless you. May the influences, invisible but
potent, by which you are surrounded be gracious and
powerful for your good. It has been strongly urged
on us that we should pause before we abandon all our
efforts to act further upon you. This has especially
been put forward by [a friend recently dead, who
had communicated loith me very soon after his departure]
whose knowledge of the conditions of belief which
beset you is more fresh and vivid than our own. It
has been urged that, while our work must be done
through others if not through you, still that time should
be given for consideration, and that no one who has
received the mass of evidence which you have can in
the end resist complete conviction of the truth. The
point of view from which you see, the mists of preju¬
dice which enshroud even a candid mind, the influences
which the adversaries are able to throw around you,
the difficulties which must beset attempts at spirit
intercourse—all these are points which are to be borne
in mind. And while we, knowing as we do the truth
and sincerity of all that seems to you dubious, can
scarcely grasp your position, we are still hopeful that
the earnestness and reality of your doubts will be the
measure of the strength of your conviction in the
future. ‘
So long as your frame of mind did not surround you
with an atmosphere in which we were not able to act
upon you, we confined ourselves to replying to your
difficulties. But when the circle which we had gathered
with such pains and care became so broken as to be
useless, and so inharmonious that it was impossible for
us to establish a control in most cases, our plans were
frustrated, and we were forced to consider if any good
could come of further efforts. The constant repetition
of physical phenomena was far from our wish. It is
not for such purpose that we are with you. And even
if it were, we could not use your organism for that mode
of manifestation. The daily demand which you make
upon your vital power, and the peculiar nature of your
bodily strength, constantly fluctuating, preclude any
such attempts. It needs a ruder organism on which
no other demands are made to safely carry out such
experiments. We have indeed successfully communicated
June 11, 1875.
THE SPIBITUALIST.
279
to you in this way by writing much that we desired to
say. But, after all, we found that a great part of our
work was confined to answering your objections, and,
as regards our circle, the great end we have in view re¬
mained unaccomplished.
It was while we were perplexed and troubled thus
that you put forward a demand for certain tests which
we found it impossible as well as undesirable to give.
We felt that they would but be the prelude to more;
and we knew that you had not sufficiently weighed the
evidence already given. Moreover, we could, at our
own opportunity, supply better proof than that which
you ignorantly asked for. So we decided that if you
were withdrawn from spirit communion, by the with¬
drawal of communications, your mind would probably
recur to the past, and learn its lessons aright. But we
have in view the alternative prospect, which is that we
are unable to cut off the power which is in you, though
we may refuse to use it; and so that you would run
the risk of its being seized upon by others, and deceit and
falsehood might find an entry, and our work be utterly
set at naught. We dare not ignore this risk. Nor can
we refuse to acknowledge that to leave you now might
be to allow you to relapse into disbelief. From the
habit of pure logical deduction which in you supersedes
intuition to a great extent, it might result that you
would cease to believe what had ceased to occur daily.
Impressions would fade, and gradually die out.
It seems, then, that patient waiting is the only course
that docs not present difficulty. We are not able to
prophesy results. But we know the two roads that lie
before you, and that you will pursue whichever of them
your reason chooses. We have no power, even if we
had the wish, to force your choice. Its responsibility
rests solely on yourself. You may choose well, and
your spirit be put on the road to progress and enlighten¬
ment ; or you may refuse the opportunity, and find that
you have thereby consigned yourself to darkness and
retrogression in the future. That rests with you. We
abate not a jot of our claims: rather do we magnify
them. You will know in the future more clearly what
they are. For the present, earnest, prayerful and care¬
ful study is due to us, and what we have put before
you. Go over the past: weigh its teachings, study its
records, draw out in words your conclusions from it.
Mark the progress made. Becord with minute care the
process by which what you admit to he a Divine Creed
has been elaborated. And then carry on your mind to
the future. Look down the vista of the ages yet to
come. Beflect that you stand but on the very thresh¬
old ; that much remains to be eradicated before your
spirit can progress; that much has to be cleared away
before the building can be raised; that eternity is before
you, and that we proffer to you the key of knowledge.
Pause, we implore you, before you reject what comes
a second time to none. Bejected it will be'h curse that
shall rest like a dark shadow on your soul through the
ages. Accepted, it shall be a jewel that shall shine
with increasing lustre, brighter and brighter yet through
eternity.
Pray, rather pray to the Great Father that He will
bless your woifc, and allow us to guide you still. Pray
that your spirit may be raised from the cold, cheerless
atmosphere of earth to commune with the bright intel¬
ligences that wait to instruct you. Few have been
so tended, shall it be that few have so little bene¬
fited? Our prayers shall mingle with yours that such
may not be, but that you may be protected from in¬
fluences of ill, bodily and spiritual, and that you may
be led on to higher fields of knowledge, and to clearer
and more perfect trust.
Father Eternal, Infinite, All-wise, we draw near to
Thee, and lay before Thee our petitions, knowing that
Thou dost hear us and wilt answer our prayers.
Eternal God, remove from our path the base and clogs
that hinder and hamper us. Loving Father, shed
into the doubting heart a beam of light to illumine the
dark corners, and to drive out the lurking foe. Mighty
Master, bear down to us that consolation which we
need in our labour. Great the labour, great must be
the love. Great is the work, great must be the power.
Grant it, Almighty Power! And to Thee will we
render our praises. Before Thee we will testify of our
grateful adoration, and to Thee will we bring the free¬
will offering of our loving homage. Glory and bless¬
ing and honour and praise be to Thee from angel and
spirit through Thy universe! + Impekatob S- D"
[The above communication was signed by a great number
of names known to me as those who had influenced my
hand on previous occasions. ■ Eleven different signatures
follow it; and it has. been explained at different times
that no communication comes solely from our spirit, though
one (as in this case) was spokesman, and ptincipally in¬
spired its substance. 1 replied in effect that I was glad
that my position was better understood; and I stated it
thus: Had you simply said that what I asked could not
be done, I should have been content, as I am now, to go
on patiently and watchfully, until the fog lifts. This is
the present position. You have not answered my argu¬
ments in any way. You have reiterated your claims, and
have informed me that you are not able to give proof of
what you advance. Instead of doing so, you revoke what
I must call a hasty conclusion. You say rightly that if I
ceased to believe in the reality and truthfulness of your
statements, I should probably be unable to accept any
others that I had not had th^ same means of testing. And
so opponents would have the forcible argument of one who
had proved the question to the root stating publicly his
reasons for rejecting the claims made. The devil would
get the credit of having wrecked one more soul. I am
glad that you do not propose to deal such a blow to weak
faith. I am content to wait, and when my reason and
judgment are satisfied, I shall have no reason to say so,
for you will know. Till then I can only watch and wait.
I shall do so with all care, for I fully appreciate the im¬
portance of the issues at stake.
No sooner had this concluded than tests of personal
identity began to be given. Spirits were brought whom I
never before heard of, who satisfied me as to their identity
by careful detail of their lives—in all cases literally accu¬
rate. Some, too, whose names were known to me came
and gave facts as to their lives, and in some cases extracts
from their works. On Oct. 5 twenty-six lines from the
works of one Norton, an old alchymist, were written out
in a curious archaic hand. This I subsequently verified
at the British Museum as correct. I do not detail these
cases here, as they only bear incidentally on the Teachings.
I mention Norton’s case as typical. The book is scarce,
and very little is known of Norton, even his date being
uncertain. The next communication of importance was
on Oct. 12, 1873.]
Me. Algeenost Jot, honorary secretary to the National
Association of Spiritualists, reached Galfornia safely, and a
letter just received from him by Miss Kislingbury stated that
he intended to remain there until about the end of May before
leaving for the East coast.
280
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 11, 1875.
SPIRITUALISM IN ST. PETERSBURG.
BY THE HOjS". ALEXANDRE AKSAKOE,
RUSSIAN IMPERIAL COUNCILLOR, AND CHEYALIER
OP THE ORDER OP ST. STANISLAS.
During the -whole of this winter a French medium,
M. Camille Bredif, has taken up his residence in Paris,
so I made an arrangement with him to give me a seance
once a week at my house. Our circle at the beginning
had a limited number of sitters, consisting of M.
Butlerow, M. Wagner (Professor of Zoology at St.
Petersburg University), an ex-professor of physiology
who does not desire his name to be published, my wife,
and myself. We began by holding ten table seances;
we obtained complete levitations of the table and
movements of it without being touched, raps, imitations
-of sounds produced by moving objects over the surface
of the table, and so on. The result of these seances has
been an article by Professor Wagner on “ Psycho-
Dynamic Phenomena,” which he published in my
German paper. Since that time we have begun another
series of experiments by isolating the medium in partial
darkness behind a screen; direct observation by eyesight
being thus cut off by the screen, systems of tying the
medium of a more and more complicated nature were
gradually introduced, and we became convinced of the
reality of the phenomena [produced under these con¬
ditions ; we obtained direct writing and movement of
objects without possible contact with the hands of the
medium, and the appearance of hands of a different
type to those of the medium. The result of the last
series of experiments has been the publication of
another article by Professor Wagner, but this one was
published in Russia in the Revue de VEurope, the best
journal that we possess.
During’ the whole winter the Russian public has not
ceased to take the most lively interest in Bredif’s seances.
Yielding to the pressure, we had to enlarge our circle
by admitting some of ourt best literary and scientific
men, whose presence I thought would be useful to our
cause. The growing interest was increased a hundred¬
fold by the publication of the article by Professor
Wagner, which is quite an epoch in the annals of
Spiritualism in Russia, for it is the first article that the
Russian press has printed in favour of this question,
anditisone, moreover, which emanates from a scientific
authority. But, on the other hand, the article raised a
great deal of abuse, for it brought forth more than
thirty others in various newspapers. It is scarcely
necessary to say that the greater portion of the abuse
has been directed against the professors who have had
the boldness to bear witness to a truth which the world
does not understand, and believes to be but absurd
charlatanism. Although much of the abuse and raillery
has been directed at Professor Wagner, Professor
Butlerow and myself have had to take our share; but
the great result of all this agitation is that the Society
of Physics attached to the University at St. Petersburg
has unanimously accepted the proposition of one of our
most distinguished scientific men, M. Mendeleef, Pro¬
fessor of Chemistry at the University, and a member of
the Academy of Science, to nominate a committee for
the investigation of medial phenomena.
Mrs. Fat, the celebrated medium, contemplates return¬
ing to America shortly.
Mr. Martheze has been travelling in the north of Eng¬
land, observing the manifestations which take place in the
presence of the Liverpool, Newcastle, and other mediums.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION LIBRARY. -
The following splendid additions, the gift of the Rev. "W.
Whitear, have been made to the library of the Association:—
“ Nature,” eight complete volumes, bound; Duke of Argyll’s
“ Reign of Law; ” “Atlantic Monthly,” two vols.; Bekker’s
“World Bewitched,” published in 1695; Calmet’s “Appa¬
ritions,” published in 1759; Dr. W. B. Carpenter’s “Lectures
on the Functions of the Brain ; ” Chevalier’s “ Experiences of
Spiritualism; ” Miss Cobbe’s “ Religious Duty ” and “ Studies,
Ethical and Social; ” B. Coleman’s “ Rise and Progress of
Spiritualism in England; ” George Combe’s ‘ ‘ Constitution of
Man” and “Relation between Science and Religion;”
“ Report of Convention of Spiritualists at Darlington, in
1865 and 1866 ;” “Daybreak,” 1868 and 1869; Mrs. De
Morgan’s “From Matter to Spirit;” Judge Edmond’s
“ Spiritual Tracts ;” “ Glimpses of a Brighter Land ; ” Greg’s
“ Creed of Christendom; ” Bishop Hare’s “ Difficulty of the
Scriptures;” Bishop Hind’s “Nature and Origin of Evil;”
“ Human Nature ” for 1872 and 1874; ” Hutchinson’s “ Essay
concerning Witchcraft;” Rev. J. Jones’s “ Spiritualism the
Work of Demons;” Laming’s “ Spirituality of Causation;”
Laycock’s “Mind and Brail};” “The Medium,” 1872 and
1874 ; Mountford’s “ Miracles, Past and Present; ” Oxlee’s
“ Confutation of Diaholarchy; ” “Pioneeb of Progress,” 1874;
“Quarterly Journal of Science,” 1871 and 1872; Rymer’s
“ Spirit Manifestations; ” “ Recollections of Sir Walter Scott,”
reprinted from “ Fraser’s Magazine ; ” Dr. Sexton’s “ Reply to
Professor Tyndall’s Address ; ” “ The History of Jenny Spin¬
ner, the Ghost of Knebworth ; ” Dr. Travis’s “ Moral Freedom
and Causation ; ” Tyndall’s “ Address at Belfast; ” Yindex’s
“ Spiritualism v. Satanism; ” Wallace’s “ Scientific Aspect
of the Supernatural; ” Welby’s “ Signs before Death; ” Rev.
J. Smith’s “ Coming Man; ” Olcott’s “ People from the other
World;” N. B. Wolfe’s “Startling Facts in Modern Spirit¬
ualism ; ” Lizzie Doten’s “Poems of Progress ; ” Lee’s “ Ani¬
mal Magnetism ; ” Didier’s “ Mesmerism ; ” the first seven
volumes of “ The Zoist,” containing valuable articles by
Dr. Elliotson, Dr. Ashburner, and other writers on Mes¬
merism ; and various numbers of magazines containing
accounts of ghosts or articles of interest to Spiritualists. Mr.
Whitear has also lent the following:—Alabaster’s “Modern
Buddhist;” Atkinson and Martineau’s “Letters on Man’s
Nature and Development; ” Bray’s “ Education of the Feel¬
ings,” “ On Force,” and “ Manual of Anthropology; ” Camp¬
bell’s “ Gospel of the World’s Divine Order; ” Miss Cobbe’s
“ Broken Lights,” “ Dawning Lights,” and “ Hopes of the
Human Race; ” Colenso “ On the Pentateuch; ” Dr. Combe’s
“ Mental Derangement; ” George Combe’s “ Life of Dr.
Combe,” “ Moral Philosophy,” and “ Notes on the United
States; ” Darwin’s “ Descent of Man; ” Fronde’s “ Address
at St. Andrews;” Greg’s “Why are Women Redundant?”
Grove’s “ Correlation of the Physical Forces ” and “ Discourse
on Continuity;” Hanson’s “ Jesus of History;” Herschel’s
“ Familiar Lectures; ” Hurlbut’s “ Human Rights ; ” Irons’s
“ Bible and its Interpreters; ” Jukes’s “ Letters ; ” Lecky’s
“ History of Rationalism; ” Lubbock’s “ Prehistoric Times; ”
Macnaught’s “ Doctrine of Inspiration ; ” J. S. Mill’s “ In¬
augural Address at St. Andrew’s ” and “ Utilitarianism; ” Nor¬
ton’s “ Pentateuch; ” A Country Parson’s “ Yia Catholica; ”
Samuelson’s “ Views of the Deity; ” Seeley’s “Ecce Homo; ”
Simpson’s “ Paris after Waterloo; ” Duke of Somerset’s
“ Christian Theology;” Strange’s “The Bible—is it the Word
of God? ” Tyndall’s “Hours of Exercise in the Alps; ” Ward’s
“ Tremaire; or, The Man of Refinement; ” and Combe’s “ Phre¬
nology” and “ Principles of Criminal Legislation.” A friend,
per Mr. Martin Smith, has presented the following:—Epes
Sargent’s “ Planchette ” and “ Proof Palpable; ” L. Doten’s
“ Poems from the Inner Life; ” Kardec’s “Book on Mediums; ”
Brevier’s “ Two Worlds; ” Hardinge’s “ Modern American
Spiritualism; ” Howitt’s “ History of the Supernatural; ”
Crowell’s “ Primitive Christianity and Modern Spiritualism ; ”
White’s “ Life of Swedenborg; ” Crookes’s “ Researches in
Spiritualism; ” “ Report of the Dialectical Society; ” Wallace’s
“Miracles and Modern Spiritualism;” Owen’s “Debatable
Land ” and “ Footfalls; ” Mrs. De Morgan’s “ From Matter to
Spirit; ” and a complete set of the “ Spiritual Magazine,” 14
vols. Sir Charles Isham has presented:—“ Biography of Mrs.
Conant; ” “ Flashes of Light from the Spirit Land; ” Emer¬
son’s “ History of Magic; ” “ Mary Jane; ” Ferguson’s “ Su-
pramundane Facts; ” and Evans’s “ Mental Cure.” Mr.
Thomas Shorter has presented:—“ Memorials of Theophilus
Trinal;” Davis’s “Progressive Lyceum Manual;” Brevier’s
“ Wayside Verses ” and “ What is Religion ? ” Doherty’s
“ Organic Philosophy ; ” Dennys’s “Alpha; ” Davis’s “ Seer;”.
June 11, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
281
“ Spiritual Magazine ” for 1874; “ The Ghost in the Tower,’
from Notes and Queries; Owen’s “ Self-supporting Home Co'
lonies ; ” Travis’s “ Free-will and Law; ” “ Quarterly Journa
of Education; ” and odd numbers of reviews and journals1
Two copies of “Heaven Opened ” have been presented by Miss
Theobald; Wilkinson’s “ Spirit-Drawings,” by Mrs. E. Corner;
Count de Medina Pomar’s “ Honeymoon,” by the Countess of
Caithness; “ Songs of the Spirit,” by Miss Hunt; Murray
Spear’s “ Educator ” and Adin Ballou’s “ Modern Spirit Mani¬
festations,” by Mr. A. Leighton; Wilson’s “ Theological Lec¬
tures,” Harris’s “ Sermons ” and “ Breath of God with Man,”
and Brotherton’s “ Spiritualism and the New Church,” by
Mrs. Thomas Robinson; and Guldenstubbe’s “ Morale Uni-
verselle,” by Mr. A. J. Riko, of The Hague.
A SKETCH IK DARK COLOURS.
A waste—a plain—interminable. Above brood clouds low
and sullen, whose inky masses darken the scene and make
the atmosphere dense and gloomy to a degree which I cannot
describe, neither do I know how to impress you with the idea
of a certain strange and solemn grandeur that dwells in the
great masses and ranges of cloud. It is the only trace of
grandeur in the scene, and perhaps it is thus enhanced. The
degree of light varies through this veil, but nowhere do any
full beams of blessed light find their way. Mandrakes—
thistles—nettles—these form the vegetation. The nettles
grow to trees, and stand in their place in the landscape ; but
their neighbourhood is death even to the dark miserable
forms that people the plain, for they poison the air around
them. What their touch is like is not known, for no one has
survived the touch an instant who has unwittingly come
against it. They are the living growth from the concentrated
spite and hatred of the sphere beneath them.
Stagnant pools! Green, harsh waters that cannot slake
the thirst. Yet round their brink hover shrouded figures,
whose faces are half-hidden by their stooping attitude. They
poke—they peer—they search—for there are black fish in this
water which they eat. Loathsome food! but they are con¬
sumed with the unsatisfied pangs of hunger. Other forms
wander aimlessly and shrinkingly over the rough stones.
Death ! You may wonder at the word when I tell you that
I am describing that world which is called spiritual. I say is
called, because the word should not be used indiscriminately.
There are other worlds besides the spiritual and the material.
Many who leave your earth are clothed with the husks and
outer emanations of their dead body—they have no spiritual
body to be clothed in. They are not dressed in robes of light,
nor do they stand in the rays of the spiritual sun. The spark
of spiritual life which they possess forms for itself a semi-
corporeal body which roams about, sometimes localised on
the earth, sometimes wandering in a world, a scene of which
I have endeavoured to describe, — a world which is not
spiritual, for spirits find it $,s difficult to approach as they
do the earth. I should like to tell you a great deal more
about this scene, but my medium has not a brain for
details.
Sometimes a glowworm light appears on the ground, and all
that are within sight rush towards it: for light is so wonderful
a thing to them that they cannot help craving for it, although
they could not endure the light of the spiritual sun, untem¬
pered by the dark and gloomy clouds which screen their
wretched world from the eyes of the angels.
Shall I try and explain this light to you ? This is the
strangest thing perhaps in all that I have to tell!
In your world there are spirits who are partially manifested
in both worlds, and whom you call mediums. When one of these
drifts into deep gloom of mind; lets evil passions darken his
soul; lets cruel spite and hitter enmity oust peace and charity
from his spirit: then is his spiritual spark seen to vanish from
that spiritual sphere in which he lived, and it appears in this
world of sin and sorrow.
And these forlorn creatures ! There is an opening for life
for them now! Can you wonder that they crowd around, and
strive to force themselves into more distinct existence by
taking possession of this spark, coercing it, terrifying it, and
then using its physical life ? Sometimes they force it entirely
away from its physical life, and force it to wander, homeless,
among the rooks and chill morasses of their dim world. Poor
spirit I Pity it then !
But I am telling you facts, when I meant to draw a romantic
picture.—Through the Mediumship of Mrs. K. C.
AH EXPERIMENTAL CIRCLE IN HEW YORK.
In the course of a private letter to Mr. W. H. Harrison,
Colonel H. S. Olcott says :—
“ I am just organising in this city an experimental circle,
which I have named ‘ The Miracle Club,’ for the purpose of con¬
ducting a series of scientific experiments, in the light, and with¬
out a * cabinet.’ Among its members will probably be a compe¬
tent chemist, a mechanical engineer, an artist, a distinguished
neurologist, an electrician, a judge, some lawyers, and some
writers, thus insuring the intelligent investigation and
analysis of any form of manifestation likely to occur. It is
my desire to have substances analysed, force tested, dynamic
power calculated, microscopic examinations of materialised
substances made, the beating of the mediums’ and spirits’
hearts and their respective temperatures of body noted, and
such important facts as may be communicated saved for future
use by the help of the stenographer. We may only partially
realise these results, perhaps our sittings may be wholly fruit¬
less (although this I do not believe), but an honest attempt
will at least be made to do for American science what your
patient, brave Wallace, Crookes, and Yarley have done for
English science.
“ Would it not be extremely important and fruitful of results,
if similar ‘ clubs ’ were formed in Great Britain and on the
Continent, to conduct, simultaneously with us, such experi¬
ments as might be mutually agreed upon ? Take, for instance,
the weighing of the materialised spirit-forms, which I success¬
fully accomplished at the Eddy homestead and at Mr.
Compton’s house: how valuable a contribution to human
knowledge might be made by the joint labours of these inter¬
national co-operating clubs. If the plan meets with your
approbation, will you not broach the idea to some gentlemen
of acknowledged ability, who would move in the matter at
once ? ”
M. Aksakof has left St. Petersburg to visit his estates on
the borders of Russia in Asia. He contemplates coming to
London early in September to complete arrangements, if pos¬
sible, with mediums to visit St. Petersburg for the purpose of
giving seances to the scientific committee at the University
there.
DAlston Association of Spiritualists.—The Mesmeric
Committee of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into
Spiritualism has commenced experimental work, several mem¬
bers have with their own consent been successfully sent into
the mesmeric sleep, and other phases of mesmeric control
have been observed. Captain James was present at a recent
meeting of the committee, and witnessed a successful experi¬
ment. A notice has been issued by Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
the honorary secretary to the committee, inviting the co-ope¬
ration of other members of the Association who may desire to
join in the work.—The Countess of Caithness has presented
two copies of “ The Honeymoon,” by the Count Pomar,] to
the library of the Dalston Association.—The day of the or¬
dinary weekly meetings has been altered from Thursday to
Friday, the hour for assembling being 7.30 for 7.45 p.m., in¬
stead of 8 p.m. as heretofore. This alteration is only pro¬
visional, as it will be submitted for confirmation, or otherwise,
at the next half-yearly general meeting of the members.
Spiritualism in Russia.—The St. Petersburg corre¬
spondent of the Journal des Debats says that there is a great
mania for Spiritualist manifestations in that city just now,
and that the popularity of Home is far exceeded by that which
a Frenchman named Brediffe at present enjoys. Home was
looked upon as something of a dilettante, iox he only held his
seances in those houses to which he was an invited guest,
whereas M. Brediffe is always ready to “ manifest” at the rate
of three roubles per head to a company not exceeding ten per¬
sons. As plenty of people are willing to pay three roubles on
the chance of seeing spirits, he does a very flourishing trade.
The correspondent of the Debats says that among the believers
in M. Brediffe are several professors of science, one of whom,
M. Wagner, has published his profession of faith in the last
number of the European Messenger. This declaration, appear¬
ing in a magazine which has so much influence in Russian
society, created a great impression, but so far only two journals
have made any effort to refute M. Wagner’s statements. The
correspondent adds that, ridiculous as the pretensions of the
Spiritualists are, it is none the less to be regretted that their
doctrines should find acceptance with men of intellect, for it
happens that, at this very time, the Government is endeavour¬
ing to put down the fortune-tellers, and to root out the popular
belief in wood demons, ghosts, ghouls, &c.—Pall Mall Gazette.
282
THE SPIRITUALIST
June 11, 1875.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
ACTION OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION IN RELATION TO THE
PERSECUTION OF SPIRITUALISTS IN PARIS.
Last Tuesday night a meeting of the Council of the British
National Association of Spiritualists was held at 38, Great
Bussell-street, Bloomsbury, London, under the presidency of
Mr. Alexander Calder. The members present were Mrs.
Makdougall Gregory, Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, Dr. Pearce, Mr.
Keningale Cook, Mr. George Robert Tapp, Mr. Samuel Chin-
nery, Mr. Desmond Eitz-Gerald, Mr. Edward T. Bennett, Mr.
Henry Withall, Miss Withall, Mrs. Everitt, Mrs. Maltby, Mr.
E. Parkinson Ashton, Mr. Morell Theobald, Miss Houghton,
and Mr. George King.
Mr. Samuel Chinnery said that he had received letters from
M. Leymarie asking him to collect evidence in England, which
would be of use to him at the trial. Could not Messrs. Crookes
and Yarley give such evidence? M. Leymarie also wanted
evidence from those who had recognised portraits of de¬
parted friends taken through Buguet’s mediumship; he also
wanted any letters from Buguet in which the latter acknow¬
ledged himself to be a medium. Any certificates sent to Paris
about this matter should be certified by the French consul in
London. He (Mr. Chinnery) had written to M. Leymarie to
say that he should attend in Paris from the 14th to the 16th of
this month, to be cross-examined before the court as to what
he knew about Mr. Firman and his mediumship. Mr. Crookes
was well known in Paris as a scientific man, and a referee in
connection with sewage works in operation there, so his
evidence would in consequence have additional weight. M.
Leymarie also wanted the evidence of Mr. Harrison, who
perhaps would give it.
Mr. Harrison said that he should be glad to give the same
evidence in a court of law that he had given in The Spiritualist
about M. Buguet’s mediumship, though he was not sure that
it would do any good. He had only seen Buguet at his pho¬
tographic operations once, and so far as he remembered his
published testimony, it was to the effect that not much could
be said about Buguet’s mediumship after witnessing its results
once only, but that he (Mr. Harrison) did not know how to
produce the same results by artificial means under the same
conditions.
Mr. Chinnery continued that Mr. Gledstanes could give
useful evidence in the case, and that he had written to him to
return to Paris from Bordeaux to do so. Although Buguet
had been let out of prison on £40 bail, £240 bail had been
demanded for Firman, and it had been paid. Count de
Bullet was looking after Mr. Firman. He hoped the National
Association would do what it could. The objections to union
among Spiritualists in England were fully answered now, for
even in France they were appealing for the organised help
which England could give. In times of danger, and in times
of responsible action, the incalculable value of organisation
was felt.* He would move that a deputation should be ap¬
pointed by the Council to ask Mr. Crookes to accompany him
(Mr. Chinnery) to Paris, to give evidence on the trial. The
deputation should also be empowered to ask those who had
obtained recognised spirit photographs to add their tes¬
timony.
The Chairman asked whether anybody knew the position of
Mr. Crookes in relation to spirit photographs.
Mr. Harrison said that in every conversation he had had with
Mr. Crookes on the subject of spirit photographs, Mr. Crookes
had invariably expressed the opinion that all he had seen had
been produced by imposture. As regarded Buguet’s pictures, he
(Mr. Crookes) had once watched the manipulations throughout
without being able to discover trickery ; still, from the general
appearance of the results, he thought that some unusually
clever imposture was at the root of the matter. He supposed
that Mr. Crookes came to this conclusion because most of M.
Buguet’s spirits seemed to be photographed from drawings
upon flat surfaces. He repeated these statements without
permission, but believed that Mr. Crookes had no objection to
their publication.
Mr. Rogers remarked that if Mr. Crookes could not give
evidence about spirit photographs, he could do so about
materialisations.
* In dealing with the Board of Trade mnch more could have been done
had it not been for the results of the work, of those who have been sowing
dissension among Spiritualists, and opposing free institutions and elected
representatives inside the movement. Had all the local societies worked
in harmony with the national body, they could each have made an outcry
for Government recognition and the right of incorporation under the Com¬
panies Act;.but, being disunited, we Spiritualists, as a body, have not had
influence enough to secure the rights of Englishmen in this matter.—Ed.
Mr. Chinnery said that was why he wished Mr. Crookes to
give evidence at the trial. It would do much good to Mr.
Firman if Mr. Crookes would give the evidence about the
reality of materialisations which he had published in various
journals.
The proposed deputation was then appointed, and it con¬
sisted of Mr. Chinnery, Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, and Mr.
Harrison. '
Other business was transacted by the Council, and it will be
published next week.
LAST week’s SOIREE—THE CASE OF M. LETMARIE AND MR. FIRMAN
—THE NEW GALVANOMETRIC APPARATUS FOR TESTING MEDIUMS
DURING MATERIALISATION SEANCES.
On Wednesday evening last week the usual monthly soirtie
of the British National Association of Spiritualists was held
at 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C. Among the
friends present wereBaron von Holmfeld.Mr.Charles Blackburn,
Mr. Samuel Chinnery, Mr. Alexadder Calder, Mr. Martin R.
Smith, Mrs. and Miss Showers, Major S. R. I. Owen, Mr.
Ivimey, Miss F. J. Theobald, Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe, Mr.
Frederick Yarley, Miss Varley, Mr. Coffin, Mr. Desmond Fitz¬
Gerald, Miss Fitz-Gerald, Miss Malvina Claxton, Miss Clarke,
Mr. and Mrs. Everitt, Mrs. and Miss Kislingbury, Mr. G. R.
Tapp, Mr. and Mrs. Keningale Cook, Mrs. H. Cook and Miss
Edith Cook, the Misses Corner, Mrs. Parkes, Mr. and Mrs. E.
D. Rogers, Miss Rogers and Mr. Rogers, jun., Mrs. Cora L. Y.
Tappan, Mrs. Elgie Corner (Florence Cook), Mrs. Olive, Mr.
E. Parkinson Ashton, Mr. Frederick Collingwood (Secretary to
the Anthropological Institute), the Misses Withall, Mrs.
Burke, Mr., Mrs., and Miss Maltby, Mr. Potts, Miss Houghton,
and Mr. and Mrs. Regan.
A very pleasant evening was spent, most of the time after
tea being occupied in friendly conversation. In the course of
the evening the new galvanometer for testing mediums, pre¬
sented to the Association by Mr. Charles Blackburn, was fitted
up by Mr. F. Varley and Mr. Harrison, and exhibited at work.
It consists of an astatic magnetic needle mounted upon a
vertical steel axis, the points of which axis are exceedingly
fine, and rest in jewelled holes. On the upper part of the
axis a small mirror of silvered mica, about the size of a shil¬
ling, is mounted. Parallel with the upper needle of the
astatic combination, a small permanent magnet of steel wire is
fixed in such a way that it repels both ends of the movable
needle which is thus kept at zero, except when an electric
current deflects it in opposition to the repulsive forces. In
consequence of the needle being astatic and being
promptly brought to zero in the way just described, the
apparatus requires no adjustment before use, but can
be set down in any position and be immediately ready
to work. A dark lantern, fitted with a condenser made of a
pair of meniscus lenses, with a vertical wire fixed a few inches
in front of them, throws a strong light upon the mirror of the
galvanometer, which reflects the rays to the side of the room,
where consequently a circle of light about a foot in diameter—
crossed by a dark vertical line formed by the shadow of the
wire—passes to and fro when the instrument is in use, and
can be seen by all the company. Two- brass handles, covered
with calico soaked in salt and water, were attached to a board
and to the wires of the galvanometer, so that when any one
seized the handles a current passed through his body, and the
circle of light from the mirror of the galvanometer took up a
particular position on the wall of the room. If the person
holding the handles unclasped one or both of them for an
instant, the circle of light on the wall moved backwards four
or five feet, showing that he had ceased to grasp the handles.
In like manner had a medium been sitting in a cabinet while
spirit hands were being shown through the orifice, and had he
ceased to grasp the handles with his own hands, even for an
instant, the galvanometer would have shown it to everybody
outside. Many of the spectators tried the apparatus during
the evening, and Mr. Coffin did a somewhat clever thing with
it. Before unclasping his hand from one of the handles, he
took the handle in his mouth, so as to keep up the current by
means of his lips and tongue; thus he freed one of his hands
without allowing the disc of light on the wall to return to its
normal position. By practice and by keeping his eye on the
disc of light, he could free one hand without disturbing the
indications of the instrument; but it was absolutely necessary
that all the time he should be able to see the disc of light on
the wall, in order to regulate the amount of contact thereby.
A medium inside a cabinet could not do this; moreover, with
his head fixed to one handle, and one of his hands to the
June 11, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
283
other, he would be so confined that he could not do much
with his free hand.
In the course of the evening Mr. Martin Smith delivered the
following address:—
' Ladies and Gentlemen,—I have a few scraps of informa¬
tion to give you this evening, and the first I mention with
a regret which I am sure you will all share, viz., that it has been
decided to suspend these social meetings for a few months.
You will all agree with me, I hope, that they have been to us
a source both of pleasure and profit, a means of mutual intro¬
duction and of mutual encouragement. I have observed,
however, with a little regret that the names of some of our most
influential adherents (from a social point of view) have been
conspicuous by their absence from these meetings. I say
that I regret this, for so long as the world is constituted as it
is, no struggling movement can afford to disregard the support
that is conferred upon it by the adhesion of persons of position
and influence. There are many such in the ranks of Spirit¬
ualism, and although they have doubtless duties and engage¬
ments which may render it difficult for them to spare the re¬
quisite time, I do most earnestly urge upon all such to give us
the moral support of their occasional presence at our social
meetings. I cannot hut think that it is a duty they owe to
their “ belief’’to give it in this way some public expression.
It is intended to renew these meetings during the autumn or
early winter months.
You will have heard that it has seemed good to the Board of
Trade to decline our application to be incorporated under the
Limited Liability Act. While I regret I confess that I am not
surprised at their decision. The public are accustomed to
place Spiritualists into two great classes—the fools and the
knaves. I think it very natural that the official mind should
accept without hesitation so simple a classification, and should
conceive it their duty to refuse by any act of theirs to pander
to the credulity of the one class, or to afford the smallest
countenance to the rascality of the other. We can afford to
he magnanimous, and to bear our disappointment without an
angry feeling. If Spiritualism teaches us anything, it is
patience. Patience under misapprehension, patience under
contempt, and hereafter doubtless will teach the same lesson
under the circumstances of success and appreciation. Till
then we can afford to wait. The recognition of Government
officials will neither make nor mar the movement.
I am glad to be able to inform you that on the whole the
Bazaar has been a success; we have in hand a net profit there¬
from of nearly £100, no mean addition to our resources. I
say “ on the whole,” for there may be some here who are a
little disappointed by the results. But I would point out that
this was a first attempt, and that we had experience to learn on
every imaginable point. If any similar attempt is hereafter made
the experience we have gained will enable us greatly to decrease
our expenses, which on this occasion have been very heavy. I
profess myself well satisfied with the result, and grateful to
those upon whom the burden and heat of the day has fallen.
There are, of course, some articles left unsold, which will be
dealt with hereafter. I feel that the cessation of these monthly
meetings is to a certain extent like the prorogation of our
small Parliament, and that during the recess your Govern¬
ment, i.e., your Council, will sadly miss the advantage of the
advice and encouragement which they have received at your
“ sittings.”
Do not be disappointed with us if we undertake no especially
heroic enterprises, if we think it right to maintain a policy of
wise and watchful inaction. We are in our corporate body—
as we are individually—creatures of circumstance. If circum¬
stances arise calling for energetic action I hope we shall be
found equal to the occasion. We cannot, however, make op¬
portunities for ourselves.
I congratulate the Association on the success which has
attended our establishment in this house. It is most gratify¬
ing to mark the rapid increase of members, and I think I am
not taking a too sanguine view when I say that if we progress
in the future as we have hitherto done our financial position
will soon be secured.
You will observe a great change in the appearance of our
bookshelves. We have met with a most generous response
to our appeal for assistance under this head. Loans and pre¬
sents of books are being continually made to the Association,
and I see no reason to doubt that ere the year is out we shall
have a library of books on the subject of Spiritualism amply
sufficient for all our wants.
In reference to the imprisonment of M. Leymarie and Mr.
Firman in Paris, I do not wish to say anything about the con¬
duct of Buguet. The papers of Leymarie have all been seized,
including the testimony of the witnesses who have recognised
certain of Buguet’s photographs, consequently M. Leymarie is
left without the necessary evidence to prove his case. He is
anxious that those who have obtained recognised spirit pho¬
tographs through the agency of Buguet in England, should
forward their attestation of the fact to Paris without delay.
He wishes that the said attestations should be posted without
envelopes, as a kind of guarantee that the papers come from
England, and that they have not been fabricated in Paris.
Mr. Calder said that he would suggest that instead of letters
being written, that all who obtained such pictures should join
collectively in an affidavit. Letters might be fabricated.
Mr. S. Chinnery said that the Spiritualist Society at Paris
would pay the expenses in a reasoned manner of any wit¬
nesses who had obtained recognised spirit photographs
through Buguet’s mediumship and would go to Paris to bear
witness to the same. M. Leymarie wished for an account of
the history of Mumler’s trial in New York, which perhaps he
should be able to get from Mr. Coleman. He (Mr. Chinnery)
would be willing to do all he could for M. Leymarie and to go
over to Paris to help him. He was convinced that Buguet’s
work was only in part a fraud, for one gentleman, as Mr.
Gledstanes had attested, had been photographed in Paris while
his body was asleep in London. Once he (Mr. Chinnery) took
his own camera and lenses to Buguet’s rooms and obtained a
portrait of Livingstone upon the plate, and he had been pro¬
mised by the spirits that that portrait should come, before he
went to Buguet’s. Doubtless when Buguet found he could not
get enough genuine spirit photographs, he set to work to manu¬
facture the rest. Many Spiritualists in Paris were taking care
of Mr. Firman, so the most urgent case at the present moment
was that of M. Leymarie.
Mr. Harrison said that he had a letter from Miss Blackwell,
saying that Buguet asserted that M. Leymarie had no share in
the profits of the photographs, but his false charge against M.
Leymarie was that he knew them to be spurious. With reference
to the suggestion that all the witnesses to Buguet’s genuine
photographs should give their evidence in one affidavit, sup¬
posing one of the witnesses were to make a mistake and it
should be proved that he had recognised one of the wooden
heads of Buguet’s mannikin, such testimony might tend to
vitiate the whole document, whereas, if the attestations were
sent in separately, would not the majority of them be likely to
hold good, even supposing one of the others to be founded upon
a mistake ?
The conversation then dropped.
SEANCES WITH MISS SHOWERS.
On Monday evening last a private seance was held at the
residence of Mrs. Showers, 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-
square, London, at which some remarkable test manifesta¬
tions were witnessed, free from all dubious conditions. The
head of Miss Showers was secured to a staple fixed in the
wall of the room, a tape being tied round her neck for the
purpose, and the knots sealed by Dr. Gully. A curtain was
then suspended in front of her, leaving her hands and knees
in sight of the spectators. Under these conditions, in the
partial darkness behind the curtain, the spirits tied pieces of
tape in bow-knots round her neck; gave her a glass of water
to drink, so that the glass, which had been filled, was found
nearly empty; and presented several other manifestations
which could only have been produced by abnormal power.
The spirits also tied both her wrists firmly together, there
being a mass of hard double knots between the wrists. They
then bound her hands to the top rail of a chair, the ends
of the rope being passed downwards and fixed to a lower
rail. These pieces of rope were afterwards untied by the
spectators, who could consequently testify to there being no
mere twists or slip-knots, and that the hands of the medium
had been so firmly secured that she could not use them.
While her hands were thus fastened together, a tambourine
ring was threaded upon one of her arms in a moment of time,
so also was the back of a light chair, and they were taken off
with equal facility. Among the spectators were Dr. Gully,
Lady Shelley, Miss Kislingbury, Mr. Tapp, Mr. Harrison, and
other friends. A somewhat similar seance tookplace on the pre¬
vious Saturday. Some materialisation phenomena were
observed on both occasions.
Mb. Cogman’s quarterly tea-meeting will take place next
Sunday week.
284
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 11, 1875.
REPLY TO THE ATTACK; UPON SPIRITUALISM BY
THE ARCHBISHOP OF TOULOUSE.
The following are extracts from M. Fournier’s answer to the
late pastoral against Spiritualism by the Archbishop of
Toulouse, translated from the Bevue Spirite of April, 1875,
and it may be mentioned that the irritation inflicted on the
clerical mind by this article, is surmised to be at the root of
the present persecution of Spiritualists at Paris:—
I can but imagine that, on account of your being disabled
by your numerous occupations from making the researches
necessary for the treatment of this subject, you ha-ve charged
some person about you to do it for you, and that your pam¬
phlet must have been drawn up from notes furnished to you
by that person. This interpretation, I am convinced, is the
true one, and I bold to it. Nothing in the world would con¬
vince me that a man of your character could have fulminated
such a terrible anathema against peaceable people, men seeking
religious truth in all honesty, if he had not been led into error
concerning them. . . .
Why then am I solsold as to dare to address you thus, and
.say: “ Take care, my lord, you have been deceived, and you
have involuntarily led your flock into error ” ? Whence comes
my assurance? From the conviction which I hold that a man,
of however small account he may be, is bound in duty to warn
his neighbour when he wanders from the right path, in what¬
soever condition of life he may be, high or low, be he arch¬
bishop or coalheaver, king or mendicant. Do not the Holy
Scriptures say: “ The Lord gave every man commandment
concerning his neighbour ” (Eccles. xvii. 14) ?
You will then, I trust, excuse my presumption, my lord, and
will consent that we should examine together your quadragesi¬
mal mandate.
It is divided into two principal parts. In the first, by way of
'of introduction, you proclaim the alarming progress that
Spiritism has made in your diocese; you explain its origin,
and you endue it with the character of being either Satanic or
jugglery. Under the second head you regard it in its doctrinal
light, in its practice, and as a religious movement, and you
finish by demanding that, “ like all institutions productive of
evil, it should be put under active supervision, and be subject
to rigorous repression.”
According to your views, it is at those epochs when a man
“ frees himself from the true faith,” and gives up his belief in
God, that he fills up the void thus made in the depths of his
nature with superstitions; and these superstitions, in the
present instance, are the practices of Spiritism, call them by
what name you will—magic, sorcery, or Gnosticism. And you,
pay lord, fortify your opinion by the following citation from a
thinker, Charles Bonnet, whose belief, as a whole, most as¬
suredly you would not adopt, and who was far from partici¬
pating in your horror of the doctrine of anterior existence.
“ People,” Mr. Bonnet remarks, “ require to be believers in
order not to be credulous; we must proffer sound food for the
people to put faith in, if we would not have them feed them¬
selves on poison.”
I agree with you, my lord, and with Charles Bonnet also.
Like you, I believe that when a man gives up religion, and
ceases to believe in God, Spiritist practices, call them what
you will, increase. Only, I do not assign the same cause as
you do to this fact. I perceive in this an act of Providence
urging the invisible world to the invasion of our world, with
the object of preserving us, by such revelation, from evils that
materialistic beliefs could not fail to produce through general¬
ising and consolidation. Such was also the way of thinking as
regards such intervention of one who ought to have some
authority in your eyes, Father Lacondaire. He wrote June
20th, 1853, to Madame Swetchine, concerning the movements
of tables: “ Perhaps also by this revelation God wills that the
development of spiritual forces should be in proportion to the
development of material forces, so that man, in the presence
of the marvels of mechanics, should not forget that there are
two worlds, one included in the other; the world of bodies and
the world of spirits.” Such an opinion appears to have been
yours at one time, my lord, when you said: “ Certainly, if
evocations of Spiritism are not seances for conjuring, we must
acknowledge that they are an unquestionable denial cast by
Satan himself in the face of contemporary materialism.” Yet
whatinterest, in reality, could Satan have—he, the father of all
artifice—in combating materialism by manifesting himself, if
he were not constrained to it by God Himself ? Like Charles
Bonnet, I think we should give wholesome aliment to the
masses if we would save them from swallowing poison. And
this is just the reason why Spiritism “takes upon itself to
purify a religion of vain ceremonies,’’ while retaining for every
mode of worship that which forms the very essence of homage
to “ the divinity,” as you well say.
That was the work which, eighteen centuries ago, Christ and
His disciples undertook—a work in the accomplishment of
which they were seconded by the incessant manifestation of
spirits. Was not Christ constantly declaring, as detailed in
the Gospels, that it was not He who spoke, but the Spirit ?
Was not St. Paul always under the guidance of the spirit of
Jesus ? In every Christian group, as nowadays in every
Spiritist group, was not evocation their custom ? Had not
they speaking mediums, healers, physical mediums, inspired
mediums, and mediums for divers languages, as we find set
forth in chap. xii. of the Epistle to the Corinthians ?
And this work is necessary now as then, my lord, because
now, as then, sound food is not presented for the faith of the
masses. So overcharged is religion with vain ceremonies,
puerile practices, and with dogmas useless, absurd, and danger¬
ous, that reason, no longer able to recognise her under this
disguise, throws itself into the arms of nihilism.
It is the priest who is aggrandised to such a point that he
has ended by concealing that which it was his mission to
declare to men ; it is the ordinance of the Church which, ac¬
cording to the saying of Christ, has made of none effect the
ordinance of God. And, after this, surprise is expressed be¬
cause God urges the inhabitants of the invisible world to mani¬
fest themselves, and to teach us that He is still in existencel No,
my lord, deign to reflect on this, forgetting for the moment
that you are an archbishop, and you will recognise, as I do,'
that the contrary alone could give ground for surprise.
So much for the first section of our subject. Now let us
consider the second.
At the commencement of your pastoral I read: “ As regards
doctrine, Spiritism teaches that communication with the dead
exists naturally; that, ‘ in virtue of certain forms and certain
acts, we force ’ the souls of the other world to return to this
earth, and enter into communication with us; in fact, that
when interrogated by us, they give responses that are ‘ the in¬
fallible expression of truth. Such is the fundamental
dogma of Spiritism,’ not to speak of other errors which
we shall afterwards expose.” Well, my lord, with the excep¬
tion of your assertion at the commencement regarding com¬
merce with the dead, everything else that you affirm is pre¬
cisely the contrary of the truth, and the only errors you ex¬
pose in your pastoral are those that you yourself have been
led into committing. Spiritists believe that the souls of the
other world have thq benefit of their free will, absolutely the
same as have the dwellers upon earth, and that neither formu¬
las nor acts have any power to constrain them to communi¬
cate if they are disinclined. They believe, moreover, that
these souls are generally on this earth, and most frequently
near those souls in the flesh whom they love—who do not
trouble them by calling them, but, on the contrary, fill them
with joy—the mother, for example, nears the child who bewails
her, and reciprocally. As for their answers, Spiritists make it
a law never to accept them as truths, until after’having under¬
gone the vigorous criticism of reason, they have all the ap¬
pearance of truth. Spiritists accord infallibility to God alone;
they would consider they were committing an impiety were
they to attribute infallibility to a creature, let him be whom
he may, man or spirit. They are fully aware that there are
some spirits, like some men, who show themselves disposed to
put themselves forward, and to dogmatise in exact proportion
to the measure of their levity and ignorance.
Spiritualists are, my lord, before all other things, free
thinkers, rationalists, that is to say, Christians. “ Those men
who make use of reason (Xoyof) for the guidance of their
lives are Christians; strong and courageous beings are they,”
said Saint Justin Martyr. Spiritualists do not recognise the
right in any person to impose on them any doctrine which
does not appear to them reasonable. Thus much to show you
that there is no such thing as Spiritist orthodoxy. Never¬
theless, I will rest my assertions principally upon citations
borrowed from the works of Allan Kardec, because he is the
true founder of what you call our sect; because his ideas are
generally adopted by us, and because it is from The Spirits'
Book and from The Mediums' Book that your secretary
audaciously pretends to have drawn the expose which he has
supplied you with of spiritist doctrine.
So then, if you condescend to open the Mediums' Book, you
will find there, chap, x., No. 133, the following lines: “ If we are
fully penetrated according to the Spiritist Ladder (the Spirits
Book No. 100) with the infinite variety that exists among spirits
THE SPIRITUALIST.
285
June 11, 1875.
under the double classification of intelligence and morality,
we must plainly perceive the difference that can but exist in
their communications; such must necessarily reflect the
elevation or the baseness of their ideas, their knowledge and
their ignorance, their vices and their virtues ; in one word,
there is no reason why they should resemble each other any
more than men, from the savage to the most enlightened
European. All the shades that they present may be classed
under four .principal categories. Judging them by their most
salient characteristics, they may be classed as : the gross, the
frivolous, the serious, and the instructive.”
And further on, in the same chapter, No. 136 : “ Serious
spirits are not all equally enlightened ; there are many things
of which they are ignorant and concerning which they may
deceive themselves Iwith the best possible intentions. This is
the reason why really superior spirits recommend us unceas¬
ingly to submit all communications to the crucible of reason
and to the severest logic.”
So much for the infallibility of spirits. You commence, my
lord, do you not, to gain some idea of the integrity of him
who has had the unmerited honour of being chosen as your
coadjutor.
THE PERSECUTION OF SPIRITUALISTS IN PARIS.
To the. Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sib,—My promise to Mr. Gledstanes, who is absent, imposes
on me the duty of keeping you still, weekly, advised of the
course of the matter properly indicated by the above heading.
You will do well to substitute it for that of “ The fiasco in
Paris.” The only “ fiasco ” in Paris has been that the unques¬
tionably powerful and extraordinary photographic medium,
Buguet, having been caught in supplementing reality with
fraud (for the sake of money-making) has thereupon adopted,
for his theory of defence, that of apostatising from his real and
true mediumship; of denying that he ever pretended to
mediumship ; of declaring the whole thing to be humbug and
fraud ; of disavowing Spiritualism altogether; and even of
accusing two honest and innocent persons, Leymarie and
Firman, of having had cognisance of his fraud, and of having
been accomplices therein. What have been his inducements
to this astonishing course I do not pretend to say. Some
assume bribery by the Jesuits, others the desire to flatter the
known prejudice and hostility of his judges and the general
public, and so earn immediate liberation and ulterior indul¬
gence, and a future title to favour and patronage in his regular
profession as an ordinary photographer. Others suppose a
desire to diminish his own burthen of disgrace by distributing
it over two other respectable pairs of shoulders (those of
M. Leymarie and Firman). The Buguet “ fiasco ” is the only
one thus far existing. With regard to the conscientious and
devoted editor of the Jtevue Spirite, and to W. Firman, perse¬
cution is the proper term.* In my letter of last week I told
you that the instruction was finished or about closing; also
that the juge d'instruction had Afused to admit Firman to bail
at any figure, though he had admitted the other two parties
accused to bail in the mere sum of £40; also that I meant to
make a further effort to insist upon it, with the aid of the
intervention, if necessary, of the American Minister. That
two Frenchmen should be released on bail of £40, and a
foreigner, for the mere reason of not being a Frenchman (a
fair ground for raising reasonably the figure of the bail) should
be refused it altogether, in a matter of which the gravity per se
was measured by the mere £40 bail of the Frenchman, was
simply what Americans and an American Minister, or English¬
men and a British Minister, were not likely to submit to
without serious remonstrance. The upshot of it has been that
Firman (the American citizen, unfortunately for himself, a
medium, and a real and honest one) has at last been released,
after six weeks of solitary confinement, on a bail, deposited by
his friends in money, of just six times the figure required for
the Frenchmen, of whom the one is a perfectly innocent and
honourable man—Leymarie; the other, Buguet, a self-avowed
scoundrel. Unfortunately, physical mediumship is not incom¬
patible with a weakness of moral fibre, and sometimes with
great moral perverseness, just as the strings of a passive lute
will yield their sounds as well to the fingers of a bad as to
those of a good man, of a demon or of an angel. And that is
*If Mr. O’Sullivan will refer to this journal during the past few weeks,
he will see that “persecution” is the term that has been used, so he is
writing under the influence of some mistake. The word “ fiasco ” was
employed some weeks ago in describing the seance at Madame Huguet’s.—
Ed.
the only “extenuating circumstance” I can imagine for
Buguet. These mediums employed money-makingly for mere
physical manifestations seem to be at times easier victims than
other men to evil influences, as at other, times and as a general
rule they are the instruments of good ones.
The trial of all three is appointed for the 16th and 17th
inst. We know beforehand that the animus of the authority
of the Palais de Justice (as it> is called) is strong and bitter
against all Spiritualism. We have seen what was the action
of the juge d'instruction in the matter of Firman’s bail; he
refused it in the teeth of all reason and justice, though told
that he was thus seriously hampering the necessary means of
defence of the accused, and that any required amount of bail
would be put up. And though his action has been overruled
and reversed by the Court to which the case was sent (a fact
without a precedent), it has only been through extraordinary
and energetic intervention, made on grounds which could not
be plausibly resisted. The same judge received from Madame
Leymarie a copy of an excellent work by M. Bonamy, a judge
himself, entitled La Raison de Spiritism, published in 1868.
He sent her back a message to take the book back, as he would
not allow it in his house. By the way, M. Bonamy was re¬
moved from the magistrature on account of that book, which,
though admirably reasoned, as I am assured, was regarded as an
evidence that he must be insane, so that the rights and inte¬
rests of parties ought not to be trusted to him. The prosecu¬
tion intends to force on the trial in ten days, and has notified
to the counsel for the defence that no extension of time will
be granted—an extraordinary course, and in this case very
detrimental to the defence, and unsatisfactory to the defend¬
ants and their counsel, who had expected at least the chance
of another fortnight to inform themselves about a novel and
very complicated subject, and to master the mass of papers
which have been accumulated in an instruction running
through six weeks. Firman intends to try to get some
seances, in which the reality of his materialisations will be
proved (as they have already been four times) by the appearance
of the materialised spirit visibly distinct from himself; and
to invite the judges and lawyers, and the signers of the proces
verbal of Madame Huguet’s evening, to witness them under
test conditions; but it is very doubtful whether he can recover
his normal condition, so as to have any assurance of success
within the short time now allowed. He was only released
yesterday evening, and is considerably knocked up by his six
weeks of solitary confinement, notwithstanding the company
which he says the spirits kept him. He says that when dis¬
posed to succumb to depression, they would come round him
with copious raps, and tell him not to be dismayed, for that
all would turn out gloriously in the end. But when the
glorious end will come is the question. It may not be till
after an indefinite interval of further persecution and suffer¬
ing. I greatly fear that the case is decided in the minds of
the judges in advance of the trial. M. Leymarie is collecting
attestations of genuine spirit photographs obtained through
Buguet, and, with a little more time, would have an immense
array of them, supported with plentiful oral testimony. It
will be a curious trial, in which Buguet will be proved to be a
genuine photographic medium, notwithstanding his own pre¬
sent repudiation of that character, and (what is far worse) his
false and treacherous imputation against honest and innocent
men of complicity with him in his now falsely-confessed im¬
posture. He will be le medium malgr€ lui. M. Leymarie in¬
tends to have the trial reported by a stenographer, and published
in a volume. J. L. O’Sullivan.
A list of members of the new Council of the National
Association of Spiritualists will be found in our advertising
columns.
Me. Moese’s Rettten.—In the course of a private
letter to Mr. Harrison, Mr. J. J. Morse, the well-known
medium, says that he intends starting from New York by the
White Star Line on Saturday, October 9th, arriving at Liver¬
pool on or about the 19th. He intends to remain in Liver¬
pool during the week, and to reach London by about the 26th.
His career in the United States has been of a highly successful
nature; he has been warmly welcomed by Spiritualists in
every town which he has visited, and his stay in that country
will have been about twelve months by the time he starts for
England. At the meeting last Tuesday of the Council of the
National Association of Spiritualists, a resolution was passed
to give him a public reception on his return to London, and
to invite him to narrate thereat his experiences anent Spirit¬
ualism and Spiritualists in America.
m
THE SPIEITUALIST.
June 11, 1875.
OTomspmiTjence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
SPIRITUALISM IN BARROW-IN-FURNESS.
Sir,—We have had two visits from Mrs. Scattergood. No
more appropriate name could have been chosen for her, for
she scatters her beautiful spiritual good things unsparingly, or
rather her spirit friends do so through her, and we should fail
in our duty if we did not express our pleasure by means of the
press. Her first visit was on Sunday the 16th, the second on
Friday 21st May, as she was staying for the benefit of her
health at Grange, a pretty little watering-place on the Furness
Railway, and the shore of Morecambe Bay.
On the Sunday evening her spirit teachers gave us a magnifi¬
cent discourse on the words “ And there shall be a new heaven
and a new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness.” This was
followed by another short one, comparing time with eternity.
On Friday the subject was chosen, as her guides desired, by a
non-Spiritualist present, a Methodist, “ What shall I do to
be saved?” upon which all-important theme she spoke, with
more than mortal eloquence for three-quarters of an hour,
afterwards answering a few questions put by our orthodox
visitors, who could not fall in with these explanations of old
truths. But our invisible preachers added for these sceptical
visitors a shorter discourse upon “ Spiritualism,” drawing
their proofs from the Old and New Testaments. All the
teachings are pre-eminently Christian, but a Christianity that
differs from the old dead creeds, and thus, we fear, our
Methodist friends went away doubting, or perhaps they think
it was all “ diabolism,” although the opposite to this had
been very plainly shown by Mrs. Scattergood’s guides. These
beautiful truths seem hard to be apprehended by people at
first sight, but unfortunately so many condemn them after
little hearing. If they, as the “ controls V urged, would only
test for themselves at home, they must be convinced that the
Spiritualistic movement is of and from God, not from some
rival of His, of equal or greater power, named the Devil.
On Sunday night two of our local mediums also gave us
further proofs of the great truths of Spiritualism. These
mediums weekly give us earnest, impressive, scriptural ad¬
dresses—and not only so, but in their family circles, at their
own firesides, and at the firesides of others. I must add, too,
that Mrs. Soattergood in private with us was influenced to
give us much good advice and counsel; even on the sea beach
her heaven-given gifts were used for our benefit.
W. R. Thornton.
Barrow-in-Furness, May 24th.
THE REV. DR. VAUGHAN ON SPIRIT INTERCOURSE.
Sir,—Will you kindly find room for a few sentences ex¬
tracted from a sermon preached by Dr. Vaughan in the
Temple Church in 1871, and published in Good Words in
1872. The text was—“ And to the spirits of just men made
perfect,” Heb. xii. 23.
‘ ‘ These are days in which speculation is busy and curiosity
strong; and many are saying—Lo, here is marvel, or there ;
here is rest, here is truth, here is Christ, or there. One form
of this characteristic restlessness is intrusion into the world
of spirits. Strange things are told of this intercourse. We
neither accept nor deny them. Let them alone, and if they
be of men they will come to nought; some newer fancy
will displace them. But one thing we seem to gather from
such evidence as reaches us concerning this commerce with
spirits—that it never brings near to us spirits of the perfected
righteous. These communications, these visits, these voices,
seldom reveal anything that even philosophy, much less
religion, can count important; are generally concerned with
earth’s most earthly interests, seldom tell of heaven, never
speak of Christ; seldom warn of sin, seldom persuade to
holiness, never point to such joys above as any man of piety
could accept as his hereafter. It is the inference of many,
that the spirits capable of this kind of intercourse are not the
loftier, or nobler, or holier, but rather those which (as Greek
philosophy dreams) are detained by their earthliness in earth’s
atmosphere, detached only in point of enjoyment from those
baser joys which were once their all.”
It is possible that even in 1875 Dr. Vaughan may still think
as he preached in 1871. Perhaps some of his fellow clergy¬
men will communicate to him their own experiences, showing
that good spirits (we will not say “ perfected righteous ”) have
and often do “tell of heaven,” ” speak of Christ,” “warn of
sin,” “ persuade to holiness.” Other clergymen are of opinion
that they have had ample personal evidence that poor earth-
bound spirits, still human, have derived spiritual aid and
comfort when they have been welcomed into circles where
manly piety is not wanting. Gross-minded men in the
Church, as elsewhere, may deny spirit intercourse ; and some
may, for sacerdotal objects, denounce it as unmitigated
“ diabolism,” or else necromancy, and may characterise as
dangerous men, men to be avoided, those who patiently,
during years of observation, consider spiritual phenomena;
but, as I know from personal experience and from numerous
letters, there are many noble-minded clergymen studying
these matters carefully; and I know that you, Sir, are both
wise enough and charitable enough to feel that if scientific
men have characters to lose, it is still more the casejWith cler¬
gymen, if rash judgment is formed and acted upon.
Hopeful.
SUNDAY LECTURES BY DR. SEXTON.
Sir,—I wish you to make known in the next issue of The
Spiritualist that a small fund is now being subscribed and
collected by myself and a few others, earnest workers in the
cause, to enable that brilliant and eloquent exponent of
Spiritualism, Dr. Sexton, to give a course of Sunday evening
orations at the Co-operative Institute, formerly Princess’s
Concert Rooms, Castle-street, Oxford-street. The series of
services will commence, and the first oration be delivered, on
Sunday evening, June 27th inst., and terminate Sunday
evening, August 22nd, subject to further extension. The fund
is being subscribed and collected for the sole purpose of
guaranteeing the working expenses incurred in giving such
course of services free to the public, and relieving Dr. Sexton
from all responsibility whatever. Tickets for the course of
lectures:—Front seats, 2ls.; Back seats, 10s. 6d., paid at time
of purchasing tickets. Subscriptions obtained and collected
by my own individual efforts within the past week :—Martin
R. Smith, Esq. £2 2s.; Alexander Calder,Esq., £1 Is.; Joseph
Cottrell, Esq., £1 Is.; James Regan, Esq., £1 Is. Further
subscriptions have been promised me, which will be made
known on receipt of the same. I have not as yet heard
the amount of the other subscriptions obtained and collected
by my co-workers, but doubtless in due time they will be pub¬
lished. Subscriptions to Dr. Sexton’s Sunday evening services,
Co-operative Institute, commencing June 27th instant, will be
thankfully received by me at my residence, 4, Stanley-villas,
Northcote-road, New Wandsworth, S.W., made payable to
J. Regan, Post Office, St. John’s-hill, New Wandsworth,
London: also, Mr. and Mrs. Parkes,*Spirit Photographers,
6, Gaynes-park-terrace, Grove-road, Bow, E.; and Dr. Sexton,
17, Trafalgar-road, Old Eent-road, S.E. J. Regan.
4, Stanley Villas, Northcote-road, New Wandsworth,
4th June, 1875.
MORAL INFLUENCES AT SEANCES.
Sir,—I write to express my disapprobation of the moral
principle laid down by Mr. George Blyton in a letter which he
recently contributed to your paper. He suggested deception
and imposture on the part of the sitters, as if two wrongs
could make a right, or as if it were justifiable to do evil that
good may come. As some of the spirits who come to circles
have a deceiving nature, there is no doubt that if deception and
trickery on the part of the sitters should be superadded—into
the atmosphere of such an assemblage, no good beings from the
other world could enter. Further, it is not at all certain that
when a sensitive medium is brought into such a moral atmo¬
sphere, that any tricks he may play may not be due to the
influences of the sitters. If low spirits come from the other
side, the least we can do is to set them an example, and to
receive them with honour and truth this side. P,
A CURIOUS PHASE OF WITCHCRAFT.
Sir,—Rather curiously, a recent number of the AtKenasum
(15th May, 1875) contains a notice of a poem by Michael
Lermontoff, the foremost living Russian poet, entitled The
Demon* built upon the idea of supernatural connection which
I mooted in a recent article. The poem is described as one
of which Russia is justly proud, and its denouement has a
further interest as bearing upon certain Spiritualistic specu¬
lations lately propounded concerning the work and offices of
* The Demon: a Poem. By Michael LermontoC. Translated from the
Russian by Alexander Condie Stephen, Triibner and Oo.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
287
June 11, 1875.
the spirit world. The leader of the rebel angels is described
as flying, weary and sullen, over the Caucasus, when he
beholds and is stricken with a lovely Georgian maiden,
Tamara, to whom his admiration proves fatal. Her betrothed,
a Georgian prince, falls a victim to an Ossetine bullet, and
she retires into a convent. But even within its hallowed walls
strange thoughts, due to the evil spirit’s instigation, at first
flit through her mind, and then make it their abode, until at
length a strange longing fills her heart, a mysterious fever
possesses all her frame. At last the Demon seeks her within
her cell, puts to flight her guardian angel, and by honeyed
words prevails upon her to yield herself to him. After this,
there is nothing left for her but to die. An angel is bearing
her soul aloft to heaven, when suddenly “ the ghastly prince of
hell” strikes across their path, and claims her spirit as his
due. But the angel disdainfully rejects his claim, declaring
that Tamara’s soul is now free from his power, being no
longer clothed in clay. Then directing on the tempter’s face
“ a shaft of stern and dazzling light,” the good spirit bears
the saved soul triumphantly aloft, while the baffled Demon is
left as before, “ unpitied and alone in space.” X.
SPIRITUALISM AND CONJURORS.
Sir,—I am doubtful whether you will think it worth your
while to publish a brief narrative of my experience with Messrs.
Maskelyne and Cooke, at the Egyptian Hall; but as many of
your readers no doubt take an interest in the matter,
particularly all those who, like myself, have witnessed the
performance of what these jugglers call in their programme
an “ exposition of Spiritualism,” I hope you will open your
columns to an exposition of the humbug exhibited under
the above title.
Before entering upon the main point, permit me briefly to
state that, after having heard a great deal about Spiritualism,
I at last resolved to investigate the matter, and to use all
honest means in my power to get at the bottom of the truth,
and to detect any trickery that might be mixed up with the
phenomena.
I had two seances with Mr. Williams, one private, in which
besides Mr. Beimers and myself, only two friends of mine, both
keen observers and sceptics like myself, took part; the other
was public, about twenty-five persons being present. This
experience convinced me that I had to do with facts—most
strange and inexplicable—still facts which could not be ac¬
counted for in any way as mere products of art and trickery.
For in the private seance I myself sat on the left of the
medium, holding his left hand tightly, and keeping my right
foot firmly resting on his left foot, whilst my friend who was
sitting at the right of the medium did the same with the right
hand and foot of Mr. Williams, without even a moment’s
interruption as long as the seance lasted. The phenomena
being generally known, and I suppose often described, by
others, I shall not speak of them now. Suffice it to say that
the manifestations at the private seance alone were such that
—contrary to our expectation—hardly a shadow of doubt
remained in the mind of my friends and myself that what we
had perceived with three of our best senses, i.e., what we had
seen, heard, and felt, was no deception nor joint hallucination,
nor the product of art and jugglery.
Being told that Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke could produce
all the phenomena of Spiritualism and expose the whole
matter as trickery, I went to the Egyptian Hall, anxious to
become enlightened and undeceived in case I should have been
misled. I desired earnestly to find where and to what degree
trickery was possible, and of course expected that they would
put me on the right track.
I cannot describe how thoroughly I was disappointed in my
expectations, but you can imagine it from the fact that my
indignation and disgust at the clumsy piece of jugglery per¬
formed before my eyes were roused to such a degree, that I got
up towards the end of the performance, and declared with loud
voice, “ How can you call this an exposition of Spiritualism?
It is no exposition at all, but the poorest piece of humbug that
ever I have witnessed.”
The effect of this unexpected improvise was a single cheer,
innumerable hisses, and a voice from the galleries, “ No
foreigners allowed to speak here.” From Messrs. Maskelyne
and Cooke I received a momentary stare, but they evidently
thought discretion the best part of valour in this case, and
disappeared behind the curtains.
I do not at all want to injure the interest of those gentle¬
men, though they evidently did not hesitate to grossly attack
the character of Mrs. and Mr. Fay, and all other mediums, j
by declaring that all the manifestations at their seances
consisted of nothing but imposition. The key to the whole
secret, according to Mr. Maskelyne’s explanation, was to be
found in the circumstance that during the seance the medium
manages to get one hand free; if both hands were fixed the
tricks were done by means of the medium’s feet, and when
both hands and feet were secured the medium took up and rang
the bell with his or her teeth; the rest was done by some
accomplice present at the seance. These poor arguments were
accompanied by still poorer experiments, which, however,
created some laughter and cheers among the audience.
Now came the actual performance and sham seance, which
loses all claim to ingenuity, which at first sight it assumes,
through the simple fact that one hand of the individual imi¬
tating a medium was left free from the beginning, though to
all appearance fixed behind his back to the wall of the cabinet.
His feet were left untied from the beginning also. That the
tying of his hands was a sham from the beginning every
observer could see. This simple fact being, moreover, per¬
fectly in agreement with the argument advanced by Mr.
Maskelyne of how all the tricks or phenomena of the mediums
were to be accounted for, explains everything. Besides, his
argument that accomplices played an important role in sham
seances was quite confirmed in this instance, for the very same
two individuals who had exhibited themselves on the stage
before and played the game of whist with ‘‘ Pyscho ” re¬
appeared on the «tage to examine the cabinet and to tie the
sham medium. One of those two individuals showed pretty
clearly by his feigned stupidity in the handling of needle and
thread—thereby exciting the laughter of the audience—that he
was doing a part in the performance. His companion, on the
other hand, appeared still more accustomed to the thing and to
the stage; he did not even take the trouble to tie the other
hand of the medium, but left the task to Mr. Maskelyne, who
of course did it in the way most suitable to his purpose. And
the audience ? Well, the audience appeared quite contented
when Mr. Maskelyne announced that the two individuals
mentioned above had examined the screen behiud the
cabinet, to which the imitation medium was considered
to be fastened, and was satisfied. After the first feat
he made the same declaration, though the two persons
only went behind the cabinet, and neither they nor any¬
body else examined the hands of the fellow inside, to
see whether the bandage was still intact. To me it was quite
clear from the feats which he performed that both hands of the
man, after the first trials, were as free as were his feet. Con¬
sequently it was easy enough for him to push away the box
which enclosed him, do any amount of tricks, and draw it back
again as if he had never moved before the curtain rose again.
During the so-called dark seance the net, of course, was
untied by accomplices in waiting behind the curtain.
So far, however, the performance kept a certain appearance
of ingenuity, even to those who, like myself, looked through the
tricks—to many simple people no doubt it appeared marvel¬
lous. But the rest of the performance spoiled the whole effect,
for instead of being an ingenious imitation of Spiritualistic
phenomena, it was the poorest and clumsiest piece of jugglery
that ever I have witnessed. After the clever feats of “ Psycho ”
(worked most likely by means of an air pump) and the amus¬
ing performance of the facial artist, the least that I expected
from Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke was a clever imitation of
Spiritualistic phenomena; but what did I behold ? First, the
incessant ringing of a bell which before the light was turned
out had been fastened in the centre of a rope fixed to the legs
of two individuals on the stage, then the sudden appearance of
tambourines above our heads out of the reach of our arms, but
keeping almost a straight front line within a certain distance
from the stage, and betraying by their dull sound that they
were not floating in the air, nor even suspended by strings, but
simply attached to long sticks of the same sort as the one with
which they lit the gas chandelier from the stage immediately
after the close of the miserable performance. The edges of
these tambourines were evidently besmeared with phosphorus,
emitting all the while perceptive to every eye the well-known
clouds of white vapour peculiar to phosphorus, but never dis¬
played the much more intense electric light which sometimes
makes its appearance in Spiritualistic seances. There was no
floating about in the air of guitars or any other instrument
that required the touch of a human hand to produce tunes,
no touching by instrument or hands, no appearance of any
spirit-like form—not even one of Pepper’s illustrious ghosts.
In short, it was such a clumsy attempt at imitation that I did
not know whether the impudence of the conjurors or the silli¬
ness of the majority of the audience who applauded was most
288
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 11, 1875,
eurprising. How any man of common sense who ever wit¬
nessed the phenomena at a seance with a genuine medium can
he deceived and be at a loss to detect the clumsy tricks of those
conjurors at the Egyptian Hall I cannot understand. Why
do not Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke try their hands at the
imitation of a spirit form like that of “ John King?” At the
present stage they have to learn much from the Spiritualists
whom they describe as impostors. If mediums like Mr.
Williams are impostors, and produce the marvellous pheno¬
mena at their public and private seances by tricks, Messrs,
Maskelyne and Cooke ought to go and take lessons from Mr.
Williams, who evidently is their master in every respect as far
as Spiritualistic manifestations are concerned. If Mr. Williams
produces the phenomena by tricks, well, then, it is clear that
Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke have not yet reached the degree
of cleverness in imitating him that apprentice boys have in
comparison with their master. However, they act upon the
adage ‘ ‘ Mundus vult decipi,” and they deceive the world suc¬
cessfully. Perhaps they will not thank me for calling their
attention to a misprint in their programme which they really
ought to correct, namely, instead of ‘‘Exposition of Spirit¬
ualism (so called) ” they ought to put “ Exposition (so called)
of Spiritualism.” The latter reading alone would be in strict
accordance with the truth.
In conclusion, permit me to say that I have no ambition to
become a champion of Spiritualism, at least not for the present.
I am still a novice in the territory of Spiritualism, which,
besides, runs so entirely contrary to the system of ideas which
I had hitherto built up in my mind, that I have not as yet been
able to reconcile my thoughts with the unexpected facts. It is
only in honour of truth that I felt obliged to expose the im¬
pudence of those conjurors who pretend to expose Spiritualism,
whilst in point of fact they only exhibit their own ignorance
and inability to properly imitate even the most primitive
phases of genuine Spiritualistic phenomena.
G. W. P. Wiese, A.E.C.
Eoyal Hotel, London, May 27th, 1875.
PUBLICATION OP TRANCE MESSAGES GIYEN THROUGH MR.
DUGUID’S MEDIUMSHIP,
Sib,—Will you kindly allow me a short space in your
columns to inform your numerous readers that I have sub¬
scription books, sent by Mr. Nisbet, of Glasgow, in which to
enter the names of those who would like to have copies of the
work he is about publishing, namely, Earth-Life and Spirit-
Life Experiences of Hafed, Prince of Persia, communicated in
trance through Mr. Duguid’s mediumship, notices of which
have already appeared in the Spiritual Magazine and Human
Nature.
I have already a long list of names, but having such a large
circle of friends I cannot write to them personally, therefore
take this means of asking them to send me their names, and
those of as many of their acquaintances as they can influence
to take copies of this most interesting and invaluable work.
Knowing the reliability and worth of Mr. Duguid so well, I
am most anxioua to get him as many subscribers as possible ;
at the same time, I sincerely thank those friends who have
already so freely given me their names for the work.
M. A. Evebitt.
Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Spiritualism in Dalston.—A special seance with Mrs.
Bassett was held on Monday evening last, in the rooms of the
Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, 74,
Navarino-road, Dalston, London, when an excellent sitting
resulted. The circle consisted of Mrs. Bassett, Captain
James, of Tottenham, Mr. John Bous, Miss Corner, Mr. A.
Ferguson Black, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood, Mr. B. Pomeroy
Tredwen, Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. Bassett, Mrs. Blyton, and
Mr. W. Harris. Captain James opened the seance in the cus¬
tomary manner by reading a portion of Scripture, after which
a hymn was sung. Baps followed, and a slight alteration was
directed to be made in the order of the circle. All hands
were then joined, and the lamp extinguished. Captain James
and Mr. Harris, who were seated to the right and left hand of
Mrs. Bassett respectively, were palpably patted with hands,
the sound of which was distinctly audible to the whole of the
circle; both Captain James and Mr. Harris stated that they
each retained their hold of Mrs. Bassett’s hands; the same
condition was likewise observed by the other members of the
circle. Mr. Blyton had his repeater watch taken from his
hand, and it was carried about over Captain James’s head,
striking the hours in its progress. The hands were also dis¬
tinctly felt by several members of the circle, the touch being
gentle and life-like. The Spirits “ James Lombard ” and
“ Bobinson ” spoke with the direct voice in the course of
the sitting, and some phosphorescent lights were observed.
The seance was at last closed, the lamp was relit, and Captain
James rose and proposed a cordial vote of thanks to Mrs.
Bassett, which was carried unanimously. Mrs. Bassett
replied in a few words, and Mr. Blyton explained that Mrs.
Bassett had generously given the two special seances for the
benefit of the Association, which therefore was deeply in-
indebted to her for her kindness.
Another large supply of American books on Spiritualism
will reach Mr. Harrison’s new publishing office in a week or
two. Soon all the books on Spiritualism published in America
will be regularly on sale at 38, Great Bussell-street.
Mesmeric Healing.—A recent number of the Liverpool
Mercury quotes the following statement by Dr. Wm. Hitch-
man. “ Metals influence the human system very wonderfully,
as may be tested at the bedside of the sick. For example,
again and again have I failed to relieve various forms of in¬
tractable disease by means of iron and silver rings, whereas
eight minutes of ‘ passes ’ by a vegetarian, teetotaller, and
non-smoker, with a standard gold ring, have speedily cured
severe attacks of epilepsy and other convulsive maladies, alike
in children or adults, and quite independently of gender.”
Lecture bt Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tapp an.—On Thursday
evening last week, a meeting was held at the Doughty Hall,
Bedford-row, under the presidency of Mrs. Burke, in order to
consider the position of “ unfortunate women.” Mrs. Burke
opened the proceedings by stating the object of the meeting,
and reading a communication from the lady at whose insti¬
gation it had been called, setting forth how she had been in¬
structed by spirits to take up the cause of unfortunate women,
and to do what she could to alleviate their condition. Mrs.
Tappan then rose, and after a dissertation upon the position
of women in all ages and nations, she said that social influ¬
ence ought to be brought to bear against the compeers in
crime of fallen women, and that women in all grades of society
ought to take care not to perpetuate an invidious wrong against
their own sex by admitting men of a certain stamp into their
society, without admitting their equals among women also. If
they excluded the one class, they ought to exclude the other;
as matters stood at present, there was a wrong somewhere, a
lack of that redeeming power, of that exalted faith, which are
supposed to make up the standard of Christian civilisation.
Women should remember that any reproach or wrong put
upon one of their own sex was a reproach cast upon all, upon
every wife and daughter in Christendom. Any reproach
cast upon women should be cast upon their equals among
men, and she urged them to let the evil doer stand without
the gate, even if he belonged to their own household; they
could not kill the upas tree by cutting off the branches, but
ought to go to the root of the matter, permitting every right
and every wrong to take its proper place. The judgments of
the spirit world were different from those of the earth; there
should be no cesspool of despair in the world, no position
where there was no hope, and where human pleadings could
not be heard. The legislature should make it possible for
young women to obtain an honourable and decent livelihood,
and society everywhere should do what it could to promote the
freedom of women, and raise the standard of woman’s labour,
for upon these reforms the solution of nine-tenths of the whole
problem rested.
MR. COGMAN’S QUARTERLY TEA MEETING will
be held on Sunday, the 20th inst., at 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end-
road, E. Tickets, Is. each..
HOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston-lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Balaton, and Kingsland.—Information
as to Local Association, Seances, &c., to he obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
Lately Published, Crown 8vo., Price 3s. 6d.,
SON, REMEMBER; An Essay on the Discipline of the
Soul beyond the Grave. By the Rev. John Paul, Rector of St.
Alban's, Worcester.
“ Such a work will be warmly welcomed by all Spiritualists, and espe¬
cially by those who seek and find in Spiritualism a firm basis for moral
and religious teaching.”—Spiritualist, March 25th. 1875.
Published by H. K. Lewis, 136, Gower-srreet, Loudon.
ANTED a SITUATION in the Carpets and Fur¬
nishing, by an experienced Man, or Place of Trust, where the
hours are not later than 6.30 p. m. Midland Counties and South of Eng¬
land preferred. Age 30. Address T. H., Spiritualist Office, 11, Ave
Maria-lane, London.
June 11, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST
in
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS. (Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balhatn, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.R.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq., Liverpool.
Honywood. Mrs., 52, War wick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry £>., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, E.O.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer. Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-road,
Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House. Belper.
Armfleld,. W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thornham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F.A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chadwick, Sheldon, 54, Mortimer-road. Downham-road, Kingsland, E.
Chapman, John. 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos.. 11, Belle Yue terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Cooper, R., Yienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-roivd Blaokheath, S.E.
Dawe, N, Fabyan, 30, Campden-hill-gardens, Kensington, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., 28, Portland-place, Reading.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendcn, Middlesex, N. W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6, Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
James, Capt., 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Clhb, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, P&rk-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 8, Granville-terraee, Shaftesbury-road, Hammersmith, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.U.
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk
Morse, J. J., Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs.. 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Oxley, William, 65, Bury New-road, Higher Broughton, Manchester.
Pearce, C. T., M.R.C.S., 19, Nottingham-place, York-gate, Regent’s-pk., N.W.
Pearce, Richard, Percy-cottage, Pellatt-grove, Wood-green, N.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.W.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-rbad, Church-end, Finchley, N.W.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-road., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Ceutral-hill, Upper Norwood.
Sirawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Fernside, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Shadwell, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., ana 3, Altenburg-terraee, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1. The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq,,38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein. Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.M.I. TEmpereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
General Don Joaquim Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Pans.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris-
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M Peebles Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co., New Jersey, U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New YorK, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 155, West Brookline-street Boston, U.S.A,
A. J. Riko. Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
C. Constant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne, Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg University,
Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 35, Gartenhaus, Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epea Sargent, Esq., Box 3.556, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq.. M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 11, Rue d’Anieres, Paris.
Allied Society.
The Liverpool Psychological Society.
MRS. ANNIE EVA FAY, the celebrated Spiritual
Medium will give a farewell series of LIGHT and DARK SEANCES
with MATERIALISATIONS before departing for America, at her drawing¬
rooms, No. 21, Princess-rstreet, Hanover-square, W., every evening at 8
o’clock, and Monday, Wednesday, and Saturday mornings at 3 o’clock.
Tickets 10s. each, to be obtained of Messrs. Mitchell, and Lacon and Oliver,
Bond-street, and at 21, Princess-street.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bemard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
MR. W. Gh SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush,
W. Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
JV. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER,
is no w on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return aa
soon Jas engagements permit. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—Warwick-cottage, .Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.
DR. M’LEOD AND SIBYL-MAGNETIC HEALING
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefitted. By letters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfleld, Esq., 15,
Liwer Belgrave-street, Pimlico, S.VV. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture.
Stamps. Monsy refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
Mrs. olive, spirit medium, 49, belmont-
STREET, CHALK FARM-ROAD, N.W. Trance communica¬
tions for Tests. Business and Medic s.1 advice, Healing by Spirit Mesmerism,
&c. Terms for private seance, one guinea, public seances on Tuesdays,
at 7 p.m., and Fridays, 3 p.m., at above address. Admission 2s. 6d. Pre¬
vious appointments should be made for private seances.
OTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE D IDLER, Professor
of Curative Mesmerism (30 Years Established), attends patients
dailyj from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indication of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
Ijl M. PARKES, SPIRITUALIST PHOTOGRAPHER.
' • Sittings d la seance by appointment, Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays. The magnesium light used in dull weather or when required.
Fee, one guinea per sitting. Address, 6, Gay:aes Park Terrace, Grove-road,
Bow, E.
V
>THE i SPIRITUALIST.
June 11, 1875.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
SpibituAlism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the Civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena.. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J.S.Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Eev. O. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles K. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Sillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Eisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq,; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Eobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; C. Bussell Eoberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans, Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken,Esq., Barrister-at-law; J.H. Levy,
Esq.;. W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.E.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee Issued its
report, which, with the evidence,,, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported :—
“Your Committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.'’  
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Enquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting-of the'circle.
' 2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed Igad-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained,
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment- is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to bo related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy, of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
In the body.
• 9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.'
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mcdiumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.^
“THE , SPIRIT UAL IS T” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PBICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly,-is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture,- Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection with their communications in its columns are
Mr. 0. F. Yarley, C.E., F.B.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.B.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred B. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Count de Medina
Pomar; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Bobert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isbam, Bart.; Mrs. Boss-Church,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Bussian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.) ; Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason : Mr. N. Fabyan Da we;
Herr Christian Beimers; Mr. Wm. White (author of the Life of Swedenborg);
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Bev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox London\ Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jeucken, M.B.I., Bams-
ter-atLaw; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LLM.; Mr. C.
Constant (Smvrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury ; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W.Lindesay Bichardson,
M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 3rd Edition, with Appendix.
w
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz. Price 3s.
London.—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
THE SPIRITUAL AND PSYCHOPATHIC INSTI¬
TUTE, 1, Dunkeld-street (opposite Emmanuel Church), West
Derby-road, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Healers sent to all parts (terms
per arrangement.) J. and L. E. Coates, Principals.
The progressiye spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman,
Price Threepence. To be had of W. H. Terry, 96, Bussell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRIT UALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. S9 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4Jd. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value, for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept bn hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVEB PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, ana
. umbrellas.
MX) THE GUARDIANS OF ORPHAN GENTLEWOMEN,
JL or others deprived of the advantages of a Home Circle. A Lady of
unsectarian and liberal views wishes to receive into her house Three
Young Ladies from the age of sixteen, in order to complete their studies
by means of the classes held at ihe Crystal Palace School of Art,
where the best masters are engaged. Board and residence, exclusive of
school fees, 120 guineas per annum. Young ladies of good family from the
Continent or the Colonies would be acceptable. Address Y Z, Nicnolls,
Newsagent. Upper Norwood. .
TO THE READERS OF “THE MEDIUM.’' Answer,
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.") Published by E. W.
Allen Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny
E MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
J the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Bue de la Cath£drale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
T3EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyms, 7, Bue de Lille. Paris. Poaf-
Ofifice orders payable to M. Leymarie.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.C.
