[EEGISTERED as a Newspapes,
^^YdSo^o^idS^ ^diilNd^.
CIj^ #Itai toitlj ^prikaltsm xit (&xmt §rxfaxir*
THE SPIRITUALIST” is regularly en Sale at the following places :>—LONDON : ii, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: 246, Boulevard
des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont,
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S. : 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : ” Religio-Philosophical Journal” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
No. 195.*—(VOL. YIII.—No. 20.) LONDON 1 FDIDAYj MAY 19j 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
arontents.
The Investigation of Spiritual Phenomena by Novices ...
Spiritualism in New Zealand    ...
Dr. Doddridge’s Dream ...   ... ... ... ...
An Inspirational Address on Spiritualism as a Science ...
Mr. Blackburn’s Seances:—Spirit Hands under Test Con¬
ditions   ,  ...   ...   
Fresh Seaweed and a Piece of Bock brought to a Circle by
Spirits ... ... ... ... ...   ... ...
Nicolas Triibner    
The British National Association of Spiritualists  
Poetry:—Extracts from the Masque of Pandora. By
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow  
Correspondence:—A Sixth Latin Communication from
Publius Syrus—First Steps to a Knowledge of Spirit¬
ualism—Life and Death—Idealism and Spiritualism—
Mr. Eglinton in Manchester—The Floating of Solid
Objects in the Light      ... ... ... ...
The Annual Meeting of the National Association of
Spiritualists... ...“   ... ... ' ... ... ...
The National Association of Spiritualists ...  
An Old English Superstition   ...   
Paragraphs:—A Japanese Notion, 233; Anti-Spiritualism
in Leigh, 233; The Persecution of Spiritualists in Paris,
235; Apparitions due to Physiological Causes, 235;
Spiritualism in Lancashire, 239; Mr. J. J. Morse in the
Provinces, 239; Wax Moulds from Spirit Hands, 239;
Spiritualist Services in Churchyards, 239; Modern
Theism      ... ... ... '...
229
229
230
231
234
234
235
236
236
236
240
240
240
240
Che Smrxfxmlist
^Established in 1869.
pHAEGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Half-a-
crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisementi Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist" is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those, whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street
London : and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the; first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
N o notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.C.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Bivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
T> EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psyeho-
logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7. Bue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
PARTS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist
may obtain it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque,
246, Boulevard des Capucines, Paris.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 80, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS BAVENSCEOFT, Manager.
Reduced to Half-price!
(^ERMONS by T. L. HARRIS. London Series.
Containing—I.—Modern Spiritualism.
IL—Heart Wants of London.
IIL—Christ Incarnate.
IY.—^Liberty and Progress.
In limp cloth binding, 6d.; free by post, 7d.
John Thomson, 39, John-street, Glasgow, and Mrs. Connor,
16, Fairclough-lane, Liverpool.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, & GENERAL OUTFITTER,
8, HANOYER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Eas a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including
hats, shirts, and umbrellas.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
President
HENRY D. JENCKitN, ESQ., M.R.L
B arrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Council .
Mrs. C. Ada Blyton, Mr. Jonathan Tozeland,
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, _ Mr. Thomas Wilks,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. John Rouse.
Honorary Secretary and Treasure)':—Mr. Thomas Blvton.
Rooms:—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
Extracts from Prospectus.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various meaus, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. to which Members are admitted, as well
as members of similar Associations which reciprocate similar
privilege. Strangers can Ipniy be admitted to the ordinary seance
held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted
to special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions,
reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to
which strangers are admitted under the same regulations as are
enforced on the first Thursday evening in each month. Tickets for
such ordinary meetings as may be of general interest, in connection
with the “ Brixton Psychological Society,” are also placed at the
disposal of Members of the Association by that Society in reciprocity
of the privilege granted by the Association to similar organisations.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending, the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism aud kindred
subjects. AlUthe English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines ar
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
The alliance existing between this association and the “ British
National Association of Spiritualists ” will greatly assist the mem-
bers in their inquiries, as amongst the objects for which that
Association was established in 1873 are the following,, viz.:
y. •* To aid students and inquirers in their researches into certain
phenomena, known as Spiritual or Psychic: to assist in giving
publicity to the results of such researches: to afford information to
inquirers into these subjects, by correspondence and otherwise: and
to collect statistical facts respecting Spirituaiism.”
All communications to he addressed to the Honorary Secretary,
at the Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, B. A
stamped addressed envelope should be enclosed in all letters re¬
quiring replies. Copies of the prospectus, rules, circle regulations,
directions “ how to form spirit circles,” and catalogue of books in
the library, with any further information, can be obtained on appli¬
cation.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—'Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
rpHE ALPHA; OR, THE FIRST PRINCIPLE
I OF THE HUMAN MIN D; A Revelation, but no Mystery,
with Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait of the Author
E. N. Dennys. “We can call to mind few books fit to be its
fellows.’’—Athenxum. “It contains more truth, poetry,
philosophy, and logic, than any work we have ever read;
it is a new revelation, and one of the most remarkable produc¬
tions ever given to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
Also just published, with a beautiful Engraving of the Author
470 pages, on toned paper, handsomely bound, price 8s. 6d.
rPHE RELIGION OF LIFE, AS EXEM-
J. PLIFIED BY THE MAN JESUS CHRIST, a Series of
Lectures, by the author of “ Alpha.” A synopsis of the topics
may be obtained free on application.
CONTENTS:—What is Evil? Charity; Poverty—its Evils
and its Mission; The Divinity that Dwells in Man; The Church
of the Future; ‘‘Stand up! I myself also am a Man;” The
Path of Righteousness; Trust in God; Self-Trust; What is
Christianity ? Thy Kingdom Come! What is Man ? The “ one
thing" desired by the Psalmist; Pure Religion; Philosophy;
The Childhood of Jesus; Religious Liberty; Election and
Grace; Time; Sin; Law the Regenerator; The Last Judg¬
ment; God is not Mocked; The Unchristian Character of
Riches; Peace; Religion Consists in Action; The Millennium,
and how to obtain it.
The work is also published in nine parts, eight at 4d. each
and one at 6d., done up in neat wrappers.
• “THE UNCHRISTIAN CHARACTER OF RICHES” and
“RELIGION CONSISTS IN ACTION” are also published
separately at Id. each.
*** The cordial aid of the friends of education, intellectual
progress, and religious liberty is earnestly solicited to make
these works as widely known as possible. They contain the
most important of all knowledge, by a deep and original
thinker, and will he supplied at cost price for extensive circu¬
lation. They have been brought out in a variety of forms to
suit the means of all classes of readers.
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.,
Entrance in Woburn Street.
THE HEADING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals,
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scieniifle subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the game family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one hook from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, but not of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers have been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained through any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to affoi’d them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38. Great Russell-street, W.C.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
East London spiritual meetings.—
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman'fi
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admissiou
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church- street, Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances, &c.: Sundays, Healing, at 11 a.m.,
Serviceat 7 p.m. Tuesday, Seance at 8p.m.; Is. Friday, Seance at
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class at
8 p.m.; subscribers only.  
ST. MATTHEW’S, SPRING- GARDENS
(near Cbaring-cross station). On the Snndays after
Easter a COURSE OF SERMONS will be preached by tbe
Rev. Maurice Davies, D.D., on “The Apparitions of Christ
during the Great Forty Days; ’’ with special reference to their
bearing on the future that awaits us. Subjects—
1. April 23rd.—Tbe Apparitions to the Women. The Nature
of the Resurrection-Body. Woman's Faith and Love.
2. April 30th.—On the Emmaus Road. Man's Despondency.
The Change in the Risen Body.
3. May 7th.—To the Ten. The Message of Peace to a Broken
Circle.
4. May 14th.—To the Eleven. The Doubter convinced. The
Believer blessed.
5. May 21st.—On the Sacred Beach. Links with the Past.
Loving Provisions for the Future.
6. May 28th.—On the Mount of Ascension. Last Farewells.
Service commences at a quarter-past Eleven.
S. Flood Jones, M.A., Incumbent.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK; OR, GUIDE FOR
MEDIUMS AND FOR EVOCATION. Containing the
Theoretic Teaching of Spirhs concerning all kinds of manifes¬
tations, &c., &c. By Allan Kardec. Translated by Anna
Blackwell. Crown 8vo, pp. 476, cloth, 7s. 6d.
Three copies post free for 6d.
The writings of emanuel Sweden¬
borg. DO THEY ENCOURAGE ADULTERY AND
ITS KINDRED VICES ? By Thomas Robinson.
Also other works by the same Author.
Address—H. Barlow and Son, Stationers, &c., Oldham-road,
Newtonbeath, near Manchester.
Price Is. Old., post free.
Marriage law injustice. An ex¬
posure of the wrongs sanctioned by the present
Divorce Act, with suggested amendments. By Frederick A.
Binney.
Manchester: Palmer and Howe, 8, Bond-street.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by Q. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of books, and having placed for this purpose the whole of his
private library, consisting of 100 books and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by the
gift or loan of books, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the population is nearly 80,000, and very little,
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism. Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIR1T-
UALIS5I EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London Simpkin, makshai l * Co!
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
May 19, 1876,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, I, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
JSYeritt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex,
N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hiil, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.K.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Kamsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R„ Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
: Speer, Stanhope Templeman.M.D.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, I'inchley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armficld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., I, King Edward-st., Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Itichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Beigate.
Binney, F. A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street. Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Yue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Orosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yaubrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.W.
Fltton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S;W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W. -
Freeman, Joseph, 6 Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Titos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Hougltton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, 11. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isliam, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivhney, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
James, Capt,, 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernott, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamout, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Piaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Mawson,AYm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C.T., M.R.C.S., 19, Nottingham-place, York-gate,Regent’s
Park., N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, E. Dawson. Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
road, S E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-eommon.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper
Norwood.
Strawbridge,Mrs.G.N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton. A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, R M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath,S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Wedgwood, Hensleiglt, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S AY., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss M., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
With all, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de I’Empereur Russie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden
-Vhmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
'The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2c, Leipsic, Germany.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
■The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Direkinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
Ml Gustave de Yeh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Eiysees, Paris.
Mme. de Yeh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Eiysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co„New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
•Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 13, Via Fate bene Fratelli, Milan.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Numberger Strasse, 35, Gartenhaus,
Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
• Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq.,M D., 634,Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq-i.M.D.,196, Clinton-ayenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., 5, Rue de la Terrasse, Paris. .
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Mrs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchias, Paris.j
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society,Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka Josefstadt, Erzherzog, Alexauder-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. C. Emery, St. Mary-
street, Cardiff.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed
to unite Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid
and benefit; to aid students and inquirers in their researches, by
placing at their disposal the means of systematic investigation into
the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic; to make
known the, positive results arrived at by careful research; and to
direct attention to the beneficial influence which those results are
calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual con¬
duct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class, whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers
into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in
the year 1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liver¬
pool, at which all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the
Spiritualists of the chief towns In the United Kingdom, were re¬
presented. The amount of the annual subscription to the National
Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year.
Each member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is
eligible for election to all offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wish¬
ing to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss
Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38,
Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C., of whom copies of the Con¬
stitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Wobum-street.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M R.C.S.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mx. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Committee of Management. — Mr. Jones, Mr. J. Haslin, Mr.
William Meridith, Mrs. Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, and Miss
Dickson.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charleton, Mr. James Monk.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
instruction, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
February, 1875.
THE DUPLEX FUNERAL CAR,
With silvered floral ornaments, violet mouldings, &c., used
(open or closed) at funerals conducted in accordance with the
views of Spiritualists, by
S. HATOHARD AND OO.,
FiramsHiNd Undertakers, Carriage Proprietors, &c
Chief Office: 47, Crawford-street, Bryanston-
SQUARB, W.
Personal attendance at any address on receipt of letter or
telegram.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
The spiritual magazine, edited by
GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Mesmerism,
FASCINATION.
ELECTRO-BIOLOGY,
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological
phenomena.
How to know Sensitive SUBJECTS.
How to develop Clairvoyant Media.
How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DR. MOSES R1GG can teach any person efficiently by post.
Pamphlets and testimonials gratis, or by post, Id. stamp.
Address, 9, Granville-square, London, W.C. At home daily
from 10 till 5.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m.
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenings (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance, healing,
AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship. Disorderly Influences
removed. French spoken. At home Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended. Ad¬
dress, 90, Great Russell- street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Notice.—Physical seances, with first-class mediums, held on
Thursday and Saturday evenings of each week. Admission
on Saturdays by special invitation; on Thursdays by introduc¬
tion. No one admitted after eight o’clock. Fee, 5s. Mrs.
Woodforde is also open to engagements for private physical
sea»ces at her own residence; previous notice required; fees
upon arrangement with medium. Address, 90, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
T. RHODES, MEDIUM, is willing to help
in the formation of Private Circles, and give every
information to Inquirers, within a radius of twenty miles of
Newcastle. Address, 30, Tynemouth-road, Newoastle-on-
Tyne.     
ISS CHANDOS eradicates Consumption,
Cancer, Insanity, Dypsomania, Nervous and Infantile
Diseases. £1 per visit (within three miles), including specifics.
By post, monthly, £2 2s.
Full instructions in Mesmerism and Electro-biology, postal
and private, 17, Brunswick square, W.O.
■jVTOTICE. — CHANGE OF RESIDENCE. —
_Li Mrs. Olive has removed to 15, Ainger-terrace, Ainger-
road, King Henry’s-road, Primrose-hill, N.W. Three minutes
from Chalk-farm Station; five minutes from omnibus to
Oxford-street or West-end. Seances as usual for clairvoyance,
medical mesmerism, trance, tests, &c. Private seances by
arrangement; public ditto, Tuesdays, 7 p.m., Fridays, 3 p.m.;
admission, 2s. 6d. Visiis within ten miles two guineas, in¬
clusive.
PHYSICAL SEANCES, Light and Dark. Mrs. Olive has
arranged for a series of Seances with Mr. Bullock, jun., on
Mondays at 7 p.m. Admission, 5s. Materialisations and other
interesting phenomena are now constantly produced under test
conditions.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST
AND RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT,
1, Robert street, Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen
by appointment only. Terms on application by letter.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
Notice.—monsieur adolphe didier,
Professor of Curative Mesmerism (30 Years Estab¬
lished), attends patients daily from 2 till 5, at his own resi¬
dence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden Hill, Kensington. Som¬
nambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases, indication of
their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can consult
by letter.
MR. WILLIE EGLINTON, MEDIUM,
can be engaged for seances, morning or evening. Ad¬
dress, Mr. Willie Eglinton, St. James’s House, Waltham¬
stow.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the Great
American Somnambuli it. Spiritual Clairvoyante, and
Test Medium, whose reputation is well-known throughout
Europe and America. Horns. 1 till 8 p.m. Terms, one guinea.
On Fridays and Saturdays, 10s. 6d. To those of limited means
trance seances on Monday evening at 8 p.m., 2s. Gd. Physical
seances for Spiritualists onlyon Thursday and Saturday evenings
at 8 o’clock, 5s. Miss Fowler does not reply to correspon¬
dence, nor see visitors on Sunday. Address—2, Vernon-place,
Bloomsbury-square, London, W.C.
Mediumship • its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for lid-.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Psychopathic institution for the
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6d.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
W.O.
►ROFESSOR JAMES REGAN, Psychopathic
Healer, 37, Hart-street, Bloomsbury-square, London,
Attendance given personally from 12 to 4 daily, Saturdays
excepted. No attendance given on that day. Terms in
accordance with patient's means. Patients attended at their
own residences by appointment.
A LADY of Culture,
is anxious to obtain
having passed a hospital,
an engagement as MONTBLY
NURSE, where no menial work is required. Reference to
Medical man. Terms five guineas a month, or according to
circumstances. Apply to the Secretary, British National
Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
WANTED by a Young Lady a situation as
COMPANION to a Lady Medium and Clairvoyant.
Would not object to trance.—T.Y.,16, Stafford-street, Maryle-
bone-road, W.   1  
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HUMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
Voj-ujvie Eiqht. Kumber Twenty.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MAY 19th, 1876.
THE INVESTIGATION OF SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA BY
NOVICES.
In the report of the meeting of the Psychological Society,
printed in these pages last week, will be found the speeches
of several members, who stated that it was desirable to ascer¬
tain why manifestations are obtained at some seances, and
none at others, in order that preventible failures may be
avoided in the future. Nothing can be more desirable than a
full knowledge of the conditions under which the best mani¬
festations occur, because compliance with the said conditions
will tend to save time, and secure precision. But some of the
speakers at the meeting talked as though none of the condi¬
tions had ever been ascertained, although they have been
unravelled to such an extent, that experienced Spiritualists
can usually tell beforehand whether a seance will be a good
one or the reverse. In the first place the medium must not
be tired, but full of vital energy ; he should also be in good
health and spirits. Nothing kills manifestations so surely
as uncongenial persons in the circle. Mrs. Jencken (Kate
Fox), who has had more experience in the influences affecting
spiritual phenomena than anybody else in the world, once
told us that nothing checked the manifestations so much as
her taking dislike, with or without cause, to some one of
the sitters. The medium, then, in the first place, should be
in good condition; the other primary element of suc¬
cess is that he shall have full confidence in every
member of the circle, and feel happy in their society;
in short, the more strongly he is bound to them by ties
of affection, the more powerful will be the manifes¬
tations. Well-meaning investigators, versed perhaps in
physics, and understanding little about spirituality, some¬
times form circles, and without the least knowledge of the
subject, begin by insulting the power which produces the
manifestations by denying on the spot that spirits have any¬
thing to do with the matter at all; their a priori conclusion
in this matter is the outcome of utter ignorance. After in¬
sulting the beings at the root of the matter, they commonly
break through all the conditions under which the manifesta¬
tions have been discovered by experience to be obtained.
One glance at their faces is quite enough for the unfortunate
medium, and chills out of him any sensation of happiness
he might have felt before entering the seance room. They
next instruct him where he is to sit, and what persons are to
sit on either side of him, instead of asking the spirits who
are to take those positions. When the latter are consulted,
it will usually be found that they select the most affectionate
persons in the room to sit near him, placing the more self-
sufficient and unpleasant at a distance. The result of all
this is that no manifestations are obtained, or that into such
a villainous spiritual atmosphere only the lowest intelligences
from the next world can gain entrance ; if these gain power
they play some reprehensible pranks, painful to the medium
or to the sitters. Experienced Spiritualists are now well versed
in these conditions, consequently do not take the trouble to
invite to seances people who think they know all about the
subject beforehand, and are perfectly ready to sit in judg¬
ment as authorities. Locking out these people protects the
members of the circle and the medium from much annoy¬
ance. There are some investigators who begin their inquiry
into the subject with good intentions, but who kill incipient
manifestations through non-compliance with these conditions,
so that the sooner they begin to understand that one of the pri¬
mary elements of success in the spirit circle is that most, if
not all the members shall be more or less strongly bound to
the medium by ties of affection, the sooner will they cease to
leave on record a series of dismal failures. Very powerful
mediums obtain manifestations in the face of the most
adverse conditions, but such mediums are rare, and access to
their seances is one of the greatest of privileges.
SPIRITUALISM IN NEW ZEALAND.
The following particulars relating to some of the earlier
seances in New Zealand, held soon after Spiritualism was
first introduced in that country, are extracted from a private
letter to a lady residing in Bath :—
Now for the table-turning, in which you express so confi¬
dent a belief. You are quite right, the table does rise—through
what agency remains to be discovered. How great is its
jump ! Long since I made the same reply to objections
that you do,—“ Eppur si muove." I know all about Faraday’s
test; but, when the table rises to me, by my simply placing
my fingers, without force, on the middle of it, there can be
no mistake, and of course no collusion. I ought rather to
say that the table has so risen; for it rises no longer to
me alone.
The experiment was first introduced-into Auckland from
America. Though much disposed to laugh at it, I did not,
but bided my time. A question had been asked of the
table,—u How many days will the Spencer (which had just
sailed from Auckland) take to reach Melbourne ? ” “ Thirty
days ” (an unusually long passage) was the reply. I said,
“ I will wait for news; if thirty days be the time, I will
experiment myself.” On the thirtieth day she did arrive.
Accordingly, I enquired who were the most successful prac¬
titioners, and selected from among them two men upon whom
I could depend. Their names were Vaile and Jarvis. It
would be endless work to tell you of the result; I was never
so bewildered in my life. The end of all was that after
about three months, I had to leave off, for it affects the
nerves most strongly. One adventure, however, I must
mention, because of its absurdity, though none the less true
on that account. The table became suddenly very ill-
behaved, kicking about in the most obstreperous manner.
We told the spirit (mind, I do not believe in spiritual
agency the least in the world) to letter his name. Of course
you know how that is done. N—I—C. I had myself not
the least thought of what was coming. If If the next letter
be said Yaile, “ I shall bolt! ” And, sure enough,
letter k it was. At that time I had not yet satisfied myself
that there was no devilry at the bottom of the matter. We
looked at each other in mute astonishment: at last I said,
u Blow out the lights, and give him a chance.” Neither of my
mates seemed inclined to do so, and I blew them out myself
Let me confess that I half expected to see his sable majesty
cross the room on a flash of blue lightning, and was really
disappointed when he made no sign. We relit the lights, and
Yaile proposed putting a Bible on the table. We then
challenged Nick to lift again, and beat him. He could not
lift an ounce. We took the Bible off, and I muttered a
Latin prayer out of the breviary, over the table, and bid him
try again. Up and down went the table, worse than
ever. I have no doubt that if the priest had been there, or
we had been holy Roman Catholics, the reverse would have
taken place. On my way home, I called in on my friends,
William Brown and (his wife, to tell them. I was so
excited, that, as Mrs. Brown afterwards confessed to me,
they thought that I had taken too much whiskey; whereas,
in truth, to borrow a Catholic phrase, I was U fasting from
all but sin.”
One other curious thing I must tell you. A vessel was
signalled, but was blown out to sea again before her number
could be made out. The spirit was asked, (f What vessel is
that?” “Do not hnoroy “Can you go and see?” “7
can.^ Returned and said, “ The ‘Deborah' Brig." u You
are wrong for once,” said the inquirer; % the Deborah is a
brigantine” (a well-known trader, Captain Bliss, between
Auckland and Sydney). But the spirit stuck to his text,
and a bet was actually made by one who was plucky enough
to back the devil against what was supposed to be a
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 19, 1876.
230
.vrfrrrr^
certainty. He won his money, and was paid. For, two days
after, in came the Deborah brig, from London, a vessel that
had never entered the harbour before.
I sent an account of the experiments to Wellington, where
they were tried on a large table at Mr. Dillon Bell’s. All the
veneering flew off. A cracking noise in the table I have
often heard; never what is commonly called “rapping.”
Once we were trying a large heavy table during session time.
It was obstinate, and would not move. By a sort of instinct
I conceived the idea that Fitzgerald, of Canterbury, exer¬
cised an adverse influence. He is a large, powerful man, of
the high, sanguine temperament; the very man, one would
suppose, to help in the accumulation of force. As soon as he
left the table, it spun round the room so fast that we had a
race to keep up with it. You may say that he exerted force
to hinder it; not so; he was as much surprised as any
of us.
I investigated the question most carefully writh my friends
Mr. and Mrs. Brown (I wish you would find them out in
London. Morrison, the New Zealand agent, No. 3, Adelaide-
place, London-bridge, will always give you their address),
but we gave it up in despair at last. Moreover, we got out
of conceit with the spirits, who lie sometimes like tinkers,
and with the most mischievous ingenuity.
More about the spirits presently; but an improvement
was effected upon even them, for some wiseacres discovered
that we had each of us a guardian angel in attendance.
Curiously enough, this absurdity supplied me with a hint
towards solution of the mystery. We were trying the table
in William Brown’s house. Some one asked, “ Who is Mr.
C ’s guardian angel ? ” “ How many letters in the
name ?” “ Four—D R——.” Mrs. Brown suddenly stopped
the proceedings, and broke up the seance. I asked her what
was the matter. She made no answer, but brought out of
the study a book which I had lent her, and pointed to a name
in the title page. This book was an Italian Bible, which
had been given to me by Lady Virginia Murray, and the
name was Lucy Drew. I saw in a moment what was pass¬
ing in her mind; she had compounded a little romance in
her own mind, and had broken up the seance out of regard
to my feelings, which were likely to be wounded by indis¬
creet revival of the past. I assured her that she need have
been under no anxiety about that; although I knew the lady
very well, she was some twenty years older than myself.
But it struck me that the table might obey the thoughts of
the persons present, and that the persons might be in a state
of partial or complete clairvoyance, clearly not necessarily
so, as in the present instance. I subsequently succeeded in
commanding the table myself, by means of intense will,
standing at the other end of the room, away from the opera¬
tors, who brought out the result which I required in silence,
with one additional.
Now it is of no use laughing at all this as being contrary
to common sense, and to the doctrine of attraction of gravi¬
tation. Do we yet know all about the attraction of gravita¬
tion ? There are phenomena yet to be accounted for. Every
one knows the difference in weight (to lift) between a dead
man and a live one. But there is a case in which the living
man is without weight. You will doubtless have heard a
well known experiment. A man is laid on a table; four
others put a finger each under him ; all five draw breath and
hold it at the same time; and up rises the middle man,
borne on four fingers. Now it struck me that there might be
conditions under which the attraction of the earth should
exercise a repulsive force, as well as that of the magnet;
and that a development of the odylic force, the main agent
in mesmerism, might be one of those conditions. It is a
curious fact that, from the time that I endeavoured to ac¬
count for the rising, i.e. repulsion of the table on physical
grounds, losing the excitement of wonder, I lost half my
power of influencing the table.
Bishop Selwyn preached a sermon at St. Paul’s (our St.
Paul’s) against it. The text which he intended to take, had
not his courage failed him, was admirable. It was from
Acts, relative to the appointment of deacons. “ It is not
meet that we should leave the word of God to serve tables.”
My own opinion is that all these new things are old ones
connected with the ancient and venerable practice of witch-
j']| craft, which was not merely imposture. Depend upon it
||| that whatever obtains general credence, and takes a firm hold
jjj on the popular mind, has at least a grain of truth at the
I | bottom of it. In every superstition that endures there must
j | be a living coal to keep it alight.
Enough of this, though there be plenty more to say.
DK. DODDRIDG-E’S DREAM.
! I The difficulties in the way of ascertaining the exact nature
| | of life in the world of spirits are great, because spirits appear
jjj to possess powers and senses which we have not, and to be
I | surrounded by conditions of which we can have no per-
| | ception. Hence, the higher spirits in their attempted reve-
i | lations speak chiefly by signs and symbols, which, if taken
| | too literally, lead the inquirer into error. Nevertheless, there
j I is a sameness of a striking nature in the symbolism revealed
| j through seers and trance mediums. The late Judge Ed-
| | monds, of New York, in a vision of his spirit home, saw all
| | the leading incidents of his past life depicted in pictures on
jj! the wall. Spirits who communicated through Mr. Morse in
[If the early days of his mediumship, spoke sometimes of seeing
j I the deeds of their past life pictured upon the walls of a
I j room ; the figures in these life-pictures were usually described
I I as moving and changing. To show how these revelations,
| | from widely different sources, agree, we here quote the con-
| I tents of a Stirling Tract (No. 244) which has been sent us,
| j| containing an account of “ Dr. Doddridge’s Dream—
j I “Dr. Doddridge was on terms of intimate friendship with
j jj Dr. Samuel Clarke, and in religious conversation they spent
| | many happy hours together. Among other matters, a
| j favourite topic was the intermediate state of the soul, and
| | the probability that at the instant of dissolution it was
| | not introduced into the presence of all the heavenly
I | hosts, and the splendours around the throne of God. One
| | evening, after a conversation of this nature, Dr. Doddridge
| | retired to rest with his mind full of the subject dis-
| | cussed, and in the ‘ visions of the night’ his ideas were
I | shaped into the following beautiful form:—He dreamed
jj that he was at the house of a friend, when he was suddenly
i l taken dangerously ill. By degrees he seemed to grow worse,
Ijj and at last expired. In an instant he was sensible that he
j exchanged the prison-house and sufferings of mortality for a
| state of liberty and happiness. Embodied in a splendid
| aerial form, he seemed to float in a region of pure light.
| Beneath him lay the earth, but not a glittering cityorvil-
| lage, the forest or the sea, was visible. There was nought
| to be seen below save the melancholy group of friends,
! weeping around his lifeless remains.
“ Himself thrilled with delight, he was surprised at their
jj tears, and attempted to inform them of his change, but, by
| some mysterious power, utterance was denied; and, as he
j anxiously leaned over'the mourning circle, gazing fondly
jj upon them, and struggling to speak, he rose silently upon
j the air ; their forms became more and more distant, and
| gradually melted away from his sight. Reposing upon
| golden clouds, he found himself swiftly mounting the skies,
| with a venerable figure at his side, guiding his mysterious
j movement, and in whose countenance he remarked the
| lineaments of youth and age were blended together with an
jj intimate harmony and majestic sweetness. They travelled
j through a vast region of empty space, until at length the
i| battlements of a glorious edifice shone in the distance, and
jj as its form rose brilliant and distinct among the far-off
|| shadows that flitted across their path, the guide informed
! him that the palace he beheld was for the present to be his
|| mansion of rest. Gazing upon its splendour, he replied,
j that while on earth he had heard that eye had not seen, nor
j had the ear heard, nor could it enter into the heart of man
| to conceive the things which God had prepared for those
| who love Hirn ; but, notwithstanding the building to which
j they were then rapidly approaching was superior to anything
I he had ever before seen, yet its grandeur had not exceeded
I the conceptions he had formed. The guide made no reply—
| they were already at the door, and entered.
The guide introduced him into a spacious apartment, at
| the extremity of which stood a table covered with a snow-
| white cloth, a golden cup, and a cluster of grapes, and there
May 19, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
931
he said he must remain, for he would receive in a short time
a visit from the Lord of the mansion, and that, during the
interval before his arrival, the apartment would furnish him
with sufficient entertainment and instruction. The guide
vanished, and he was left alone. He began to examine the
decorations of the room, and observed that the walls were
adorned with a number of pictures. Upon nearer inspection
he found, to his astonishment, that they formed a complete
biography of his own life. Here he saw upon the canvas
that unseen angels had ever been his familiar attendants,
and, sent by God, they had sometimes preserved him from
immediate peril. He beheld himself first as an infant just
expiring, when his life was prolonged by an angel gently
breathing into his nostrils. Most of the occurrences here
delineated were perfectly familiar to his recollection, and un¬
folded many things which he had never before understood,
and which had perplexed him with many doubts and much
uneasiness. Among others he was particularly struck with
a picture in which he was represented as falling from his
horse, when death would have been inevitable had not an
angel received him in his arms, and broken the force of his
descent. These merciful interpositions of God filled him
with joy and gratitude, and his heart overflowed with love as
he surveyed in them all an exhibition of goodness and mercy
far beyond all that he had imagined. Suddenly his atten¬
tion was arrested by a rap at the door. The Lord of the
mansion had arrived—the door opened and he entered. So
powerful and so overwhelming, and withal of such singular
beauty was his appearance, that he sank down at his feet,
completely overcome by his majestic presence. His Lord
gently raised him from the ground, and, taking his hand,
led him forward to the table. He pressed with his fingers
the juice of the grapes into the cup, and after having drank
himself, presented it to him, saying, i This is the new wine
in my Father’s kingdom.’ No sooner had he partaken than
all uneasy sensations vanished. Perfect love had cast out
fear, and he conversed with his Saviour as an intimate friend.
Like the silver rippling of the summer sea, he heard fall
from his lips the grateful approbation: 4 Thy labours are
over, thy work is approved, rich and glorious is thy reward.’
Thrilled with an unspeakable bliss that glided into the very
depth of his soul, he suddenly saw glories upon glories
bursting upon his view. The doctor awoke. Tears of rapture
from his joyful interview were rolling down his cheeks. Long
did the lively impressions of this charming dream remain
upon his mind, and never could he speak of it without
emotions of joy and tenderness.”
AN INSPIRATIONAL ADDRESS ON SPIRITUALISM AS A
SCIENCE.
This address was delivered one Sunday evening in the trance state
by Mr. J. J. Morse, of London, before the Boston Spiritualists’ Union,
during his recent visit to the United States. We extract the trance
address from The Spiritual Scientist of Boston. Mr. Morse, upon rising,
uttered the following prayer:—
Through that Divine Providence whose care hath ever guided
humanity, whose Divine love and wisdom doth ever abide with His
children, let us stand, our thoughts and aspirations welling upwards
after that which is beautiful and pure in being; and as our souls flow
out, and as our minds endeavour to draw near to the grand truths of
life, our natures will be inspired, and somewhat of the glory will enter
into our nature; we shall feel the soul of the Divine life that pulsates
through us, and draw nearer our God to Thee. To praise Thee by set
words, or adore Thee by any formal mode, is not the worship that Thou
dost require; but it is the waiting spirit, springing in its purity, spring-
ing in its integrity, ever pushing forward in the pure purposes of life,
and in deeds of kindness, making efforts to lift mankind upward and
onward. This is the prayer, and this the only ritual, and this the only
method whereby Thy children can worship Thee. Grant, oh, we pray
Thee, that this worship of good deeds and noble works, this living faith
of divine works, shall glow in the pathway of humanity and cast a
radiance over its suffering, filling all lands with hope and joy; and grant,
too, that it may yet bind humanity in the bond of one common love, and
one united interest, which shall make it as one with itself and with Thee,
its Father and its God, Amen.
In speaking to you this evening, friends, we intend to traverse some
ground that may be familiar to some of you, but yet, perhaps, may be
new unto others. "We intend, also, to embody, so far as we are able,
such general information, bearing upon the points that we shall touch
upon, as will prove of interest to all our hearers, and for the special
object engaging your attention for the time before us we have selected
this theme; not by any means a n§w one, perhaps, nor do we claim that
we shall be able to throw any new light upon it, but then discussion
thereof may prove mutually advantageous. The theme that we would
speak to you upon is “ The' Science of Spiritualism.”
And we think that our friends will agree with us that in the under¬
standing of the merely mechanical portions of this philosophy of Spirit¬
ualism, by which we mean the means whereby the inhabitants of the
next world are enabled to hold communion with the inhabitants of this,
the consideration of these matters cannot but prove of advantage
to all concerned. For it is not that we should know too much of these
things, but rather is it that we should know a little, and know that little
well and thoroughly.
Now, our conception of Spiritualism, be it here stated, really amounts
to this, that it is first based upon its phenomenal evidence, which pheno¬
menal evidence really rests upon certain inevitable laws and principles
inherent to the condition of this universe ; and it is just as the spirits
themselves are enabled by their knowledge of these facts to point them,
by their own will or purpose, in any particular direction—just in propor¬
tion as they are able to do this does success attend their efforts, and no
more.
********
We must assume, at the outset, that there are such persons as disem¬
bodied spirits. At present you will please to consider that there is not
a particle of evidence to support this idea, but it is necessary to be
admitted on the theory we are now considering.
Well, here is your disembodied spirit. You cannot see it, but then
there are many other things in nature that you cannot see, and why not
this disembodied spirit? The object is that this table shall be moved,
but the table is in one condition of existence, and the spirit is in
another. Manifestly a fusion of forces, so to speak, is the only means
we have by which it would appear possible for the two conditions to
come together.
Now, can this living material being,—excuse us for the word, for we
know no better one,—can this living entity on this side fuse itself to the
dead, or material, conditions on your side ?
By the way, science perplexes us very much sometimes; she uses
such a strange nomenclature for things which wear such different
aspects to the Spiritualist, that we are at a loss to find a fitting word;
therefore we blame science for the little confusion that now arises.
What is there that shall relate this table to that spirit ? Apparently
nothing, and if there were no other conditions than those which pertain
to the table and those which pertain to the spirit, that spirit might
stand there from now to the crack of doom, and the Rochester knock-
ings would never have transpired. But, observe! We find that when
manifestations are produced, the presence of a medium is necessary.
“ Well, what is a medium ? ” says the investigator. “ Why cannot
spirits come without a medium ? ”
Well, we do not know why spirits cannot do without mediums,—we
do not know why light should not reflect itself without being reflected
from some surface capable of bringing about that result.
“ But what is a medium? What is she? What does she have to
do ? They are usually women, and women are so sentimental and soft-
brained and crazy! What do these mediums do ? How do they call
up the spirits ? ” i
Well, they neither call them up nor down, but they just sit perfectly
still.
“ Well, what do they want there at all if they do nothing but sit
still? ”
Well, my friend, there is something flowing from their organisations
which the spirits use, and upon which they are dependent, and the
absence of which makes the manifestations impossible.
“ Well, where does it come from, this something which the spirits
want to use,—from her head, her eyes, or her mouth? ”
How very material these people are, to be sure ! They would wish
to hear the voice of Deity through a tin trumpet before they believed it,
and probably when they heard it sounding through that instrument,
they would say that it was a piece of clever imposture on the part of
some human being.
But what is the philosophy of mediumship ? There has been a doc¬
trine prevailing among the sages, of all ages of the world, that every
condition of existence, that is, every order, or form of order of life,
evolved from itself a peculiar sphere or effluvium—that is the word
usually used—as in the case of the rose or the onion, for instance, to
the odours of which you are sensitive, and which you can easily recog¬
nise. These exhalations are such that you cannot lay hold of them, but
they are, nevertheless, real and substantial; as real and as substantial
as are the objects-from which they are exhaled. Now, all things in
nature emit their own peculiar atmosphere, and atoms of matter are
also surrounded by their peculiar atmospheres. Every human being
in this room is also surrounded by his peculiar atmosphere. Every world
floating in space is surrounded by its own peculiar atmosphere; in short,
every condition of existence evolves its own especial atmosphere. Now,
the union of two atoms means, not the union of the atoms as such, but
the interfusion of their atomic sphere, or surroundings, and, therefore, all
forms of life, animate and inanimate, represent molecular structures,
depending on the unity entering into their construction for the time
being.
Consequently, this table before us, which is simply so-called wood
and marble, is in reality a compound of certain atoms in chemical rela¬
tionship, which give you the constituents which you know either as
wood or marble, whichever portion of the table you take. These atoms
are held together by purely chemical relations. They were originally
brought together by affinities toward each other, and are maintained in
their present relations because the vibration of the individual atoms
happens to be harmonious, that is, they are all beating, so to speak, in
the same rhythm. By striking it with a hammer, thus destroying the
harmonious vibration, you would shatter this marble to pieces. So, if
you placed the wood in the fire, you would bring about also a repulsion
232
THE STtRITUALIST.
May 19, 1878.
of the harmony in the atoms. But in neither case would the elements j )i
of the articles be lost; they would return back to their elementary con- | (i
ditions. We find, then, this table composed of atoms; each atom has l]i
its own peculiar sphere, and each sphere impinges upon the other; and j (|
the vibration obtaining through these constituents constitutes and main- i (i
tains the continuity of the substance. j ||
Now, here is your medium, surrounded by his or her own peculiar \h
atmosphere. What are the elements of the human body ? Science has f U
hardly made up its mind what they are. But the atmosphere which j)j
surrounds the medium will partake of all the physical conditions in
peculiar to the body itself. On the other side is the spirit, also sur- ijj
rounded by its peculiar sphere, which will be representative of its Bj
organic conditions as a spirit. . ; •: * •, Wj
The problem is: given the spirit, the medium, and the table; | i
required, to unite their sevei’al relationships in one continuous chain ; Iff
result, a perfect union between the two worlds. How is it to be \U
obtained? ; tiff Hi
The sphere surrounding the medium is usually termed the aura, or j S j
atmosphere, or, as it has been very learnedly called, the sphere of j j
psychic force. And, by the way, this psychic force has been credited | !
with all the various manifestations of Spiritualism, and psychic force | |
should be a very great individual indeed. But, unfortunately, we shall | j
find that this mode of reasoning is simply an attempt to put the wagon | j
before the horse ! The spirit surrounded by its external condition, has | j
to ask itself the question, How is the union which is required to be i j
effected ?
You have heard of mesmeric operations, and, doubtless, many of you | I
have seen them; and you know that when the mesmerist establishes j I
sympathy between himself and his subject he does so as the result of a j j
mental act, having previously established a mental harmony, or equi- i i
librium, in the mind of his subject. Thus the spirit finds, then, that if K|
it can draw near to the mind of the medium, not necessarily to psycholo- 1
gise that mind, but only to come into sympathy with it, that then one
important object has been gained. Granted that that sympathy has Hi
been attained, its next direction is to operate on the sphere of psychic | I
force surrounding the medium, and, by the aid of his will-power, to vfl
coalesce the sphere belonging to himself and that of the medium into one i i
perfect whole. After what has been done, a sympathetic connection is i j
established between, not only the medium and the spirit, but between j(i
the spirit and this other world. Now, the medium places his or her ; j
hands on the table.
“ What is that for ?” says the investigator. “Is she going to move I (j
it? Why can’t she take her hands off?”
She does take her hands off, and, much to the disgust of the very i i
clever investigator, the table moves just as well without the laying on of j;({
the hands as when they were laid on.
Evidently, the conditions surrounding the medium must be consider- j
ably more gross than the conditions surrounding the spirit, and, conse- I G
quently, we are coming downwards in this matter, from the spirit-world i j
to the material conditions. What is next required ? Why, that the I (;
spirit shall relate itself to the material condition to be operated upon— i U
the table, for instance. How can it do that? Not directly, that is n!
impossible; but by infusing, so to speak, the psychical sphere of the j/!
medium, and projecting that sphere on the atmosphere surrounding the jyi
table, and bringing the two atmospheres into harmony with one another,
and finally making the vibrations through the entire series harmonious, in
By this method a perfectly continuous link is established between the i i
mind of the spirit, down through the sphere of the medium on to the uj
sphere surrounding the table, and thus to the very table itself, which, by \\\
the operation of the will power, on the part of the spirit, is moved in 1G
any especial manner, just as the spirit desires, and its ability enables it |)]
to accomplish.
You may think this to be a very intricate method of procedure. You ! G
may think that there is no wonder that spirits make so many blunders i; i
in their communications, when the mode of making them is so indirect. ;
And yet, you may say to yourselves, there are some cases where pheno- i (i
mena seem to occur so readily, and spontaneously, that it would scarcely i \ \
appear necessary that all these conditions should be obtained. Yet, In
whether the phenomena appear spontaneously or not, in either case ! (i
these conditions have to be applied, and where the phenomena readily |) I
occur, there is proof positive that the conditions are more harmonious jn
than when the phenomena come less readily. | (\
We come, then, to the conclusion that, by a series of links, the operating :;;
spirit relates itself to the material to be used; and in getting to this con- \ (
elusion we are not, perhaps, running directly against scientific experi- \S\
euce, but only bringing it to bear on these facts of Spiritualism, and \U
endeavouring to show that after all, communication between the two j vj
worlds is natural, and is governed by laws as natural and exact in their I: i
requirements as are the common events which may transpire in this i (|
world in which you now live. j (i
And here do we not find a reason—shall we not say a substantial j jj
reason?—which gives us a solid foundation whereon we can stand in j
c mtemplating this question ? For, if some spirits could come just when (
and how and where they might please; if they could transcend law and i);
order, and ride rough-shod over all the principles of being, what a con- (i
dition this world would soon be in ! We tell you, friends, honestly, that )
as you do not send too great a number of saints into the next world, you ; j
must expect a considerable percentage of sinners to come back b
(applause), and it might be that these latter gentlemen, not feeling over j \i
amiable themselves for the world’s past kindnesses, when they lived in );
body, might play such a part in this world, that the world itself would m
rise up in its agony, and cry to God to blot out its existence. j s i
Here we stand on scientific facts and conclusions, by virtue of which I):
the ordinary physical phenomena are believed to be produced. jef
We enter now on the consideration of the second division of this jS|
science of Spiritualism. This first division, you will perceive, embraces i)i
the outer or physical phenomena. Now, by following the conditions of i-o
the mind interiorly, instead of looking at the work exteriorly, we shall
bring you to the psychical condition of this matter. In the first condi¬
tion, where the phenomena worked outwardly to the medium, we found
the spirits relating themselves to the organic conditions of the medium,
and thus, for the time being, temporarily re-establishing their former
relationship with the world which they once inhabited, and enabling
them to come in contact again with the external world. There is a
point here to which we shall have to direct your attention presently.
To come more intimately to the psychological department of our subject
now, we find that when the spirits operate upon the sensitive form of
the human organisation, they not only come in contact with the external
world, but for the time they temporarily re-assume the control of
another organisation; in other words, that they re-associate themselves
with earthly organic conditions. But, as you will readily admit, it is a
very difficult and delicate thing to make a proper and satisfactory ap¬
pearance in another man’s clothing; so it is a very difficult and delicate
thing indeed to make yourself thoroughly plain to the understanding of
your friends through somebody else’s brain; and it is not that spirits
fail in communicating to you that you have to consider, and it is not on
the failures and the blunders and errors that creep into their communi¬
cations that you have to comment—and the world at large is quite
ready enough to comment on these—but rather should you comment on
the fact that so many succeed, instead of the fact that so many fail.
You should rather rejoice that there are those with intellects clear
enough, with hearts pure enough, and with purposes high enough, to
devote themselves to the mastery of these psychological problems of
being, and thus enable them to manifest themselves to your under¬
standing.
But what are the means whereby psychological control is effected ?
Here let us sum up that department. If psychological phenomena are
produced by a certain kind of fluid or emanation evolved from the
structure of the medium, how do we produce all the physical phenomena
of Spiritualism, such as spirit photography, transportation of ponderable
bodies, the levitation of individuals, the penetrability of matter, solid
bodies passing through solid bodies ? They cannot all be done in the
same manner, but they are all dependent on the same agency, the
absence of which would render them impossible in any one department;
for it is by the aid of this psychic force, as it is called, that we, while
performing physical manifestations, are able to adjust the scales in any
given direction, for that psychic force is to me, for the time, being, serving
the same purposes that your physical bodies do to you. The psychic
force, however, being a higher force, enables us to produce a higher
order of phenomena; the physical body being of a lower grade, does
not enable you to produce anything but a lower order of phenomena.
There is the difference and the distinction, that is all. The application
of these general principles would extend over far more time than we can
devote to their consideration now.
To return from this digression, and to attract your attention more
closely to the psychological point of the matter, which is the second
division of our subject, let us ask how mental phenomena are produced,
since they are inward and not exterior ? Now, the spirit acts in
sympathy with the exterior psychic sphere of the medium, in the same
manner as mentioned before, and, while operating on that sphere,
instead of allowing that mind to work inside of it, it strikes the mind,
which acts on the sphere of nervous force belonging to the individual,
which nervous force it operates upon; and, in proportion to its ability
to control, or subject, this nervous force, just in proportion are psycho¬
logical phenomena produced.
Of course the organic condition, the temperament, the intellect, and
the health of the person affect and govern to a certain extent, the nature
and character of the individual mediumship.
If this control of the nervous forces is complete, the brain is finally
subject, and the entire body passes under the control of the external
intelligence, being dispossessed, as it were for the time being, of its own
intelligence, and becoming, for the time, a machine or instrument under
the control of an outer intelligence. You may have a piano free
from all imperfections, and you may have some knowledge of music,
but you cannot play one of Beethoven’s sonatas; and so a spirit may
have a perfect piano, but unless it has superior knowledge, it cannot
play one of the sonatas of immortal life, that might be accomplished
by another intelligence which has learned more, and knows more, of the
subject under consideration, and knows how to touch the various keys
of the instrument by turns.
Assuming that the operating spirit has, comparatively speaking, a
perfect control, and that it is enabled to use the bodily instrument even
as it feels inclined, after this there is another important fact to be taken
into consideration. Would a person whose organic peculiarities might
be classified as weak,—would such a person be able to give out the
vigour and power of a Demosthenes ? Would such a person revel in
the imagery of a Milton or a Homer ? Would he be able to use the
eloquence of a Shakespeare, or enunciate the mathematical problems of
a Newton ? It would be impossible to suppose such a thing. But the
operating power, let it be as great or grand as you choose to think of,
you must always bear in mind it is not expressing itself, of itself, but
expressing itself through another organisation that was never made to
fit its mind, that was never made to be the servant of its intelligence,
and was never constructed to be the vehicle of its thought; it may be
relatively adapted to its organisation, but not absolutely. Therefore,
the expression of any medium will always be below the capacity of the
operating agent, but just in proportion as the organic conditions im¬
prove, and as they approximate to higher and more perfect states, so
will that expression improve, so will the conditions be enlarged, and
the results increased both in beauty and power; and if that medium is
only true to his mediumship, and only strives to improve his own mental
and physical conditions, and to lift himself higher, such results
will flow from his mediumship, that he knows not where he will stand
ultimately. We throw out this suggestion that we are dependent on the
May 19, 1876. fftE SPItlITTJ ALIST. 233
organic conditions of the medium. We can never transcend the possi¬
bilities of these conditions, but we can exalt and improve their normal
operations.
If there be any truth in the persistency of law, if principles abide,
and the conditions of things move in established and fixed directions,
these things will be true in connection with human nature. We never
can run counter to law, nor overthrow a principle, and we can never get
more out of an instrument than it is capable of expressing, though
what we may get out of the instrument may transcend what the instru¬
ment would give out under the control of a poor operating intelli¬
gence.
We carry this matter to another stage. Spiritualism, as a science,
has revealed, as it is seen, a new possibility within human nature and
material life. It reveals also, as we have seen, other possibilities in a
metaphysical direction; it reveals certain subtle conditions of organisa¬
tion, and certain subtle and superior conditions of mind, and shows you
how minds may be operated upon by other intelligences, and made to
express greater and grander truths as the result of such operation, than
they would left to their own unaided genius. But it reveals to you
also these two farther facts, equally important and grand. The first is
that it is possible for man, the spirit, to associate himself while in the
spiritual world with the inhabitants of this material world, and this
involves the proposition, either that the spiritual world is very closely
united to this, or, shall we say it, that it is the other side of this
world.
“ Why,” says the materialist, “ What do you mean? The spirit world on
the other side of this world! This world is round, and if we go to the other
side we shall find sky, and if we go to this side again we shall find sky,
and whichever side we go to we shall find sky; we shall find no spirit
world on either side of it.” These friends are so very literal. They do
call a spade a spade in such a very spade-like manner that they never
can believe in anything else but a spade. When you say the other side
of it, you sometimes mean the inside of it; the brains are on the other
side of their foreheads, being the inside of their heads, and it may be
that the spirit world, being inside, is the other side in this sense, that it
is the interior condition of this world, and such, in truth, is the first
condition of spirit life. How do you prove it ? Why, the Spiritualist
knows man is a spiritual being; the religionist professes to know it, and
we hope he does, but he is a little hard in accepting it when he is told
that one of these spirits has come back in this way. Perhaps it is not
comfortable for him to know that good spirits are looking on while he is
doing the meanest things possible, and soiling his humanity at every
turn.
These spirit people tell you, then, that the spirit world is on the other
side of life, and the truth brought forward to support the assertion is
that you are spiritual beings now, and that, being spiritual, you must be
sustained, spiritually, by spiritual conditions: that as you are sustained
exteriorly by the natural conditions, so you must be sustained interiorly
by the spiritual conditions; and thus you are partly, while in these
bodies of yours, living in the spiritual world; that you are living on the
one hand in the spiritual world, just as on the other you are living in
the natural world, and death is not a departure to a far-off land—is not
a sailing off like a rocket into the blue sky, but is simply a throwing
aside of the natural body and entering into the full and complete pos¬
session and use of the spiritual one. Therefore spirits, when they return,
do not come from a far-off world. They associate themselves with the
psychical conditions associated with the medium, and thus for the time
being, re-establish their former relations with the material universe in
which they once moved, and in sympathy with material conditions, gain
objective force, or materialise themselves, to come forth and stand before
you even as they lived in times gone by.
This is one of the grand facts revealed by Spiritualism as a science.
The other fact is this, that the science of Spiritualism gives you
another conception of the future life: that is, the home that man is to
live in hereafter. It claims—and we think justly—that if there is a
home for man in the after life, that that world can only be built up in
accordance with fixed principles, that it can only be placed in being in
obedience to the laws governing the existence of other facts of spirit
nature. If this is not the case, and the next life is totally different from
this, you could not exist within it unless you underwent a miraculous
transformation at the point of death; and if you underwent that trans¬
formation there would be an end of your identity; if you were trans¬
formed into something else you would not be immortal. There would
be no continuity of existence ; you would be destroyed so far as your
nature and state to-day are concerned, and humanity would never be
able to understand the future life, because it would be totally and radi¬
cally distinct from the world wherein you now live. No inhabitant
could ever return, because the conditions would be distinct and different;
no message could ever be signalled into this world, because it would be
in a language that none would understand. Under conditions so dis¬
tinct and different it would be utterly impossible for any communion to
take place, because there would be no point of contact between the two
worlds.
The science of Spiritualism shows that thei'e is not only a point of
contact and sympathy, but that, under proper conditions, both worlds
are in perfect sympathy and reciprocity one with the other, and that
the coming back of the angels from the after-life is simply their objecti¬
fying themselves from their hitherto subjective conditions, by the aid
and agency of the medium.
As this science of Spiritualism becomes more understood, and as the
laws and principles governing its operation become more plainly known,
it will be seen how useful and valuable have been the phenomenal
evidences of the last quarter of a century. Then it will be seen that
they have been the starry index pointing to greater and grander truths
yet to be revealed—that heaven is no far off country, but an ever present
reality, lying all around you ; that the dead are not removed to some
distant land, but are here in your midst, labouring with you, suffering
>j with you, sorrowing for you, stooping with you and lifting you up, and
ever earnest in their desires to inspire your hearts with thoughts of
{\ goodness and peace, leading you upwards and onwards, ever nearer to
y j God our Eternal Father.
(I To carry on this science of Spiritualism beyond the point we have
\\ now attained is scarcely within the province of our present limits ;
/i still there are some other matters which we will now present by way of
u conclusion.
| | Mediumship is a grand and glorious function, specially active and ap-
11 parent in certain persons, and it is of this matter of mediumship that we
11 would now offer a few closing sentences. As we have told you, spirits
i| are dependent on certain elements evolved from the structure of the
I medium, that by these elements they are enabled to produce the mani-
[ I festations; so you will find that one of the first necessities of
II mediumship is the nearest possible approximation to full bodily,
[i vital, health; for then all the exhalations will flow harmoni-
)| ously. Thus you will present conditions to the spirits that will
>1 supply them with the greatest amount of power, and enable them
11 to produce the grandest results. Thus we would say that whilst to-day
)j mediumship appears to flourish amongst those whose organisations are
7j lowest in vitality, in time to come it will be a sure characteristic of
l\ perfect health; in other words, the exercise of mediumship, and its
)j functions, instead of drawing the vital power will assist in its develop-
(| ment and unfolding, and necessitate a greater amount of natural har-
(| mony than they have to-day. Our Father never intended that a single
) | function of the human nature should be inimical to those who possessed
| it. How then can we suppose that mediumship, being a function of
u human nature, was intended to be inimical to those who exercise it ?
)j In the present condition of things the solemn conclusion is that
h mediumship kills more than it cures. Mediums are the Saviours to-
\j day, and their sufferings the cross whereon they are crucified for the
)| benefit of the race.
h And now, as we part from our subject, let us tell you that the science
ijj of Spiritualism is also something else, that not only does it minister to
/| the intellectual necessities and the practical demands of investigating
< minds, but it ministers to those who have accepted its truths, and to
11 those who know what a blessed privilege this angel-communion is. It
\\ ministers to their higher natures; it speaks to the very spirit that pulses
11 within them; it urges them forward, lifts them up, clears away the fogs
|| and clouds that have hung around the mental horizon, disclosing to
!i them the glory and grandeur of the sun of truth rising into the mid-heaven
| of their intellects, flooding them with light and power. It urges you to
float away into that blue distance where the radiance of God shines
i with glory inconceivable; it bids you come up and join the glorious com¬
pany ; it bids you to live here in this clear atmosphere of purity; it tells
you that those who are departed are not dead, but only gone before ; that
there is a genuine feeling between you and them; that their angel faces
cheer you in your sorrow, and that their smiling radiant presences are
with you as lights of glory and lamps of grandeur to illumine the paths
I to immortal light, and to inspire the principles of the true religion in the
I breast of every living soul.
The science of Spiritualism reveals as its crowning glory its mani-
\j festation of the aspirational sentiment in human nature. As a science,
i it demonstrates all its positions, and points you to that far-off future
! where grandeur and beauty shall dawn daily upon you, and where to
(j live is to drink in the love of God, to grow in spirit, and unfold in
)j wisdom, until you shall yourselves become as gods, governed by a
(; greater God who designed you for a path of happiness and progress in a
11 bright and happy future which shall be the possession of humanity.
| ' — r"
A Japanese Notion.—A correspondent says:—“I have accidentally
) | come across such curious information concerning a form of Spiritualism
yi in Japan that I mention it to you, in case you may not have chanced to
| j have heard of it. It is that spirits of a low class in that country enter
animals, and such creatures as are thus possessed are called ‘Fox
yj spirits.’ My informant learnt this orally from several Japanese with
| i whom he has had the opportunity of conversing, and has not seen the
|i fact in any book, or heard of it from any other source.”
); Anti-Spiritualism in Leigh.—On Sunday, May 7th, six or seven
y i puritanical looking individuals from Wigan paraded the streets of Leigh
11 singing hymns, and announcing that they had come to lecture against
Spiritualism, which they were prepared to prove originated with the
y | devil. A few listeners followed them to the Market Place, where they
11 “ held forth ” till their lungs failed them, after which both speakers and
(1 listeners went on their way rejoicing. A Spiritualist writes to the
11 Leigh Chronicle :—“ My object in writing is not to stay the lecturing of
| j these Wigan folk; far from that, I only wish they may come again and
yj again, not only to this town, but to every town in England, if they can
) | afford it; it will be a blessing to us Spiritualists, and open up the way
}: in many parts of the country for the knowledge of the gifts of which the
yj Apostle Paul said he would not have us ignorant. I trust ere long we
11 shall plant Spiritualism firmly in Wigan, nay, more, I am confident of
): success, and defy all the lecturers in Wigan, or any other town, to stay
yj 'the tide of this glorious spiritual movement amongst God’s children.
iWe Spiritualists are happy in our belief, we are happy in our knowledge,
we know that ‘ whatsoever a man soweth that also shall he reap,’ and
we do but expect to be treated as Christ was. But I would warn those
who do oppose this belief to take heed lest they be found fighting against
God. Anything new, anything contrary to orthodox religion, is, and
always has been, received with discredit and mistrust ; scarcely a sect
but it has had its trouble. Do people think that every fresh doctrine
that opposes the old musty beliefs must of necessity be of the devil ?
We look on our Father as a God of love and mercy, but many of our
opponents make it appear by their teachings as if He did not love His
people.”
234
1?HE SPIBITUALISl?.
MR. BLACKBURN’S SEANCES. j
6PIEIT HANDS UNDER TEST CONDITIONS. , f If
A most satisfactory test seance, with Mr. Eglinton as j ;
medium, was held at 38, Great Russell-street, on the 12th |
inst. It was attended hy Mr. Alexander Tod, of Peebles; !
Mr. Robert S. Wyld, LL.D., Edin. (a gentleman just com- ||
mencing an investigation into Spiritualism, and who was in- ])
tuoduced by Mr. Tod); M. Gustave de Veh, of Paris; Mr. j|]
Collingwood ; Mrs. Fitz-Gerald and Mrs. D. G. Fitz-Gerald; |||
Mrs. Potts and Mrs. Michell; Miss Kislingbury; and my- j j
self, on behalf of the Seance Committee of the British | j
National Association of Spiritualists. I !
As preliminaries, the cabinet was duly scrutinised, the | j
medium enclosed therein, and instructions in the direct voice j !
were obtained from Joey—the intelligent and practical spirit j j
a control,” who usually presides at Mr. Eglinton’s seances— | j
to the effect that he (the medium) should be secured and j I
seated as on the last occasion when he gave a seance at these j j
rooms. Accordingly, Dr. Wyld and Mr. Collingwood, being j j
investigators, were requested to constitute a “ tying com- j j
mittee.” These gentlemen performed their duty in a very j j
thorough manner; first tying the medium’s wrists together | j
behind him with tape ; then seeing that his coat sleeves were j j
securely sewn together with white cotton ; then tying his I |
wrists to the back of the chair within the cabinet; then j !
tying his neck to the chair; and, lastly, passing the free end j j
of the tape used for the last-mentioned purpose through an j I
aperture in the cabinet, so that Dr. Wyld might hold it in | |
his hand whilst he was seated in the u circle.” When the l |
tying was completed the medium was requested to place his j j
feet upon a hassock ; the curtains of the cabinet were drawn j i
so as to leave his feet and knees in view, and a stringed | j
musical instrument was placed in his lap, constituting a kind Hi
of table on which were placed a book and a hand bell. The j j
gas was then lowered, and we took our seats.
In about half an hour the book was distinctly and i j
repeatedly seen to open and close up again. Then a Jinger | j
was seen in proximity to the book; and, in a short time |
afterwards, a hand was several times protruded between the 11|
curtains. Joey now requested that someone should come j j
forward and ascertain, immediately after a hand had been j |
shown, whether the medium was still secured as at first. |||
This challenge was taken up by Dr. Wyld and Mr. Colling- ! j
wood. As the test is an important one for investigators, I | |
requested these gentlemen, at the conclusion of the seance, i|j
to give their individual testimony as to the result. This they ! |
freely did by signing the following short statements
On two occasions, immediately after seeing the 'spirit’ hand pro- |j|
traded from the cabinet, I examined Mr. Eglinton’s bonds, and found in
them perfectly secure. (Signed) R. S. Wyld. is!
I also, on one occasion, did the same. J. Fred. Collingwood.
Miss Kislingbury then asked Joey whether Dr. Wyld |/j
could be allowed to stand behind the medium, inside the j j
cabinet, whilst the materialised hand was shown to the ;j|
sitters outside. This inquiry was answered in the affirm a- |||
tive; and, accordingly, Dr. Wyld entered the cabinet, and i|i
took up a position behind the medium, who moaned and m
shivered as though u power ” were being drawn from him to | i
an unusual extent. In relation to this test, I obtained the | |
following very brief but sufficient testimony, bearing in mind m
the value of evidence obtained on the spot and at the j ;
time:— j I
We saw the hand whilst Dr. Wyld was in the cabinet. m
G-. de Veh. E. Kislingbury. m
Ellen Potts. E. Fitz-Gerald, m
Dr. Wyld, also, expressed himself as being perfectly satis- lj|
fied with the test. Some of the sitters did not very dis- jj|
tinctly see the hand on this occasion, by reason of others j?j
pressing forward towards the cabinet. Ijj
After a break, a second seance was held, at which the |(j
medium sat unbound, with his feet and legs in view, ijj
Under these conditions a foot was protruded between the m
curtains of the cabinet, being distinctly seen by M. de Veh, m
Mr. Tod, and Mrs. FitzGerald, and less distinctly by the jj;
other sitters, including myself. ij
Desmond G. Fitz-Gerald, M. S. Tel. E. i|j
Mr. J. L. O’Sullivan and M. Gustaye de Veh, of Pari?, have been ju
in London during the past week.
May 19, 1876.
FRESH SEAWEED AND A PIECE OF ROCK BROUGHT TO
A CIRCLE BY SPIRITS.
The Harbinger of Light (Australia) of March 1st, which
arrived by the last mail, contains the following account of
remarkable physical manifestations in Melbourne:—
We have from time to time given reports and published
letters concerning the remarkable manifestations occurring at
the seances of Mrs. Paton, of Castlemaine, through whose
mediumship solid substances are brought by spirit aid into
a closed room. Nearly two years since, a party of gentle¬
men, by Mr. Paton’s permission, paid a special visit to
Castlemaine, ta hold a test sitting, on which occasion some
striking phenomena occurred. The press, as usual, was not
satisfied with the precautions taken, so Mr. Paton was
induced to allow another party to visit, accompanied by a
detective and two or three determined sceptics, who attended
with the foregone conclusion that the manifestations were
imposture, and that it was their mission to expose it. A circle
with such ingredients was hardly likely to supply the con¬
ditions necessary to induce good manifestations, and the
result was that the only' object brought in was not of
sufficiently large size and weight to satisfy the committee,
and the press reports were unfavourable, although not the
slightest evidence of trickery was adduced. Having wit¬
nessed the phenomena ourselves under strict test conditions,
and being convinced of their genuineness, we, a short time
since, suggested to Mr. Paton (hearing that he and Mrs.
Paton would be spending a few weeks in Melbourne) the
advisability of having a series of test sittings, with the view
of demonstrating as far as practicable, the reality of the
manifestations. Mr. Paton expressed his willingness. Mrs.
Paton kindly consenting, a committee was formed, and the
first two sittings have already been held. We append the
secretary’s report of a meeting held at Mr. Terry’s, 84,
Russell-street, Melbourne, February 22nd, 1876. Present:
Mesdames Paton, Mather, Fielding, and Messrs. Stanford,
Terry, Paton, and Deakin:—
The room is on the first floor, connected with the
remainder of the house by a passage, in which the gas
remained lighted during the seance. Its walls'are of brick
and plaster; it has two windows opening upon Russell-street,
some three feet above the verandah, which is detached, and
its roof plainly visible to the continuous passers on the other
side of the street. The lamps outside shone through the
Venetians, and an occasional vehicle partially lit up the
room. The darkness at its deepest permitted the sitters to
dimly discern the forms of those nearest to them; the table,
a small one, compelled them to touch each other. There
was no possibility of a sitter moving, even slightly, without
its being instantly recognised by those next to him. The
chimney orifice is filled by a grate; the only furniture in the
room besides the chairs was two small globes and a
harmonium. Upon one of the tables were a few books and
papers. The medium was an entire stranger to the house.
A chairman and secretary having been appointed, the room
was thoroughly searched and sounded, and the members
mutually examined, Mrs. Paton being carefully tested by
the other ladies. The chairman locked the door and retained
the key. The grate was fastened with string twine; the
door was sealed with a slip of gummed paper, marked by the
secretary; the windows were closed at the bottom, a few
inches being left open at the top for ventilation, and the
members were then satisfied that all possible communication
with the outside was cut off.
They then formed a circle about the small table, and sat
for some ten minutes, singing part of the time, the medium
being powerfully convulsed during the whole period. With
a sudden thump exactly on the centre of the table, a heavy
substance was deposited, which, on the gas being lit, was dis¬
covered to be a large piece of rock, measuring 12 by 6 by 4in.,
and weighing 14 lbs., smelling strongly of the sea. It was a
piece of rock, of the kind common between St. Kilda and
Brighton. The sitters were much pleased at so convincing
a manifestation, and the light was again put out, when the
medium instantly said that something cold and clammy was
near her face. This was for some seven minutes disregarded,
till a member remarked a peculiar scent; a damp mass was
felt on the table, which the gas revealed to be a large piece
May 19, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
235
of coarse seaweed; on touching it, a large number of sea
insectivora spread themselves over the table, and were with
some difficulty removed to a more fitting position on a news¬
paper. For some ten minutes the circle rested in the light,
to restore the medium, and then, during a third sitting, all
holding hands, the medium’s ear-ring was taken from her
ear, and placed upon the table. This concluded a highly
satisfactory evening to all concerned ; the whole time occu¬
pied was one hour and twenty minutes.
At the second sitting, February 25th, the conditions were
the same as on the previous occasion. The committee was
augmented by the presence of Messrs. Sanders, Dempster,
Ross, and Dr. Richardson. The medium was on this occa¬
sion thoroughly searched. The power did not appear so
strong as at the first sitting, but after a lapse of about
twenty minutes a heavy substance fell on the table, and
rolled on to the floor; on lighting the gas, it proved to be an
iron dumb-bell of six pounds’ weight. No one present recog¬
nised it, but it was subsequently found to have been brought
from the house where .Mr. and Mrs. Paton, were lodging in
Collins-street. After sitting some time, without further
manifestations, the committee adjourned till the 29th inst.
Dr. Sexton will deliver a discourse at the Cavendish Rooms, Mor-
timer-street, Regent-street, on Sunday next, in reply to the question,
“ What is the Use of Praying? ” Service at seven.
At a recent dark seance of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into
Spiritualism, at which Mrs. Bassett was the medium, spirit lights were
seen flitting about, while both her hands were held.
Dr. George Sexton delivered a lecture on Wednesday evening, May
10th, at Heckmondwike, under the auspices of the British National
Association of Spiritualists. The subject of the lecture was, “Is
Spiritualism beneficial to Mankind ? ”
A second series of Free Seances is being arranged, with the liberal
aid of Mr. Charles Blackburn, to be held with various mediums, at
38, Great Russell-street, during the months of June and July.
Further particulars will be advertised in the monthly agenda of the
Association.
Mr. Jencken informs us that recently at a seance at the house of Mr.
S. C. Hall, through the mediumship of Mrs. Jencken (Kate Fox), the
name “ Matilda Yockney ” was spelt out by raps, and was unknown to
the medium, and everybody in the room, except an inquirer present, who
did not believe in Spiritualism.
The Persecution of Spiritualists in Paris.—When the medium,
Mr. Firman, was recently imprisoned during the persecution of Spirit¬
ualists in Paris, Mr. O’Sullivan visited him, and in a private letter
said:—“I went to see Firman yesterday. The life is pretty hard.
Has to weave some chair-bottoms, and to wear prison garb; sleeps in a
place with three others, with only rough, worn blankets. All sorts of
riff-raff in the prison, about 800 in number. When not in the work¬
rooms they are crowded in a narrow open court, rain or shine. The food
impossible, but he can buy his own, eating in public, surrounded by
envious eyes. This will be a horrid place for Leymarie. No special
indulgences now allowed for gentlemen prisoners. Firman can
make two chairs a day, and gets one centime (l-10th of a penny)
for each, and half of that is retained, for some reason or other.
The superior accommodation for gentlemen (called the pistole) was
suppressed, through operation of a new law, only two or three days
before Firman went in. Titled men there have to share the common
lot. Not even allowed to wear their own linen. Firman bears up
bravely enough, but could not help at first turning his back to Bullet
and me, trying to hide his tears of mortification and feeling. But we
cheered him up. We have a permit to go four times in all; his wife a
permanent permit for twice a week, Sunday and Thursday.”
Apparitions due to Physiological Causes.—A clergyman now de¬
ceased, and whose name it is not necessary to mention, but who will be
identified by a large number of people when it is said that he had been
an officer in the army prior to his ordination, and that he held in suc¬
cession incumbencies in Bath and in Coventry, was accustomed to relate
a curious experience of his own. He was walking in an unfrequented
road near Bath, when he saw in front of him a party of big boys, who ..,
were ill-treating a little hoy; and, although of portly figure and past nj
middle age, he hurried forward to the rescue. Between him and the j; j
boys a narrow lane entered the road on his right hand, and just before j(j
he reached this lane a little old woman, in a black bonnet and red cloak, Kj
and carrying a crutch-handled stick, seemed to emerge from it, with her j) j
back towards him, and to hasten on in front of him, as if bent upon the i( j
same errand with himself. He overtook her, and when close to her he m
fancied that she was unreal, or shadowy, and he walked through her, so P j
to speak, without experiencing any contact or resistance. He turned Kj
round, saw her stand facing him, and walked through her again, on jjj
which she vanished. Being a sensible man, he left the boys to their i/j
own devices, strolled slowly home, and sent for the doctor. A very I si
eminent hospital surgeon in London was occasionally haunted by an j)j
apparition for nearly fifteen years; and in his case the connection \(\
between the spectre and the state of the circulation of the brain was m
proved by the circumstance that the figure always became visible when j)j
a position was assumed which interfered with the free flow of blood m
through the great vessels of the neck.—The Times, April 19th. i\l
I NICOLAS TRUBNER.
Of all the great London publishers, perhaps none have done more
than Mr. Trubner to circulate in Great Britain unbiassed information,
adapted to the wants of cultivated readers, about the chief religions of
the world. He has issued many works containing information—more
especially about Eastern religions—free from abuse of the theological
systems themselves, and of those who hold them, thus he has been a
great power in the promotion of knowledge of religious subjects in this
country. Although he is unacquainted with Spiritualism, having as yet
given no time to the personal investigation of that subject, he has
published some of its best works, notably Mr. Dale Owen’s Footfalls
on the Boundary of Another World, and The Debatable Land; also
Allan Kardec’s Spirits' Book and Book of Mediums. The following is a
brief outline of his career :—
Among publishers who, by their activity, have exerted a civilising
and enduring influence in the domain of general knowledge, and esta¬
blished new lines of commercial intercourse with distant countries and
peoples, Nicolas Trubner occupies a very prominent place. He was
born in 1817, at Heidelberg, where his father carried on the business of
a goldsmith. As a boy he manifested great vivacity of temperament
and manners, and in play and studies he was always the leader of his
comrades. The circulating library of a family related to his own
absorbed half of his leisure time, literature and travels engaging his
special interest. His father wished him to become a goldsmith, but
mechanical work was not to the boy’s taste; to send him to college
would involve too much expense, and so it was decided to have him
enter a bookseller’s shop. He served his first apprenticeship with a
bookseller named Mohr. This gentleman, who conducted his business
in a very honourable way, was peculiarly fitted by his firm and con¬
siderate bearing to inspire the assiduous stripling with both respect and
I love for the calling he had been induced to choose. Some thirty years
| ago the university of Heidelberg enjoyed the highest consideration.
| Ail branches of science were represented by teachers of distinction-
such as Thibaut, Faohorici, Mittermayer, Paulus, Schlosser, Tiede-
j mann, Chelius, and others who were famous beyond the narrow limits
of the university. Most of these men were on a friendly and social
I footing with the house of Mohr, and the intercourse with them had an
energising and informing effect on Triibner’s mind.
His apprenticeship being completed, he entered, in 1839, the old and
well-known establishment of Yandenhoeck and Ruprecht, in Gottingen,
| as an assistant. Subsequently he entered the service of Hoffmann and
Campe, in Hamburg. Here, instead of the grave and solemn-looking
professors of the Heidelberg university, with whom he had hitherto
li been in contact, he became acquainted with the keen and fervent leaders
| of Young Germany, and the interminable libel suits and press chi¬
caneries which they and their publishers at that time had to endure.
In 1842 he accepted a situation at Willman’s, in Frankfort, whose busi¬
ness then included a line of foreign publications, principally English.
There he made the acquaintance of Mr. Longman, of London, who
secured Trubner for his own establishment. Working zealously and
unremittingly in the extensive business of this house, he acquired a
I thorough insight into all the details and peculiarities of the English
book trade. Having reached middle age, Mr. Tiiibner conceived the
|)l idea of forming an establishment of his own. During his service as an
I (| assistant he had busied himself largely with various private studies,
K| especially philological, and had gathered a large and varied mass of
j)j materials.
I)! With funds furnished him by some friends, he engaged in the busi-
j)| ness of introducing and circulating American literature in England.
1 A journey through tho principal cities of the United States procured
him many valuable business connections. A catalogue published under
i the title of Triibner's Bibliographical Guide to American Literature was
received with just appreciation, not only in the United States, but even
in France and Germany. It was the first work which gave a systematic
and comprehensive synopsis of American literature, and had, there-
j)j fore, great value for the American as well as the general scholar. lu
i < | recognition of the value of this work several learned societies of the
|j| United States elected Mr. Trubner an honorary member. A well-
i | merited tribute was rendered him in Allibone's Dictionary of English
|(| and American Authors, Philadelphia, 1871. Desirous of extending his
|>j business, Mr. Trubner directed his attention to the literature of Asia,
and established lines of communication with its principal cities for the
export and import of literary works. As a repository for the scientific
results of this colossal intercourse, Mr. Trubner founded a special literary
periodical, entitled Triibner's American and Oriental Literary Record,
the object of which is to give a monthly synopsis of all important
works issued in North and South America, India, China, Australia,
and the English colonies, including also the most notable literary pro¬
ductions of Europe. This monthly periodical has been published for a
number of years, and is transmitted to all parts of the civilised world.
This extensive activity has been crowned with remarkable success.
The publishing establishment of Mr. Trubner is in its line one of the
foremost in London; its relations with foreign countries are so compre¬
hensive that thirty-three assistants hardly suffice for the work. The
management and classification of the works in Sanscrit and Arabic are
intrusted to competent persons specially versed in Oriental languages.
Mr. Triibner’s list of publications forms an elegant volume of 15(i
pages, and is particularly rich in Oriental literature, archaeology, and
philosophy. It records nearly 1,400 of his own publications, among
which are many comprising numerous volumes and annual sets. The
appendix is made up of a number of valiiable works published for the
English government under the title, Calendars of State Papers and
Chronicles and Memorials of Great Britain and Ireland during the
236
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 19, 1876.
3Iiddle Ages,'" the sale and distribution of which are committed to Mr.
Tiiibner’s care. It is an undertaking resembling the publications issued
in Germany entitled Monumenta Germanica.
Mr. Tiiibner is the agent for forty-seven offices and learned societies
in England, America, Denmark, and Sweden. At the coronation of
Oscar II. of Sweden, Mr. Tiiibner published a memorial pamphlet
which gives an historical synopsis of Sweden, with a collection of poems
by the present king in an English translation. The publishing estab¬
lishment of Mr. Triibner is situated in Ludgate-hill in a five-storey
building of Gothic style with a dash of Oriental architecture. The
relations of the house with the East are aptly suggested by sculptured
figures of elephants supporting the roof. The store is on the ground-
floor, and has room for 30,000 volumes, which are placed in galleries,
and can all be reached without ladders. Adjoining are offices for
business relating to the United States and the English government.
The cost of this building, all parts of which were specially adapted and
arranged for facilitating the business of the house, amounted to 250,000
gulden.
Mr. Triibner’s enterprise and energy have met with notable success.
He is married to a lady of great intelligence and amiability, the daughter
of the Belgian Consul Delepierre in London.
The foundation of the university library of Strasburg was encou¬
raged and materially promoted by Mr. Triibner’s numerous and valuable
gifts.
His agents in Pekin, Calcutta, Teheran, Constantinople, Bulang,
Cape Town, and Melbourne take notice of all important works as they
appear, and send them to London, whence they are distributed to the
leading libraries on the Continent.—Every Saturday [Cambridge,
Mass).
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—-The Council held its usual monthly session on Tuesday, 9 th inst.,
at 6.30 p.m. The following members were presentMr. A. Calder, in
the chair; Mr. Morell Theobald, Mr. T. Everitt, Mr. R. Pearce, Mrs.
Fitz-Gerald, Mr. and Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mr. G. R. Tapp,
Mr. E. T. Bennett, Mr. and Mrs. E. Dawson Rogers, Mrs. M. Theresa
Wood, Miss H. Withall, Miss G. Houghton, Mr. Martin R. Smith, Mr.
J. M. Gully, M.D., Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Mr. J. Ivimey, and Mr.
Algernon Joy.
Three new members were elected, including Dr. C. Carter Blake,
Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at Westminster Hospital, and Mr.
J. McGlassford, F.C.S. Dr. Puel, of Paris, Editor of the Revue
Psychologique, and Herr Stratil, of Vienna, a member of the Buda-
Pesth Society of Spiritualists, were elected honorary members. The
resignations of Mr. J. Freeman, Mr. H. Everitt, Mr. and Mrs. Mark¬
ham, and Mr. and Mrs. Deacon were accepted.
The Chairman of the Finance Committee reported a balance of
£75 4s. 9d. ; accounts were presented for payment amounting to
£37 14s. 6d. The committee also presented a letter from Mr. W. H.
Harrison, containing the terms on which he agreed to place the services
of his clerk at the disposal of the Association. The report was adopted
by the Council.
The Secretary reported letters from Editors of The Spiritualist and
of the Spiritual Magazine, agreeing to the terms for advertisements
recommended by the Council for the current year; also a letter from
the Editor of the Medium, on the subject of advertisements, declining
all communication with the Association. A present of photographs,
said to be of lights from a magnet, was reported from Mr. Collen, of
Brighton ; of a magnetoscope, from Dr. J. Dixon; and of various works
presented to the library of the Association from Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory, Mr. W. Whitear, Miss Anna Blackwell, the Countess of
Caithness, Mr. B. Coleman, Mr. S. C. Hall, Mr. A. Vacher, and Mr.
J. N. T. Martheze. A unanimous vote of thanks was passed to all the
above. Letters were also read from Mr. F. A. Binney and Mr. J. T.
Rhodes.
The arrangements for the approaching annual meeting of members on
the 23rd inst, were announced by Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, and it was
resolved that a copy of the proxy and voting papers, as per draft pre¬
sented, should be sent to every member of the Association. A draft
report of the Council for the year, to be read at the annual meeting, was
submitted by the secretary, which, after a few amendments, was
approved and adopted.
The Seance Committee reported a communication from Mr. Charles
Blackburn, offering to continue the weekly seances under his former
liberal arrangement. A unanimous vote of thanks was passed to Mr.
Blackburn.
The Soiree Committee recommended that after the usual monthly
soiree on the 7th of June next, these meetings be suspended during the
next three months. The recommendation was adopted.
Mr. Fitz-Gerald moved, in the absence of Mr. George King: “ That
an Experimental Research Committee be appointed, with permission to
make use of the Seance-room of the Association, with such apparatus as
should be placed at the disposal of the committee.” This was agreed
to, and the committee appointed, as follows:—Mr. C. F. Varley, Mr.
W. H. Ramson, Mr. George King, Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, Dr. J. M.
Gully, Mr. C. C. Massey, Mr. W. H. Coffin, Dr. Carter Blake, Rev. W.
Newbould, Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, Mr. Edmands, and Mr. H. Witball,
with power to add to their number.
It was resolved, on the motion of Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald:—“ That on the
demand of any member of Council, the individual votes of members of
Council on any resolution be recorded in the minute-book of the
Council.”
The following notices of motion were handed in. By Mr. A. Joy:—
“ That it is not competent for an ordinary Council meeting to reverse
the decision of a special Council meeting, or to pass a resolution which
shall conflict with any resolution passed by a special Council meeting.”
By Mr. T. Everitt:—“ That, in order to obtain an independent and
impartial account of the proceedings of Council, the services of a
reporter be secured, who is not a member either of the Council or of the
Association.” By Dr. GullyThat letters from members resigning
be only reported by the secretary, and not their reasons for so doing.”
E. Kislingbury, Secretary, B.'N.A.S.
| , IJornn.
I EXTRACTS FROM THE MASQUE OF PANDORA.
)i BY HENRY WADSWORTH LON GT'ELLOW.
| " : ’ f
j j Death takes us by surprise,
/ i And stays our hurrying feet;
(| The great design unfinished lies,
Our lives are incomplete.
)j But in the dark unknown
(j Perfect their circles seem,
(i Even as a bridge’s arch of stone
>1 Is rounded in the stream.
(j .. j Alike are life and death,
When life in death survives,
|; And the uninterrupted breath
(I Inspires a thousand lives.
M ’ Were a star quenched on high,
| j -s>.. For ages would its light,
(i Still travelling downward from the sky,
II Shine on our mortal sight.
(i So when a great man dies,
)j Zm ' For years beyond our ken,
|; The light he leaves behind him lies
i: Upon the paths of men.
I II.
)l River, that stealest with such silent pace
)| Around the City of the Dead, where lies
(i • A friend who bore thy name, and whom these eyes
(i Shall see no more in his accustomed place,
) i Linger and fold him in thy soft embrace,
11 ' And say good night, for now the western skies
I Are red with sunset, and grey mists arise
Like damps that gather on a dead man’s face.
Good night! good night! as we so oft have said
Beneath this roof at midnight, in the days
That are no more, and shall no more return.
Thou hast but taken thy lamp and gone to bed;
I stay a little longer, as one stays
(| To cover up the embers that still burn.
OTutrespontience.
(! [Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers.']
I A SIXTH LATIN COMMUNICATION FROM PUBLIUS 8YRU0.
Sir,—Your general readers may by this time be tired of Publius
Syrus, and of the humble chronicler of his communications. But not
so, as I have some reason to know, as to some of your readers, who,
being Latinists, appreciate the great interest of this novel phenomenon
of an ancient Roman writer, of nineteen centuries ago, giving, and con¬
tinuing to give—through a lady medium, absolutely ignorant of any
I other language than her own French—moral sentences or apophthegms
in his own Latin, at once pure and intensely condensed. These maxims
are sometimes given in French, and then translated by the spirit into
Latin forms which I should never have imagined, if I had set myself
to the task of translation ; sometimes in Latin directly followed by the
| conversion of them into French by the spirit himself. And there is
this curious feature about these translations into French, that they are
11 generally rather developments of the ideas compressed into the con-
i | densed Latin, than such versions as any scholar of our own day would
naturally give. * Another curious thing is, that these Latin maxims
have all the intrinsic evidence of style to characterise them as the pro-
i j ductions of the same mind from which proceeded those (some twelve or
) j fifteen hundred in number) which constitute the collection of fragments
j! of Publius Syrus which have come down to us. And still, another is
i i the fact, that before this appearance of Publius Syrus redivivus, a dif-
)\ ferent spirit, calling himself my “ guardian angel,” had announced that
j; he was about to send me a “ spirit of ancient times,” a “great philo-
11 sopher,” who would give me from time to time some of his maxims for
11 my meditation and instruction. Such was the commencement of my
i communications with or from Publius Syrus.
I have already given you five of these communications. I have
H recently received a sixth, in regard to which I must set forth some
! remarkable circumstances, to explain the wide divergence of the Latin
)\ [i.e. of its latter part) from the French form.
Being at Mme. R ’s for a different object, I had asked him for
I another. He at once gave (in French, not in Latin) the following: “For
nations to become great they must have great-minded rulers, to whom
they should yield a passive obedience.” The first half of this was very
well, but my Americanism revolted against this apparent inculcation of
the doctrine of “ passive obedience,” so dear to despotism. I fancied
that it expressed a thought more natural to the devoted friend and
partisan of Julius Caesar—which Publius Syrus was—than acceptable to
May 19, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
237
a nineteenth-century republican. But I asked him for the Latin
version of it. He gave, “ Oportet quod omni magnce nationi prcepositus
sit magnanimus." There was then a pause. I supposed that to be all
he meant to give; and that the conclusion, as it had been given in
French, was rather a comment or deduction than intended as an integral
part of the maxim. As a friend was waiting to succeed me (the Hun¬
garian Count B. L ) I yielded the place to him, very ill pleased with
the “passive obedience” doctrine of the Publius Syrus whom I had
always before found so wise and philosophical.
But a few days afterwards I returned, and asked if the “ Oportet, etc.,”
was the whole of the Latin version. “ No.” “ Well, please complete
it, but allow me to say that I don’t see how I can ever assent to the
1 passive obedience ’ doctrine it seemed to express.” I then went on to
tell him (the whole passing in English) that if he was a Roman friend
of Caesar, I was a citizen of a new world not dreamed of in his day, and
I was proceeding to state my mind on the subject, when the table moved
impatiently, and Mme. R 'Said, “ He says you don’t understand him,
or you don’t understand each other.” “Well, permit me, dear Publius,
to say this. I fully accept the wisdom of the first part, respecting the
necessity of great men in combination with the millions of the masses to
make nations truly great. The great-minded man, the magnanimus,
infuses his spirit sympathetically into the million, whom he leads forward
with high guidance to high aims; who look up to him with a willing
homage of admiration, trust, and love, which is a true and just natural
loyalty; to whom, and especially to whose growing youth, he stands
conspicuous in his great personality, as a type, exemplar, and model,
causing him to be accepted as their recognised head and chief, prcepositus,
leading them along the path of greatness, not merely by wise govern¬
ment, but still more by this profound and pervading moral influence of
his spirit upon theirs. This is about your meaning, is it not.” “Yes.”
“But to make a great nation the million are as necessary to the man as
the man to the million. The million are the nation, and remain the
nation after the death of the man. Freedom for them is essential to
that free natural loyalty of love and sympathy. Their obedience must
be willing and intelligent, and even critical, not merely blindly sub¬
missive. This rightful loyalty of theirs is to the man, and cannot pass
by succession to a dynasty, nor can it co-exist with mere passivity con¬
strained by power. Democracies have always their natural chiefs, who
are their representative men, and whom they elect to their presidencies,
as in the case of a Washington and a Jefferson. I cannot think that I
differ much from the real meaning which underlies your words, do I?”
“No.” “Then you probably mean only to criticise what is called the
ingratitude and fickleness of democracies, which so often after a time
withdraw their sympathy and support from their great natural chiefs,
and which banish their Phocions and Themistocles, and ostracise their
Aristides, whom they ought rather to cherish and cling to.” “ Yes.”
“ Well, I beg pardon for having spoken so frankly to you, instead of
waiting to hear your own words in your own tongue. Pray now finish
the translation.” And he did so at once, in the following words:
“ Turha quce rupem, petere debet, rupem diripit." (“ The crowd which
ought to seek—i.e., to rest upon or gather round—the rock, breaks to
pieces the rock.”)
I have here given, of course, the substance of this colloquy, not my
exact words. I then said: “ I now understand what you really meant,
and beg pardon for having at first misconceived you; but the expres¬
sion ‘ passive obedience ’ has acquired in our modern political vocabu¬
lary a very obnoxious sense, from the manner in which it has been so
much abused by despotic power. But, tell me, was not this maxim a
thought and composition of the period of your earth-life, when you
mourned over the fall of your friend and protector Caesar, so that it is a
citation from some of your perished writings ?” “ Yes.” “ Tell me, too,
about the three preceding ones, which all turn on the topic of Truth ;
are they also quotations from of old?” “No.” “ Do you mean that they
are thoughts and compositions of yours of the present time ?” “ Yes.”—
“ And am I wrong in fancying that you have been prompted to give
them in reference to the difficulty which the great and divine truth of
Spiritualism finds in making its way against the resistance of the scien¬
tific world, and as an exhortation to us to persevere in carrying it
courageously and dutifully forward ?” “ Yes.”—“ You once before told
me, when I made rather a bold request, that hereaftex*, if I continued
to please you, you would do a great deal for me. Do you find me so
far receptive and appreciative of what you have deigned to give, as to
fulfil in any degree that condition?” “ Yes.’’—“Thank you, indeed;
and be sure that I shall continue, at least, to publish whatever you may
employ me to give to the world.”
Well, after the above, what becomes of the theory which one critic has
propounded, that these maxims of Publius Syrus may have been recol¬
lections, compositions, or translations, emanating] from my own brain,
by “ unconscious cerebration,” reflected or transmitted to some invisible
“ intelligence,” and thence back in communication to me ?
In reference to the second of these communications, in which he gave
me, as having been his, and as having come down from him, through
the centuries, by oral tradition, that familiar dictum, the authorship of
which has been hitherto unknown, namely “ Quos mdt perdere Jupiter
dementat ” (see note), allow me to add, as a confirmation of his claim, that
in glancing over the pages of the iambics of Publius Syrus, I find the
line : “ Stultum facit fortuna quern vult perdere," which is, evidently, a
mere variation from a former prose form, for the purpose of converting
it into an iambic line. J. L. O’Sullivan.
Paris, May 6th.
Note.—It will be remembered, by those readers who have followed the series
of these letters, that an etymological controversy arose between another of
your correspondents and myself upon the word dementat; my critic arguing
that there was no authority for the word dementare as an active verb in the
classical period, and thence implying a question whether it could really have
proceeded from Publius Syrus. With all his cleverness and candour, my critic
wrote hastily. Six weeks ago I sent you a full reply, which accident prevented
i from appearing. You now kindly offer to me to insert it. I no longer think
it worth while to occupy your space, nor trouble your wearied readers with
j more than the following. In this beautifully plastic and symmetric language,
| the Latin, verbs are formed from adjectives (disregarding a few exceptions, to
] which all general rules are subject), with the four following main branches of
i terminations, viz., -o-are ; -eo-ere; -sco-scSre; -io-ire. The first are, with very
few exceptions, active-transitive, meaning to make so and so, or to put into
such and such a condition, e.g. from the adjective durus, duro-are, to harden or
] j make hard. The other three are intransitive, as dureo-ere, to be hard ; duresco-
, i -ere, to grow hard. The fourth class are also, with a very few exceptions, in-
i ] transitive, and when the adjective expresses a condition, moral or mental,
11 applicable only to a person, I do not remember any exception to the usage of
’] the verb in -io-ire signifying to act so and so, as from insanus, insanire, to
i i act insanely, superbire, blandire, ligurire, dulcire, dementire, sagire—(analogous
) ] to the Greek i9uv). Even from a noun substantive there is servire, and
I i from a participle, esurire. This class of verbs always imply, not the material
II condition of a thing, but the living or action of a person. It is true that there
*: is a large class of intransitives in -eo-ere, from adjectives, but they imply
) i rather the being materially in the condition denoted by the adjective, than
) ] the acting so by a person. This is a refinement which my learned critic
] overlooked in that same haste which caused him to derive insanire from an
| insanis which does not exist., The usage which forms, the active-transitives
(] in o-are, though not absolutely without exceptions, is so general and per-
) i vading that most of the pages of a dictionary will be found to furnish ex-
) I amples of it; and for the most part when such verbs are intransitive it is
(I because the meaning of the adjective is such (as in cegrotare, hibernare,
(i cestivare, &c.), as not to admit of the verb being transitive. I do not speak of
) | the intransitives in -are, derived from nouns substantive, as exulare, &c. These
) i transitive verbs in -are, are even formed frequently from adjectives in -is
(| where the i predominates, or in other terminations than the common -us,
(j such as levare, gravare, exanimare, illustrare, dulcare, celebrare, mitigare,
j i nobilitare, tenuare, frequentare, &c. And even though there may be an excep-
/1 tional nigrare, intransitive, there is also denigrare, transitive. Verbs primarily
(i and regulai’ly transitive are also occasionally used in a neuter sense (a usage
(j common in English, as to harden, to warm, &c.). That there are not a few
\ j transitive verbs in -io-ire, I never questioned, but they are in general not from
) i adjectives. My critic cites indeed two (mollire, femVe), but they are rare exceptions;
/! I am sure he could not cite half-a-dozen. But enough of this, nor shall I trouble
i you further on this subject. I find myself required to justify what I had
(i stated as being in accordance with the general rule and usage of the language
) i (and this is all I had stated), namely, that dementare is the natural and regular
) ] form of the verb from demens to express the idea to make mad, and dementire,
\ i that to express the idea of to act as a madman ; and I leave it to the decision
(| of Latinists whether I have not done so. As for the non-classical Lactantius,
} ] in the fourth century, having used dementabat as intransitive, that this is a
> i mere copyist’s error is shown by the same Lactantius having elsewhere given
(! the intransitive form correctly, in “ Instinctu dcemonis percitus, dementit,
(j effertur, insanit.” And as for dementare not actually appearing in the frag-
) ] ments we possess of Roman literature, hundreds of similar verbs do not
I) I appear, though their having existed is shown not only by analogy but by
] (] derivative words from them. No frondare, for instance, appears, but frondator
|(i and frondatio prove it to have existed'-as good Latin, in the same way as
m “clipper” and “clipping” would suffice to prove the good English of
I “to clip.”
j (j I regret to have been compelled to occupy so much of your valuable space
t(; in so dry a Latin etymological discussion. But a hasty negative criticism may
1)1 sometimes impose a good deal of trouble to refute it, and to prove an affirma-
j)! tive, when the point at issue is one of serious importance. It sometimes takes
i(| long to reply to a short question, to clear away a plausibly unsound objection.
|(I And besides the interest of the special point as to the authentic genuineness of
j\i Publius Syrus, as a novel phenomenal proof of Spiritualism, it is also a
i) ; matter of no small mere literary interest to determine whether or not we have
j) j at last ascertained the original author, hitherto unknown, of this time-worn
| (j saying, now claimed by Publius Syrus as his; connected, too, as it is, with the
j (I _ curious historical circumstance declared by him, that he gave it to his friend
I); the great Caesar, and that Caesar paid no heed to it; no more heed, he added,
i) i than would now be paid by other men of our own day, great or minor, who lose
! (i their heads (I mean their common sense) by the intoxication of power or
] \ j success. J. L. O’S.
| j. May 14.
FIRST STEPS TO A KNOWLEDGE OF SPIRITUALISM.
m Sir,—In my letter on the above subject, published in your issue of
])! April 17th, I attempted to review some of the difficulties experienced in
j (i the early stages of investigation, from the evidences of fraud and simu-
I) ] lation so invariably met with to a greater or less extent, where anything
I (i like a general or promiscuous range of investigation is attempted ; and
\(\ I alluded to the unavoidable alternative of having either to convict the
i; i medium, or the spiritual influences acting through and by the medium’s
i) i organism, of direct fraud and trickery. This seems at first glance to
i \ | place the investigator on the horns of a dilemma, either of which must be
i); tolerably fatal to progress in faith or belief. Further inquiry and con-
: /: sideration, however, smooth the way for the inquirer, and shew that,
]) ] notwithstanding the ugly preliminary appearances, light may still shine
i;| through the darkness, and truth possibly exist but slightly below these
] (\ unpromising surface obstructions; and it is to suggest this reassuring
\(\ consideration that I venture to trouble you with these further remarks
) on the subject of my “ first steps in Spiritualism.”
The most important point to be insisted on, as a preparation for the
\{\ inquiry, is to give up all conventional, educational, and preconceived
jjl ideas and thoughts about “ Spiritualism,” and to commence the obser-
j( i vation of its phenomena with an entirely open and unbiassed mind, ready
i) j to accept any discovery that may be made (after proper safeguards and
i precautions against fraud or error), whether such discovery is in accord-
iance with known laws or not, and to leave the discovery of the explana¬
tory causes to later developments. In other words, to accept facts when¬
ever found, and to wait for further light upon the principles that may
explain them. This, I am convinced, is the only true path to traverse,
and though the way may seem narrow and crooked at first, a little re¬
flection ought to convince every one that truth and knowledge of all
kinds can only be attained by a mind that is non-obstructive and open
H; to the reception of truth, or, at all events, to facts that must in the first
238
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 19, 1876.
place be held to represent truth. We must start, then, with the position
that there are phenomena to be discovered, and must not be in too great
haste to explain them, until satisfied that we have a fair stock of indis¬
putable facts or phenomena requiring explanation.
Taking my own case (which for a representative illustration is as
good as any other), I have satisfied myself by repeated and critical
observation:—
(1.)—That raps, hand touches, movements of furniture and other
objects, production of flowers, scents, and other materials, with the
various physical manifestations, so often described and experienced by
all investigators, do really take place without any assistance, human or
mechanical, that can be explained by any known,laws of science or
physiology.
(2.)—That voices are heard holding intelligent converse with human
persons present, and forms of persons, or parts of persons, are seen, and
can be occasionally identified, under conditions rendering trickery or
collusion on the part of those present impossible.
(3.)—That communications are received, both through writing and
clairvoyant mediums, shewing an intimate knowledge of one’s secret
affairs and experiences, occasionally blended with matters not known to
the inquirers at the time, but afterwards verified, and, as regards writing,
often exhibiting & facsimile of the deceased persons’ caligraphy.
These are sufficiently startling phenomenal facts to satisfy any be¬
ginner, that something has been got hold of worthy more than a passing
attention, and requiring both a new kind of knowledge to explain, and a
considerable disruption of the preconceived ideas and opinions repre¬
sented by our old knowledge.
h Such facts as I have enumerated can only be explained by the self-
evident deduction that there must be a super-human—for convenience
we will call it “ occult ”—force and intelligence existing, and at work
under certain conditions, entirely distinct from any force previously
described by scientific men, as part of their known laws regulating force
or matter; and there is this difficulty in ascribing the discovery to any
mere physical section of science, that it is accompanied by and under
the control of “ intelligence,” and can apparently exercise the attributes
of “mind” as independently as any ordinary human person; there is
no alternative thus left but to consider this discovery as representing an
occult intelligence, conveniently described for common reference as
“ Spiritualism.’’
I do not accept this term as exactly satisfying the requirements of the
definition needed, or as necessarily implying a belief in all that is
claimed for Spiritualism by its most enthusiastic votaries; but under
this name I propose in my next to reconcile some of the difficulties be¬
setting inquirers like myself into what is as yet but a slightly explored
path of knowledge, leading, I believe, to a rich mine of hidden wealth,
but requiring something more than surface explorations to possess it.
W. H.
LIFE AND DEATH.
Sir,—The following is from Fichte (Dr. Smith’s translation) :—
“ All death in nature is birth, and in death itself appears visibly the
exaltation of life. There is no destructive principle in nature; for
nature throughout is clear, unclouded life : it is not death which kills,
but the more living life which, concealed behind the former, bursts forth
into new development. Death and birth are but the struggle of life
with itself to assume a more glorious and congenial form. And my
death,—how can it be aught else, since I am not a mere semblance and
show of life, but bear within me the one original, true, essential life ?
It is impossible to conceive that nature should annihilate a life which
does not proceed from her; the nature which exists for me, and not
I for her.
“ Yet even my natural life, even this mere outward manifestation to
mortal sight of the inward invisible life, she cannot destroy without
destroying herself; she who only exists for me, and on account of me,
and exists not if I am not. Even because she destroys me must she
animate me anew; it is only my higher life, unfolding itself in her,
before which my present life can disappear; and what mortals call
death is the visible appearance of this second life. Did no reasonable
being who had once beheld ‘ the light of this world ’ die, there would be
no ground to look with faith for a new heaven and a new earth; the
only possible purpose of nature, to manifest and maintain reason, would
be fulfilled here below, and her circle would be completed. But the
very act by which she consigns a free and independent being to death is
her own solemn entrance, intelligible to all reason, into a region beyond
this act itself, and beyond the whole sphere of existence which is thereby
closed. Death is the ladder by which my spiritual vision rises to a new
life and a new nature.
“ Every one of my fellow-creatures who leaves this earthly brother¬
hood, and whom my spirit cannot regard as annihilated because he is
my brother, draws my thoughts after him beyond the grave,—he is still,
and to him belongs a place. While we mourn for him here below, as
in the dim realms of unconsciousness there might be mourning when a
man bursts from them into the light of this world’s sun, above there is
rejoicing that a man is born into that world, as we citizens of the earth
receive with joy those who are bom unto us. When I shall one day
follow, it will be but joy for me; sorrow shall remain behind in the
sphere I shall have left.
“The world on which but now I gazed with wonder passes away
from before me, and sinks from my sight. With all the fulness of life,
order, and increase which I beheld in it, it is yet but the curtain by
which a world infinitely more perfect is concealed from me, and the
germ from which that other shall develops itself. My faith looks
behind this veil, and cherishes and animates this germ. It sees
nothing definite, but it expects more than it can conceive here below
—more than it will ever be able to conceive in all time.
“ Thus do I live, thus am I, and thus am I unchangeable, firm, and
completed for all eternity, for this is no existence assumed from with¬
out, it is my own true, essential life and being.” .
Such are the concluding passages of Johann Gottlieb Fichte’s
Vocation of Man. They are not the words of a religious enthusiast,
giving passionate expression to hopes unjustified by science ; but they
embody results arrived at by profound philosophical thought. This is
transcendental idealism—a system which in the hands of Fichte far
excelled in metaphysical completeness and coherence the speculations
of Berkeley, which are so well and accurately sketched by Mr. St.
George Stock in the last number of The Spiritualist. The identity of
subject and object, the necessary evolution of the latter—the world,
from the former—the mind of man, and the latter as the existential
manifestation of the one life—God; the meaning of freedom, the fact
of individual immortality, the essential nothingness of matter and- the
sensuous life—all these are propositions connected together by a chain
of necessary thought, requiring indeed the deepest and most sustained
attention from the student, but which once clearly and thoroughly
apprehended are seen to possess a demonstrative force. We see in
spirit “ the promise and potency of every form of terrestrial life,” and
of all other life. C. C. M.
IDEALISM AND SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—Mr. St. George Stock has very clearly explained the difference
between the philosophical systems of Locke and Berkeley, but I should
like to know whether he agrees with me in the fundamental objection
to Berkeley’s position as stated in the letter on which he comments to
the effect that if the things perceived are external to the percipient
they cannot be also perceptions. Again, the statement of Berkeley is
untrue in saying that he differs with the philosophers and agrees with
the vulgar. No doubt the vulgar believe that they see the things them¬
selves, or at least that what they perceive resembles them; they do not con¬
found the perception or perceiving with the object, but feel quite sure that
St. Paul’s will remain as they see it, and where they see it, when they are
away, whereas Berkeley states the very contrary; for he says in his Prin¬
ciples of Human Knowledge that “ It is indeed an opinion strangely pre¬
vailing amongst men that houses, mountains, rivers, and, in a word, all
sensible objects, have an existence, natural or real, distinct from their
being perceived by the understanding.” Then comes the question of the
nature of the percipient, whether to be considered as a pure spiritual
being or fact, unorganised and occupying no space or otherwise.
Descartes placed it in a very small space in lodging it in the penial
gland. Hegel denied the percipient, and reduced everything to
thought, and even the links in the chain of thought he conceived as
mere relations with nothing to be related. Such is the extravagance
to which idealism logically leads.
Apart from such metaphysical wanderings, I think that modern
Spiritualists are but putting up at the half-way house in supposing
spirits to be organised bodies in a kind of shadowy way, from their
experience of the physical world, thus by a faint analogy making
things intelligible; but facts are facts, and conceivability is not the
criterion of truth in such matters, or our knowledge of nature would
go a very little way indeed, and causation would be a mere fiction.
Certainly all the Theistic interpretations of causation have been fic¬
titious, Berkeley’s with the rest, but Hegel never refers to a God, and
seems, like Comte, to ignore causation altogether. In this we see how
curiously extremes meet, that is, in positivism and absolute idealism—
for both systems seem to hang things together as by a rope of sand.
In concluding permit me to quote the clear statement of Dr. Collyns
Simon in regard to Berkeley’s view of perception, as given in a letter
which I enclose. He says—“ What I hold is this. That the Ego per¬
ceives each hard and heavy group of qualities presented to it, and
perceives each such group to be at the distance from other groups at
which it is perceived to be, and also at the perceived distance from the
group over which the Ego has a special control. Each group is
external to the other, and all are external to the Ego as far as this
word * external ’ can apply to a nature which is unextended, and which
has therefore neither an inside nor an outside. It is more correct to say
‘ independent ’ of than external to, in this place and sense.” All this
he supposes to be produced by the same unknown cause that produces
the Ego.
And here we may note Mr. Stock’s illustration of the mesmerised
person impressed by the will of his mesmeriser, but which impression
would only be as in a dream, and the perception would not be of any
outside and real things, much less be things themselves. Brain sym¬
pathy is a better expression than thuoght-reading, as having a more
general significance. But if it is stated that life is of such stuff as
dreams are made of, and that all our impressions are illusory too, that
then would be no answer; but we see that Berkeley’s theory is not that.
That is not purely ideal and subjective, but a fanciful speculation a
long way beyond the ideas of the vulgar, with realism, idealism, and
Theism all confounded together.
Then we see that Berkeley’s idea of a spirit was of an unextended
nature, therefore occupying no space, and of a homogeneous character;
yet something unextended would seem to be nothing at all, though no
doubt a thought fills no space and yet has a location, and is a something
in one sense but nothing in another, either as an entity or a force. The
great difficulty is that the idealist, as we see, is forced to use language
framed on a very different conception of nature, and Spiritualists, too,
will have to meet that difficulty as they may, or the differences will be
more about words than things. Dr. Johnson’s common sense reply to
Berkeley when the latter declared there was no such thing as matter
in the ordinary sense, was by kicking a stone, for really argument seems
to be useless ; hence Byron’s witticism that “when Berkeley said there
was no matter, and proved it, then it was no matter what Berkeley
said.” But to God all things may be possible, even what is inconceiv-
May 19, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
239
able and seemingly contradictory; so that Hume perhaps was right in
saying that idealism admitted of no reply, but produced no conviction.
Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S.
Boulogne-sur-Mer.
MR. EGLINTON IN MANCHESTER.
Sir,—Mr. Eglinton called on me last Monday, and there were at once
some nice raps. I liked him and thought—A good medium! fairly
established, orders promptly executed. Moulds in request. We visited
my medium at noon. Jolly raps all over the room like a carpenter’s
shop. I took my hat to leave, and found inside it a card photograph
I had left in my bedroom which the medium had never entered. Raps
said “ Bertie did it in fan.” She puts new thoughts into people’s heads,
so why not a card in a chimney-pot hat ?
In the evening, late, Mr. Eglinton said, “ We had a good stance; got
a mould of a small hand, while my hands were outside.” That will do.
I tell a sharp scientific man of it; we go to mould proprietor, who is
surprised at my glee, for he had coloured the paraffin and mould was
white. Looks queer, I guess, to scientific man. “ May be badly mixed,
colour not got everywhere.” Answer: “ H’m.” In the evening grand
stance with some elements of fresh and inherited scepticism. Mr.
Eglinton well sewn up, sleeves together behind. With these marks of
flattering suspicion placed on his seat in cabinet. Music-box too.
Both wound up. Box going and stopping at command. Silly but
splendid manifestations. Legs of medium brought into view, a book
placed on the lap, but wouldn’t open as expected. Tambourine vexed,
moved violently about—not on terms with book. Sundry other unmis¬
takable tests of a power, not baptized as yet by science. That ceremony
will come off later. Medium takes (in trance) mouthful of water.
Spirit speaks nevertheless. Medium spits out the water after. Great
astonishment. Medium’s coat torn.
Second part. Material manifestations. Splendid supper. Liked the
sitting very much. Lively movement of knives and forks (by wilful
muscular action). Agreeable reflections on the inner man. Heavy
monster dining-table trembling. Chief sceptic arrives. After supper
mould-paraffin-foot-bath business commences. Pail with the hot stuff
placed inside. Gentleman of the white mould sits next to cabinet.
Medium let in with no test whatever. Spiritualists elevated with
these signs of confidence. Great encouragement to set power in full
swing! Spirit says to doubtful mould-asker—“I say, Mr.   you
made a mess yesterday with the colour ; it formed a sediment; to¬
night you have again secretly weighed and coloured!” Gentleman
surprised. “Why not?” ’Twas so, although nobody knew. After a
while, splashing of the water heard. Hopeful sensations! Medium
out of trance, cabinet lit up. Two ugly green paraffin-slippers on the
floor, half broken, as if spirit had made haste to get out of the mess.
Measurement of slippers and foot of medium. Apparent difference.
Great relief to medium. More accurate measurement—the “ doubles ”
of medium’s foot after all, the bend of big toe (feeling uncomfortable
in the hot stuff) having been overlooked. Finale : all under a cloud.
Next evening grand seance with only sceptics, but outside conditions
very fair. Total failure, as medium told me afterwards. He stated
there were twenty-five present, but the number was fifteen. This in¬
correct statement turned against his honesty. Perhaps he saw the
doubles of ten of them. Result: Total defeat. Sceptics triumphing
in the camp.
Summing up.
First visit. Raps and card in hat.
Believers. — “ Beautiful manifesta- Sceptics.—“ Clever.”
tions.”
Stopping and going of box.
B. “ Splendid test.” S. “ Rather odd.”
Tambourine shaken.
B. “ Medium couldn’t do it.” S. “ Has been done before (Dob-
ler).”
Speaking with water in mouth.
B. “Unmistakable power.” S. “Ventriloquism.’’
Supper.
General admiration; no difference of opinion.
Trembling of big table.
B. “ Remarkable power.” S. “ Nervousness,”
Torn coat (quite new).
B. “Spasms.” S. “ Attempt to get out.”
Moulds of medium*s foot.
B. “ Pity, ’twas only his double.” S. “ Barefaced (or footed impos¬
ture), followed by liberal dis¬
play of titles, as humbug, scamp,
cheat, etc.”
Result total:
A muddle (until Mr. E. comes again).
Christian Reimers.
THE FLOATING OF SOLID OBJECTS IN THE LIGHT.
Sir,—Various causes have prevented my sending a few particulars of
a seance held at my house nearly a fortnight since; yet, feeling the
importance of facts being made known (as the phenomena occurred in
the light), I will, with your kind permission, briefly describe them.
Mr. Arthur Colman very kindly favoured us with a visit, and we were
told to sit for a light siance. This request was quickly complied with:
Mr. Willie Eglinton was present, also my husband and myself.
During breakfast, loud knocks sounded on the table, and chairs fairly
danced. Soon after the stance commenced, a chair appeared to “ walk ”
towards the large table at wliich we sat, a distance of several yards.
Articles of two kinds were taken from the sideboard, and placed in my
husband's hand, seven or eight yards distant. A flower from the garden
was laid on the table before us; it had been, mentally asked for by my
husband. Rings were taken from my finger, and instantly placed on
that of Mr. A. Colman, and again transferred from Mr. Cdlman to Mr.
Eglinton. My husband (who was in a sceptical mood) was told to
place a ring inside the huge musical box, which was under the large
dining-table, draped for the purpose. Mr. Eglinton suggested the lid
should be closed. This was done, and the box drawn far beyond reach
of the media; in a very short time the ring was laid at my husband’s
feet. The lid of the box had not been opened. The usual winding up,
setting on, and stopping of the musical box, ringing of bells, and several
other phenomena took place; but I must not longer trespass upon your
valuable space. S. Vernon.
Bognor, May 8th.
Miss Lottie Fowler gave a private seance last Tuesday to Mr.
Alexander Tod and friends at 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
Mr. W. Eglinton has been giving seances at Portsmouth during the
early part of the present week.
The new lending library of the National Association has been com¬
menced, and members who subscribe not less than 10s. 6d. a year, can
obtain the loan of books on application.
The seance room of the National Association of Spiritualists is now
frequently engaged for private s4ances by ladies and gentlemen who do
not wish to hold circles in their own homes, or on the premises of the
mediums.
Spiritualism in Lancashire.—Mr. John Hartley, of Mottram-road,
Hyde, Manchester, assistant-secretary to “ The Lancashire District
Spiritualist Committee,” writes that the committee desires to raise
£500 in voluntary subscriptions, to be expended at the rate of £100 a-
year for five years, in the promotion of lectures on Spiritualism in the
locality, and the sale of Spiritual literature. The committee should
apply to the National Association of Spiritualists, which we believe has
made arrangements to remunerate Dr. Sexton for the delivery of a
course of lectures at various towns in the Lancashire district.
Mr. J. J. Morse in the Provinces.—On Sunday last Mr. Morse
delivered two trance addresses in the Temperance Hall, Manchester,
—that in the afternoon upon “ Mental Dynamics,” and in the evening
upon “God’s People, Who are they?" Both meetings were well
attended, and the lectures were well received. On Sunday next Mr.
Morse speaks in the Islington Assembly Rooms, Liverpool,—afternoon
at three, evening at seven; on Monday at the Temperance Hall, Shef¬
field ; and on Thursday he will deliver a trance address before the
members and friends of the Dalston Association, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E., at eight p.m. Mr. Morse will then proceed to fulfil his
engagement at Jersey, Channel Islands. All letters to be directed to
Mr. Morse, at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
Wax Moulds from Spirit Hands.—In last week’s Spiritualist was
an article pointing out precautions which should be taken to ascertain
that tricky spirits do not carry moulds of spirit hands into the cabinet,
and carry away an equal weight of paraffin, to make it appear as if the
hand-moulds had been manufactured on the spot. Messrs. Oxley and
Reimers have written from Manchester to complain about this, as if it
were a specially adverse criticism upon their operations, whereas it
referred to all the seances of this kind which have yet been held, and
more especially to those of Mrs. Hardy in America, it having been
asserted that, at one of her test seances, the hand-mould produced had
pieces of cotton wool adhering to it, as if it had been previously packed
away in that substance. Moreover, there is the undoubted fact that
spirits carry substances, including drapery, to and from circles with
great facility. The mediums may be searched before and after a seance
and no drapery be found about them, yet the spirits will bring it in in
the middle.
Spiritualist Services in Churchyards.—Mr. A. Klamborowski, of
Tincleton, Dorchester, writes, in a recent number of The National
Church, against the delivery in churchyards of funeral services by those
who are not Episcopalians, and quotes in support of his view parts of a
speech by Dr. Hitchman, of Liverpool, made soon after the death of a
brother Spiritualist. Mr. Klamborowski says:—“Standing by the
resting-place of the dead, this gentleman purposed to say, ‘ Mr. Welch,
the ‘ ordained ’ chaplain of Anfield Cemetery, now reading stereotyped
prayers at the adjacent receptacle for dust and ashes, may reiterate his
theological parables to the end of-time. Spiritualists, and Spiritualists
| alone, possess the key of their mysteries, or the ethereal instrument that
(| unlocks the door of the ‘ Spiritual Temple.’ Speaking in consecrated
(j ground, Mr. Hitchman intended to pour out the vials of his bitter scorn
)\ upon the very notion of consecration. He'would, had he had the op-
(i portunity, have cried, ‘ Consecrated ground ! Why not ask benediction
) I of atmospheric elements ? Angels and ministers of grace defend us!
) i Are Spiritualists henceforth to believe that the Lord created the earth
|i and then left man to consecrate it? I trow not.’ But the ‘ Doctor ’ can
j j bless as well as denounce. The Spiritualist, like the materialist, seems
) i to have his wiser and better moments, and this is one of the new and
U revised gospels for prohibiting the preaching of which in God’s acre
j | churchmen are at once lovingly warned and fiercely threatened by Non-
) | conformists, who are so much more pure and liberal than themselves,
(! ‘I would rather say,’ shouts the ‘ Doctor ’ in the Medium, ‘ instead of
)| “Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord,” blessed are the living,
)| either in the body of matter or that of spirit—who live in the truth of
< j God, morally and scientifically, by acting in obedience to those laws of
j I nature which are the Scriptures of Divine Philosophy, whether found
)| in the works of Darwin, Huxley, and Tyndall, the Vedas revealed
(j directly to Brahma, the Zendavesta of the Persians, the Koran of
j | Mohammed, the Pentateuch of the Hebrews, or the sayings and doings
11 of Zoroaster, Socrates, Plato, and Confucius — nay, the alleged
j I “ miracles ” of Christ Himself.’ Which, Sir, of the numerous sects into
jj which Nonconformity is split would tolerate such blasphemous balder-
> i dash within their own unconsecrated chapel-yards ? ”
240
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 19,1876.
THE ANNUAL MEETING OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION ! !
OF SPIRITUALISTS. ^ ; ’ j l
The annual meeting of the members of the British j j
National Association of Spiritualists will be held on Tues- j j
day next, 23rd inst., at 6.30 p.m., at the offices of the Asso- j j
ciation, 38, Great Russell-street, when the new members of j j
the Council for the coming year will be elected, and the m
annual report read. |[|
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
In society there are two extreme orders of mind, the lesser and the |||
more powerful having the tendency to build up ; the larger—and the less ! j
powerful, in consequence of the lack of the faculty of orderly union— j|i
having the tendency to pull down. Never was a house built yet but it m
had some fault which the constructor himself would not repeat, a fault | (|
open to the just animadversion of both friends and foes; hut it is better 11:
and nobler to erect a house with several imperfections than to build | j
none at all. For these reasons the pulling down force in society will | i
generally, but with occasional outbursts of transient supremacy, be |>j
subservient to that which builds up. Between these two orders of mind i i
oscillate those who desire not to conserve abuses, yet who would rather | i
by hard work build something useful, with its unavoidable faults, than | :
idly pull down everything. : T |H
Out of the chaos which existed in Spiritualism three years ago, with | i
no union or concerted action—every man going his own way without
consulting his neighbour—an attempt was made to establish order, jn
This of necessity, by inexorable and universal law, led to a divergence j ]
between the pulling down and the building up forces in Spiritualistic j > j
society, with the result that the latter has made the headway it deserved j t j
to do—a headway all the more secure because every step has been won i (|
in the face of every kind of opposition.
These remarks of course refer to the steps which have been taken to j u
establish national union among Spiritualists in this country; an attempt i |
which has been so successful that it seems desirable to criticise the j(j
position attained, as freely as if there existed no enemies to orderly \l\
action ready to magnify every shadow of a defect. It is all the more |||
necessary to do so just now, because growing organisations soon gain great j I
power, and while they are in their infantile stages they are more supple, j (j
more attentive to the influence of public opinion, more anxious to ;jj
remove defects which at later stages of growth cannot be eradicated. | / i
The bones of a child are somewhat gelatinous, so that if they get bent i |
they can by judicious treatment be restored to their normal shape; but ! |
once let them harden, a deformity is established for life.
The controlling power of the National Association of Spiritualists |(j
appears to be just getting strong enough to call for and to be able to \)\
bear criticism from the whole body of its members, which criticism will | j
possess all the more weight when advanced just before a general j j
meeting and an annual election. Recently attention was called in j j
these pages to the accidental circumstance that during the coming year : i
the Council, under present conditions, possesses much more power of f U
electing new members of the governing body, than do the great majority i )l
of the members; these conditions may perhaps be altered at the general |H
meeting in such a way as to reverse the present position, not that it j j j
matters at all in a practical sense, nobody having any desire but to do j /i
the best for the Association, but because the establishment of a prece- | (i
dent may be bad for the future, and it is easier to enforce action upon a | j |
true theory in times of indifference, than when vested interests may have | |
sprung up. | (i
The question to which it is now especially desired to draw attention, jjj
is the desirability of forming an executive committee of the National j/j
Association. Some of the workers say that a council of seventy nj
is too unwieldy, and that it should appoint an executive committee from I (j
among its members to do the actual work. If seventy members jjj
attended, there might be some force in this remark, but as more than \l\
twenty-five members have, we think, never attended at once, and as we jjj
roughly guess the average attendance to have been under fifteen, this j j j
shows that there is already considerable concentration of power in the j (j
hands of very few persons, some of them old-established workers and towers j j j
of strengthin connection with the spiritual movement,others comparatively j / j
unknown before they began to do their present useful work. Our points are j i
that if there were an average attendance of twenty-five instead of less j !
than fifteen, the former number would be none too large in comparison j !
with the influence of the work to be done, and to give security against j I
the formation of cliques. The workers may respond, “Yes, but when jjj
we have done the work month after month, those who have done nothing j (i
may step in and outvote us.” That is just what is wanted. Something j j
of unusual public interest must have cropped up to suddenly bring in j j i
the non-workers, who, as disinterested observers, not mixed up with any i i
previous contention, are just the right persons to come to a just decision, .j (j
and one which will satisfy the public. If an executive committee jjj
existed, and the non-workers took steps to reverse one of its decisions, I (j
at once there would be a great rupture, and the hardest workers might j j j
all leave in the excitement of the moment; but if the hard and fast j j j
boundary line of an executive committee had never been drawn, the j (j
decision of an outside majority, instead of offending a considerable jjj
number of people, would only be adverse to the few who had displayed jjj
error in judgment. Lastly, although the private members see that the jjj
business of the Association is done by but few, the knowledge that there j j j
are plenty more councillors ready to step in and to rectify anything j/j
going wrong, gives a sense of security which would not be felt were j j
there an executive committee. jjj
The foreign relations of the National Association are, as pointed out j(j
recently, in an undeveloped state. Special reference was then made i)j
to no communication having been entered into with the thousands of
Spiritualists in Spain and Mexico, and that their journals have not been
obtained and filed. Mexico is always in a state of chronic revolution,
and if its Spiritualistic records were to be regularly preserved by the
British National Association, they might prove to be more permanent
than the other copies possessed by the editors themselves. At all events
this country has the advantage of continuous peace, and those who filed
Mexican or Spanish journals at 38, Great Russell-street, would not
have bomb-shells whizzing about their ears, which might not be the
case in the countries where they were produced. In Australia a weekly
paper was started about a year ago; a very few scattered copies of it
reached England; whether it is still in existence, or whether back
numbers of it can be had, we do not know, but the items of national
Spiritualistic history therein recorded are not preserved or known by
the British National Association of Spiritualists. Moreover, as the
Association knows little of what is taking place in Spiritualism in foreign
nations, those nations know as little about the Association, consequently
care nothing whether it sinks or swims; had friendly relations been
entered into the case would have been different. It would be a good thing
if every annual report of the National Association of Spiritualists had
to give as far as practicable (1) A list of all the spiritual societies in the
world, with the number of their members, the date of their establishment,
the extent of their libraries, and other particulars. (2) A list of all
the Spiritual periodicals in the world, and a statement of the extent
to which they are preserved at the central establishment in this
country. (3) A statement of the steps which have been taken to
establish friendly relations with the said societies, and to make known
in the several countries the objects and work of the British National
Association. Suppose this to be done what would be the results ?
In the first place all the annual reports would be of great historical
value, and of so much present value that Spiritualists all over the
world would want to read them and to see them in their journals,
which is not the case at present. Secondly, such steps would establish
a widespread friendly feeling, so that any attempt to persecute or- over¬
throw the present Association would excite a large amount of public
sympathy resulting in concerted action. Thirdly, such reports would
tend to secure the more speedy incorporation of the Association
under the auspices of the Board of Trade, for that government establish¬
ment would have to deal more carefully with an organisation having
widespread international interests, than one which dealt only with little
things, involving perhaps more work and expense. If a foreign depart¬
ment of the National Association were established, consisting of some
of the members of the Council who are in the habit of travelling in
foreign countries, and of others who are good linguists, it would be a
wise step.
AN OLD ENGLISH SUPERSTITION.
IN THE FERNS.
Wild blossoms of the moorland, ye are very dear to me ;
Ye lure my dreamy memory as clover does the bee.
Ye bring back all my childhood lov’d, when Freedom, Joy, and Health
Had never thought of wearing chains to fetter Fame and Wealth.
Wild blossoms of the common land, brave tenants of the earth !
Your breathings were among the first that gave my spirit birth ;
For how my busy brain would dream, and how my heart would burn,
When gorse and heather flung their arms above the forest fern.
It was the belief of our credulous ancestors that the fern seed became
visible only on St. John’s Eve, and at the precise moment of the birth of
the saint; that it was under the peculiar protection of the queen of the
fairies; and that, in this eventful night, the most tremendous conflicts
took place for its possession, between sofcerers and spirits, because it
was conceived not only as capable of conferring invisibility at pleasure
on those who succeeded in procuring it, but it was also esteemed of
sovereign potency in the fabrication of charms and incantations. Those,
therefore, who were addicted to the arts of magic, and possessed of suf¬
ficient courage for the enterprise, were presumed to watch in solitude
during this solemn period, in order that they might seize the seed on
the instant of its appearance, and so secure to themselves the much-
coveted power of hearing and seeing others without being subject in their
own persons to the scrutiny of the observed.—flow Sells.
Mr. Blyton informs us that at a private family sSance, held at the
residence of a member of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into
Spiritualism one evening last week, opportunities were afforded to the
several members of the circle for observing in a good light some power¬
ful spirit materialisations.
Modern Theism.—On Sunday afternoon, before a crowded congre¬
gation, the Archbishop of York, in St. James’s Church, Piccadilly,
preached a sermon on “ God, a Personal Being, not an Impersonal
Force.” The sermon was the fourth of a series to be preached at the
church by eminent clergymen, at the request of the Christian Evidence
Society. His Grace selected for his text Heb. iii. 4. The one question,
he said, to which he invited attention was this: Ought we to allow our
minds to connect with the beauty of nature, the symmetry of nature’s
laws, and with the dictates of our own consciences, the thought of a
Being who had caused all those things, or ought we to see nothing
beyond the facts themselves, and to dismiss all thoughts of a wise and
loving Being, whom we have not seen as unscientific, and as belonging
to the vague region of metaphysics ? The world was full of facts, which
in the case of any human works would be conclusive evidence of an
intelligent maker, and the mind hastened to the conclusion that Intelli¬
gence was at work here. As nobody doubted the possibility that God
might exist, the generality of mankind would never hesitate to attribute
the work of creation to God.—Daily Telegraph,
May 19, 1876.
THE SPIEITUALIST.
111
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Eepresenting the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d,
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORI.D, by Robert Bale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Bialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEAROHESINTHEPHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.”, It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
BLANCHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums , also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s. .
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Yols., crown 8vo., 15s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—"Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium fight. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and .Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by Wilfiam Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in " The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opiniJh that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Yala,” published
n this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote‘during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. lid.; cheap edition,
' 7s. 8d. ,
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM. MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
5s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d. '
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance sneaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), Gd.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by Wilham Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS,by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Orosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Yol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
6s.  
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s,
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
5s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1766. 2s. 6d.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical consideratmns con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offeredTor com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub, at 7s. 6d.) 4s.,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature's Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. ,,111,
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . ,
The Thinker. „ V „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims , .
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . .
Morning Lectures . . . .
s d.
16 0
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recom¬
mended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A hook containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .50
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A, Trim Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 10 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Trans.ateu into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makersi Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske. M. A . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, byiJames Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . . .20
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . • 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Pain, B. A . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ....... 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.AS
Special edition for Schools . , , . 10
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Doten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
6d.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: "There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” 6d.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
THEODORE PARKER IN SPIRIT LIFE. Given
inspirationally through the mediumship of Dr. F. L. H. Willis.
Is.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young 6d.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given PsychometrieaUy through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. 6d.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. R. T.
Hallock, 2s.
V
THE SPIRITUALIST,
May 19, 1876.
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Bepresenting the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spritualist News-
aper Branch Office, 38, Great Eussell-street, Bloomsbury,
ondon, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing -business, are not in any way connected with each
other.]
Price 7s. 6d., cloth,
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account'of the'means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion is pourtraj ed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies,—Boston, U.S.: Colby and BiCH, London Spirit¬
ualist Office.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT-LAND.—Being
Life-Experiences, Scenes, Incidents, and Conditions
illustrative of Spirit-Life and the principles of the Spiritual
Philosophy. Of practical value to any who are anxious to
study the theories of Spiritualists and Mediums, for the purpose
of deducing a consistent system of faith concerning the
future, its rewards and punishments, &c., as it establishes a
basis in reason for its propositions, and asks no blind accep¬
tance of statements, but enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Given inspirationally through Mrs. Maria M. King. Cloth,
5s. fid. Spiritualist newspaper branch office.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, the two
CLEVEB SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Eeimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.B S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.S.,and hisassistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price fid.: post free, 6£d. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
STRANGE YISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Eeligion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Brohtd, Bichter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Eich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
The debatable land between this
WOBLD AND THE NEXT. By Egbert Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive proof,
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, yet which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This book affirms thatthestrongest
of all historical evidences for modern Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
of Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. fid.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE AMERICAN SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE.
Devoted to Spiritualism. Its history, phenomena, and
teachings from a Christian stand-point.—The Editor has been
an Itinerant Methodist Minister for over 86 years, 33 of which
have been spent in Memphis, Tennessee, and vicinity where
the Magazine is published. It belongs to no sect or party, but
is free to discuss all subjects untrammeled, adopting as its
motto—
“ To seize the truth wherever found,
On Christian or on heathen ground.”
It contains thirty-two pages of reading matter besides the
cover. Published monthly, price 10s. per annum. Spiritualist
newspaper branch office.
Published at 7s. fid. Eeduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and.SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Boyal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr,
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Bugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about an’mal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
ono as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. fid. Eeduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, 4d. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
The Second Volume of The Identity of Primitive
Christianity and Modem Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CEO WELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth,
completes the work.
CONTENTS.
I.—Spirit Writing.
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power
III. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV. —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
V.—Clairaudience.
VI.—Dreams and Visions.
VII.—Trance and Ecstacy.
VIII.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Contentions.
X.—Prayer.
XT.—The Ministry of Angels.
XII.—Death.
XIII. —The Spirit-World.
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI.—Conclusion.
The above work has just betn issued in America, and copies
are now on sale, price 10s. fid. each, post free 11s. fid., at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. 
First Edition.
IMPORTANT NEW PUBLICATION.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS INTO SPIRIT¬
UALISM.
A PAMPHLET, the full size of The Spiritualist, containing a
large amount of information, compiled especially for inquirers,
will be shortly issued from The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office at 38, Great Eussell-street, London, for sale at public
meetings,
PEICE ONE PENNY.
There has long been a demand for some such publication
as this, the current spiritual newspapers not always containing
the most suitable or most condensed information for persons
to whom the subject of Spiritualism is a strange one.
Many thousands of copies of the publication will be prinied,
and kept on sale by vendors of spiritual literature, and at
spiritual meetings throughout the country.
From the large circulation thus secured, it will be a
VALUABLE CHANNEL FOB ADVEETISEMENTS
To Mediums, Mesmerists, Authors of Spiritual Books, and
others. The charge for advertisements will be One Shilling
for the first twenty-five words, and Sixpence for every addi¬
tional twenty-five words, or portion thereof. Displayed adver¬
tisements Five Shillings per inch.
All advertisements should be sent in as soon as possible, as
the publication will come out in a few weeks’ time. *
Special arrangements will be made to supply local societies
with copies at a cheap rate, if ordered in large quantities; the
said societies may thus considerably increase their income by
the profits on sales.
All communications on this subject should be addressed to
the Editor of The Spiritualist.
Price 5s.
IRELAND: UR OF THE CHALDEES.
London: Triibner and Co., Ludgate Hill.
Reviewers’ Criticisms.
“Irishmen ought to read this work and be proud. It is
crammed with learning which does credit to the research of
the writer.”—Christian World. ■
“ The somewhat startling proposition contained in the title
of this work can hardly fail to interest a considerable number
of readeis, and for those who may be inclined to take the svoik
in hand, we may briefly state that the line of argument pur¬
sued is intended to show that the Chaldeans, the Hebrews,
and the Celts are identical, the summary given at the close
being that ‘ the Arphaxadite Chaldeans were the progenitors
of the Hebrew Chaldeans, and differ only in name from the
first Gaels.’ The subject is carefully dealt with. The various
arguments are well arranged, and a large amount of corrobora¬
tive evidence is adduced in support of them, the value of which
many will be glad to test.”—Rock.  
In Two Vo)s., 8vo. .cloth, price 28s.
A PHILOSOPHICAL TREATISE ON THE
.LJL NATURE AND CONSTITUTION OF MAN. By
George Harris, LL.D., F.S.A., Vice-President of the Psy¬
chological Society and of the Anthropological Institute, and
author of “The Theory of the Arts,” “Civilisation considered
as a Science,” &c. This work embraces a comprehensive and
complete survey of the nature and constitution of man.
physical, moral, and intellectual, exhibiting moreover the
mutual connection and dependence of each branch. Topics
connected with the spiritual being, and the leading opinions
on this subject, including the nature, essence, properties, and
mode of operation, of the soul; the alliance between matter
and spirit; reason and instinct, their affinity and diversity
are here discussed; and a new theory is propounded of our
intellectual system, as also respecting the distribution, mode
of action, discipline, and cultivation of the mental faculties.
Eminent authorities on certain of the topics here embraced,
among them some distinguished writers on psychology, phy¬
siology] and natural history, have been in correspondence
with, and have been consulted by the author, by several of
whom notes of much interest and value, on different important
controverted points, have been contributed.
London: G. Bell & SONS, York-sti’eet, Covent-garden. 1876.
By Royal Letters Patent.
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. fid. per Bottle.
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. JOHN BOUSE, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. BENJAMIN
COLEMAN.
COMMITTEE :
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Welwyn, Herts.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
William Howitt, Esq., Rome, Italy.
S. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A., 60, Holland-street, Kensington.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington.
Charles Blackburn, Esq., Didsbury, Manchester.
W. M. Wilkinson, Esq., 44, Lincoln’s-inn-fields.
A. A. Watts, Esq., 119, Lansdowne-road, Notting-hill, W.
S. Chinnery, Esq., 142, Strand, London, W.C.
J. Enmore Jones, Esq., Enmore-park, S.E.
C. Townsend Hook, Esq., Snodland, Rochester, Kent.
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq., Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Cornelius Pearson, Esq., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury.
William Tebb, Esq., 7, Albert-road, Gloucester-gate, Regent’s-
park.
A. Leighton, Esq., 16, South Castle-street, Liverpool.
James Wason, Esq., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Queen-street, Grosveuor-square.
Mrs. Tebb, 7, Albert-road, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Thomas Hayle, Esq., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Thomas Shorter, Esq., 23, Prince of Wales-road, N.W.
Jacob Dixon, Esq, M.D, 8 Great Ormond-street, W.C.
W. H. Harrison, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
W. 0. Oopperthwaite, Esq., Malton, Yorkshire.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S., 2, Great Winchester-street-
buildings, E.C.
The Hon. J. O’Sullivan, late U.S. Minister to the Court of
Portugal, 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Hay Nisbet, Esq., 219, George-street, Glasgow.
Mrs. Hamilton, York-place, Portman-square.
John Lamont, Esq., Finfleld, Liverpool.
Thomas Slater, Esq., 19, Leamington-road-villas, Westboume-
park.
Andrew Glendinning, Esq, 4, Castledine road, Anerly, S.E.
W. J. Williams, Esq, Clarence Club, Waterloo-place, S.W.
Subscriptions will be received and duly acknowledged by
the Treasurer, Alexander Calder, Esq, 1, Hereford-square,
South Kensington; or by the Hon. Secretary, A. Joy, Esq,
Junior United Service Club, St. James’s, S.W.
Subscriptions, which will be duly acknowledged, may be
forwarded to the Hon. Treasurer, Alexander Calder, Esq , 1,
Hereford-square, South Kensington, S,W.; or to the Hon.
Sec, A. Joy, Esq, 68, Great Eussell-street, W.C.
The following sums have been already subscribed:—
A Friend  £50 0 0
Charles Blackburn, Esq  50 0 0
A. V. H  30 0 0
Martin E. Smith, Esq  25 0 0
Alexander Calder, Esq   25 0 0
William Tebb, Esq   25 0 0
A. L. Elder, Esq    4   25 0 0
W. M. Wilkinson, Esq     20 0 0
O. Y. Hoffman    20 0 0
James Wason, Esq    20 0 0
Friends at St. Petersburg     19 7 G
Friends at Glasgow, per H. Nisbet, Esq. 10 16 0
Thomas Grant, Esq  10 10 0
A Friend  10 10 0
Mrs. St. Claire   10 0 0
W. J. Williams, Esq.    10 0 0
Two Friends and Neighbours   10 0 0
W. C. Copperthwaite, Esq  10 0 0
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq    10 0 0
Alexander Tod, Esq  10 0 0
J. Ridley, Esq —    10 0 0
Mrs. Hamilton.      10 0 0
Mrs. Daun     10 0 0
T. J. Allman, Esq  10 0 0
Mrs. Hennings    5 5 0
Mrs. Berry   5 5 0
J. Y. Vernon, Esq     1  5 5 0
W. H. Harrison, Esq  5 0 0
O. Townsend Hook, Esq  5 0 0
William Howitt, Esq   5 0 0
Enmore Jones, Esq  5 0 0
A. A. Watts, Esq  5 0 0
Mrs. Watts    5 0 0
Walter Weldon, Esq. ,....  6 0 0
P. G.      5 0 0
M. G. S  5 0 0
C. F. Varley, Esq    5 0 0
J. H. D  5 0 0
F. Griffin, Esq  5 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart  5 0 0
J. S. Law, Esq  5 0 0
Friend, per Mrs. Vernon '.  3 3 0
G. de Lagare     3 3 0
C. Pearson, Esq    3 3 0
Miss Clark     3 0 0
S. O. Hall, Esq       2 2 0
John Marshall, Esq    2 2 0
C. Stephens, Esq.       2 2 0
Dr. E. Baikie   2 2 0
F    2 2 0
Rev. W. Whitear       2 2 0
Miss Whitear       2 2 0
Thomas Scott, Esq    2 2 0
D. G.'Fitzgerald, Esq    2 2 0
Miss Watts       2 2 0
T. Shorter, Esq   2 0 0
M. DeVeh     2 0 0
John Lamont, Esq    2 0 0
O. McLean, Esq  2 0 0
Miss Douglas  2 0 0
R.B.       110
D. H. W  110
A. Glendinning, Esq  110
W. Glynes, Esq    110
J. T. Peele, Esq    110
Dr. C. L. Robertson    110
Mrs. S. Dickson  110
J. Gledstanes, Esq.    10 0
Mrs. M. Gregory   10 0
Dr. Hayle    10 0
O. P. Carter, Esq  10 0
Baronin v. Vay  0 18 4
O. Parsons, Esq   0 10 6
C. C. G  0 10 0
D. S.V*....  0 7 0
Total.
£584 0 4
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. ALLEN, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O,
