[Eegistered as a Newspaper.
CIj^ |t^bsjjapr tammietf Spiriiitalism xn <&nixt Jhil^hr.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : 38, Great Russell-street, W.C. (opposite the British Museum), and it, Ave
Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG : 2, Lindenstrasse, ROME ; The Inter*
national Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES : British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE : 37, Rue Florimont
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal” Office. MEMPH'S,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 605, Montgomery-street.
No. 186.*-”(VOL. VIII.—-No. 11.) LONDON • FRIDA-Yj MA.B.0H 17j 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
(Kontents.
Varying Characteristics of Spirit Influence 
Spiritualism in the United States  
The Mesmeric Influence of Individuals  ...
My Experiences in London and Brussels    
Poetry:—New Year’s Gifts..'.    ... ... ...
Correspondence:—Another “ Proof Positive of Immortal¬
ity ” especially for Scholars (Latinists)—The Relative
Trustworthiness of different Forms of Mediumship—
Metempsychosis—A Letter from Mrs. Tappan—Mrs.
Tappan on Dean Stanley—Lord Bacon’s Theory of
Spirits—Remarkable Seances in Holland and Belgium
—Speculations about the Reincarnation Hypothesis—
A Spiritualists' Hotel Wanted—A Curious Question-
Mesmerism—Trance Mediumship in Birmingham—The
Control of Spirits over Matter—Casts of Materialised
Spirit Hands Critically Examined—Does Spiritualism,
if Accepted, Prove Immortality?—A Test Seance with
Mr. Eglingtpn—The Persecution of Spiritualists in Paris
—Spiritualism in Islington—Spiritualism in New Delaval
, —A Seance with Mr. E. Bullock—Angels, Spirits, and
Men—A Case of Distress—First Steps to a Knowledge
of Spiritualism—The Religious Aspects of Spiritualism
—Mrs. Neville on Mr. Egllngton’s Mediumship—Mr.
Duguid’s Mediumship—Spiritualism in East London ...
Answers to Correspondents ...    ...
Sarah Godbold  
The Persecution of Spiritualists in Paris  
The Physiology of Mediumship  
Symbolical Spirit Messages  
Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism  
Provincial News:—Newcastle, 132; Liverpool, Experiments
in Mesmerism   j  
Paragraphs-Indian Witches, 123; Tricky Spirits, 130;
Spiritualism in Blackfriars, 130; Spiritualism in Wies¬
baden, 130; Seance at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s, 130;
A Martyr, 130; Psychological Influences, 130; Winter
Meetings of the National Association of Spiritualists,
131; The Memorial to Marshal Macmahon, 131; Rules
of Spiritual Societies, 131; Seances in Newcastle-on-Tyne,
131; Education of Women  JJ
111
12l
121
122
124
124
130
131
131
132
132
132
132
132
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :-Half-a-
VA frown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. J. Sel wood. 38, Great Russell-street,
London: and orders intended for the Friday s issue should reach the
office not later than by the first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London,
W.O City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
London. E.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM & LIBRARY
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open to members and inquirers. News¬
papers and periodicals connected with Spiritualism, from
all parts of the world, and various high-class journals, are regu¬
larly supplied. The library contains, in addition to the best
writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, speculative, and
scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes
membership and the loan of two books from the library;
10s. 6d. a year, one book from the library. Non-members can
subscribe 3s. for one quarter for the free use of the Reading-
room, but without the advantage of the Lending Library.
A Seance-room can be engaged under special arrangements,
to be learned from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 9 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on Saturdays.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 80, Southampton-butldlngs, Chancery-lane, W.O.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated peiiods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends, and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAYENSCROFT, Manager.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
T/ie Second Volume of The Identity of Primitive
Christianity and Modern Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth,
completes the work.
CONTENTS.
I.—Spirit Writing.
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power.
III. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV. —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
V.—Clairaudience
VI.—Dreams and Visions.
VII.—Trance and Ecstacy.
VIII.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Contentions.
X.—Prayer.
XI.—The Ministry of Angels.
XII.—Death.
XIII. —The Spirit-World.
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI.—Conclusion.
The above work has just been issued in America, and copies
may be had in a week or two, price 10s. 6d. each, at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 33, Great Russell-street,
London, W.C.
DR. MONCK’S ALMANACK and TRUTH-
SEEKERS’ GUIDE TO THE INVESTIGATION OF
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.” Over forty closely printed pages.
Price 3d. Contains original articles on “Scientific Spiritual¬
ism,” “Cui Bono,” “The Healing Power," “Rules for the
Spirit-circle,’’ &c., &c., by S. C. Hall, Dr. W. Hi’chman,
“Fritz," T. P. Bari;as, &c. Will be found very useful among-
Sceptics and Investigators. Quantities supplied to societies or
for free distribution at a great reduction. Single copy, post
free, 3d. Address, Geo. Tommy, 7, Unity-street, Bristol.
Agents wanted.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D, etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row,
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-message department; contributions by the moat talented
writers in the world, <fec., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTI8MO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psyoho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal,
appears on the 1st and 15th of every month. Price
2d., or 5 francs yearly. Belgium—37, Rue Florimont, Lifege.
London—The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great
Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of books, and having placed for this purpose the whole of h*s
private library, consisting of 100 books and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by the
gift or loan of books, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the population is nearly 80,000, and very little
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism. Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
MRS. WOODFORDE begs to announce her
CHANGE OF RESIDENCE to S.Milton-street, Doise*-
square (near Baker-street Station), where she will be glad to
welcome, as of old, all friends and visitors. Physical seances
with two first-class mediums, will be held as usual, every Thurs¬
day and Saturday evenings. Usual manifestations—direct
voice, direct writing, and materialisations (if conditions serve)
of the friends of visitors, also a new materialised musical in¬
strument, playod (it is said by Blondel) with remarkable skill
in. accompaniment of the musical box. Especial invitations
will be issued for the Saturday evenings, and an introduction
from some well-known Spiritualist is requested f r the Thurs¬
day evenings. All friends who have been in the habit of
attending Mrs. Woodforde’s seances will always be welcome.
Admission, 5s.
Mrs. Woodfordo is also open to engagements for private
physical seances to be held at her own residence; a few days
previous notice must be given. Names will be received for a
daylight seance to be held shortly. With pleasant rooms
open to her visitors, and every effort made to obtain superh r
manifestations, Mis. Woodforde hopes to afford those who
will honour her with their presence, some most agreeable and
satisfactory seances.
SPIRITUALISM IN EAST LONDON.—The
QUARTERLY TEA MEETING in aid of Mr. R. Cop-
man’s work in Spiritualism at the East End of London, will
be held on Sunday, March 26th, at five o’clock, at 15, St. Peter’e,-
road, Mile-end, E. Tickets, Is. each.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances, &c.: Sundays, Healing, at Ham.:
Service at 7 p.m. Tuesday, Seance at 8 p.m.; Is. Friday, Seance at
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class at
8 p.m.; subscribers only.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 8s.
London :—Sihpkin, Marshai l & Co.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly—Leipsic: OSWALD Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.C.
REFLEXIONEN aus DER GEISTER-
WELT. A Monthly Record of Trance, Spoken, and
Written Communications given at ihe me.etings of ihe Buda-
Pesth Society of Spiritual Inquirers, Price Is. monthly. Buda*
Pesth: Jofefstadt, 23, ErzherzogAlexandergusse. London:
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell*
street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, & GENERAL OUTFITTER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including
hats, shirts, and umbrellas.
THE AMERICAN SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE.
Devoted to Spiritualism. Its history, phenomena, and
teachings from a Christian stand-point.—Tne Editor has been
an Itinerant Methodist Minister fur over 86 years, 33 of which
have been spent in Memphis, Tennessee, and vicinity where
the Magazine is published. It belongs to no sect or party, but
is free to discuss all subjects untrameled, adopting as its
motto—
“ To seize the truth wherever found,
On Christian or on heathen ground."
It '.contains thirty-two pages of leading matter besides the
cover. Published monthly, price 10s. per annum Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street
London, W.O.
PARIS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist
may obtain it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque,
246, Boulevard des Oapucines, Paris.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTE
FOR the CURE OF NERVOUS AND MUS-
cular DISEASES, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Chnrch,
74, Queen's-road, Everton, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Ope¬
rators sent to all parts. Terms per arrangement.
J. Coates, Principal.
STRANGE VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Bronte, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist- newspaper
branch office, 38, Great Russofi-streec, London, W.C,
THE SPIKITUALIST.
March 17, 1876.
BRITISH NATIOXAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex,
N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitclnnan, William, M.lt.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq.,
Liverpool.
Hollywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Itamsay, Mrs., 40, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin It., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman.M.D.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road,I'incliley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildlngs, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd.,New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., I, King Edward-st., Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Kichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Keigate.
Binney, F A.,22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, Janies, 103, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street. Liverpool.
Chinncrv, Samuel, 4, Elshatn-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, ICeningale, LL.D., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Orosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, Jf. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlhnin-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.W.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6 Kye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Ilayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hindc, Thos., 4, Cobden-strcet, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Dclamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Louis-strcet, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 8, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isliam, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
James, Capt.,l, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breek-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C.T., M.R.C.S., 19, Nottingham-place, Vork-gate,Regent’s
Park., N.W-
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
road, S E.
Shepherd, J.,29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Up ton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge. Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper
Norwoi d.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G.N., Annandale, Central-hill,.Upper Norwood.
Swinton. A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp & R,, 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Vheo ja.j, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blaekheath, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Aune-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall. Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, II., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin It, Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kisllngbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Yay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2c, Leipsic, Germany.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Haminonton, Atlantic Co,,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 206, West 38th Street, New York,
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M, C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 13, Via Fate bene Fratelli, Milan.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr ,W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse, 35, Gartenhaus,
Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
Hi T. Child, Esq , M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. (Rowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
M. F- ciavaivoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
AV. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. N. Giedstanes, Esq., 18, Rue d’Acnieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel AVatson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
Mi A. Anthelmc Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. PJ Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, CayugaCo., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
AV. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, AAraitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary,
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. Hallock; 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, AV.
Mrs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, AV.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontccorvo, 60, Naples.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. Lewis
Roberts, 68, Oxford-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.AV.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prociiaszka Josefstadt, Erzherzog, Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The Bkitish National Association op Spikitualists is formed
to unite Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid
and benefit; to aid students and inquirers in their researches, by
placing at their disposal the means of systematic investigation into
the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic; to make
known the positive results arrived at by careful research; and to
direct attention to the beneficial influence which those results are
calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual con¬
duct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class, whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers
into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was fonned in
the year 1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liver¬
pool. at which all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the
Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United Kingdom, were re¬
presented. The amount of the annual subscription to the National
Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year.
Each member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is
eligible for election to all offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wish¬
ing to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss
Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38,
Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.. of whom copies of the Con¬
stitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Woburn-street.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. Lewis Roberts, 68, Oxford Street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Knox.
Committee of Management.—Mr. J. Smith, Mr. James Monk,
* Mr. J. Chapman, Mr G. Brown, Mr. J. Haslam, Mr. Jones,
Mr. William Meredith, Mr. Ainsworth, Mrs. Ainsworth, Miss
Hilton, and Miss Dickson.
Trustees.—James Wason, Esq., Mr. John Lamont, Mr. Joseph
Shepherd.
Auditors.—Mr. P. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton,
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
instruction, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
February, 1875.
In the Press.
DR. MONCK’S ALMANACK AND TRUTH-
SEEKERS’ GUIDE TO THE INVESTIGATION OF
MODERN SPIRITUALISM. Over fifty closely-printed pages,
with illustrations of direct drawings through Dr. Duguid’s
mediumship. Contains original articles written expressly for
the almanack by S. C. Hall, F.S.A., Dr. W. Hitchman,
“Fritz,” T. P. Barkas, F.G.S., W. Oxley, T. Shorter, Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory, A. Calder, J. N. Tredman Martheze, Mrs.
Tyndall, &c„ &c. Subjects—“Scientific Spiritualism,” “Cui
Bono," “The Healing Power,” “Spiritualism in Every-day
Life,” ‘ The Beneficent Aspect of Spiritualism,” On Mediums,’
“Rules for the Spirit Circle.” Will be found very useful
among sceptics and investigators. Orders should be sent in at
once to Geo. Tommy, 7, Unity-street, Bristol. Single copy, post
free, 3d. Quantities supplied to societies or for free distribution
at a liberal reduction. Agents wanted.
Art, magic, mundane, sub-mun¬
dane, AND SUPER-MUNDANE SPIRITISM.
The European subscribers to this fine work are respectfully
informed that it has just been sent to press, and will be ready
for delivery on or about the 1st of March. In America, where
the work is published, books can be sent by express, and pay¬
ments collected on delivery. As this plan cannot be pursued in
sending books to Europe without very heavy express charges,
and the secretary, on the author’s behalf, does not feel jus itled
in sending out such a rare and valuable book unpaid, those
who have not already remitted their subscriptions, and desire
to obtain their copies with the least pc ssible delay, can send
the amount by Post Office Order, cheque, registered letter, or
any other mode most convenient to themselves. The price
of each copy, as before stated, is five dollars, and the postage
(if prepaid) half-a-dollar. Remittances will be immediately
acknowledged, and the hook sent by mail (unless otherwise
directed) as soon as ready. — Emma Hardinge Britten,
Secretary for the publication of Art Magic, &c., 206, West 38th-
street, New York, America.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb’s Oonduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenings (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance, healing,
. AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing. Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship. Disorderly Influences
removed. French spoken. At home Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended. Ad¬
dress, 10, New Ormond-street, Bloomsbury.
Notice.—Physical seances, with first-class mediums, held on
Thursday and Saturday evenings of each week. Admission
on Saturdays by special invitation; on Thursdays by introduc¬
tion. No one admitted after eight o'clock. Fee, 5s. Mrs.
Woodforde is also open to engagements for private physical
seances at her own residence; previous notice required; fees
upon arrangement with medium. Address, 8, Milton-street,
Dorset-square.
JT. RHODES, MEDIUM, is willing to help
• in the formation of Private Circles, and give every
information to Inquirers, within a radius of twenty miles of
Newcastle. Address, 30, Tynemouth-road, Newcastle-on-
Tyne.
MRS. MALTBY, Magnetic Healer, 26,
Southampton-row, Holbom, W.C. Mrs. Maltby
receives the patients of Dr. Mack, and others wishing to con¬
sult her,"daily between the hours of eleven and five.
MISS CHANDOS eradicates Consumption,
Cancer, Insanity, Dypsomania, Nervous and Infantile
Diseases. £1 per visit (within three miles), ineluding specifics.
By post, monthly, £2 2s.
Full instructions in Mesmerism and Electro-biology, postal
and private, 17, Brunswick square, W.C.
PROFESSOR REGAN, PSYCHOPATHIC
HEALER, wishes to make known, by desire of his
Spirit Physicians, who cure through him, in his normal
state, that having been developed by them into a powerful
healing medium, and at the same time, by a course of deep
study, acquired a practical knowledge of the philosophy of
disease, and its rationale of cure, he is now prepared to ex¬
amine, treat, and cure patients, suffering from all kinds of
acute, chronic, nervous, and organic disease of long years’
standing. Consultations - and invaluable treatment given at
his own house, or at patient's residence, by appointment.
Visitors received at his Consulting-rooms from 12 to 4 daily.
Fee, One Guinea. Address, 59, Finborough-road, Redcliffe-
gardens, South Kensington.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST
AND RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT,
1, Robert street, Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen
by appointment only. Terms on application by letter.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to he addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
Notice.—monsieur adolphe didier,
Professor of Curative Mesmerism (30 Years Estab¬
lished), attends patients daily from 2 till 5, at his own resi¬
dence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden Hill, Kensington. Som¬
nambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases, indication of
their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can consult
by letter.
MR. WILLIAM EGLINGTON, the PHY-
SICAL MEDIU M, is at liberty to receive ENGAGE¬
MENTS for Seances at private houses. For terms, &c.,
address, Mr.W. Eglington, St. James's House, Walthamstow .
Clairvoyance, and healing by spirit
MESMERISM.—Test Communications through Trance
and Writing. Seances by Mrs. Olive, the well-known Spirit-
Medium, on Thursday (other days by appointment only), from
two to four p.m. for Private Consultation, and four to five for
Public Seance, at 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury. Mrs.
Olive also holds Public Seances at her residence, 49, Beimont-
street, Chalk-farm-road, N.W., on Tuesdays, seven pjn., and
Fridays, three p.m. Terms—Private Seances, one guinea;
Public ditto, admission 2s. 6d. Mrs. Olive’s Healing Powers
are now well established, and testified toby many who employ
no other medical aid. Special terms for courses of treatment
on application. Single visits for consultation, &c., within t
miles, two guineas inclusive.
Mediumship , its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at T/ie Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.  
Psychopathic institution for the
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6d.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.C.s and E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, Pater-
nqster-row, E.O.
East London spiritual meetings.—
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman's
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter's-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
tl fiji tl nub tl
VojLUjviE Eiqht. Kumber Eleye^.
LONDON, FRIDAY,
VARYING CHARACTERISTICS OF SPIRIT INFLUENCE.
The aggregate experience of Spiritualists of long standing
tends more and more to prove that the higher the moral and
intellectual nature of the departed spirit, the less mechanical
power has he over matter, hence healing and high-class
inspirational mediumship are rarely found allied to strong
physical manifestations. Dr. Newton, Mr. Ashman, Mrs.
Tappan, Mrs. Hardinge, Mr. Morse, Mr. A. J. Davis, and
Mr. T. L. Harris are not noted as physical mediums, though
some of them have a very little power in that direction. As
the power and influence of the teacher and reformer depart,
so do the wonderful and most useful phenomena of physical
mediumship step in, combined, however, with not a little
untruth and deception, coming chiefly from the spirits them¬
selves, and more rarely from the sensitives under their rule.
Perhaps it is wise and good, in the economy of nature,
that this should be the case, despite the temporary troubles
incidental to the gathering of experience, which it will fling
upon the Spiritual movement in its early stages. If mate¬
rialists, inside as well as outside the movement, demand that
spirits shall do the animal work of dragging solid objects to
and fro, is it not well that spirits of a more animal nature
than the rest shall have most power to do such work, and
that the shades of departed savages or of the lowest types
of humanity, shall find a useful sphere of operation in the
establishment of communication between this world and the
next ? The subsequent moral effect is good both upon the
spirit and upon the inquirer. The latter, satisfied that the
facts are unquestionable, gradually becomes dissatisfied with
the untruth and deception so largely connected with the
marvels; he learns that “ miracles,” as they have been
erroneously called, will not reform the heart of man, offer
nothing to satisfy the religious requirements of his nature;
the physical facts, therefore, have done their work with him;
they have given him palpable and scientific proof of the
reality of a world beyond the grave: this point being at¬
tained, he has to leave them in search of something higher.
The spirits are likewise benefited. Their former friend, who
received their manifestations with so much delight, gradually
becomes cool to them ; as they like popularity, and to please
their friends, this change is not at all to their taste; and,
seeing that it is produced by their own low moral and religious
state, they are obliged to begin to think seriously over their
own shortcomings, and to begin, in some cases, perhaps,
the slow and arduous work of self-improvement.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE UNITED STATES.
In the course of a letter recently received by us, Mr. Epes
Sargent, of Boston, says:—
We have every reason to be satisfied with the marked
progress which Spiritualism has made at the opening of the
year 1876. The hostile newspapers begin to find that the
cries of exultation which followed the retractation by Mr.
Owen of his enthusiastic endorsement of the Katie King
phenomena through Mrs. Holmes were premature. The
materialisation phenomena have multiplied, and the con¬
firmation of their genuineness is becoming too strong for
science to resist it much longer. Two Boston mediums—
Mrs. Seaver and Mrs. Boothby—frequently denounced as
impostors, are keeping the even tenor of their way, and
giving such proofs of genuine materialisation phenomena
that a strong reaction in public opinion respecting them has
already set in. The rifle test in St. Louis has not yet been
explained away, nor has its force been diminished ; and on
C/hristmas-day, at Cincinnati, there was such a confirmation
of the reality of spirit photography as will long be memor¬
able in our annals. For some months Mr. Jay J. Hartman
MARCH 17th, 1876.
i has been practising as a spirit photographer, and there has
i been the usual amount of denunciation from sceptics, and of
! serious testimony in his favour from investigators who have
I tested his powers. A few weeks since a neighbour of mine
! (Mr. A. E. Giles) a retired lawyer, and an experienced student
i of the phenomena, called on me and exhibited a photograph
j of a deceased son of his which he had got through Hartman.
11 Mr. Giles, a total stranger, visited the photographer, and,
i | under most satisfactory conditions, got this remarkable pic-
11 ture. He showed me a photograph taken some years since,
) | of his living boy, and the resemblance to the spirit photo-
y graph was such as to justify him fully in his belief that it
< i was, indeed, his son who had manifested himself.
j! THE MESMERIC INFLUENCE OF INDIVIDUALS.
I The Bev. Thomas Colley, Curate of Portsmouth, in a
; I recent sermon, enunciated the following advanced and philo-
I! sophical views
| j When the dust returns to the earth as it was, when our
* j last suit of clothes is worn out, and nature will not replenish
I i our wardrobe, and the spirit is out at elbows,—when, gap-
II toothed, wrinkled, lean, and threadbare, the body has out-
11 lived the fashions of the rejuvenescing soul; then, when the
11 dust returns to the earth as it was, the spirit shall return to
I God who gave it. It came from God, and therefore partakes
j | of His nature. For no gift can be received but that we take
11 part of the giver therewith; and no gift can we give, but
(j that we part with somewhat of ourselves. Your aura, vital
ll force, or what not,—the waste matter you constantly evolve
| from your ever-changing physical structure,—is incessantly
(| writing your history, leaving a record of you on everything
11 you touch. For, like the track of a falling star or fiery
i | meteor, the path of your influence may be traced wherever
] | you go ; and seen is this agent imponderable, fluid intan-
| gible, element transcendental, in whatever you handle, own,
) I or possess. A spider’s film of gossamer couples us to a
| i myriad points of contact with the world. Hence, wherever
| j you have been, or whatever you have laid hands on, or seen,
II is wired to your soul-consciousness, and memory can flash a
(j telegram along these fibres of experience, this meshing net-
| work of nerve-influence, the brain; and the mind, in
) | retrospect, thus lives o’er its old sensations once again.
11 You lose part of yourself as you walk; you lose part of
11 yourself as you talk; you give part of yourself as you give,
j or pass the gifts of another to your neighbour. You offer
11 the stranger sitting next to you a hymn-book; part of
11 yourself goes with it; a potent subtle “ something ” that
11 the higher mathematics of superior beings might build their
s | problems on; a viewless, volatile something that the chemistry
11 of the higher life might analyse, gauge, weigh, and bottle
II up in Leyden jars for lecture-room experiments with the
|| youth of celestial spheres. A “ something,” for we know
III not what it is, that the old masters had perception of when
jlj they painted the nimbus, or glory, round the heads of
||| Christ and His Apostles. A something which is part of
I (\ yourself, and which, for the want of better terms, we call
|; i your influence (which is the Latin veil that hides the recon-
jlj dite truth expressed in native Saxon as your outflowing
m aura, or sphere-surrounding of spirit), which quickens with
|| | your life, and endues with your nature, for a time, whatever
I v I you come in contact with or touch. This is the philosophy
If| of episcopal ordination, confirmation, benediction, and the
[| ancient laying on of hands. ’Tis part of yourself you part
ijj with in these symbolic actions, and the social courtesies of
I I life, and the hearty grip of hand to hand in friends long
| | absent greeting. ’Tis part of yourself you lose ; for you lose
11] yourself ever, continually, every day, every hour, every
122
THE SPIKITUALIST.
March 17, 1876.
moment, for the world’s profitable finding. It is the indi- j
vidual loss for the universal gain. It is that which Christ j
was so prodigal of, that in healing measure flowed forth at j
His touch; which the woman robbed Him of as she touched i
the hem of His garment, when He, feeling the powerful ebb j
of this mystical force, said, “ Virtue is gone out of me.” It |
is that which suffuses all things; that in which your asso- j
ciates, and intimates especially, unconsciously are steeped ; jj
which loving hearts, and children notably, are most suscep- |j
tible of, baptising them with blessedness, or repelling them |j
as with the blast of a curse—your influence. <
MY EXPERIENCES IN LONDON AND BRUSSELS. |j
BV DR. A. BDTLEROF, PROFESSOR OF CHEMISTRY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF ST. j j
PETERSBURG. j <
Translated from 11 Psychic Studies,” by Emily Kislingbury.
Another medium, whose remarkable seances I had the j<
opportunity of attending in London, is the well-known Mr. ||
Williams. My experiences with him are well calculated to jj
show how easily one may be led to hasty conclusions when j<
judging on insufficient evidence. The morning after our I
arrival in London, M. Aksakof and myself went to Mr. |j
Williams’s house to ask for a private sitting with him. He j
was ready to give it at once, and we went into his little back ij
room, where we seated ourselves at the table, holding j
Williams firmly by both hands, while we waited in the dark, j
Presently M. Aksakof felt something hard touch his face i
slightly ; I also felt the same thing. We were wondering j
what it could be, when suddenly raps were heard, and the j
word “cabinet” was spelled out. This meant that the j
medium was to go into the cabinet. When we struck a j
light we found a chair upon the table before us. It came |
there in the dark, noiselessly, and now we concluded that it j
was this chair that had touched us in passing. Williams I
asked whether we wished to tie him ; but as, on this occa- i
sion, we only desired to acquaint ourselves with the pheno- l|
mena, we declined, and the medium went into his large |
cupboard, the so-called cabinet. This cabinet consists of j
thin boards with two doors in front, which are separated by j
a fixed panel, about as wide as one of the doors. At the j
top of each panel is a square opening, closed by a black j
curtain. Williams sat behind one door, which was fastened, j
while the other remained open. The light was then turned j
out, and manifestations began almost immediately. Within j
the cabinet we could see phosphorescent sparks darting j
about, and the various objects on the table at which we were j
sitting began to be moved in the air; the hand-bell was also |
rung. The manifestations were strong and decisive; but |
they were produced in a place to which we were strangers, in j
the dwelling of the medium, while he remained unbound, i
I must confess that, notwithstanding my former experiences, j
and the manifold and reliable testimony of various persons j
who had often attended Williams’s seances^ and had seen j
similar occurrences under test conditions, yet I did not feel h
prepared to say, after this sitting, that I was at all con- jj
vinced by what I then saw. j
On the evening of the same day Mr. Williams held hiif j
ordinary public seance^ to which each and all were admitted j
on payment of half-a-crown. I went alone and found the j
room empty. A little later five persons appeared, apparently j
all known to Mr. Williams. We went again into the little j
room, sat down at the table, and held hands all round. The I
manifestations began with great power; we heard the musical j
box wound up several times, the bells rose in the air, various j
other objects flew about, phosphorescent lights followed the j
flight of the .bells, hands touched the faces of all present. A j
voice was heard, said to belong to “ Peter,” a personage who I
is often audibly, but seldom visibly, present at Williams’s |
circles. The voice is characteristic, but certainly not natural, j
and is most like that assumed by clowns. That this voice j
did not come from Williams, who remained almost immov- j
able throughout the manifestations, was pretty clear to my |
mind; but, on the whole, things looked suspicious. I was j
in a strange place, sitting with persons unknown to me and j
friends of the medium; I could not feel at my ease, and I j
was bound to use every precaution. My doubts and sus- j
picions increased the more when I distinctly felt that the j
hand which was touching my forehead in no gentle manner
proceeded from a cloth sleeve. The touches were also very
unlike those that I had felt on former occasions under trust¬
worthy conditions. Besides this, I detected a minute particle
of the floating phosphorescent light on my sleeve; it con¬
tinued to emit light for a moment, and then, as is always
the case with phosphorus, was succeeded by a tiny luminous
streak of smoke. I even fancied for a moment that I could
smell the phosphorus, although I cannot now be sure that it
was not an illusion. Now that I have learned to know Mr.
Williams better, and have collected and weighed many new
facts, I cannot assert that I was deceived on that occasion.
Indeed, I know for certain that hands with sleeves have ap¬
peared at seances under strict test conditions, and that those
hands are more or less material, according as circumstances
and the power of the medium are more or less favourable to
their production.
However that may be, I came away from Williams’s with
the worst impressions ; I could not shake off the strong and
unpleasant suspicion that I had been the whole evening the
sport of a number of persons, strangers to me, but well
known to one another. The question had to be decided
whether, supposing the above manifestations to have been
artificial, similar, but genuine^ ones did occur in Mr. Wil¬
liams’s presence. With this view, we invited Mr. Wil¬
liams to come to our hotel, where M. Aksakof and myself
held five sittings with him. At one of these only, which
proved unsuccessful, a Russian gentleman of our acquaint¬
ance was present; at the other four sittings we three were
alone, and two of these were of a nature to leave no further
room for doubt. And from this it is plain how necessary
it is to be careful in forming a judgment, and how easy it is
to arrive at wrong conclusions if they are founded on first
impressions or on insufficient observations. Ordinary scien¬
tific sceptics fall not unwillingly into this mistake, and think
themselves justified in giving passing attention to the phe¬
nomena, on which they proceed to judge of them in their
dogmatic tone of infallibility. This was Tyndall’s mode,
for example, whereas other men of science, who went to
work with greater care and precision, found it necessary to
pursue their investigations for a considerable length of time
before they could announce anything as fact. So acted
Wallace and Crookes, with whom I had the opportunity of
conversing a few days later. When I expressed to the
former of these my apprehensions with regard to the sparks
of phosphorus on my sleeve, he directed my attention
very rightly to the fact that it would be leaping to conclu¬
sions if I should decide from that one circumstance that the
manifestations were artificial. Wallace suggested it as pos¬
sible that phosphorus might be directly the cause of the
light, and that the application of it might yet be due to the
power which produced the rest of the manifestations.
Crookes related that he had also believed that he saw phos¬
phorescent smoke from the lights at seances, even on occa¬
sions when he knew them for certain to be of mediumistic
origin.
The seances with Williams, of which I am now speaking,
took place in our hotel [Inns of Court Hotel, Holborn], in
M. Aksakof’s room; three of them, including two of the
most successful, by day, when we excluded the light from the
only window by means of shutters, curtains, and a piece of
woollen cloth, so as to produce almost total darkness. The
room was small, had but one door, and contained only the
ordinary furniture of an hotel apartment; it had not even a
wardrobe. The walls were papered in the ordinary manner ;
we were certain that there was nothing suspicious about
them; the room was between two others, one of which was
occupied by myself. We began each seance by sitting with
hands joined round a small table; at the three last seances
Williams sat both at the table and in the “ cabinet,” which
was formed by suspending my plaid across one corner of the
room.
I will not describe every stance in detail, but will relate
only the most striking manifestations. While we sat at the
table, holding Williams fast,.various objects were brought
to us from a chest of drawers in the room, which stood
behind Williams, Rt a distance of about four feet, Williams
remaining meanwhile immovable. Even if he had had his
March 17, 1876. THl! SPIRIDU ALIST. 123
hands free, the objects would have been beyond his reach.
At the first sitting M. Aksakof and myself were both
touched on the face with something soft. This, as we after¬
wards learned, was M. Aksakof’s silk scarf, which was lying
in his hat on the drawers, and had been brought to us with
the hat. Immediately afterwards the hat itself was crushed
down on M. Aksakof s head, and then, at my expressed wish,
also placed upon my head. At another sitting, we being
all in the same position as before, a musical box, which was
playing on the table, was raised in the air, and wafted to
and fro, as we could tell distinctly by the sound. Presently
the box was placed for a moment on my right shoulder, next
to Williams, while I still continued to hold him fast. An¬
other time various articles were brought, and placed upon
our table or in our hands, such as a match-box, which was
also opened, a clothes-brush and a travelling-strap.
When Williams was placed bound in the cabinet, or rather
behind my plaid, which was suspended like a curtain, the
phenomena were more powerful, especially at the two last
seances. As we sat at the table we heard the voices of
Peter and of John King. This latter personage is a well-
known apparition at Williams’s circles, and manifests both
audibly and visibly. Peter’s voice is quite different from
that of King, who speaks in a deep bass and very quickly.
These voices suggested that we should have a cabinet seance.
We lighted a candle for a few minutes, while Williams
placed himself behind the curtain. We had formerly bound
his hands together with tape, which was passed round his
neck, and fastened to nails which we had driven in the wall
for the purpose. In these last sittings our precautions were
taken even more securely; we screwed an iron staple into
the wall; a long tape was fastened round the medium’s
neck, and another piece was passed three times round the
wrists, which were drawn together and securely tied. The
long ends of both tapes were then threaded through the
iron staple, and drawn across to our table, where I held them
all through the sitting with my left hand. After each
sitting the tapes were found intact throughout their length ;
the last time the three bands round the wrists were found to
be flat and clean, and I was able, while holding the tapes, to
feel the slightest motion on the part of the medium. Only
at the beginning did Williams draw in his hands a little,
apparently as he was passing into the mediumistic sleep.
Later on, while the phenomena were taking place, he did
not stir in the slightest degree. We two sat at the table, on
the side furthest from the cabinet, with our faces turned
towards it, at a distance of about three feet from the
curtain.
I will relate a few characteristic occurrences of the last
sitting. After the light was put out, we again heard the
voices of Peter and John. These voices were usually
heard and appeared to come from various parts of the
room; at one moment they were close to us, at another
further off, and often on the side opposite to that on
which the medium sat. Presently phosphorescent lights
were floating in the air, and immediately the form of John
King became visible. This apparition is accompanied by
a greenish phosphorescent light, which increases in
brightness, lighting up John’s bust. It is then seen that
this light comes from a luminous substance, which the form
holds in its hand. The manly face, with a thick black beard,
is tolerably distinct; the head is draped with a white
turban, and the upper part of the body with white garments.
The form was outside the cabinet, and near to us. We only
saw it for a moment at a time, the light vanished, and the
form retreated into the darkness, but reappeared again as
quickly. The voice of John comes from the spot where the
figure stands, generally, but not always, while the form is
invisible. John asked us what he should do for us. M.
Aksakof begged that he would rise to the ceiling and say a
few words to us in that position. Accordingly we saw the
form appear just over our table, and then gradually rise up¬
wards to the ceiling, which became visible in the light pro¬
ceeding from the luminous object in the hand of the figure.
While up there, John called out to us—“ Will that do ?”
{1st es so recht?)
Peter, in the meantime, although invisible, was busy and
loquacious in the darkness, moving various objects through
| the air and touching us with them. As before mentioned,
I we sat on the side of the table furthest from the curtain ;
! behind our backs, about four feet distant, stood the wash-
| stand, on which were a water-bottle and glass. Suddenly
| we heard the ringing of glasses over our heads, as if two
| pieces were being struck together. Then followed a rapid
I pouring of water into the glass ; the glass was handed to M.
| Aksakof, the bottle to myself. As it stood in my hand, I
j felt sensibly that another hand was holding it above. At
| this moment we heard the medium move and groan, and the
| voice of Peter exclaiming that he wanted to give uhis
| medium ” something to drink. The water-bottle floated
| away from my hand, we heard the movement and inarticulate
| murmuring of the awakening medium, mingled with the
| voice of Peter; then the gurgling of water from the bottle,
| and in another instant I received the bottle back into my
| hand. During all that I have described, and indeed through-
I out the sitting, we were satisfied—so far as our hearing
I could perceive—that Williams remained in his corner, while
the voices of John and Peter were speaking near to us out¬
side the cabinet; occasionally also the sounds proceeding
| from the medium, and the speaking of John and Peter, were
almost simultaneous.
In conclusion let me >remark that it is quite natural if
I other Russian inquirers regard these phenomena with sus-
| picion. Owing to the scarcity of mediums in our country
they have had at present few opportunities of observing
I them ; nevertheless they have not held back altogether, but
| took up the investigation so soon as some of their colleagues
I announced seriously that they had really witnessed the
j manifestations. On the whole American and English
! men of science have furnished the most remarkable examples
j of prejudice and obstinacy. It is easy enough for them to
j inquire and observe, and to convince themselves of the
!! objective reality of the phenomena; they have powerful
[j mediums always at hand, and yet with a few honourable
| exceptions they prefer to deny or to ignore the existence of
il these facts, and to treat as unworthy of attention or credit
j the testimony of such men as Hare, De Morgan, Wallace,
I Crookes, Yarley, and others. In no far-off future such con-
I duct as this will be pointed at as a glaring example of scien-
j tific prejudice and scientific superstition. I am aware that
| these words can hardly be allowed to appear in conjunc-
| tion; the adjective u scientific,” however, does not here
| refer to true science, which knows neither prejudice nor
| superstition, but only to such men who may belong to its
I ranks on the one hand, but who do not work in the true
j spirit of science so long as they pretend to serve the cause of
| human knowledge by a system of ignoring facts.
May the scales soon fall from their eyes, and may they
j soon enter on the only path to truth, namely the path of ex-
i periment!
St. Petersburg, 2-14 December, 1875.
| I feel constrained to add my testimony to that of my
! valued friend, Professor Butlerof, in respect of the mani-
| festations which we witnessed in the presence of Williams,
j Besides this, I can testify to having received the confirmation
j; of the appearance of John King from Mr. Crookes in
| his own house, Mrs. Crookes’s hand being on Williams’s
II shoulder, while he was asleep behind the curtain ; also that
j, in the house of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory the curtain behind
| which Williams was placed, was nailed over the embrasure
j of a window so closely that the medium was in a niche
almost hermetically sealed; and that yet John King ap-
I peared above the table, round which the company were as-
! sembled, in front of the curtain! Williams’s reputation as
| a medium is the best-established of any I have met in Eng-
| land. Alexandre Aksakof.
Indian Witches.—An epidemic of witches is reported from Gangpore,
a remote dependency of Cheta Nagpore. The Rajah, having a righteous
horror of such “devil’s dams,” had erected scaffolds in the principal
hamlets, for the speedy and effective disposal of any reputed dealers
with familiar spirits. Sir Richard Temple, who is no Spiritualist, and
recognises no medium outside of Belvidere, has ordered these arrange¬
ments of primitive faith to be pulled down, and has, moreover, placed
the Rajah in durance vile for summarily executing two old women of
the worst possible reputation. The gontias, or witch-tinders, are also to
be strictly brought to account.—The Graphic, March llth.
124
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 17, 1876.
NEW YEAR’S GIFTS.
What shall the New Year bring, borne on Time’s silent wing,
Out of the past ?
Seed sown in toil and care, joy sadly buried there,
Skies overcast:
Hush! poor complaining heart, from such seed blossoms start,
Roses appear.
Ah! may they brightly twine, bringing thee peace divine,
In the New Year.
Julia Godaed.
oromapaniience,
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and Us readers.]
ANOTUER “ PROOF POSITIVE OF IMMORTALITY ’’ ESPECIALLY FOR SCHOLARS j)
(LATINISTS). ; ; ^
Sir,—Many and various kinds and forms of proof—proof real, prac- j)
tical, absolute, scientific, demonstrative—have been addressed to all .(
manners of men and minds, to establish the great basic fact of “ Modern I)
Spiritualism,” namely, the continued existence, disincarnated, of so- ijj
called “ spirits,” who have before been incarnate in the human life, as K
we are now ; together with I do not say the possibility, but the fact, i>
of their occasional communication—^intelligent communication —with us i)
spirits not yet disincarnate. Stone by stone thousands of good wit- i(
nesses have added their contributions of testimony, until we have an !)
Egyptian pyramid of them, as it were, so that we now no longer care much |)
who admit it or who refuse to see it, whether from ignorance or from \l
refusal to see. But I am not aware of any case of testimony derived iv
from an ancient classical Roman author communicating with us in his |5|
own Latin, and proving the reality of his presence, and the authenticity k|
of his communication, by its own internal evidence in' connection with m
the circumstances under which it was given. This is the stone which I j)j
proceed to add to the pile, and I ask for it the particular attention j(j
of scholars. They will appreciate the nature and force of the evidence; m
and it is to them that it is addressed. . Ki
I beg to refer them back to my letter in The Spiritualist of February Kj
18th about “Publius Syrus.” But it may be as well to summarise \)\
what will there be found. \l\
1. A spirit announcing himself to me as my “ guardian angel ” (by a Kj
communication addressed to me through the Comte de Bullet, while he j);
was sitting with Mme. R., a medial lady of high respectability, non- |)j
professional and disinterested, and ignorant of my name or existence), jjj
states that he brings me a spirit, a “great philosopher’’ of ancient jjj
times, who will give me from time to time some of his sublime j)j
maxims, &c. jyj
2. A few days after, a spirit giving his name to Bullet as “Publius jjj
Syrus,’’ announces himself as an “ invisible friend ” to me, and as the i j i
one who had been announced to him; says that he had left a work of iji
maxims, of which be quotes to him one (respecting the right use of jjj
money), apparently for the object of proving his identity. Neither jjj
Bullet nor Mme. R. had the slightest idea of who might be “ Publius jcj
Syrus,” nor any knowledge of Latin. On this being shown to me I go (jj
to the National Library, and find that Publius Syrus was indeed a j
“great philosopher” and moralist, who died about twenty-nine jjj
years b.c., and who had left such a collection of maxims, among which j)i
I find the one of which he had given a free translation to Bullet— j) j
Pecunice oportat imperes, non servias. Here was already a con- jjj
siderable first presumption that the spirit thus communicating to me j j j
through Bullet was indeed Publius Syrus—was it not ? He had not j) j
given it to Bullet in the original Latin, but knew that I would hunt it jsj
up and easily, find it. So.it was^the same as though he had given it in jjj
Latin. » ’: - ■. '" . Gj flfeXJ ISfe : j)j
m I then go to Mme. R. myself. An invisible giving his name as jjj
“Publius Syrus,” communicates with me, beginning in Latin, with a jjj
second maxim, the original authorship of which has hitherto been jjj
unknown (Quos vult perdere Jupiter dementat), declaring that it was jjj
from him that it had descended down the ages; and that he had given j j j
it to “the great Caesar,” who paid no heed to it—Caesar whose protege jjj
and favourite we know him to have been. He gives it as its true original jjj
text, and avowedly for the purpose of convincing me of his real jjj
presence; and then proceeds to communicate more easily in French, on jjj
account of the medium’s ignorance of Latin. Was not this very curious, j j j
and a second considerable proof in Latin that he was indeed Publius jjj
Syrus ? I submit it to the candour of scholars who may read this. jjj
. Well, I have been twice since to Mme. R. Again communicating with j j j
him, I told him that I felt an inclination to edit and commentate what j j
remained to us of his works, and asked if he could not give me more of jjj
them, or help me to discover more, whether in hiding places where they jjj
may yet exist, or in palimpsests which might be known to him. He jji
answered that if I continued to please him he would hereafter do much jjj
for me. j j j
I then apologised for the presumption of my request. He answered jjj
that, to punish me (evident pleasantry) he would impose on me the task jjj
of translating into English, and sending to those who discuss and dispute jjj
the reality of the spirit communications, the following, which he gave in jjj
French: Lumiere, Lumiere! Pourquoi toujours nous fair f Les
homines se poursuivent, t’appellent, mais dans Vacte, dans la vie, lews pas \(\
toujours se detournent volontairement de toi.” jjj
4. I go yesterday to Mme. R., having in my mind strongly the desire jji
to ask him for the Latin original of this. But I had no time to do so. jjj
After acknowledging bis presence, he at once writes: Laissez moi dire
un mot d un d'entre vous qui me comprendra (Allow me to say a word to
one among you who will understand me): ‘ Lux, lux veritatis, quid
semper fugis f Sequimur, invoeamus, sed semper passus nostri voluntarii
torquent viam? ” Here was the Latin original I had wanted to ask for,
but did not! Here too was a third Latin proof of the reality of his
presence! I certainly should never have thought of the peculiar form
in which he gave the idea of turning aside from an object pursued, namely,
“ torquent viamj {twist the road). I told him I had obeyed his direction
to translate this into English, and meant to send it to The Spiritualist;
and asked if he could understand it if I recited it in English. “ Yes.”
“ Well, do you approve the following translation ?
‘ Light, light of Truth, why ever thus recede ?
We follow, we invoke; in act, in life,
Our wilful steps still ever turn aside.’ ”
“ Yes,” was his answer. Observe the sharp shrewdness with which
the old moralist and satirist of nineteen centuries ago sends this maxim
to be reflected upon, particularly by those who profess to be, par
excellence, followers and votaries of truth—who really are so, along
their own accustomed lines of study and pursuit—who have, in many
cases, risen to great eminence and authority in the domains of scientific
research, in which they have become great, recognised potentates, such
as your Brewsters, Faradays, Tyndalls, Huxleys, Carpenters, &c.; but
who, when the light of new facts dawns before them on the way,
tending to reverse the theories of scientific materialism in which they
have stiffened with habit and age, and of which they have become the
great princes and high-priests before the eye of the world, refuse to
follow the new light into new regions of truth; and who then “ volun¬
tarii torquent viamj notwithstanding the already manifest fate which
awaits their names in the next generation, of pointing, to the derision
of the schoolboys of the future, the same pitiable moral already so often
before pointed, to that of the schoolboys of our time, by so many prede¬
cessors not less relatively eminent and authoritative in their day and
generation. But this practical application of the pregnant wisdom of
this last-cited maxim of old Publius Syrus is merely a hint en passant.
I may hereafter give it a more full development. My present object is
merely to call the attention of scholars to the manner in which Publius
Syrus, who died about twenty-six years b.c., has thus already proved
his identity, as a communicating intelligence from the world of disin-
camated spirits, by giving, on three several occasions, through a lady
medium—unprofessional, disinterested, perfectly respectable, and abso¬
lutely ignorant of Latin—three distinct Latin maxims or apophthegms,
full of the wit of wisdom and of practical contemporary applicability,
namely:—
1. Pecunice oportat imperes, non servias.
2. Quos vult perdere Jupiter dementat.
3. Lux, lux, veritatis ! quid semper fugis ? Sequimur, invocamus, sed semper
passus nostri voluntarii torquent viam.
And I appeal to the scholars to whom these facts and this argument
are addressed, whether the case is not fairly made out, that here is
ample self-proving evidence of genuine and authentic spirit-communi¬
cations, in Latin, by an ancient Latin classic moralist, who certainly
died (as we call the process of disincarnation) nineteen centuries ago.
Q. E. D. J. L. O’Sullivan.
Paris, March 10th, 1876.
THE RELATIVE TRUSTWORTHINESS OF DIFFERENT FORMS OF MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—In The Spiritualist of August 13th, 1875, is an article by the
Hon. A. Aksakof, of St. Petersburg, in which he says of the reincarna¬
tion theory :• “ To sustain it he (Kardec) has always had recourse to
writing mediums, who, as is well known, pass so easily under the
psychological influence of preconceived ideas. . . . whereas, through
physical mediums the communications are not only more objective, but
always contrary to the doctrine of reincarnation. Kardec adopted the
plan of always disparaging this kind of mediumship, alleging, as a
pretext, its moral inferiority.’’
The Spiritualist of Feb. 25th, 1876, contains a leading article on
physical manifestations, in which it is said: “ Gradually the too frequent
untruthfulness connected with the messages which accompany powerful
and wonderful physical manifestations is becoming generally known.. . .
We have the whole Spiritual movement in France damaged by Buguet,
a powerful medium, who has not the least hesitation in swearing to
anything which he finds to be convenient at the moment. . . . Although
the Holmses were powerful mediums, not the slightest reliance could be
placed on anything they said. ... We have the testimony of Mr. Joy
about the celebrated Eddy brothers, that they are the most unlimited
liars he ever met in the whole course of his life. . . . Mr. Jencken,
again, who has had so much experience in his own home, avers that the
spirits who usually produce physical manifestations indulge habitually
in the most purposeless and unnecessary untruths.” A Student.
Milan, March 4th, 1876.
METEMPSYCHOSIS.
Sir,—In your issue of February 25th Mr. Christian Reimers sa3Ts,
“ If there be any truth in reincarnation, then the old notion of the soul
getting into an animal’s body, and vice versd, may find favour again, and
in cases where the process has not been cleanly performed, brief de¬
velopments of clairvoyance may then explain the frequent expressions :
‘ You old goose,’ &c.” I must put Mr. Reimers right. The theory of
the human soul getting into the body of a lower animal does not belong
to reincarnation, but appertains to metempsychosis. Reincarnation
does not teach retrogression but progression of the intelligent part of
man, the which at once excludes the idea of the possibility of its
passing into the body of a beast. The resemblance in mind and body
between some men and the brute creation does undoubtedly exist, but
we must trace the reason of this in the doctrine expounded by Darwin,
125
March 17, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST.
which, I will tell him entre nous, I am now engaged in investigating, as
alone capable of explaining this resemblance between certain men and
the lower animals. Who, on looking round, cannot discern some human
creatures strongly reminding one of the eagle, the vulture, or the owl;
the lion, the bear, the fox or the skye-terrier, the lamb, the dove, or the
kangaroo ? And how often one perceives a certain resemblance of
instincts between these men and the animals of which they bear the
impress. I have known a man, here in Naples, who wanted to swindle
me of a thousand pounds, lent him without interest. In court, during
trial, I saw distinctly the reason of his behaviour in his phrenology of
the fox and physiognomy of the hog. Had I, when he asked the loan,
known more of Darwinism, and looked better into his bumps, I should
have saved five trials at law, so great is the truth of the adage that
“knowledge is power.” It is when the course of progression from
monad to man has been accomplished that reincarnation takes up the
work, to physically and mentally obliterate all traces of the lower
creation in him, until he has reached that maturity and refinement of
understanding that will make him fit to live the life of a disincarnated
spirit. Should Mi*. Reimers be inclined to look into these new-fangled
notions of reincarnation and natural selection, I would offer him the
friendly advice of not making it publicly known, unless he feels dis¬
posed to have a couple of editors of spiritual periodicals on his back,
and a polemic with half a dozen statu quo doctrinarians, who will find
plenty of work for him. Occult sciences should be studied occultly.
Gr. Damiani.
Naples, 2nd March, 1876.
A LETTER FROM MRS. TAPPAN.
Sir,—The following clipping has been forwarded me by a friend who
noticed it in The Spiritualist of January 7th
MRS. TAPPAN ON DEAN STANLEY.
Sir,—I have read a report of an inspirational address given by Mrs. C. L. V.
Tappan, at Chicago, on the 14th of last November. In it is this sentence :—
“Dean Stanley, in Westminster Abbey, has preached a sermon upon the
future life, in which he said, ‘ If the manifestations recently occurring, and
now known to the world, are true, they present a knowledge of the future
state which, I think, the Deity intended us to learn long ago.’ ”
Dean Stanley informs me that there is “not a shadow of foundation for any
part of that statement.” Hopeful.
Allow me to say, by request of my guides, that the lectures delivered
in America are for the most part reported hastily, and printed without
revision, either by the guides or editors, and that the guides have not
revised any of the lectures delivered since my arrival in America,
except the one by Judge Edmonds in New York. Readers will, there¬
fore, remember this, and make allowances for inspirational errors like the
above.
Permit me also to take this opportunity of assuring you and my friends
in England that, notwithstanding my constant and rapid journeying
across the continent, and continuous labours in lecturing, my health
has constantly improved, and I have avoided the cold by being ever in
advance of it on my westward journey.
A month in Chicago, and a month in San Francisco, together with
intervals of a few days in other places, complete the four months that
have elapsed since my arrival in America. I find in Los Angelos the
desideratum of a winter climate—mild, agreeable, and the fields clad in
verdure, while the flowers and orange groves allure not only the sense
of sight, but other senses as well. My friends, Mr. and Mrs. Gk R.
Hinde, welcomed me to their temporary abode—a charming cottage in
the suburbs of the town—and now we are off on an excursion of several
days duration to see the country, and compare its attractions, agricul¬
tural and otherwise, with other regions.
The day has been one of surpassing loveliness, such outlines of cloud,
mountain, plain, and distant sea as one very rarely sees, even in
dreams, or visions of the spirit land, while the balmy air and sunshine
are alone healing and life-giving. My permanent address, after April
1st, for some months will be, “ Care of Religio-Philosophical Journal^
Chicago, Illinois, U.S.’’
Mr. and Mrs. Hinde join with me in best wishes to yourself and all
friends, and believe me, with warmest regards, yours very truly,
Cora L. Y. Tappan.
Los Angelos, California, United States,
Feb. 11th, 1876.
LORD BACON’S THEORY OF SPIRITS.
Sir,—It was the opinion of Lord Bacon that all bodies are pervaded
by a spiritual substance, which, when we come to plants and animals,
has been called soul. He said, “ It is not a question of words, but
infinitely material in nature; for spirits are nothing else but a natural
body, rarefied to a proportion, and included in the tangible parts of
bodies, as in an integument.” “ The tangible parts of bodies,” he said,
“ are stupid things; and the spirits do in effect all ”—that is, are the
source of all power, and form the basis of the minds of men; hence the
free action of the mind and power of combination, which we cannot
conceive of the tangible physical organ, and this spiritual basis within,
in relation to the spiritual pervading medium without, giving a true
correspondence in our perception which cannot otherwise be accounted
for ; in fact, the theory becomes a necessity in the nature of things.
Bacon also said that there may be many powers and sources of in¬
formation in nature, had we the appropriate senses to perceive them;
but there is not one educated person in a thousand that ever heard of
these theories of Bacon, and men of science have only sneered at them.
Bodies never do actually touch, as shown by Newton, hence all action
must occur by the intervening something we agree to call spirit. But
facts remain facts, whether we can explain them or not—such as the
passage of light through seemingly solid glass, and the millions of actions
(through a point in space and in opposite directions without interference.
These things cast some light on the fact of the store of latent impressions
in memory, the free and complex action in the mind, and the leavening
or investing of the fresh matter taken up with all the conditions and
I abilities of the old ; also the germ cell with the whole latent character
of the being, or ability to develops into a similar being. This leavening
and animal magnetic principle will act a great part in the future, and
bring Spiritualism into a more scientific position. It would take a
volume for me to generalise the principle into all its correlations, ex¬
hibiting one great general law of all natural action. Further £han
general laws we cannot penetrate, though instinct and clairvoyance do
seem to overleap experience, notwithstanding the mechanical explana¬
tion attempted by Herbert Spencer, Mr. Wallace, and Dr. Darwin.
The facts will not bend to such theories. As we progress we shall
attain fuller and broader views; but even Professor Tyndall supposed
future man will never dive beyond the surface, into the reason of the
nature of things—if even there be a reason at all, which is very doubtful.
The facts and principles are what they are seemingly by a primordial
necessity, as Humboldt said, and as Bacon positively affirmed, referring
all to an adamantine chain of necessity that no power could possibly
sever. Henry G-. Atkinson, F.G.S.
!Boulogne-sur-Mer.
REMARKABLE SEANCES IN HOLLAND AND BELGIUM,
Sir,—Hoping that you will be able to reserve a little space in your
next number, I wish to give a brief statement of my trip to Belgium
and Holland with the Bamford boys. As my chief object was to con-
(j vince some sceptical gentlemen in Amheim, Holland, I shall merely
: state in a few words that after a private seance at the house of Captain
; Bouvier, father of the only physical medium in Brussels, I was requested
i by Mr. Fritz, president of the Belgian Society of Spiritualists, to give
| a seance at their rooms.
(: The audience was rather large, about fifty being present. The boys
! were placed under the usual conditions, several manifestations were
i produced, and I heard afterwards from Lieutenant-Colonel Jacoby that
i in general the audience, although little acquainted with physical pheno-
i mena, had been well satisfied with the manifestations they had witnessed,
(i and were convinced that fraud was impossible. In Arnheim, having
i informed M. Cathe (the leader of anti-spiritualists in that town) by letter
| of my coming, he called on me in the morning, and we at once arranged
(| for two seances. About ten attended, all more or less in public life—
i doctors, clergymen, and teachers in public schools,
i I stipulated that, after testing the boys under the usual conditions,
?! they should be allowed to submit them to other conditions. The
(I younger boy, whom I consider the best medium, proved to be too nervous,
j! and at both seances I had to use the elder boy. Under the usual con-
| i ditions the, manifestations went on well, and these learned gentlemen
j are still seeking an explanation of the fact that a finger ring (the boy
i being tied up in a bag) could come on his finger. This manifestation
i failed when a kind of gloves without fingers were put on his hands and
i tied very close to his arms. Hence the sceptical gentlemen concluded
j that it was all trickery, feeling sure that the father had trained his
(| children as clowns, so as to make it possible for them to turn round the
\\ upper body, making the hands come forward, and thus producing the
> | ringing of bells, playing of accordions, writing on the slate, and so on—
(| forgetting that the neck of the boy was tied closely to the back of the
chair. But the fact of the ring (matter through matter) remains an
/1 enigma for their high capacity for materialistic conception. Probably
(i (having asked my permission) they will publish the result of the experi-
j! ments, and very likely an active debate will take place, which can and
i must do good in attracting the attention of the public.
In the Hague we had a very good sSance at Mr. Riko’s, when most of
|: the members (one rather sceptical) of Oromase founded by Major Revius,
i attended.
i It seems to be a fact that it is rather dangerous to take mediums to
j a foreign country. I decidedly observed with the Bamford brothers, as
/! in the case of the Petty brothers in St. Petersburg, that the power was
j declining during the last few days. It may be that the change of
I i climate and food has a great influence in these matters.
\\ J. N. Tiedeman Martheze.
i 20, Palmeira-square, Brighton, March 11th.
SPECULATIONS ABOUT THE REINCARNATION HYPOTHESIS.
Sir,—A friend of mine, an enthusiastic Spiritualist, has asked me to
translate the following communication from a departed friend of his,
and to send it you for publication. Alfred V6ron, still in the flesh, is of
opinion that the theory of a plurality of existences is the only one that
vindicates the ways of God to man, or is capable of reconciling the
justice of God to the widely diverse positions of men upon earth. What
I myself feel about the matter is that, if it be true that we shall have to
come back and live again upon earth after passing a century or so,
more or less, in the spirit world, and if, consequently, we shall be per¬
sonally benefited by our present labours to make this earth a more
agreeable abode than it is at present, it certainly is desirable that we
should now be aware of our probable fate, such knowledge being likely
to act as an incentive to us to strive after general amelioration, and to
convince us of the solidarity of the human race. The idea in this com¬
munication seems to be that we can only wear what we win, and that we
can obtain nothing without working for it. Does not this appear per¬
fectly just and reasonable ? What if, after all, it turns out that those
who have been arguing against the theory of reincarnation have been
fighting against the truth ? It will not be the first time that men with
the best intentions have done that. I think that 'any impartial judge
reading the arguments pro and con that have lately appeared in the
Spiritual journals would rule that the antis have had considerably the
worst of it.
Here is the message:—
12G
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 17, 1876.
Happiness, it is said, is not for this world, and every one dissatisfied with !)
his position thinks ho sees others in possession of the chimera, which he,-
vainly pursuing, never reaches. Men are too much in the habit of regarding i (
society as an immense lottei’y, whose prizes fall to the share of a chosen few, |(
while the majority live upon hope alone; all, considering themselves I)
inhabiting a house of luck, take little trouble to render their chance j)
favourable. There is no prize to be Counted upon, and-therefore it fails to |(
come to those who look for it, and those who do not, and happiness is so rare is
a thing that one does not even give oneself the trouble to seek it, or ask |j
oneself whether one has taken the right means to obtain it. So long as men j)
look upon themselves as savage competitors for the same prey, they will only : j
employ their energies to drive off their rivals, and individual peace and i(
general well-being will be but empty words. You must accustom yourself to ij
the idea that you are all members of the same family, united by mutual i)
interest one to another, and a proper understanding can only exist if
when each individual labours not for himself but for all. It is not through j(
drawing upon a capital already accumulated, however considerable, and how- h
ever divisible it may be, that each man can provide himself with a sufficient j j
income of moral progress, which is the great need of each existence in flesh, if
Each must furnish his own quota to the general treasure of improved condi- |(
tions, which will constitute the commonwealth of the future. Every one l(
sacrificing his infinitesimal personality, must add his mite to the elements of j j
happiness whose unequal division causes all the heart-burnings of the great If
human family. All desire happiness for themselves, and would certainly jl
wish to see others happy, if happiness could be obtained by wishing for it, or l(
by devoting oneself to bringing it about. If we could not rely upon a ij
succession of existences which enable us to profit from work accomplished,
we ask whether it is really worth while to undergo the vicissitudes of 11
temporal existence in order to accumulate riches for the benefit of future |(
generations, for which we can have no feeling of real affection, if we consider I [
them only as relations resulting from ties of the flesh. What does it matter if
to me if the earth becomes an abode where evil passions are unknown in a if
few hundred years, when all will enjoy perfect happiness, if, in order to bring I (
about that state of things, I am now obliged to suffer incessantly, with no i j
hope of reaping any other profit than that eternal happiness whose only j|
prospect is a frightful monotony? Let our grandchildren do like us; let i)
them do the best they can under the circumstances in which they will find I (
themselves when we are no longer there. After us the end of the world. j(
Thus pass away generations, and a continual and gradual progress is the :}
result. If, however, on the contrary, everyone knows that the present existence j j
is intimately connected with the past and future ones, if everyone knows that l(
working for the amelioration of mankind of necessity helps to increase the happi- I (
ness he already possesses, his personal interest would urge him to co-operate in j j
the welfare of all. To make men understand this, their passions must be ij
worked upon, by showing them that a result affecting them from their l(
present actions will be brought about in a future more or less distant, il
The principle of reincarnation contains in itself the destinies of humanity. j(
Preach it then to all, for it alone will affect the fusion of hostile interests, I}
that desirable state of things longed for by all.—Moreq Lkvallee.
J. H. Gledstanes. j(
Paris, March 10th, 1876. „ iv
[Apart from the doctrine advocated in the spirit message quoted, the !(
principle running through the whole communication seems to be that a man i(
should do good, not for its own sake, but to gain certain advantages for jj
himself in the future, on his assumed return to this earth. Why should he j j
not alleviate the suffering around as^much as he can, because it is right to If
do soj irrespective of any consequences to himself in the future? At present i(
the reincarnation doctrine utterly breaks down when the inductive method :(
applied by science to every other speculation, is brought to bear upon ; J
it.—Ed.]
a spiritualists’ hotel wanted.
Sir,—It has often struck me that a Spiritualist’s hotel not far from
the offices of the National Association in Great Russell-street, would be
a great boon. It should not be managed by an inexperienced novice,
nor by a teetotaler, vegetarian, Shaker, or other eccentric person, but
be in every sense of the word a well-conducted first-rate hotel, in which
people of different shades of opinion can live as they please. Perhaps
the proprietor of some already established good hotel would find it to
his interest to make the accommodation of Spiritualists a special branch
of his business. P-
A CURIOUS QUESTION.
Sir,—Christ said, “ Where two or three are gathered together in my
name there am I in their midst.” We hear much about the “ Real
Presence ’’; has any reverential attempt been made by Spiritualists to
ascertain whether it is practicable to open up direct communication
with Christ, and obtain from Him a message suited to our present
requirements ? If He spoke to Paul, and if He still lives, why should
He not again give material proof positive that He still works for the
welfare of mankind ? We are told that according to our faith things
are done for us ; between faith and credulity it has often been hard to
discriminate, but surely something should be now undertaken of the
nature of a practical test. Hopeful.
MESMERISM,
Sir,—I regard mesmerism as the pioneer of Spiritualism. Convince
a person of the truth of mesmeric phenomena, his scepticism generally
respecting assumed “impossibilities” is destroyed, and he at least
becomes an inquirer in respect to the facts of Spiritualism. It seems to
me that the most powerful mesmerists are those most sensitive to mes¬
meric or psychological influence. I believe we move on certain planes
of soul-sympathy. Because A can mesmerise one over whom B has not
the least influence, is no proof that A is the more powerful mesmerist.
To teach a certain modus operandi in the producing of psychological
phenomena is, I think, an error; to be successful, one must throw the
orthodoxy of mesmeric professors, at least those whom I have seen, to
the winds, and be as heterodox as possible—if being sensitive, trusting
to the impulses of one’s soul rather than to any given rule, is heterodox.
I have seen a mesmerist blending phrenology with his experiments;
this I regard and think I can demonstrate to be mere trickery. Phreno-
mesmerism—by which I mean the touching of certain organs, such as
combativeness and secretiveness, and producing results apparently
illustrative—is a fallacy. I assume that every person is a mesmerist,
and daily unconsciously exercises in a greater or less degree this influ¬
ence. When large parties are assembled, what more welcome, amusing,
and scientific than mesmerism ? Give the people the milk of mesmerism
before the strong meat of Spiritualism. If six of your readers write to
me (I prefer dealing with Spiritualists) to the address given, I would,
if they allow me, appoint an evening and place, and give them one
lesson voluntarily, and relate my own experiences, so they could produce
on sensitives all the psychological phenomena usually exhibited by
lecturers upon this science. I make it a sine qua non that if any respond
they shall have learnt nothing before, practically, of mesmerism.
E. C. Newman.
Care Mrs. Shepherd, 37, Motley-street, Clapham.
TRANCE MEDIUMSHIP IN BIRMINGHAM.
Sir,—It is always a pleasing duty to record the development of high-
class trance mediumship, and in this instance the pleasure is mine. I
write to record my testimony of the highly intellectual quality of Mr.
W. Russell’s trance mediumship. Mr. Russell is a schoolmaster at
Walsall, and a Spiritualist of several years standing.
Calling at my house on business on Saturday evening last, the gentle¬
man in question was asked to join our circle, and kindly consented. In
our passive circle, Givex (his chief guide) soon took control, and gave a
logical discourse of an hour's duration, throwing clear light on some
important spiritual problems. The discourse was in response to a
number of questions and propositions put by myself at the invitation of
Givex. The principal points of interest were connected with life on the
other planets: the future of animals: elementary spirits; the latter
differing greatly from those written of by Colonel Olcott—inasmuch as
they were of human origin, created by a union of love; pure thought
beings, and totally incapable of producing physical phenomena—that
supposed function or ability in the elementaries being due to the action
of the lower types of the human family who in earth life scarcely
reached a conscious individuality, and in the spirit world act so incon-
sequently and mechanically. The spirit also spoke of the drift of our
civilisation from east to west, and the future of women on our globe.
On all these weighty subjects he displayed a store of rich mental
treasure, with an utter absence of the diffusion of style unhappily too
prevalent. The voice, manner, and accent of Givex differ greatly from
the normal state of the medium, though the intellectual calibre of the
latter is well known by many friends.
Accuracy in phraseology is also a prominent characteristic of Mr.
Russell's chief guide, a quality in the present phase of Spiritualism to
be greatly admired and valued. In short, I have no hesitation in
stating as my opinion that Mr. Russell’s trance addresses would reflect
much credit on the movement from a public rostrum.
J. W. Mahony.
1, Cambrian-place, Anglesey-street, Lozells, Birmingham.
THE CONTROL OF SPIRITS OVER MATTER.
Sir,—In reading over one of your leaders of February 25th on
“ Physical Manifestations,” I was struck—1st, with a conclusion from
facts, termed a law in that article, that “ the lower the spirit the greater
is its control over matter,” and, 2nd, with a rapprochement between the
ordinary physical phenomena and the manifestation made to Mr. Liver¬
more by his departed wife. On these two points I would beg leave to
submit some observations.
As is well known, the manifestations or phenomena that have been
occurring with increasing profusion for the last twenty-seven years had
not taken place with anything like the same profusion in previous
epochs. Why, therefore, have they taken place in such abundance at
the present time ? As you, sir, are aware, the possibility of communi¬
cation between the two worlds was not discovered by the Foxes, but the
discovery was prompted by the spirits, who, disclosing a preconcerted plan,
rapidly augmented the manifestations both in number and power, and I
may add, are doing so still.
The spirits’ answer to the foregoing question has been—and it is
consistent with the inferences to be drawn from the facts—that the
manifestations were necessary to overcome the growing materialism of
the time, and that there is nothing to prevent a fusion, so to speak,
between the two worlds. The latter is evinced by the fact that the
manifestations have increased not alone in quantity, but some likewise in
quality. Is it to be supposed for one moment that the originators of
the plan referred to are the very spirits whose physical manifestations
are so low, deceitful, and unintellectual ? Or should we not rather,
using our judgment in the matter, attribute it to superior minds or
spirits who take a watchful and absorbing interest in the gradual
development of our planet? If this be admitted—and I would be glad
to learn of a possible escape from the conclusion-—can it be said that
those superior minds have no or little control over matter ? We have
an analogy to it in our own world, where mind has overcome and con¬
quered matter. If coal has to be heaved from a ship, though we could
d la rigueur shoulder it ourselves with the requisite sacks, we would not
think of doing so, but would call into play the necessary coal heavers
and pulleys, thus indirectly using the control we have over matter.
And all control over matter is perforce indirect, i.e., we have to employ
means to an end. We cannot by a simple effort of will control matter.
And yet in our own world our power of control over matter is in a direct
ratio to the degree of knowledge; as a definition, therefore, the phrase,
“ the lower the spirit the greater is its control over matter,” is perhaps
not sufficiently graphic. Seeing that the lower spirits seem to have no
other tendencies than the material ones, and are bound to the earth,
March 17, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST. 127
they may be considered to play the part of the coal-heavers in the
spiritual world, and the definition, I beg to suggest, might be rendered
more defensible if a word were added thus:—“ The lower the spirit the
greater is its (mechanical) control over matter.”
As to the second point referred to, it would doubtless be desirable at
present to draw a line between the purely mechanical and unintellectual
control over matter, and that exerted with only the purest motives. If
there is a difierence between mind and matter, between the physical or
material, and the intellectual or mental, there should be no difficulty in
discriminating between the two.
It may be surmised that until the greater number have become con¬
vinced of the futility of the lower physical phenomena, the higher
manifestations which are to come will not take place.
How necessary, nay, indispensable, the former have been is evinced
by the disillusion felt at their failure.
“ I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them
now.”—John xvi. 12. B. P. J.
CASTS OF MATERIALISED SPIRIT HANDS CRITICALLY EXAMINED.
Sir,—Of the many remarkable incidents which, even in their repeti¬
tion, bring new points to light, I must select, for the sake of brevity,
only the more important. Professor Butlerof’s method of securing the
hands of his medium with net-lace induced me to use it to completely im¬
prison the whole upper part of the body, without the least inconvenience to
the medium, and—most important, I believe, of all—saving time and
power. Nevertheless, I had a fit of doubt, not as to the value of the test
in itself, but as to its value to the most exacting sceptic. The idea
struck me, that in his mind the seam of the bag, running down the front,
might be loosely fastened and opened to let the untied hands out. So I
resolved to run a double thread every three inches round the seam,
knotting and cutting it separately. Another thread was run all along
the seam, and the ends let out on the outside. With this improvement
I placed the medium in the cabinet and reduced the daylight to the
proper tone. Not only came the spirit Bertie out more shining and
beautiful than ever, but Mike, with his black beard, and looking like an
Arab in his white drapery, made his appearance quite clearly and dis¬
tinctly. Last Saturday we obtained, in the presence of Mr. Oxley and
Mr. Marsden, a mould of a right hand again, after the spirit asked us
whether we wished the right or left one. Now I have before me two
casts of each hand, and the comparison between the fine lines of either,
accurately repeated, but only slightly modified by the different curvature
of the hand and fingers, demonstrates the original as the hand of the
same distinct individual. Although these most wonderful manifestations
begin to be really fascinating, nay, exciting, I try my best to pull myself
back to dry, cool observation, and, reflecting upon the fact that days,
nay, weeks, had passed between the formations, I took a magnifying
glass and carefully examined the nails; the positive difference of their
edges showed evident marks of cutting; their altered distance from the
outlines of the skin suggested growing. So it would seem at the first
stage of reflection no outrage of common sense to suggest a pair of
scissors in spirit-land 1 At all events there are curious particulars in
these new manifestations, inviting imagination in all directions, both
lifting up to higher regions, and pulling down to good mother earth, even if
only by a cotton thread or pair of scissors. C. Reimers.
Manchester, March 6th, 1876.
DOES SPIRITUALISM, IF ACCEPTED, PROVE IMMORTALITY?
Sir,—Mr. Venman (in his letter to you of March 3rd) reverts to the
interesting question of “ immortality as an inherent property of the soul
or spirit of man.” Like him, I should be very glad to be told of any
data on which the unfailing immortality of man can be based. “ Im¬
mortality as an inherent property of the soul ” are words which, though
precise enough at first sight, are really very vague; for “ immortality ”
may mean either “ eternally deathless,” or only surviving the process we
know as physical death. It may also be a question whether im¬
mortal individuality be the inevitable possession of humanity, or whether
it be a faculty which has to be developed during incarnation, having
been previously generated. Again, there is still some general confusion
of terms as to death. It is now generally acknowledged that material
death is simple dissolution, or resolution of matter back to some general
condition. But how about spiritual immortality ? Spirit, thought, and
ideas can no more be destroyed than a material atom can be annihilated;
but spiritual atoms, like material atoms, may be scattered by the four
winds of heaven, and then—where is the individual ? Hence it is
evident that when people speak of their immortality, they mean the
immortality of their self-conscious ego. But I suspect we shall soon
find that the spirit of man (I use the word “ spirit ” as an intermediate
condition of existence between body and soul) is as much a perpetually
fluctuating mass of spirit-atoms as his body is of material atoms. We
cannot trace the fate of either for two moments. I have seen with my
psychic eyes the material vitality of a tree, which vitality was more
intensely rapid in the radiative and concentrative fluctuation of the
atoms forming the tree than I can describe; so much so, that I was at
the sight of it greatly puzzled to know how the tree remained a tree at
all, so complete was the interchange between its atoms and those of the
atmosphere around it. And yet the atmospheric molecules were per¬
sistently seized on and instantly changed when within the circumference
of what appeared the normal tree. There must, therefore, have been in
the nature of the tree something more subtle and spiritual than any¬
thing I perceived. There must be, I suppose, a selecting power, which
thus absorbed and changed the atoms of the atmosphere into vegetable
atoms. There was evidently some individuality in the tree. The un¬
solved problem is, how much of that tree-individuality would survive
the death of the tree ?
Similarly the question suggested by Mr. Venman is large and vague;
but, when every possible variety of theory concerning human indivi¬
duality and its immortality has been propounded, there remains the
fact that the thought atoms forming the spirit of a man are selected with
a recurrent precision which marks the presence of an indwelling select¬
ing power. This selecting power in one person invariably, and, I sup¬
pose, inevitably, persists in selecting thought-atoms different to those
selected by another‘person, so that our individualties are always dis¬
tinct. This selecting power which marks the individual (if it be not the
individual), must be of a nature more persistent than are the atoms and
forces it employs, and therefore it is presumably of a nature not purely
material, and hence will not be much affected by the mere material
change of physical death. What the scientific Spiritualist has to do, is
to gain evidence on the degrees of consciousness possessed by immaterial
beings, or rather, of beings somewhat less material than human beings
are in their earth bodies. And I expect we shall find that a death-sur¬
viving individuality is as various in its strength and degree as is indivi¬
duality within material organisms here. I think it wifi, be proved that
many existences, lower than the human, may, at the dissolution of death,
leave only a vague deposit of individual spirit—a form, but not a per¬
fectly individualised form—which deposit can be taken up with number¬
less others, and used towards the formation of a human being, just as
millions of atoms and germs are used in his physical manufacture. It
is the destiny of this human being to “ work out his own” development,
thereby improving the condition of all the vague deposits of spirit which
are now within him, and which will go to produce one death-surviving
individuality. And it is the destiny of all his surroundings, circum¬
stances, experiences, and laws of life, to help to develope this something
within him which shall survive the dissolution of death.
The evidence of this death-surviving faculty is found in the attain¬
ment to a consciousness of a life larger than his own, of feelings which
transcend thought, of a good more beautiful than he can imagine, of
principles substanding all phenomena. Most especially is this death-
surviving faculty proved by his exercise of a will, restraining, and
urging, and compelling his physical faculties. Indeed, the power to
judge and control our instincts implies the presence of a something new
and non-existent in the lower forms of life; a something whose (as yet
only feebly developed) presence we should cultivate with the utmost
care, as the nursling heir of immortality.
M.A. (Oxon.) wrote that “ Immortality is given at incarnation.” To
me it seems that what is given at incarnation is the capacity to develop
the latent germ of immortality: no spirit, I think, appears in human
form which has not gone through such previous experiences in lower
forms of matter as have fitted it, by upward development, for the stage
where immortal individuality may be obtained. This side of the
problem of immortality is now being questioned on all sides, by thinkers
of every opinion. There are even orthodox Bible students who elicit
from the Scriptures the doctrine that immortality is not a property
inherent in man, but is to be evoked during, and by, the period of
incarnation. They consider it is the hidden doctrine of the New Tes¬
tament ; from the conversation with Nicodemus, through the reasonings
of St. Paul (who' hoped that “ by any means he might attain to the
resurrection of the dead ”), down to the lovely parable in the Apocalypse
of the tree of life which is in the midst of the paradise of God, and
which it is to be permitted them to eat, though it was carefully kept
from man in his lowest first estate. G. T. C. M.
I A TEST SEANOE WITH MR. EGLINGTON.
Sir,—I intimated in my letter to you last week, that the seances now
being held with Mr. W. Eglington, at 38, Great Russell-street, under the
auspices of the National Association of Spiritualists were about to be
made accessible to all members of the Association. Through the
liberality of Mr. Charles Blackburn this has now been accomplished,
and Mr. Eglington has been engaged to give a weekly siance during the
next three months, at a nominal charge to the members of the Associa¬
tion, two tickets being always reserved in Mr. Blackburn’s name for
foreigners, inquirers, or country members on a temporary visit to London.
! ?; Last Friday evening the friends present were Mr. J. N. T. Martheze,
: | Mr. Dufort, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. Neville, Miss C., Captain James, an
i | inquirer from Worcester, a Spiritualist from Amsterdam, and the Rev.
||i Guy Bryan. Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald and Dr. Keningale Cook repre-
jjj sented the seance committee of the Association.
111 As these seances are to be held under test conditions, it has been re-
j/j solved to make the testing comfortable to the medium as well as satis-
i I factory to investigators, especially as Mr. Eglington’s health is at this
i : moment less robust than usual. Instead of tying him in a constrained
I i and upright position, Mr. Eglington was allowed to recline on a mattrass
Hi on the floor of the cabinet, with his head on a pillow. His hands were
| | then tied with tape, which was also passed round one leg above the
; 11 knee, and further secured at the wrists. A second double tape was
: i looped through the button-hole of his coat, threaded through small holes
\ j I in the end of the cabinet, and knotted outside; the gentleman from
; I i Amsterdam weighted the tape with his clasp-knife, which he tied to one
Hi of the ends, and which remained dangling until the release of the
| i medium by the tying committee at the close of the seance. Under
i j i these conditions moderately good manifestations were procured. A tube
i | was thrust out of the opening furthest removed from the hands of the
j medium; the doors of the cabinet, as was afterwards found, were
1!' | fastened inside by a wooden button; a few of the sitters were allowed to
feel a hand just inside the window (myself among the number); and yet,
when later on in the evening, we were instructed to give Mr. Eglington
a little water, he had not the slightest power to raise himself from his
couch, and the tapes had to be loosened to enable him to receive the
| glass. A gentleman placed Ms ring on the ledge of one of the windows,
and it was afterwards found on a finger of the medium’s right hand. A
I face, known to one of the ladies present as that of “Gwenna,” presented
128
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 17, 1876.
itself a few times momentarily at the window, but Joey said there was
not enough power for further materialisation.
The manifestations, so far as they went, were satisfactory, and not a
doubt was entertained of the genuineness of Mr. Eglington’s powers,
nor of the efficiency of the tests. E. Kislingbury.
38, Great Russell-street, W.C., March 11th.
THE PERSECUTION OP SPIRITUALISTS IN PARIS.
Sir,—I have received a letter from Paris, which expresses grave
anxiety as to the result of Leymarie’s pending imprisonment, considering
his very delicate state of health. These fears, however, may he com¬
pletely removed by placing him under the care of the Maison de Sante,
where he would suffer no privation whatever. This would involve an
expense of £10 per month; and it is suggested that if the friends in
England would share half the sum, that desirable end may be attained.
If the associations in this country would induce members to contribute,
say sixpence per month, this small amount would achieve the desired
result.1 C. Reimers.
Manchester, March 10th, 1876.
spiritualism: in Islington.
Sir,—Mr. and Mrs. Bullock have for some time past been labouring
in the cause of Spiritualism in the neighbourhood of Islington, where
they have held meetings nearly every day in the week. The hall in
which the meetings are held requires sundry repairs, and subscriptions
towards defraying the expenses are earnestly solicited. The members’
subscriptions are inadequate, so that an appeal is made for assistance,
which can be forwarded to Mrs. Bullock, Liberty Hall, 19, Church-
street, Islington, London, N. B.
March 12th, 1876.
SPIRITUALISM IN NEW DELAVAL. j /;
Sir,—We wish to inform you that we had a visit from Mr. Rhodes at |) j
New Delaval, and found him to be a powerful developing and test i (|
medium. He gave us a test of the identity of a brother-in-law, who 11 i
was run over by the wagons on the railway; he likewise personated the i) i
death of my wife’s father, and the cause of his death, also of my grand- I (j
mother; he attempted to climb into the bed, then he fell back into the | j j
chair and seemed to die, and this was the way my grandmother died. I |) |
must also say that her death happened before Mr. Rhodes was bom, | j i
and more than 200 miles from where he was born. Mr. Rhodes is ready |) i
to pay a visit to any other spirit circle in the neighbourhood when he is i (!
disengaged from business. His address is 30, Tynemouth-road, Heaton, i (j
Newcastle-on-Tyne, John Smith. i)i
New Delaval, near Blyth. jsj
A SEANCE WITH MR. E. BULLOCK.
Sir,—Mrs. Bullock and her son, Mr. E. Bullock, visited the rooms
of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism on Thursday
evening last week, when a dark seance was held under the mediumship
of the latter. The circle was formed of fourteen persons, while two
others were compelled to sit outside the circle for want of room for them.
The conditions were that the hands of all present, including those of
Mr. Bullock, the medium, should be held throughout the sitting. The
medium was thus secured between two members, Miss Corner and Mr.
Lucas de Caux.
The manifestations, which were principally of a physical nature,
consisted of the movement of different articles upon the table; touches
by a hand, experienced by several sitters within a limited radius of the
medium, and a few phosphorescent lights. The medium also spoke
under the influence, presumably, of an Indian girl, giving the name of
“ Lily,” whose utterances were childlike and in broken English.
A break was made in the course of the sitting, and the medium next
seated between Mr. Robert Nelson Dawson and myself; similar mani¬
festations to those obtained in the early part of the sitting were repeated,
with the addition of my own chair being removed from under me
and placed upon the table. The medium was afterwards raised, and
deposited safely upon the chair previously placed upon the table, the
hands of Mr. Bullock being held throughout.
The lamps were then relit, and the seance brought to a close. A
vote of thanks was given to- Mr. and Mrs. Bullock for their visits, and
general satisfaction expressed at the results of the seance.
Thomas Blyton.
74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E., March 11th.
ANGELS, SPIRITS, AND MEN.
Sir,—In your issue of January 14th, you kindly inserted a question
from me, as to “ Whether any spirit has ever communicated, through
any known medium, who has not been bom a man or woman; that is,
who has professed to be a being who never was so born, upon any
earth.” The question was not asked because the answer of any spirit
would be to the writer an authoritative one, but because he has a strong
suspicion that spirit authority is to many Spiritualists becoming far
more weighty than its worth warrants.
Your issue of February 18th contains the first answer I have seen in
your pages. And the writer, K. M. C., says, “ So far as my experience
of spirit teaching goes, no spirit has communicated that has not at one
time or other passed through an earthly life.” The reason he gives,
and the definitions, I will not stop to notice, as brevity requires that we
should keep to the point. It will, however, be seen from the difference
between his answer and what I have to adduce now, that spirit teaching
is no authoritative method of settling disputed questions about the
different orders of the other world’s inhabitants.
I received a private letter, dated February 6th, from Miss Houghton,
who had thought my question was only asked for my individual infor¬
mation or satisfaction, and so wrote privately. But I have since
obtained leave of her to extract what is needful, and she kindly adds,
that I may mention her name as the medium.
“ I am myself counselled by archangels (seventy in number), who
inform me that they have never been in mortal form, either on this
planet or any other. The first who came to me was Gabriel, then
Michael, and afterwards the others, by degrees, giving their names,
which were previously unknown to me, as well as the significations of
those names. They come in bands or septs of seven, and it is they
only who now guide my hand in the execution of my spirit drawings in
water colours.
“ I know, too, that others of my friends also receive these archangelic
visitants. But I do not think they influence any of those who are
termed physical mediums, who for their work need the earthliness of
the lower natures, and for the coarser and stronger phenomena they
must even be the spirits from the lower grades of the after life; for the
communion between the two worlds, in every phase of mediumship, has
decisive laws, one of which strongly is ‘ like to like.' ”
Miss Houghton, in this extract, says they come in sevens, to the
number of seventy; and also that they have given their names. But
she only mentions two names, Gabriel and Michael. This seems a pity;
that out of the whole seventy only these two should be given, when
these two are two which we were acquainted with before from the Bible.
From that source we also know another, namely, “ Lucifer; ” whether
this is among those not enumerated we cannot tell.
The prophet Daniel tells us that, while he was “ speaking in prayer,
even the man Gabriel, whom he had seen in vision at the beginning,
beiny caused to fly swiftly, touched him about the time of the evening
oblation.” Daniel calls him a man, and says he had seen him; so he
must have known his form; and though a man has not wings, yet he
says this man was caused to fly swiftly.
The glorious man who spake to and touched and strengthened Daniel
in his prayer, said to him, “ But I will show thee that which is noted in
the Scripture of truth: and there is none that holdeth with me in these
things but Michael your prince.” And in the book of Revelation it is
written, there was war in heaven, “Michael and his angels fought
against the dragon.” Now “ Michael,” from its derivation in the
Hebrew tongue, we are informed, signifies, “ Who is as God.” So that
Michael is evidently a representative name, as well as Gabriel, and,
like the man who met Joshua in the way, with a drawn sword in his
hand, being sent as the captain of the host of the Lord; these per¬
sonages, Michael and Gabriel, are messengers of the Lord, wherever
named, but by no means always the same individuals.
Emanuel Swedenborg, who gives reasonable evidence of having lived
in open communication with both angels and spirits for nearly thirty
years, wrote, nearly a hundred years ago, as follows:—
“ It is altogether unknown in the Christian world that heaven and
hell are from the human race; for it is believed that angels were
created from the beginning, and that this was the origin of heaven;
and that the Devil or Satan was an angel of light, but because he became
rebellious, he was cast down with his crew ; and that this was the
origin of hell. The angels wonder very much that such a belief should
prevail in the Christian world, wherefore they desire me to declare
positively from their mouths, that there is not a single angel in the
universal heaven who was originally created such, nor any devil in hell
who was created an angel of light and cast down; but that all, both in
heaven and in hell, are from the human race.”,,
Now, sir, these angels through Swedenborg, and the archangels through
Miss Houghton, tell widely different stories. And your correspondent
K. M. C. seems inclined to favour the testimony of those through Swe¬
denborg. It seems to be with great angels and great spirits, as we
know it to be with great and learned men,—they differ so much that we
cannot take their words as authoritative guides, however they them¬
selves may bear irreproachable characters. So we need the authority
of the Bible yet! And it seems to me that we had better keep to it,
than waste all our days in heaping up so-called spirit facts, and have
no time left for drawing conclusions, either from them or from the facts
of the “ Scriptures of truth; ” we shall receive marching orders to be
off, and prove for ourselves how things are, before we have had leisure
to set our houses in order.
Of course, I do not doubt the existence of another world, full of
substantial realities—the gathering-place of all the human race, the
storehouse of all God’s infinite treasure of blessings, the abode of peace,
joy, and bliss to the good, and the equally certain abode of misery and
punishment to the wicked—but I really feel a repugnance to substituting
the authoritative dictum of either great spirits or great men, in place of
the authority of the truth itself, as seen in the light of the Sun of
Truth and Righteousness. Thomas Robinson.
Newtonheath.
A CASE OF DISTRESS.
Sir,—Mr. George Ruby who, many years ago, devoted himself and
his means as a medium and a lecturer in the cause of Spiritualism, has
for some years been reduced to great poverty and bodily suffering.
Within the past three years, at intervals, about twelve pounds have
been subscribed for him, which have been opportune, and thankfully
received, but again and again he relapses into extreme poverty. If
among the Spiritualists iu good circumstances, the sum of £13 could be
raised, and he could receive it at the rate of 5s. a week, it would be a
well deserved assistance that would cover a period of twelve months.
May I presume on your kindness to admit this appeal in his behalf;
he has always been a worthy man and good Spiritualist.
Thomas Blackburn.
13, Shakespoare-terrace, Stoke-Newington.
March 17, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST. 129
FIRST STEPS TO A KNOWLEDGE OF SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—I am a comparatively new, but still an earnest investigator of
what is called Spiritualism, and endeavour with the aid of such powers
of judgment as I possess, to discriminate as much as possible in admitting
the genuineness of the various phenomena (as we must call them) pre¬
sented for acceptance.
Many serious difficulties bar the first steps of even the most anxious
inquirer, and as progress is gained in necessarily admitting the genuine¬
ness of many of the phenomena, the obstacles to a belief in all that is
claimed for Spiritualism by its enthusiastic advocates do not disappear.
One phase of these difficulties I have found to be, the want of reliance
to be placed on the physical manifestations being really what they are
represented to be, and the emptiness—as well as often want of truth—in
the communications received, whether rapped, spoken, or written. This
affords a powerful argument to unbelievers, and deters many earnest
minds from seeking to taste further at fountains whose waters are so
wanting in purity. I have recently, however, become more reconciled
to these drawbacks, from a conviction that the truth of Spiritualism
may still exist below these surface impediments, and that many of the
difficulties felt by young Spiritualists arise from their too readily
accepting the high standard too indiscriminately claimed for its mani¬
festations by over-enthusiastic teachers and professors, and the natural
reaction that occurs when this claim is found delusive, and our over¬
sanguine expectations are not at once fulfilled.
No subject requires greater patience, more careful and dispassionate
observation, or a calmer judgment, and it is from a hope that a few of
my experiences and mental difficulties, now surmounted, may be useful
to some of your readers who are investigators, that I venture to offer
these remarks.
After proving the existence of some occult force capable of producing
physical effects, which is the first natural step to be taken, and is too
easy to learn to need further notice, I was frequently surprised to find
that acknowledged genuine mediums were apparently practising, or at
all events lending themselves to deception, and producing results in their
own persons, claimed to be from spirits. In one or two instances I still
firmly believe the tricks were wilful, and intended by the mediums to
deceive, and I should never attend sittings with such mediums again,
except under the very strictest and most carefully devised tests, or rely
on any reports of their doings of which I was not a witness. There is
nothing to invalidate the truth of Spiritualism, in the fact that some of
its professors are cheats.
But I have also known honest and proved mediums, when under test
conditions, to attempt to deceive when those conditions were relaxed,
and, stranger still, have the strongest grounds for believing that the
spirits themselves (or the intelligent occult force so-called) have used
their mediums’ organs to stimulate spiritual materialisations, and have
thus produced effects by other means than those professedly employed.
This latter phase of deception is very singular, and may well startle the
growing faith of even an advanced investigator; but a little considera¬
tion of the conditions, viewed from the standpoint of good experience,
will, I think, account for even these vagaries of our erratic acquaint¬
ances on the other side, without necessarily shattering our belief in their
existence, though I cannot but admit that our idea of the standard of
life and morals amongst these intelligences is considerably lowered
thereby. The point to be established, however, is not whether certain
things are inharmonious with our ordinary and conventional ideas and
notions, but whether they are facts, and can be brought within the range
of ordinary observation, and if they can be so established, the sooner
we give up preconceived opinions, and Mrs. Grundy’s prejudices, the
sooner we shall be likely to discover the truth.
I will not particularise in detail the various discoveries I have made
of unreliability both on the part of mediums or their controls, as
doubtless nearly every investigator has had similar experiences; but if
your space will allow, I should like to touch on the explanation (pre¬
sented to my mind) of such occurrences, and the way I can reconcile
them with a still abiding belief in the main fact sought to be estab¬
lished, viz., existence of, and communication with, beings in a more spi¬
ritual form than ours,'1 and to whose plane, I believe, the termination
of this present life leads.
In the first place, as an explanation of the occurrence of deception;
there is no doubt, as a general rule, that a very mixed and not alto¬
gether high order of social and mental conditions prevails in public
seances, and as “ like generally produces like,” there is nothing surprising
in the quality of manifestations and means used to produce them being
found to match. In other words, I believe the medium, generally an
unconscious agent, is frequently constrained by the same influence that
forces a highly mesmerised sensitive to do things, in themselves needless
and deceptive, merely because such a course accords with the prevailing
elements at the time of sitting. Of course I do not here allude to
wilful trickery by the medium in a normal state, but to the apparently
unconscious deception which is sometimes noticeable. I have heard
arguments to prove that even mediums in their normal state may be
so strongly influenced by force beyond their control as to be coerced
into deception while apparently master of their own faculties, but I
prefer to. leave this point, and to adopt the ordinary opinion about such
manifestations. I now allude to doubtful or deceptive proceedings,
while the medium is most unmistakably entranced or under control of
some influence outside his or her own personality; and here often the
deception appears to be needless, and follows unmistakably genuine
phenomena of a sufficiently startling character.
For instance, after voices, test writings, or, perhaps, materialisations,
and the phenomena of matter being passed through matter, or mixed
up with these, the medium may be used as an automaton to do what is
professed to be done by a materialised spirit; and this, apparently,
without object. As it might fairly be said : “ If part of such phenomena
can be produced without the direct physical assistance of the medium,
[ j why should not all ?” My explanation is, that it may be easier to release
)! the machine (medium) from its bonds by dematerialisation of mere tape
[ i and string, and to make it the performer, than to go on materialising
| and create for the moment new physical organs with which to produce
| the same results. The latter process is, doubtless, more difficult to
l accomplish, and more exhaustive to the medium than the other; hence,
i the former may be adopted, as more economical as well as less trouble-
i some, though at the cost of truth and honesty. The wherefore of the
! possibility of such unsatisfactory elements as these latter being allowed
I to find entrance into spiritual manifestations is a problem to be solved.
| ‘ : 52 W. H.
I THE RELIGIOUS ASPECTS OF SPIRITUALISM.
j ] Sir,—One of your correspondents who recently advocated the rein-
| carnation doctrine, quoted what in evangelist history appears to support
|i it, in the case of “ Elias, who was also John the Baptist.” To me it
) I seemed enough to confute such an opinion by asking how Elias was, or
H could, possibly be identified with John the Baptist by the witnesses
| named ? The utterer of this opinion in your journal, I grieve to find, is
i so nonchalant in dealing with the subject. His words, however, may be,
1 “who cares?” Had he not better leave the problem to others who
! would conscientiously and reverently treat the inquiry ? Another cor-
| respondent tells of strange enough physical manifestations, but says that
(| in observing them with his friends they enjoyed together the “ social
(| glass,” and obviously sociability was the highest moral order they
j | cared for. He says he was bantered by spirits en rapport. Better things
|(| than such I am wishful to learn through your journal, now that I am
| I seventy-six years of age; yet, not because I am so old. I am not able to
| | read what is trifling and reckless on such subjects without mental pain,
i (i My past life has been religiously used. As soon as my mind neared
i) j maturity, things of religion were deeply studied, under stern arbitrary
! (i views of the accountability of man to God, and His dispensation of
i i salvation to men educationally taught me. My family, and my father
j j more particularly, were Armenian Methodists. I once explicitly told a
■ (! friend that had the choice been given me, “ To be, or not to be,” before
|(j my human birth, I would rather have chosen not to be bom. Thank
ijj God, I can quite reverse this utterance now. My life has never been
i | professionally but always thoughtfully religious, mixed up, of course, with
||i a due share of the frailties of humanity, moral and otherwise; but I
i | have inquired for knowledge, better knowledge. From the first I tried
j/i to follow views or persuasions in religion. A church principle seemed
ijj to me indispensable to a Christian name, and to the apostolic descent of
j j the church in its ministry and laity. So I became a high churchman,
! | j and a crisis in business at this time made a change in the direction I
i j j would take possible. I chose Oxford and the old book trade, and was
I i happily benefited there in my religious education in the tractarian days,
jjj In a few years I was conscientiously enforced to become Homan
i j j Catholic, therefore joined that church and left Oxford; but that church
j ! has of late strangely varied, at least, has become strangely uncon-
j) j servative, so I have let go the hold of it. Spiritualism is religiously
I (j needed, and only religiously. As so needed, it seems to me to be a
jjj further merciful dispensation of God, of His truth, of His will; it
j j i therefore supplies my desires and my hopes. It seems to be another
i} j dispensation—the last in the order of heaven-given systems, following
i j the more primitive Abrahamic, Mosaic, and the Christian revelations of
ju God’s love to man. J. G.
i)j Christchurch, March 7th.
MRS. NEVILLE ON MR. EGLINGTON’S MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—On Wednesday evening, March 1st, Mr. W. Eglington held a
seance at our house, and we had invited the following circle to meet him:
Miss Clemes, Mrs. and Miss S., Miss E. Owens Blackburn, and Mr.
W. H. Harrison.
The sitters formed a circle round a table, Miss S. and myself holding
respectively a hand of the medium. Presently raps were heard, and
“Joey,” the medium’s attendant spirit, announced his presence. He kept
up a lively conversation, during which time hands, large and small,
were felt by those present; a bell was also rung, and the medium was
levitated and gently placed again in his chair, Miss S. and myself
holding his hands the whole time. Upon lights being procured the
table was found to be covered with articles from a table in another part
of the room, they having been noiselessly brought there during the
sitting.
The medium then went into the back drawing-room, a curtain sepa¬
rating the two rooms. Miss Clemes, in obedience to the directions of
the spirits, sat with him. Whilst there, this lady saw spirit lights,
which, however, were not visible to the sitters outside, but the curtain
was moved, and continued rappings were heard. Miss Clemes saw a
small shadowy form moving up and down at the aperture where the
curtain was moved. After an interval of rest the medium sat alone in
the back drawing-room, and almost instantaneously a small white
figure appeared, and announced herself to be “ Gwenna,” a child spirit
well known to some of the sitters. Then appeared a tall man, seem¬
ingly attired in grey and white habiliments; his face looked emaciated,
and he seemed too feeble to articulate. At this juncture Joey again
gave indications of his presence; he urged Miss Clemes to sit regularly
and patiently, as she had much materialisation power, which only re¬
quired development. He then said that the spirits wished to do something
as a test that they were distinct from the medium, and they kept their
word, for all those present are ready to bear witness that the curtain
was held back by some invisible power, and there sat the medium in a
deep trance, with the little child spirit kneeling at his feet. As Mr.
Eglington was staying in the house, Joey promised a daylight seance
the next morning.
On Thursday afternoon, at about half-past one, Miss Ellis, Miss E.
March 17, 1876.
130 THE SPIRITUALIST.
Ewens Blackburn, Mr. Neville, and myself, sat round a table with
merely the glaring light of noon excluded. A slate and pencil with a
glass bell were placed on the table; the knocks were loud, and intelligent
messages were rapped out; the medium then held the slate and pencil
under the table with one hand, one of the sitters by turns holding the
other corner of the slate; in a few seconds the pencil was heard being
drawn along the slate, and upon taking it up different messages were
found written plainly on it. The bell was then placed on the slate,
when it was taken up, and rung violently, and then placed in the hands
of one of the sitters. The medium was then tied with tapes and
fastened to the back of a sofa, the tapes being sealed; the sitters sat
outside the curtain and Joey commenced to talk and to move the curtain;
he asked me for a ring, which I gave him through the curtain, and a
minute afterwards all were requested to come in and examine the
medium, the ring was found threaded on the tape with which the
medium was bound to the sofa. Hardly had all returned to their seats
and the curtain drawn again, when the ring was handed back to me.
After the stance was over the tapes and seals were found intact, and
the medium was exactly in the same position as when he was left on
the sofa.
Mr. Eglington seems to be so reliable a medium that all Spiritualists
should encourage his endeavours for the cause in every way. His day¬
light seances are a great step in advance, and should be encouraged, as
they are the more likely to be satisfactory to inquirers who, and
naturally enough, are inclined to think that darkness may cloak decep¬
tion. Mr. Eglington’s courtesy and willingness to submit to any pro¬
posed test cannot be too strongly commented upon.
Maeie Neville.
9, Regent’s Park-terrace, London, N.W.
MR. DUGUId’s MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—I am glad to learn it was not intended that the article in The
Spiritualist of 25th February, on “Physical Manifestations,” should
throw any slur upon Mr. Duguid.
Allow me to say that an intimate acquaintanceship with him for
twelve years has confirmed and intensified the opinion which I first
formed of him,—that he is a sincere, honest, upright man, to whom to
know is to love and to esteem. Were it otherwise, would Mr. Duguid
be the chosen friend and companion of such men as James Nicholson,
the poet and temperance song-writer, one of nature’s noblemen—head
and shoulders above his fellows; and of Hay Nisbet, a man of whom it
may be said, so far as regards uprightness of character—
“ He is 
But words are wanting to say what,
Think what a man should be,
And he is that.”
A. Glendinning.
4, Castledine-road, Anerley, S.E., 11th March.
SPIRITUALISM IN EAST LONDON.
Sir,—Will you kindly let me announce that our quarterly meeting
in aid of our work in Spiritualism in this neighbourhood will take place
here on Sunday, March 26th ? It. Cogman.
15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end.
^^CCCCCCCOCOXCCCCCCCCCCCCi • *
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
T. H. (Landport).—Your letter, sent to us as if it were a special contribution,
was a circular. Such action is a breach of literary etiquette.
W. J. (Liverpool).—Why not ask him to write a note, certifying your state¬
ment that the results he produced were not due to conjuring, and explaining
the modus operandi. If there is no eiTor in your statement, and the experi¬
ment can be repeated at will in public, the facts are the most important
that have come under our notice for many a day.
A. H. Coburn (Springfield, Mass., U. S.).—What has the subject of your
communication to do with Spiritualism ?
A. E. Nehrer (Eperjes).—We had previous information about the article in
Die Gartenlaube.
W. E. C. (Fort Leavenworth, Kansas).—We have no space to spare for a series
of articles. The book has been posted to you this week.
Baron Holmfeld (Pinneberg).—Your suggestion has been forwarded to
Mr. Martheze.
E. Gerry Brown (Boston, U. S.).—The pamphlets have been forwarded by
to-day’s post, and the other matter shall be attended to.
J. M. (Newcastle).—Next week.
Dr. Henry Slade, the American test medium, is expected to visit St.
Petersburg in October.
On Thursday, March 30th, the members of the Dalston Association
of Inquirers into Spiritualism, will narrate their experiences in relation
to the subject, at a meeting of members and friends, at the Booms, 74,
Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
Tricky Spirits.—M. Melchior de Schickeh, of Hinterbriihl, near
Vienna, writes: “ It is true that there are sidereal spectres, mocking,
derisive spirits, who try to raise doubts in the minds of experienced and
well-tried observers. They invent a sort of masquerade, to throw doubt
upon the truth of the phenomena. But the most curious fact is, some¬
times they make a masquerade by means of garments only, which they
bring invisibly from other houses, sometimes at a distance of several
miles. Out of these they make invisibly a sort of dummy, which after¬
wards can be seen by the eyes.”
Mr. Coates has been lecturing at Liverpool on the relationship of
Ferrier’s experiments on the brains of animals to psychology. We hope
to publish a notice next week.
Advertisements on another page show that Mrs. Olive is giving
seances on Thursday afternoons, at 88, Great Kussell-street; also that
Mrs. Woodforde is about to arrange a series of seances for physical
manifestations, with strong mediums.
For a long time past a testimonial to Mr. Benjamin Coleman, and
originally intended to be private, has been in progress. We are on the
committee, but as yet have received no authority to publish details.
Mr. Algernon Joy, of the Junior United Service Club, is the secretary,
and friends interested in the very praiseworthy object should communi¬
cate with him.
Spiritualism in Blackfriars.—On Sunday evening last, Mr. Bullock
commenced to address the South London Society of Spiritualists, in his
normal state, but was interrupted by the control of a spirit, who gave
much advice to those present. After the control ceased, Mr. Bullock
resumed his original address. Mr. Stevens also spoke at some length
of his experience in the investigation of Spiritualism, and the meeting
terminated with thanks to both speakers. On Sunday evening next,
March 19th, Mrs. Howard (Miss Baker) will deliver a trance address
at the rooms of this society.
Spiritualism in Wiesbaden.—Private seances are going on in Wies¬
baden. One of the mediums is an elderly and very orthodox lady, who
has healing powers, and who does much good to the poor; she also
possesses the power of developing writing and drawing mediums.
Before admitting one new member to her circle, she submitted him to
an examination on Scriptural subjects, which he would not have been
able to pass but for the accidental circumstance that he had previously
sat out a series of tough lectures on divinity, in order to pass an
examination of another kind.
Seance at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s.—On Wednesday evening,
last week, a private seance took place at the residence of Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, London. Mr.
Eglington was the medium. The guests present were the Kev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., Viscountess Avenmore, Mrs. Wilks, Mrs. Limond
Strong, and Mr. W. H. Harrison. A dark seance was held, at which
the usual manifestations took place. When the lights were first
extinguished two of the ladies who possess occasional clairvoyant
powers, saw in the total darkness the white satin dress, but not the face,
of the third lady, for perhaps two minutes, thus giving indication of
some connection between clairvoyant and natural vision, or unusual
sensitiveness to fluorescent rays. There was a cabinet seance after¬
wards with scarcely any results.
A Martyr.—Mr. Edward T. Bennett is a name well known to
Spiritualists and to Quakers. For collecting subscriptions to Mr.
Voysey, and otherwise expressing sympathy in his work (though at the
same time repudiating some of his opinions), he was disowned as a
member by the “ monthly meeting ” of the Society of Friends, to which
he belonged. He appealed to the “ quarterly meeting,” which confirmed
the decision. He then appealed to the “ yearly meeting,” the represen¬
tative of the whole body of the United Kingdom. The case excited a
great deal of attention in the society at the time. Mr. W. H. Kichard-
son, J.P., of Jarrow, and Mr. Edward Newman, the well-known natu¬
ralist, were the respondents on Mr. Bennett’s side. He had every
opportunity of sustaining his appeal, and a full hearing was given him,
resulting, however, in the confirmation of his disownment. Mr. Bennett
was known to be an ardent believer in Spiritualism, and many supposed
that this had not a little to do with the manner in which he was treated.
—North of England Review.
Psychological Influences.—Andrew Jackson Davis, in his Ap¬
proaching Crisis, says: “ The atmosphere is filled with individual
rivate experiences. These experiences are frequently reported to, and
y, those who are called mediums. Private details are interesting to
those only who have been the subject of such experiences. But the
finest evidences from the Summer Land, and the best things in Spirit¬
ualism, cannot be divulged to a promiscuous audience. Neither can
such evidences be made plausible to the reader of a newspaper, because
no speaker or writer can paint all the convincing items of conditions,
and the scenery which pertained to and accompanied the demonstration.
Only the general fact can be given to a hearer or a reader. Because a
third party cannot see the minutiae, the narration seems trite, and many
times unsatisfactory. Hence we say: ‘ Go seek for yourselves.’ Indi¬
viduals return to relate their private experiences; to say in touching
language what they think of the dear ones remaining on earth; to tell how
often they have watched over their loved; to narrate how many times
they have endeavoured to exert an influence in the way of guardianship,
and government, and protection; regretfully to inform the beloved how
often they have failed, or joyfully to tell how many times they have suc¬
ceeded. They tell us these things over and over again, and we have
accumulated unmistakable proofs of the truth. It cannot be fully
described to you, nor can you impart the vividness of the truth to
your neighbour—only the skeleton of the experience; but all the
internal interest can be conceived and treasured up by no one beside
yourself. Hence the basic historical facts of Spiritualism can never be
spread by propagandists. You cannot go about and preach the mere
externals into the reason and intentions of people. Spiritualists are
believers because of the incontrovertible evidences which they have
individually received or obtained by investigation.”
Mr. J. J. Mor^e delivered two trance addresses before the Liverpool
Psychological Society, in their rooms, Islington, Liverpool, on Sunday
last, Dr. "William Hitchman presiding on each occasion. The evening’s
address was upon “ Spiritual Evolution,” and was exceedingly well
received. The hall was crowded, not even standing room to be
obtained. Mr. Morse gave his services free of cost, to assist the funds
of the society.
March 17, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
131
SARAH GODBOLD.
Few circumstances have more evidenced the value of ex¬
perimental psychological research than the advent in the
drama of modern Spiritualism of Sarah Godbold. For the
benefit of those who have forgotten the circumstances, it
may be mentioned that recently at a members’ meeting of
the National Association of Spiritualists Mr. Redman mes¬
merised a young gentleman until the latter saw all that the
former ordered him to sec, and when he was thus helplessly
under his command, Mr. Redman caused him to see a bright
cloud, and an angel descend therefrom; this imaginary
being from another world was made to approach the sensi¬
tive, who was told that she would inspire him to utter words
of truth and wisdom, calculated to regenerate the human
race. Under these circumstances, with his intellect stimu¬
lated perhaps to an abnormal degree, the sensitive ejaculated,
11 Mankind! Prepare !” and added some commonplace re¬
marks. He was further asked the name of the angel, upon
which he turned to her and said, “ What is your name,
miss ?” The heavenly visitant then told him that her name
was Sarah Godbold. When, at the conclusion of the ex¬
periments, the sensitive awoke, Dr. Gully asked him did he
know a young lady of the name of Sarah Godbold, and was
she still living ? The young gentleman, with a surprised
and confused look, said that he did know such a damsel.
Dr. Gully remarked that he did not wish to be too inquisi¬
tive, but was she nice-looking ? This question conjured up
a bashful, sheepish glance, and the reply of “ Rather !”
The problem often suggests itself to what extent the
thoughts and desires of the members of a spirit circle in¬
fluence the utterances of a trance medium, also to what
extent spirit messages are coloured by his own mental nature.
That the messages do not come entirely from these sources
is clear, from the true revelations of fact they sometimes
contain, foreign to the minds of everybody in the room.
Nevertheless, the clue obtained in the case of Sarah God¬
bold, as to the amount of mesmeric influence sometimes at
work, should have been followed up; a sensitive of another
mental nature might perhaps have been made to uncon¬
sciously give a long address from an imaginary spirit under
the same conditions, and it would be easy to find out why
the one could make a long speech and the other but a short
one. Then the spirits of these and other sensitives should
be ordered by the mesmerist controlling them to move solid
objects, for there are plenty of instances now on record of
the spirits of sleeping or entranced persons producing
physical effects. Only by experiment, coupled with experi¬
ence, can much headway be made in the study of spiritual
phenomena. The winter meetings of the National Associa¬
tion have degenerated a little, by a maximum of talk being
therein ranged alongside a minimum of experiment; similar
experiences to many of those narrated by the speakers can
be learnt by the members at home by reading spiritual and
mesmeric literature, not that it is not as well that they
should make known what they have personally wit¬
nessed. An experiment in public is of more educational
value than an unlimited amount of individual testimony,
and the fact being recorded and criticised forth¬
with has a greater historical value, from the circum¬
stance that less error and less of the influence of the
individual opinions of the narrator are likely to creep in.
The Psychological Society is forming an experimental com¬
mittee, and if the committee does its work well, its meetings
will soon surpass in general interest and in permanent value
the present public meetings of the National Association of
Spiritualists, if the latter are to fall to the level of a discus¬
sion class, although some good will be done by the publi¬
cation of individual experiences. A meeting to consider the
subject of clairvoyance will be held next Monday. Has
Dr. Sheldon Chadwick been invited to attend ? He professes
to be able to show experiments in public on that subject.
Has Mr. Howell, the mesmerist who lectured before the
Dalston society, been invited to attend any of the meetings ?
Has Mr. Perrin been asked? or Mr. Redman, subsequently
to the lectures at which he exhibited experiments ? Has any
invitation been sent to Mr. Fowler, to Mr. Spencer Hall, or
to other mesmerists whose names could be learnt by a little
inquiry ? If the meetings are to go on without experiments,
and without attempts to obtain the presence of those most
experienced in the subjects under consideration, they will lose
correspondingly both in present interest and in permanent
value.
THE PERSECUTION OF SPIRITUALISTS IN PARIS.
Paris, March 10th.
The Report from the Court of Cassation to the Procureur
General has not yet been made, though several weeks have
elapsed since the rejection of his pourvoi. These rapports
are generally made in three days. The question of the
prison to which M. Leymarie will go, and of the interval of
time allowed before going to it, cannot be settled till after it
is made. We hope to find a somewhat less hostile spirit in
the next Government than in that of M. Buffet.
J. L. O’Sullivan.
We regret to state that Mr. Colman, the medium, has been seriously
ill. He is slowly recovering.
Mrs. Bassett has been giving a series of seances in Portsmouth, at
which remarkable manifestations have been witnessed in the presence of
the Rev. Mr. Colley and others.
After a journey prolonged by illness, Prince Wittgenstein has
reached St. Petersburg, and is now residing at the palace of Prince
Paskewitsch in that city.
Winter Meetings of the National Association of Spiritualists.—
The subject for discussion at 38, Great Russell-street, next Monday
evening at 7.30 p.m., is “ Clairvoyance,” Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D., in
the chair.
The Memorial to Marshal Macmahon.—About three hundred addi¬
tional signatures to the petition in favour of M. Leymarie have been
received by the National Association of Spiritualists, within the last
fortnight, making a complete list of over eleven hundred signatures.
A German correspondent, writing about the perplexities besetting the
study of mediumship, as exemplified in the assertions of Hafed, says:—
“ Even our great Handel, with his inexhaustible wealth of ideas, used
whole pieces of Stradella and Purcell^ in such a manner that the
discoverer might well pause to decide upon the questions of “ Chance ? ”
or “ Theft?”
Rules of Spiritual Societies.—The Dalston Association of Inquirers
into Spiritualism, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, has just published a
revised edition of its rules and prospectus, drawn up with great care,
and the result of the experience of many years. Other local societies,
when engaged in the work of revising or reprinting their prospectuses,
cannot do better than to send for a copy of the one just issued by the
Dalston Society, as it would doubtless furnish useful suggestions. The
rules of the National Association of Spiritualists, which are suitable for
organisations having a large sphere of operations, are also exceedingly
perfect, the result of some months of deliberation by members, many of
whom possess considerable experience in public life. The said rules
have frequently been criticised by persons who desired to find fault with
them, but who found no loophole for adverse comment; indeed, the
Brixton Psychological society found them so useful as to resolve, that
if its own rules did not apply to any particular case which might occur,
those passed by the National Association should be enforced. By this
simple arrangement the Brixton Society found it necessary to frame but
a few special rules for itself, adapted to its general routine work. If
the Brixton, Liverpool, and Dalston societies could agree among them¬
selves to adopt one particular set of rules, it would save expense in
printing; indeed, the National Association of Spiritualists might then,
perhaps, if requested, agree to print them for the local societies for
nothing, on condition that it was allowed to put its own prospectus on
one of the pages.
Seances in Newcastle-on-Tyne.—On Tuesday evening, March 7th,
about thirty persons, among whom were many visitors, assembled at
the rooms of the Newcastle Spiritual Society for a seance with Miss
Fairlamb, the medium. It was decided to sit for materialisation, and
everything being cleared out of the cabinet, the medium was well bound
with cord to an arm-chair, and the knots sealed. After a time one or
two figures showed themselves for a moment or so at the division of the
curtain, but not for sufficient time to be identified; nor did they come
out, but the medium was heard to exclaim, “ Oh, don’t, Geordie! oh,
don't! ” She added that the spirit was pulling her chair down. It was
found that the two side legs of the right hand side of the chair, to¬
gether with the cross rails, had been forced out, and the medium had
been placed with her chair sideways, so that she should not fall. On
Thursday evening Miss Wood did not put in an appearance, nor more
than a dozen members, so no seance was held; but on Sunday morning
last an harmonious circle, to the number of sixteen, assembled, with
Miss Fairlamb as medium. This resulted in “Geordie” showing his
face with dark beard at the curtain, which he drew aside for the pur¬
pose, speaking in monosyllables once or twice in reply to questions;
also in n Cissy ” showing herself and the medium at the same time, the
curtains being pulled on one side several times for the purpose. At
the close of the seance Miss Fairlamb was found securely bound with
cords, the knots all in such a position that she could not by any means
have done it herself; it had, therefore, to be taken as another evidence
of spirit power, as the medium was put in the cabinet unbound,—J. T.
Rhodes.
132
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 17, 1876.
THE PHYSIOLOGY OF MEDIUMSHIP.
There is a great want at the present time of a good
physiologist inside the Spiritual movement who will give a
large portion of his time to the observation and tabulation
of the various physiological changes which take place in
mediums and mesmeric sensitives during the occurrence of
phenomena which take place in their presence. At such
times there are rapid bodily changes of temperature; some¬
times also one hand of the sensitive will grow hot whilst the
other becomes icy cold; the pulse varies at ditferent parts of
a seance. A physiologist, by noting these and other changes,
could infer from them some of the varying states of the brain
during the occurrence of certain manifestations, and could
show the relationship of some of the conditions to abnormal
states already familiar to the medical profession. This work
will have to be done before mediumship is thoroughly under¬
stood, and at present we know of nobody who has sys¬
tematically undertaken the task. We should be glad to
publish the results. Physicists have done good work inside
Spiritualism, but where are the physiologists ? While Dr.
Carpenter and others are wasting breath and printer’s ink by
ignorantly abusing Spiritualism from without, where are the
physiologists who are doing work for it within ?
SYMBOLICAL SPIRIT MESSAGES.
From the higher as well as the lower spheres of the spirit
world, mystical writings and drawings are profusely given
through the hands of mediums, and the close study of the results
by Mrs. De Morgan and others has resulted in the general
conclusion that they are attempts on the part of spirits to
convey intelligence and ideas to mortals by sign and by
symbol. The following is one of these messages, with its
This cup which we try to show L. M.
is emblematical of my life. It was
fruity in its beginning, precociously so.
It became, therefore, a sacramental cup
of suffering to myself and you, my be¬
loved mother, and of intense anxiety to
my father. What should be wine in the
chalice is passed away into spiritual
effluence. The one star in the golden
circlet crowning the flame,is emblematical
of my transformed nature now that it has
passed from time into eternity; also it
manifests to those who perceive and
read the meaning of spiritual symbolisms,
that I might have been a star upon
earth, light-giving to millions. But mourn
not, for what may appear the darkening
of that star is only a momentary eclipse
when weighed in the balance of eternity.
1 am here to become the inspirer of
many such stars, under God’s benign
providence. When I came here I met
my father; "he and I begged Him not to
make me a providence of evil, or what
appeared evil unto others, but the announcer of light and living truths.
This was the effect of your latest baptism, for even your visits to my
dead body were not fruitless to my spiritual life. I had not left that
chamber, emancipated though I was, for there I felt you, and the yearn¬
ing for a mother’s love was even stronger when I stood before God
than it had been before. My father first led me to God with this prayer :
“ Bless him, oh God, for the sake of Thy truth, and the earnest living
prayers that have ascended like incense unto Thy throne from a devoted
and truth-loving mother, who dedicated her son to Thee, and unto Thy
service, before he was born, and that he should be Thine in time and
eternity. My aspirations—though not my prayers, for then I did not
pray—went with hers ^ but the strong believing spirit in the wife and
mother has given unto Thy service a true and earnest spirit, and thanks
be to Thy good keeping, a diligent worker, pure of heart as when he
left Thy hand.” Then did this cup appear, the crushed grapes coming
first, which, the Holy Spirit informed us, meant my eartlily developed
mental and quickly-ended physical existence, and, as described in the
beginning, the lesson was given after this prayer. I sought you in the
accustomed place in your own room—in the chamber of the dead ; my
body and you had alike passed out of it, but I found you, and followed
you, guided by my father, who knew all things appertaining unto the
spiritual condition. My desire is that before you leave this earthy
sphere, my beloved mother, you write and seal up these things to be
given to my little one, when he shall know what these things mean. I
kfiOw not if his life will be long, for God hath not revealed it unto me,
but as we proceed, you and I in Spiritual communion, matters that are
essential for his well-being will be' revealed. Be not anxious; many
angels surround its baby bed, your prayers and our prayers made here
accompanying drawing.
'I for his well-being, they mingle and return as the dew of heaven to keep
[| the lialo of holiness and purity which now enshrines his spirit intact.
11 God bless thee!
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
| The monthly session of the Council of this Association was held on
Thursday evening last week; present—Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen, in the
chair; Mrs. A. Corner,'Mr. John Rouse, Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mrs.
M. T. Wood, and Mr. Thomas Blyton. The minutes of the last meet¬
ing were read and confirmed. Letters were read from Mrs. Showers,
Mr. R. Cocker, and the Countess of Caithness; Miss Margaret Marsden
i Cocker and Mr. Henry Sayer were elected ordinary members. A letter
! from the resident secretary of the British National Association of
Spiritualists was read stating that the Dalston Association's proposal
for alliance with that Association had been accepted unanimously.
The alliance having been thus ratified, it was resolved that Mr. R.
Pomeroy Tredwen be appointed the representative of the Dalston As-
! sociation, to be ex-officio a member of Council of the British National
Association. A copy of the revised prospectus and rules for the
current half-year was submitted and approved. The presentation to
I the library by Mr. J. N. T. Martheze of copies of Identity of Primitive
Christianity and Modern Spiritualism, and Startling Facts in Modern
j Spiritualism; by Mr. John Rouse, of True Christian Religion, and
j Theory of Pneumatology; and, by the Countess of Caithness, of
ij Through the Ages, and Old Truths in a New Light, were reported,
i and a vote of thanks accorded to the donors. It was resolved
,] to advertise the Association in the columns of The Spiritualist news-
i paper. The hon. secretary reported arrangements for the meeting to
II be held on the 30th instant, the proceedings of which will consist of the
i narration of the experiences of investigators, and explained that
several short papers from different members would be read, one of
j which would be by Mrs. Catherine Woodforde.
^tobinctal jf£eto8.
jl NEWCASTLE.
! H Miss Wood has resigned her position as one of the mediums to the
lu Newcastle Spiritual Society.
Mr. W. Lee, of 42, Pine-street, Newcastle, has written some excellent
||{ letters to the Newcastle Daily Journal, setting forth the truths of
jjj Spiritualism.
i|i In a recent trance address at Newcastle, the spirits, through Mr.
|)i Morse, described the spiritual order of progression of the states of man
lli thus:—First, love; secondly, justice; thirdly, wisdom; thus justice
jji and wisdom were ranked higher than the unbalanced affections of the
l/j human spirit.
LIVERPOOL.
Experiments in Mesmerism.—At a recent meeting of the Liverpool
Psychological Society, Mr. Coates, who had no subjects present, in¬
vited some of the audience to submit themselves to his hands. Mr. A.
Lamont first consented ; in a few seconds the operator catalepsed his
right leg, and made rigid his arm, without affecting his brain, or in
any way disturbing his consciousness. Mr. Charlton next submitted to
experiment, and felt the operator’s influence. Mr. Vaughan staggered
and reeled about like a drunken man ; another gentleman was made
rigid, and was placed with his head on one chair and his feet upon
another. Dr. Hitchman, who weighs eighteen stone ten pounds, sat
down upon him, without producing the slightest effect. A little girl
was thrown into the mesmeric sleep. All the experiments were of an
elementary nature ; but sufficed to show that the lecturer had power
over subjects who were well-known gentlemen in Liverpool, so that no
charge of collusion could be made out.
Education op Women.—What do women want with any higher
education ? They want it because the duties allotted to women by the
Creator’s order require the highest mental and moral discipline, and an
ignorant or low-minded mother injures society at its very root in the
family; they want it because, by causes beyond their control, more
and more women are driven to their own exertions for support, and can
have no chance in the labour market if to their natural disadvantage be
added the artificial one of want of training; they want it because we
live in revolutionary times, when the old beliefs, the old traditions
which hedged round the lives of women, at least, in a safe and guarded
path, are called in question in every review, in every newspaper, in
every novel; and women can no longer walk, like children, in leading
strings, but in this trial of all things must be taught to discern and hold
fast that which is good. They want it because, in the fierce competi¬
tions of modem society, the only leisure class left in the country is that
of women supported in easy circumstances by husband or father, and
it is to this class we must look for the maintenance of cultivated and
refined tastes, of the value and pursuit of knowledge and art for their
own sakes, which can alone save society from degenerating into a huge
machine for making money and gratifying the love of sensual luxury.—
Letter from Mrs, Grey in the “ Times.'1
March 17, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
ON SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF 11 THE SPIRITUALIST”
NEWSPAPER,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
LONDON, W.O.
(Entrance in Woburn-street).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;aud well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay deftning the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. Cd.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. Od.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHESINTHEPHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume's “ Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual idienomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York. U S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Yol. II., by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychicl Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolicaL He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols.. crown 8vo., 15s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M, King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro-
positions to man m the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they wiil not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion ; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spint Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium fight. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Fneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
ana Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell>
7s Od.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens • these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in "The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrews itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will he by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.: or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made.by disbelievers that spirit messages are of atrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. "The Prophecy of Vala,” published
n this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote ‘during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. 6a.; cheap edition,
7s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott'. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author , and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
5s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d. '
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
TI1E FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudsoii Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.O.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. Cd.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. Sd.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. 6d.  
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS,by Brevier. 9s.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Bev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists, is. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott, 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer,” a. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations ... . . , 15 #
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ ■ . ' . . .76
The Seer. „ III, „ . , . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. ... , . . .76
The Thinker. ..V. „ . . . . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis , , .76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . ,36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . .36
Harbinger of Health , . . . . . . 7 6
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . , , ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .36
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . ..60
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained •. . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . ..50
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime . ,60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . . 2 6
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology. . . .30
Morning Lectures . . . . , , '.76
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists,
President :
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
(Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Council t
Mrs. C. Ada Blyton, Mr. Jonathan Tozeland,
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. Thomas Wilks,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood.
Mr. John Rouse,
Honorai-y Secretary and Treasurer .—-Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms:—Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
Extracts from Prospectus.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. to which Members are admitted, as well
as members of similar Associations which reciprocate similar
privilege. Strangers can lonly be admitted to the ordinary seance
held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted
totspecutl seances with professional media, lectures, discussions,
reading of papers, or.narration of experiences of investigators; to
which strangers are admitted under the same regulations as are
enforced on the first Thursday evening in each month. Tickets for
such ordinary meetings as may be of general interest, in connection
with the “ Brixton Psychological Society,” are also placed at the
disposal of Membera of the Association by that Society in reciprocity
of the privilege granted by the Association to similar organisations.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending, the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the Euglish Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
The alliance existing between this association and the “ British
National Association of Spiritualists ” will greatly assist the mem¬
bers in their inquiries, as amongst the objects for which that
Association was established in 1873 are the following., viz.;
To aid students and inquirers in their researches into certain
phenomena, known as Spiritual or Psychic: to assist in giving
publicity to the results of such researches: to afford information to
inquirers into these subjects, by correspondence and otherwise: and
to collect statistical facts respecting Spiritualism.”
All communications to be addressed to the Honorary Secretary,
at the Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, K A
stamped addressed envelope should be enclosed in all letters re¬
quiring replies. Copies of the prospectus, rules, circle regulations,
directions‘‘how to form spirit circles,” and catalogue of books in
the.library, with any further information, can be obtained on appli¬
cation.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s, All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life and Honorary Membership:—Persons approving of the
purposes of the Association, and desirous of aiding the same,
can become life members on payment of a minimum donation
of £2 2s.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By O. M. Bumett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. 6d.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experimenta relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. 6d.) 4s..
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-hfe. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and signifleance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion is pourtray ed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S.: Colby and Rich. London Spirit¬
ualist Office, 38, Great Russell-street.
BOARD and RESIDENCE, Upper Norwood.—
A lady, of liberal views and Nonconformist, desires to
establish in her own house a friendly family party of two or
three ladies.' Young orphan ladies would find this a pleasant
home, and those who wish to study will have advantages in
joining the classes now so popular at the Crystal Palace
Schools of Art. Terms—130 guineas per annum, or proper
tionately less for a shorter term. Address—Alpha, 1, Bemard-
villas, Upper Norwood.
;v
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Maech 17, 1876,
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. W. H. HARRISON.
Committee.
Martin B. Smith, Esq.
Charles .Blackburn, Esq.
Sir Chas. Isham, Bart.
Baroness Adelma von Yay.
Mrs. MakdOugall Gregory. .
H. D. Jencken, Esq. M.B.I.
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq., M.S.
TeUS.
N. F. Da we, Esq.
Miss Douglas.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.
Mrs. Honywood.
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgen-
stein.
Alexander Calder, Esq.
Alexander Tod, Esq.
Mrs. Eate Fox-Jencken.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq.,
F.R.S.
James Wason, Esq.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
James Mylne, Esq.
Secretary and Treasurer.
Martin B. Smith, Esq., 38, Great Bussell-street, London, W.C.
S UBSCEIPTIONS TO THE HAEBISON TESTIMONIAL.
LIST CLOSED FEB. llTH, 1876.
Mr. Martin B. Smith.....     £50 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn    50 0 0
Mr. J. N. T. Martheze     50 0 0
Mr. James Mylne        40 0 0
Mr. Alexander Calder    1  20 0 0
A Friend  ...:.. 20 0 0
Mr. Alexander Tod      20 0 0
Comte de Bullet.;        20 0 0
Mr. N: F. Dawe            15 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.      10 0 0
Mr J. M. Gully, M.D.    10 0 0
Prince Paskievitsch       6 7 7
Prince Gagarin      U... 6 7 7
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgenstein     ;  6 0 0
f. s. a aaa        s * o
Mr. C. F. Varley, F.B.S     5 0 0
Mr. Eugene Crowell, M.D  5 0 0
Mrs. Louisa Lowe !  5 0 0
Mr. Charles Massey      ;......   5 0 0
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald .....;  500
A Friend        5 0 0
Mr. A. Tod (Second Subscription) 5 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn  „ „ 5 0 0
Mr. C. C. Massey    „ 5 0 0
Mr. A. Calder  „ „ 5 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.   „ „ 5 0 0
F. S. A.   „ „ 5 0 0
Signor Damiani       3 3 0
Mrs.Honywood .'.        2 2 0
Mr. Morell Theobald .....'. .'.    2 2 0
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S .' 1  2 2 0
Mr. S. Ohinnery      2 2 0
Mr. S. Templeman Speer, M.D    2 2 0
11 Ennesfallen ”   2 2 0
Three Friends....   i  2 2 0
Mr. A. L. Henderson        2 2 0
Col. Olcott........  2 0 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory     2 0 0
Mr. Epes Sargent   2 0 0
Dr. Baikie    t..i 2 0 0
Miss Douglas     2 0 0
M. H. C    2 0 0
M. Gustave de Veh     2 0 0
Mr. Geo. Sutherland.....   2 0 0
Miss Anna Blackwell       2 0 0
Mr. Eeningale Cook  1 11 6
Mr. Geo. King       110
Mr. F. A. Binney    110
Mr. J. Coates     110
Mrs. Maltby        110
Mrs. Kislingbury   110
Mr. B. W. Pycock      110
Mr. B. Coleman       110
Mr. B. Fitton           110
Major Menars J.  110
Mr. John Lamont       110
Mr. Archibald Lamont     110
Mr. T. B. Griffin        110
Mr. J. B. Stones   110
Mr. G. W. F. Wiese   1 1 0
Rev. W. Whitear     110
Miss Whitear     1 1 0
Mr. C. E. Williams   110
Mr. A; Glendinning   1 1 0
Mr. H. Withall     110
Captain James    110
Mr‘. F. W. Percival  1 1 0
Mr. Christian Reimers    110
Mr. Thos; Hinde    110
Mr. Thos. Grant    .'  1 1 ,0
Mrs. Geo. Neville      110
Mr. G. B. Tapp        110
Mr. J. Clark Ferguson    110
Mrs. Woodforde         110
Mr. T. M. Simkks    110
A Friend    110
A Friend, per Miss Williamson  110
Mr. W. P. Adshead        110
Mr. D. H. Wilson   110
Mrs. M. T. Wood  110
Mr. John Scott     1 1 0
Mr.C.T. Hook ;..     110
Mr. W. White   110
Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy  110
Dr. W. Hitchman .'  110
Mr. E. D. Rogers     1-0 0
Mr. R. Corbet      10 0
M. B      10 0
Baroness von Vay  1 0 0
Dr. W. M. Buchanan   10 0
Miss E. D. Ponder  10 0
A Subscriber   10 0
Amicus     10 0
Mr. A. C. Swinton    10 0
M.A. (Oxon.)..      10 0
Mr. J. H. Gledstanes  1*0 0
Mr. William Oxley..  10 0
Mr. Geo. Dee     0 10 6
Mr. W. E. Bassett  0 10 6
Mr. T. H. Edmands  .v  0 10 6
Mr. Aaron Franklin       0 10 6
Mrs. Aaron Franklin       0 10 6
Mr. J. S. Crjsp         0 10 0
Miss F. J. Theobald       0 10 6
Mr. St. George Stock    0 10 0
Mr. Geo. Bly ton       0 10 0
Mr. G. H. Potts  0 10 0
J. F. O.         0 10 0
Mr. E, Storey         :  0 10 6
Mr. J. Deane      0 10 6
O. S. S.           0 10 0
A. C.        0 10 0
A. B. O.       0 8 6
Mr. Algernon Joy      0 6 0
Miss Eislingbury    
“ Peterboro ”  
A. C. W   
Miss Emily FitzGerald  
A Clergyman   
A Reader of The Spiritualist
Mr. Wm. Robinson   
Mr. E. Pearce   
“ Mercy ”  
An Old Friend i
Miss Mackay   
The Misses Young  
V 
A Well-wisher  
Mr. Young   
Mr. James Eilbraith...  
Small sums  
Guarantee Fund 
0 5 0
0 5 0
0 5 0
0 5 0
0 5 0
0 5 0
0 5 0
0 5 0
0 0
0 5 0
0 5 0
0 5 0
0 5 0
0 5 0
0 5 0
0 5 0
0 5 3
200 0 0
Just published in one volume, handsomely got up, and printed
on toned paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY
OF THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an
Angel in the tenth state.
Contents.
CHAP. 1.—TheUnity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.—-The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
„ 3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences
in the Spiritual world,
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God.
„ 5.—The purpose of God in creation.
, 6.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
, 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
, 8.—The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
, 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
„ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
, 11.—The Lost Orb. Part 1.
„ 12.—The Argelic Society of Aaron’s Rod.
„ 13.—The Lost Orb. Part II.
,, 14.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ 15.—The Lost Orb. Part III.
„ 16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an ac¬
count of the Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby,
with her experiences in the other life, up through the states
to the tenth in which she is now in, and communicates as the
Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a
full account concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo-
printed, of the Angel, the original of which was produced by
the direct operation of Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjects treated of are
of such thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense
to make it a handsome volume, and not being published with
any regard to profit, it is hoped that a large circulation may
be obtained.
Price of the volume 6s.
On sale at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38,
Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
SPIRITUAL SCIENTIST, of Boston, Mass.,
IO U.S.A. The most faithful and impartial exponent of
Spiritualism in America. The title, Spiritual Scientist, clearly
indicates the character of the paper. Unlike all other
Spiritual journals, it gathers from the great authors of ancient
time the fruits of their researches into the secrets of nature
and the laws of the Spiritual Universe. On the Occult
Sciences it has many able contributors, and solicits correspon¬
dence.
Published weekly. Scientist Pub. Co., publishers. E Gerry
Brown, Editor. Offices, 18, Exchange-street, and 24, Devon-
shire-street. The Scientist is now in its fourth volume. Terms
of subscription, in advance, 13s. per annum, including postage.
Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.C.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS
WORLD AND THE NEXT. By Robert Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive proof,
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, yet which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This book affirms that the strongest
of all historical evidences for modern Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
of Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Bussell-
street, London.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT-LAND.—Being
Life-Experiences, Scenes, Incidents, and Conditions
illustrative of Spirit-Life and the principles of the Spiritual
Philosophy. Of practical value to any who are anxious to
study the theories of Spiritualists and Mediums, for the purpose
of deducing a consistent system of faith concerning the
future, its rewards and punishments, &c., as it establishes a
basis in reason for its propositions, and asks no blind accep¬
tance of statements, but enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Given inspirationally through Mrs. Maria M. King. Cloth,
5s. 6d. Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-
street, London, W.O.   ■
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, THE TWO
CLEVER SCEPTIC 8. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R S., X.Y.Z., B.IG.A.S.S.,and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d : post free, 6£d. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
M
ESMERISM,
FASCINATION.
ELECTRO-BIOLOGY,
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological
phenomena.
How to know Sensitive Subjects.
How to develop Clairvoyant Media.
How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DR. MOSES RIGG can teach any person efficiently by post.
Pamphlets and testimonials gratis, or by post, Id. stamp.
Address, 9, Granville-square, London, W.O. At home daily
from 10 till 5.
rrHE ALPHA ; OR, THE FIRST PRINCIPLE
-I OF THEHUMANMIND; A Revelation, but no Mystery,
with Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait of the Author
E. N. Dennys. “ We can call to mind few books fit to be its
fellows.”—Athenxum. “It contains more truth, poetry,
philosophy, and logic, than any work we have ever read;
it is a new revelation, and one of the most remarkable produc¬
tions ever given to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
Also just published, witha beautiful Engraving of the Author
470 pages, on toned paper, handsomely bound, price 3s. 6d.
rpHE RELIGION OF LIFE, AS EXEM-
-i PLIFIED BY THE MAN JESUS CHRIST, a Series of
Lectures, by the author of “ Alpha.” A synopsis of the topics
may be obtained free on application.
CONTENTS:—What is Evil? Charity; Poverty—its Evils
and its Mission; The Divinity that Dwells in Man; The Church
of the Future; “Stand up! I myself also am a Man;" The
Path of Righteousness; Trust in God; Self-Trust; What is
Christianity? Thy Kingdom Come! What is Man ? The'• one
thing” desired by the Psalmist; Pure Religion; Philosophy;
The Childhood of Jesus; Religious Liberty; Election and
Grace; Time; Sin; Law the Regenerator; The Last Judg¬
ment; God is not Mocked; The Unchristian Character of
Riches; Peace; Religion Consists in Action; The Millennium,
and how to obtain it.
The work is also published in nine parts, eight at 4d. each
and one at 6d., done up in neat wrappers.
“THE UNCHRISTIAN CHARACTER OF RICHES" and
“RELIGION CONSISTS IN ACTION” are also published
separately at Id. each.
*** The cordial aid of the friends of education, intellectual
progress, and religious liberty is earnestly solicited to make
these works as widely known as possible. They contain the
most important of all knowledge, by a deep and original
thinker, and will be supplied at cost price for extensive circu¬
lation. They have been brought out in a variety of forms to
suit the means of all classes of readers.
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
First Edition.
IMPORTANT NEW PUBLICATION.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS INTO SP1R1T-
' UALISM. ^
A PAMPHLET, the full size of The Spiritualist, containing a
large amount of information, compiled especially for inquirers,
will be shortly issued from The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office at 38, Great Russell-street, London, for sale at public
meetings,
PRICE ONE PENNY.T
There has long been a demand for some such publication
as this, the current spiritual newspapers not always containing
the most suitable or most condensed information for persons
to whom the subject of Spiritualism is a’ strange one.
Many thousands of copies of the publication will be printed,
and kept on sale by vendors of spiritual literature, and at
spiritual meetings throughout the country.
From the large circulation thus secured, it will be a
VALUABLE CHANNEL FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
To Mediums, Mesmerists, Authors of Spiritual Books, and
others. The charge for advertisements will be One Shilling
for the first twenty-five words, and Sixpence for every addi¬
tional twenty-five words, or portion thereof. Displayed adver¬
tisements Five Shillings per inch.
All advertisements should be sent in as soon as possible, as
the publication will come out in a few weeks' time.
Special arrangements will be made to supply local societies
with copies at a cheap rate, if ordered in large quantities; the
said societies may thus considerably increase their income by
the profits on sales.
All communications on this subject should be addressed to
the Editor of The Spiritualist, 38, Great Russell-street, Blooms¬
bury, London, W.O.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics o*
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
established in 1869.
npHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
A. oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E, F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, the Naturalist: Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittoenstein (Wies¬
baden): The Countess of Caithness; the Duke of Leuchtenberg;
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent;(Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templemau Speer, M.D. (Edln.);
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn: Mr.
St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason: Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ": Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Raw; Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. di. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Linclesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents iu the United.Kingdom, 10s. lod
To residents in the United States, 4 dols. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-placo,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to “The Manager
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street. London
W.C.”
[December, 1875.]
Just Published. Price 2a
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Oo.
Printed for the Proprietor by Bevekidqe & Co., at the
Holbom Printing Works, Full wood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
