AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[REGISTEEED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 112.—(Vol. Y.—No. 16.) LONDON: OCTOBER 16j 1874. Published Weekly; Price Twopence*
Contents*
185
186
186
Spirit Teachings. No: XIX      181
Household Work Disturbed by Spirits :—^Description of the Scene of
the Disturbances—Mary Spiegel, the Medium—Flying Eggs and an
Explosive Pie—Skating Dishes and Floating Pails—A Lively Pitcher—
Brutal Treatment of the Medium—Attempt of the Medium to Commit
Suicide  ...    ...   183
Meeting in Marylebone on National Organisation:—Organisation in
America         
A Curious Luminous Phenomenon in the Isle of Wight...  
The National Association of SpiritualistsMeeting of the Council—
Miscellaneous Business—Offices for the National Association—Mr.
J. M. Peebles on National Organisation—A Soiree in December—The
Assistant Secretaryship—New Members for the Coming Year...
The Farewell soiree to Mr. Morse:—Mr. EverittonMr. Morse’s Career
—Dr. Sexton on Spiritualism in the Provinces—An Inspirational
Address by Mrs. Tappan—Mr. Morse's Parting Words—Mr. Shorter
on International Spiritualism—Inspirational Address by Mr. Morse 187
Farewell Soiree to Mr. Morse in Liverpool    190
Poetry!—United Work ... ...     190
Correspondence:—National Organisation—Materialisation Seance at Dar¬
lington—Mr. Spurgeon and Spiritualism—Ennesfallen's Medium-
ship—Offices for the National Association—A Parting Letter from
Mr. Morse   : 190
Soiree of Darlington Spiritualists...  192
Paragraphs:—The Mesmeric influence of Church Ceremonies, 185;
The Rev. F.R. Young inLiverpool, 190; Departure of Mr. Morse, 190;
Passed to Spirit Life, 192; Pine’s Spiritual Telegraph, 192; Mrs.
Tappan on “ Why does not God Kill the Devil,” ... ...  , ... 192
Answers to Correspondents  :    192
RAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSURANCE
COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated under Act of Parliament, 25 26 Viet., cap. 89.)
42, POULTRY (CORNER OF OLD JEWRY), LONDON.
SIMPLE FORM OF ASSURANCE.
Single premium covering the whole life, but payable in two instalments
if preferred.
Cost of assurance reduced by two-thirds.
Profits divided amongst the members.
Trustees.—James Abbiss, Esq., Andrew Johnston, Esq., K. Biddulph
Martin, Esq., Sir John Murray. Bart., James White, Esq.
Directors.—Sir John Murray, Bart. (Chairman), Michael Angelo, Esq.,
William Berry, Esq., John Brown, Esq., Courtenay Clarke, Esq., Arthur
lago, Esq., Lord Frederick H. Kerr, M. E. Marsden, Esq., R. B. Martin,
Esq„ M.A., F.S.S., Captain W. S. M. Rayner, H. Osborne White, Esq.,
Major J. O. Wray.
Consulting Actuary.—Peter Gray, Esq., F.R.A.S., Hon. Fellow Institute'of
Actuaries.
Medical Officer.—Thos. Boor Crosby, M.D., F.R.C.S., England.
Bankers.—Messrs. Martin and Co., 68, Lombard-street.
Solicitors.—Messrs. Carr, Bannister, Davidson and Morriss.
Auditors.—Robert Lucas Nash, Esq., H. W. S. Whiffln, Esq. (Messrs.
Lovelock and Whiffin).
Managing Director.—Mr. William Burr, F.R.S.
CLASS.
• A. B ” Insuring a sum
if Killed, and Allow¬
ance Weekly if in¬
jured.
A.’’ Death only.
“ B.” Weekly Allow¬
ance only. '
oa
SM
£
1000
500
250
100
1000
500
Weekly Allow¬
ance for
Total
Disable¬
ment. ;
£ s. d.
6 0 0
3 0 0
1 10 0
10 0
6 0 0
3 0 0
Partial
Disable¬
ment.
£ s.d.
1 10 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
1 10 0
0 18 0
PREMIUMS.
Single
Paymnt
£ s.d.
3 0 0
1 14 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
110
0 11 6
By Two Instals.
Present
Paymt
£ 8. d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
0 11 6
0 6 6
20 126 126
3 0 0 12 6, 0 12
Paymt
within
TwoYrs
£ s. d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
0 11 6
0 6 6
AGENT—MR. THOMAS BLYTON,4
12, St. Philip’s-road, Dalston, London, E.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833. ,
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
promote the study of PdRtmatology and Psychology; to aid students and
inquirers in their researches; by placing at their disposal the moans of sys¬
tematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or
Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful re¬
search; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
•results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. Louis Freeman, York-hill Farm, Loughton, Essex, of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
A THIRD SERIES OF
INSPIRATIONAL DISCOURSES,
BY MRS. CORA L. V. TAPPAN, ON SUNDAY EVENINGS.
Committee.
A lexander Calder, Esq.. The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.—Chairman.
N. Fabyan Dawe, Esq., Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.; Dr.
Gully, Bedford-bill, Balham, S.W.: Mrs. Honywood, 52, Warwick-square,
Pimlico, S.W.; Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands Wimbledon Common,
S.W.; Thomas Slater, Esq., 136, Euston-road, N.W.; G. N. Strawbridge,
Esq., and Mrs. Strawbridge, Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Webster Glynes, Esq., 4, Gray’s Inn-square, W.C.
(Hon. Secretary and Treasurer.)
THE above ladies and gentlemen encouraged by the
success which attended the two former courses of lectures last
season, by Mrs. Tappan, have formed themselves into a committee with
power to add to their number for engaging that Lady for the whole of the
coming season.
There will be 36 lectures, commencing on the 25th of October, and
ending in June next, divided into courses of twelve each, which will be
delivered on' Sunday evenings at The Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer
street, Portland-place.
A subscriber of £5 for the whole series will be entitled to a reserved
seat for himself and a friend.
Tickets to admit one person for a course of 12 lectures will be issued at
24s., and 12s. each.
There will be a limited number of 6d. tickets.
All seats not claimed five minutes before delivery of the address will be
filled up if required.
Tickets to be obtained only of the Secretary and Treasurer, on enclosing
post office order. Single Tickets will be sold at the doors.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 59 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4£d. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on.
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathedrals, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Pogt
Office orders payable to M, Loymarie.
11
THE SPIRITUALISE
Oct. 16, 1874,
THE LIYEEPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Oitice-Bbaeees eor 1874.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Eussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.—Mr. Archibald Lamont, Mr. William Meredith,
Mr. Gh Wharmby, Mr. Dinsdale, Mr. R. Casson, Mr. D. Gay, Mr. T. B.
Griffin, Mr. Riece, Mr. Davis, Mr. Knox, Mr. Garland, Mr. Dean, Mrs.
Dinsdale, Mrs. Casson, Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
HE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
■ of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.. .
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OE ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. {Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly ; fis. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
A. M. GREENE, lion. Secretary.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Oogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
TRUBNER AND CO.’S PUBLICATIONS.
THE HONEYMOON. Remembrance of a Bridal Tour through Scotland
By the Count'de Medina Pomar. Now ready. In two vols., Crown 8vo
Price 21s.
MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN’S WORKS.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD. With
Narrative Illustrations. An enlarged English Copyright Edition,
Post 8vo., p.p. 412, cloth, 7s. 6d.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS WORLD AND THE
NEXT. With Illustrative Narrations. Crown 8vo., pp. 456, cloth, 9s.
THREADING MY WAY: Twenty-Seven Years of Autobiography. Crown
8vo., pp. 344, cloth, 7s. 6d.
“ A very pleasant little hook.’’—Saturday Review.
THE CREED OF CHRISTENDOM its Foundations contrasted with its
Superstructure By W. R. Greg. Third Edition. With a new Intro¬
duction, Two Vols., crown 8vo, pp. 272 and 290, cloth, 15s.
ENIGMAS OF LIFE. By W. R. Greg. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo., pp. xxi.—
308, cloth, 10s. 6d.
Contents:—Realizable Ideals—Malthus Notwithstanding—Non-Survival
of the Fittest—Limits and Directions of Human Development—The Sig
niflcance of Life—De Profundis—Elsewhere—Appendix.
THE DESTINY OF MAN, The Storm King, and other Poems. By
Frederick Griffin. Fcap. 8vo., pp. vi. and 90, cloth, 2s. 6d.
London: Trubner & Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.  
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS
INTO SPIRIT D ALIS M.
6, BLANDFORD-STREET, BAKER-STREET, W.
The following discussions will be held at these Rooms as follows:—
Wednesday, Oct. Uth.—“ Is it expedient to retain the present fashion of
English spelling ? ” Opened by Mr. Bull.
Wednesday, Oct. 21st.—“ Cremation.” Opened by Mr. Paul.
Wednesday, Oct. 28th.—“Is everlasting punishment taught in the New
Testament ?” Opened by Mr. Hunt.
Wednesday, Nov. tth.—“ Capital punishment.” Opened by Mr. Moore.
Admission 2d. Commence at 8 o’clock.
C. J. Hunt, Secretary.
TO THE READERS OF “THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.") Published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny.
Animal magnetism and magnetic lucid
SOMNAMBULISM, with Observations and Illustrative Instances of
Analagous Phenomena occurring spontaneously, by Edwin Lee, M.D., eta
cr. 8vo, cloth new, published at 7s. 6d. Longmans, 1866. Offered for a short
time at 3s’. 6d. by Henry Kimpton, 82, High Holborn, London. Other
books on kindred subjects in stock.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “ An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row,
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 61., First Series.
FAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gclly, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Just published, price 2s.
CURATIYE MESMERISM,
BY -
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, or from
Baillibre & Co., King William-street, Strand.
Crown 8 vo. 3s. 6d., or with gilt edges 4s.
THE ANGELS.
CONTENTS.
I.—What are Angels ? II.—The Origin of Angels, III.—Seership, IV.—
The Intermediate State. V.—Will the natural body rise ? VI.—What do the
Angels do? (1). For men on earth; (2) For spirits in the world of spirits;
(3) In Heaven.
James Speirs, 36, Bloomsbury-street, London.
J OH N BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
SPIRITUALISM AND REFORM. “ The Banner of Light”
Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Century. Issued every Saturday, by Colby and Rich, No. 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, Mass.U.S. Terms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Year, 3,00 dollars. Six Months, 1,50 dollars. Tnree Months, 75 cents.
O. & R. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progressive and
Reformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
GOSWELL HALL.
MRS. BULLOCK (Trance Speaker) will LECTURE
on SUNDAY EVENINGS (commencing on the 27th of September),
at GOSWELL HALL, 86, Goswell-road, E C.
Lectures on the following Subjects will be given by Mrs. BULLOCK,
under the Influence of her Spirit-guides:—
October 4th. “ Death Destroyed; or, Man’s Eternal Career proved by
Modern Spiritualism.”
October 11th.—“Nature, and the Laws of Nature; the Lesson of Life.”
October 18th.—“The essence of the Spirit of God.”
October 25th.—“The Unity of Spiritual Truths.”
November 1st.—“The Celestial Heaven.”
After this Course subjects for Lectures may be selected by the
Audience. Doors open at 6 30, service at 7. Investigators and others,
desiring information, may communicate with Mr. JOHN W. HAXBY, 8,
Sandall-road, Camden Town, N. W.
Published on the First of each Month. Price Twopence.
THE CHRISTIAN SPIRITUALIST,
EDITED BY GE0R9E SEXTON, H.A., L.L.D.
Honorary and corresponding Fellow of the Royal Italian Academy of Science, Ac
Each number contains inter alia—
An Oration, by the Editor. Original Articles on some Phase of Spiritual¬
ism. Leaves from the Editor’s Note Book. Reports of Lectures, Meetings,
Seances. Reviews of New Books and Publications. Spiritual News, Poetry,
Correspondence, &c.
Published by F. Arnold, 86, Fleet-street, London, E.C.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume,.Demy 8vo.,
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel Swedenborg: his life and
• WRITING • By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the
Doctrines and the other-world Experiences of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forthalso the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four te el Engrav¬
ings, by C. H. Jeens—x Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden!
borg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
• SELLER, STATIONER, AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39. Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
H E N R Y B. BUSH,
■ (From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER. LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapersand Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Spiritualist Newspaper.
VOJjUjVIE FIVE. ^U|VtBEI\ SIXTEEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10th, 1874.
Cfr* Spintaltsi
Established in 1869.
HARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :-Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Ookrkspondenob.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous 'Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. 10d-
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of “ The Spiritualist" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publishes', Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—"Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 1S4, Bourke-street.
Mr H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c.> 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. 0. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78. Gertrude-street.
,, Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Bruuswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt. Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist maybe had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
JpEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medica
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
NO. XIX.
[The communication last recorded produced considerable
effect on me, and it was some days before I replied. When
I did so, I objected thus: “ The parallel between the days
of Christ and the present days is comprehensible. I can
quite imagine an educated Sadducee looking on the pre¬
tensions of Christ with scorn; and he would have been
wrong, as we now know ; but, as I think, very excusably
wrong. Judged by the mere light of reason, they would
seem monstrous. And a Sadducee of that day, whose
tone of mind was set against the supernatural, would ex¬
cusably refuse to credit what must seem to him a lie, or a
delusion. For myself, I do not see how he could do any¬
thing else. Yet he had a concrete man before him—one
whom he could see, and whose words he could hear ; one
whose life he could test as to whether it was in accord with
the holy teaching which fell from His lips. I am so far
worse off that I have only an impersonal influence to deal
with, only utterances which may conceivably be the voice of
my spirit questioning with itself. I have nothing to lay
hold of. All around me I $ee Spiritualism vague, and
frequently contemptible in its utterance. Its revelations
are shadowy where they are not silly ; and frequently one
is shocked by that which passes current under its name.
I cannot see my way. As to you, I know nothing of you,
even if you be an entity at all. I do not see any way of
satisfying myself about you ; nor would it help me very
much if you were to assume shape as a previous dweller
on this earth. Had you ever a personality, or are you
merely an affluence 1 It would help me somewhat if I
could picture you as a definite individuality. But, on the
whole, I wish you would leave me alone.”']
Friend, we sympathise with your questionings, and
will try to aid you. You say that the sceptical Saddu¬
cee was better off in that he had the definite personal
Jesus before him. Doubtless he had; but, so far from
that being a help to him, it would be an additional
cause of perplexity. He would find it far harder to
associate the son of the carpenter of Nazareth with
God’s new revelation, of which he recognised the want,
I than you do to .associate us with the Supreme. “ Is
not this the carpenter?” would be to him a far more
serious difficulty than your query, “ Is this an indivi-
* In The Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of
some remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-road, St. John’s-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extracts they gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium free, to a large extent, at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently the “spirit teachings” printed above obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spiriis are many; each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all coses unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing peculiar to the communicating intelligence is always preserved
and the individuality rema’ns throughout the same.—Ed.
.182
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 16, 1874.
duality?” For he would see all around him the
tangible and palpable difficulties which he could not
surmount. The lowly origin, the humble friends, the
world’s scorn, the rejection of the mission by all on
whose opinion he had been accustomed to rely, all this
would form a real and very insuperable difficulty; one
which, if your words are to be taken literally, you
would yourself hold him justified in considering final.
And, assuredly, if in the end he failed to grasp the
message and to accept the Messenger, he would, if
honest, be guilty of no sin. He would but have lost
an opportunity of progress which would recur when he
was more fitted to avail himself of it.
With you the case is otherwise. You have to deal
with no external difficulties. You have simply to
battle with intellectual doubt. You know and acknow¬
ledge that the words which have been spoken to you
are such as you might reasonably expect from a teacher
sent from God. They are fraught with a message the
need of which you feel, the beauty of which you ad¬
mit, and the moral grandeur of which commends itself
to all who are fitted to receive it. You know full well
that it originates in some source external to yourself.
You must know that no unconscious effort of your own
mind could produce that which contradicts the outcome
of your own thoughts. Were the thoughts we utter
those which would naturally spring from your own
mind, you might have room for hesitation. But it is
not so. And no theory of self-questioning, however
ingenious, will satisfy your mind. You know that it
is not so; and the phase of doubt through which you
now pass, and which is so evanescent, can exercise no
permanent influence upon you. When it is gone, you
will wonder how you can ever have imagined that I am
not an entity as real as yourself, as real as any em¬
bodied intelligence whom you call “ man.”
Yes, friend, time is all .that you require; time for
patient thought; time to weigh issues, to estimate
evidence, and to tabulate results. The words which
have stirred you so deeply—you know not how deeply—
are the words of one who sees your thoughts, who
sympathizes with your difficulties, and not least with
those very doubts and questionings which now perplex
you. During my earth life I was a prominent actor in
scenes of difficulty not unlike those which preceded the
life of the Christ, and which are now recurring. It has
been so in all cycles where the revolving course of time
brings round a similar condition of things. Man in all
ages has been constituted mentally the same. He is
developed; he progresses; he thinks more deeply; he
knows more. But sure as in your world night succeeds
to day, so surely there comes a time when his conceptions
of the Deity become faint and unreal; when the spark
of Divinity within him craves for a fuller knowledge,
and cries to heaven for a message from its God. A new
revelation is needed. The craving spirit of man yearns
for it. The old has done its work, and from its ashes
rises the new, which is to the receptive soul the voice
from on high that speaks words of consolation and
comfort. It has ever been so. You kno^ it. You
can trace it all through the history of God’s dealings
with mankind. And why should it cease to be so now?
Why now, when man most needs it, should the voice
be dumb, and the ear of the Supreme be deaf ?
You say that you know nothing of me. Why will
you confuse the messenger with his message, why will
you insist on associating with that which is Divine the
vehicle through whom it is conveyed ? But since to
you the difficulty is real, we accept, as the lesser evil,
the responsibility of accrediting ourselves as the
messenger. We would that your faith had been
stronger; but since it is not so, we shall convey to you
the information you seek. You will see then how we
have always been associated with the work which we
are now carrying out; even the messenger of the
Supreme, the Angel of the Most High.
[/ deliberately withhold the name given to me, in
obedience to the will of him who gave it, and at whose
will these communications are printed. It would not aid
their power that they should be authenticated by any
name. That I see now, though in the course of the
argument which I have printed I failed to grasp it.
Truth must stand on its own merits, irrespective of the
weight of any name, however venerable. Only, in the
early period of knowledge, before the spiritual nature has
been developed, one clings to names, and tests, and proofs.
I have long since been content to let what is said to me
commend itself on its own unaided merits. And as it
has done so to me, I hope it may do so to others. If it
does not, then no name would help it.']
*****
But when all has been said, and every question
answered, all; or nearly all, depends on yourself. It is
for you to weigh the words that we have spoken, not
as the utterances of any man whose name you may
or may not venerate, but according to their own in¬
trinsic merit. That alone concerns you, though you
choose now to hamper yourself with other considerations.
To this end you require time, and that we shall afford
you. Moreover, you need to lift your eyes from
self, and to fix them on wider issues. It will be well
for us all if you do so. For, be well assured that the nar¬
row view which is bounded by self is, and must ever be,
part, and part only, of the whole question. Self neces¬
sarily enters largely into this matter; but it does not rest
in self. Its issues flow far beyond, and, when your
mind can lift itself above personal matters, you will see
the question in its wider bearings. At present you
need peace.
[But I have so much to say. I am more perplexed
than ever. I see no connexion between your name and
your teaching.]
You are not now able to comprehend. We shall not
argue, nor vex you with further statement. Ponder
what has been said, and weigh it in your mind. Above
all, neglect not the refuge of prayer. Let your cry go
forth for help, and it shall be ministered. In medita¬
tion and prayer is your strength now: active disputa¬
tion is at an end. Strive to be passive, and to trust
all in the hands of the God who does all things well.
You will find then that the well-doing will come to
you through the agency you dispute; and you will
recognise that we are in very truth the Messengers of
the Supreme, and the Channels of Divine Truth.
We cease not to pray with one accord that a blessing
may rest on us and you: on us in our work throughout
all its issues, of which this is but one; on you in all
the outcome of this mission, of which you are so small a
part, but which is to you so momentous. May the
Supreme guard you, and may His blessing rest with
you. + I. S. D.
The Eabi. op Caithness left England for America a
fortnight ago in the Bothnia, and is probably in New York by
this time. The Countess of Caithness and Count Pomar left
London yesterday for Paris en route to Italy,
Oct. 16, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
183
HOUSEHOLD WORK DISTURBED BY SPIRITS.
The Religio-PhilosopMcal Journal (Chicago), of
Aug. 29th last, quotes the following narrative from the
Milwaukee Sentinel (Wisconsin):—
DESCMPTIOH OP THE SCENE OP THE DISTURBANCES.
A singular state of excitement existed on Saturday and
yesterday, at the boarding-house occupied by Mr. and
Mrs. Giddings, and owned by Messrs. Allen, the pro¬
prietors of the Wisconsin Leather Company Works, the
house being declared to be the scene of spiritual manifesta¬
tions of such an extraordinary character, as to bring to mind
the astounding reports which used to appear occasionally
in the public prints, when the practice of Spiritualism
first became a matter of investigation by the newspapers
in this country.
A Sentinel reporter proceeded to the spot as soon as
the news was received up-town. The boarding house
faces on the alley, across the railroad track, within a
stone’s throw of the finishing-house of the leather
works. It is a plain brick structure, divided into two
tenements, one being occupied by Mrs. Mead (widow),
and her family, as a private residence; and the other,
by Mr. Giddings, as a boarding-house for the Messrs.
Allen and their leading employes. The manifestations
were confined to the yard, the kitchen, and the pantry
within the kitchen. The yards of the two houses are
divided by a high fence; but a person standing on
Mrs. Mead’s kitchen doorway, can see the actions of any
one standing in the Giddings’ yard. Near the Giddings’
kitchen door are a number of kitchen buckets, pails and
such like. At the further end of the yard is the wood-pile.
In the Giddings’ kitchen is a trap-door, next the parti¬
tion wall, between the dining-room and kitchen, leading
to the cellar. The trap-door is within sight of every
part of the kitchen, and could not be raised or touched
by any one in the kitchen without being seen.
Near the rear hall of the kitchen stands the stove,
between the yard door and the pantry. The yard door
is furthest from the Meads’ house, in the rear part of
the Giddings’ kitchen, and has a window looking
out equally upon the Giddings’ and Meads’ yards. The
kitchen table stands against the outer wall, farthest
from the Meads’ house, between the yard door and the
dining-room partition wall. The furniture consists of
the stove and table aforesaid and a few chairs, and the
floor is plain board. The rooms are well lighted, and
there is not a nook or cranny that cannot be seen
by any one standing therein. The whole place is as
bare and open as it possibly can be. Mr. Giddings is a
very respectable man, and has the confidence of his
neighbours and the Messrs. Allen. Mrs. Giddings is a
bustling, hard-working lady, whose household duties
leave her no spare time between cooking meals and
cleaning house.
MART SPIEGEL, THE MEDIUM.
The only servant is a young girl, about fourteen
years of age, named Mary Spiegel, the daughter of
Polish parents. The girl is one of the principal ob¬
jects of interest in the place, no manifestations having
occurred on Saturday except in her presence. She has
a timid look, and when spoken to has a painful way of
drawing back involuntarily, as from an expected blow.
She answers in a hesitating manner and with a low
voice, as though fearful of chastisement. Her father
stands charged with having beaten her reason well nigh
out of her. She is nervous, impressionable, startled by
the most trivial occurrences, and apparently in a per¬
petual state of scare. Yesterday when the reporter
saw her her eyes were red, and her cheeks swollen with
weeping; and she trembled violently at the least
movement.
When the reporter arrived on the spot he found that
Messrs. Rufus and William R. Allen and G. W. Allen
had visited the place, seen several of the manifestations,
and left word exonerating the girl from all suspicion of
participating in the mystery, and declaring their
personal observation to have proved that the manifes¬
tations had taken place without human agency. There
were still present Dr. Meacham, Dr. N. A. Gray, and
Mr. William Allen. These gentlemen at once declared
to the reporter they had personally satisfied themselves
that no human agency was possible in what had taken
place under their own observation. Everything was so
plain and palpable to the eyesight that no manipula¬
tion of the articles moved could have taken place by
living hands without being instantly detected. A
number of examples were related which will be re¬
corded in order as they occurred, so far as they came
within the knowledge or investigation of the party pre¬
sent. After that the experiences of other persons
personally and separately questioned by the Sentinel
reporter will be related.
FLYING EGGS AND AN EXFLOSFVE PIE.
At nine in the morning, Mrs. Giddings was bustling
about her household duties when she heard something,
and turning around, saw the trap-door opening. She
did not pay particular attention, nor remark whether
the girl was present or absent, but believes, and is
pretty sure she was present. The door was shut when
her back was turned; but when she was looking in
that direction again, it opened and shut several times.
This time, Mrs. Giddings is quite sure the girl was not
near the trap-door, and that there- was no one in the
cellar, for Mary was washing dishes in the sink the
other side of the room, and did not even know what
was going on, and Mrs. Giddings at once descended
into the cellar, and there was no one there. Nobody
could have got away without being seen. There was no
means of egress. Mrs. Giddings still thought but little
of the occurrence, and probably would not have gone into
the cellar did she not want a particular pan of beans
that was there. In looking for it, she suddenly thought
of the trap-door mystery, and glanced around thoroughly,
but there was no one in hiding. Having closed the
trap-door, Mrs. Giddings, sat down in the kitchen, and
began cleaning the beans, when an egg came at her
out of the pantry. The eggs are near the pantry
window, and any one standing within reach, on the
outside, could take aim with one of them at any one
within a direct line; but Mrs. Giddings was around
the corner, and the egg came “ shying around” on a
curved line! Mrs. Giddings got up in alarm, and the
girl rushed out of the house, almost in a state of hysteria,
to call the neighbours. Then the pan of beans took a
diagonal slide off the table, where it had been placed,
and a currant pie that Mrs. Giddings had previously
made went off on a little expedition of its own, which
ended in a smash up on the part of both. Yery much
astonished, but still more pressed for time, and post¬
poning consideration until her dinner was in a fair way
of being got ready, Mrs. Giddings set about making
another pie in a tin dish, baked it, and set it on the
table to cool; and suddenly the pie burst like a shell,
184
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 16, 1874.
and scattered the fruit and top crust all over the room.
Then the pail out in the yard went pirouetting across
the fence, and all the time the girl was in a corner,
crying and slobbering over her work, and not a soul
was near any of the articles to cause the disturbance.
By this time events were thickening. The news had
spread. Mrs. Mead and Mrs. Rowland came in and
underwent an appalling shock. The Allens, already
mentioned, were at first incredulous, hut finally satis¬
fied, witnesses ; and all of them saw one or another of
these manifestations and those that follow. The re¬
porter selected most of the instances mentioned, and
traced them with great care hack to the particular persons
who had seen them, who testified over and over again
that no human agency was possible; the facts are
established, and it is enough to say so. The other
papers seemed to he also satisfied.
SKATING DISHES AND FLOATING PAILS.
A pail began to produce a commotion among the
articles in the yard, and threatened to transfer the
scene of operations from the inside to the outside of the
house. It was followed by the washboard, which took
a jump, without any one being near enough to touch it,
against the fence and then fell back uninjured. A
heavy earthen flower-basket buried in the ground, and
covered over with earth, suddenly got loose, came to
the surface, and took a flying leap over the fence into
the next yard, where it slopped over. Whilst this was
going on outside, the manifestations continued inside.
Eggs came around corners and hit people out of a direct
line of fire; some sausages took a journey around the
room; several dishes skated out of the pantry ; and a
stove cover-lifter struck Mr. G. W. Allen on the leg
when certainly there was nobody near to drive it.
One of the best authenticated cases, after the stove
cover-lifter experience of Mr. Allen, was an incident
that particularly impressed Dr. Meacham, who was
watching the developments with a calm, unimpassioned
interest. He was sharply scrutinising the actions of
the excited girl, who had been set by Mrs. Giddings to
sweep the floor of the debris; he commanded a full
view of the pantry and the girl. As he was looking
on, a little china dish came sailing out on an even keel,
filled with small tickets of some sort or other. He
dodged it, and it slid on the floor, spilled the cards, but
was not broken.
Mrs. Mead’s statement fully confirmed such of the
foregoing as she had seen. Nobody can talk with the
lady a moment without being convinced of her perfect
veracity. She went into Mrs. Giddings’ house, when
the girl ran in with the story that somebody was throw-
ing eggs at her, and that the dishes were “ going every
way.” When she went in, she saw the broken dishes,
the sausages under the stove, the exploded currant pie,
the eggs, and so forth. Whilst she was looking on,
the kettle on the stove turned over and spilt the water;
there was nobody near it. She sat down with Mrs.
Giddings, who commenced telling her all the trouble,
when the iron crook of the stove flew at her; and then
the spider slid off the stove. The spider did not fall,
but slid, and lighted on a dish, which it broke. Mary,
all this time, was tearfully doing her work, in obedience
to Mrs. Giddings’ commands. This last experience was
enough for Mrs. Mead, and she started home; but stood
by the back door, when a heavy stick of wood came
over the fence. Mary was in sight, but she was not
near the wood pile, and could not have hurled the wood.
She looked quite frightened, as though she wanted to
run away. A pail full of water then came up over the
fence, spilt some against Mrs. Mead’s clothes line, dirty¬
ing the drying linen, and then went back. Numbers
of other things were also witnessed.
A LIVELY PITCHEE.
Mrs. Reynolds was the next witness examined by the
reporter. Such of the manifestations as she had seen
in company with Mrs. Mead she gave an account
of, and the accounts in all material points agreed. One
thing is worth mentioning; Mary was set to peeling
potatoes; she had a knife in one hand and a potato in
the other, and the pan was in her lap. All of a sudden
the pan flew up in Mrs. Reynolds’ face. The girl had
not touched it. Her hands were busily employed, and
the force necessary to have jerked it up in the manner
indicated could not have been applied without being at
once detected. Mr. Giddings also related some curious
occurrences. A pitcher suddenly descended from .the
table and bumped the floor twice and was not broken.
Nobody was near. Some of the boarders gave similar
testimony, but the account is already long enough
to show there is a mystery of some sort at work which
nothing at present known can explain.
BETTTAL TEEATJfENT OP THE MEDIUM.
The reporter talked with the girl Mary, who com¬
plained of being frightened by people who had charged
her with having done these things. She denied all
knowledge of their authorship, and, in fact, showed the
greatest fear of remaining in the house and doing any¬
thing. She is a peculiar girl, and gets up sometimes in
the night and fights imaginary enemies. Poor creature !
she is an object for the tenderest care and solicitude.
The mother was present during the reporter’s interview,
and insisted that the reporter was an officer come to take
the girl into custody for witchcraft. She does not speak
English, and could not be made to understand that the
taking of notes was anything else but evidence against
her daughter. She scolded the girl all the time,
and the little one sat in a chair, trembling and crying.
A visit to the premises, yesterday, elicited the fact
that on Saturday evening, the girl Mary was told to go
home, as the Giddings had come to the conclusion she
was too expensive to keep. The girl cried and entreated,
and, finally, hid herself in the wood-shed, where
her father found her; and, by way of mending matters,
he began to beat the already terrified and bewildered
child.
ATTEMPT OP THE MEDIUM TO COMMIT SUICIDE.
The next that was heard of her was—a man brought
a poor, dripping, shivering creature up to the house,
who turned out to be Mary. She had jumped into the
river, and tried to commit suicide. On being asked to¬
day the reason for doing this, she said she was hunted
and hounded by everybody, and could not endure her
life. She passed the night in her parents’ house. Yes¬
terday, Mrs. Giddings sent a supply of victuals to the
Spiegel family, and Mary returned with the empty
dish; no sooner had she entered the kitchen and laid
the dish on the table than the kettle, which, up to that
time had been singing peacefully, walked off and
smashed to bits on the floor, right before Mrs. Giddings’
indignant eyes. Mr. Giddings heard of this, and
bounced Mary out of the house with the utmost haste,
having grave doubts when this destruction might cease.
Yesterday afternoon, the Polish girl was taken to the
house of Mrs. Giddings by Dr. C. C. Robinson. The
Oct. 16. 1874.
THE SPIBITUALIST.
185
family was at dinner, and, in the presence of the doctor,
the family, and the hoarders, the knives and forks flew
off the table, and a great variety of manifestations was
made similar to those already reported. So far as this
mysterious girl is concerned, she has just been taken
into the family of one of our well-known Seventh ward
physicians, and some scientific men are now investi¬
gating the phenomena.
MEETING IN MA.RYLEBONE ON NATIONAL
ORGANISATION.
OEGANISATION IN' AMERICA.
On Wednesday, last week, the adjourned, debate in con¬
nection with the Marylebone Society of Inquirers into
Spiritualism, was resumed at 6, Blandford-street, Baker-street,
London, W., under the presidency of Mr. B. P. Bull.
A letter from Mr. Brevitt was read, arguing that national
organisation would result in the formation of an ecclesiastical
power. A letter from Mr. Tilby was also read.
Mr. Charles White (late honorary secretary to the society)
said that Mr. Friehold’s argument, that publicity was bad for
Spiritualism because the press gave prominence to the more
remarkable physical manifestations, was evidently wrong. He
(Mr. White) had found that the Times always acted honestly
when reporting proceedings connected with unpopular move¬
ments, and he stated this after many years’ experience in con¬
nection with such movements ; it had acted very fairly in its
dealings with Spiritualism. Local organisation had caused
Spiritualism to spread more rapidly than it did before, conse¬
quently larger organisations would act more efficiently still;
moreover, supposing the present National Association to be
doing harm, they in Marylebone could stop neither its work
nor its influence by standing aloof, so they ought to take part
in its management, and induce other local societies to do the
same. He was in favour of combined action, especially as the
objects of the National Association were exactly the same as
those of the Marylebone Association, and the former now in¬
vited the latter to “ ally,” and not to ” affiliate ” itself. He
had not seen any of the “ cream ” of the Marylebone Associa¬
tion of which Mr. Pearce had spoken, but had found that all
the members worked harmoniously to promote its objects.
Mr. Frost said that as the National Association had been
formed to do good, Spiritualists ought to rally round it, but to
keep aloof directly it tried to form a creed. Other organisa¬
tions had done good. He was the founder of the St. John’s
Association of Spiritualists, which was the oldest Spiritual
organisation in this country so far as he knew, and the
first medium publicly entranced in connection with it was
himself. It first met fifteen or sixteen years ago, in a coffee-
room for four or five years, then it moved to another coffee-
room in Old-street-road, next it went to the St. John’s-hall,
Clerkenwell, and lastly to the Goswell-hall, Goswell-street,
where it had just died, because men began to manage it by the
use of their own brains, instead of acting under the guidance
of the spirits. (Oh !) At first the hardest work of that
Association rested on the shoulders of Mr. Ores well, next on
those of Mr. Steele, and lastly on Mr. Barber.
Mr. Gail said that he was librarian to lihe St. John’s
Association, and the statement that it was dead was all news
to him. He was not aware of it.
Mr. Friehold said that as he had arranged that Mr. Whitley
should reply at the close of the debate instead of himself, he
would say a few words at once. Spiritualism itself, which
began through the instrumentality of a little girl in America,
and had spread by equally simple means, was the strongest
argument against organisation. True, unity was strength,
but such organised strength had done much harm in times
past. “ Good God preserve us,” he ejaculated, “ from national
association.” The present National Association had twenty-
four rules, to which he was called upon to bow down, and to
pay five shillings, whereas he could learn all the truths of
Spiritualism in his family circle at home.
Mr. Harrison—How many rules are there in the Marylebone
Association ?
Mr. White—Nine.
Mr. Harrison—Then, as Mr. Friehold is already “ bowing
down ” to nine, why does he object to twenty-four ? At what
particular number do they begin to get wicked ?
Mr. Friehold shook his head, and said nothing.
Mr. Gail said that he had been a Spiritualist for two years,
and, on first learning the truth, felt the want of more
Spiritual associations, and more Sunday lectures to go to, so
had come there to advocate more unity and more organisa¬
tion. Some were afraid of Spiritualism spreading among the
wealthy and the fashionable, but that was just what he wanted
to see, for it would do them good, and they could bring it
before the world with power.
Mr. Algernon Joy, in the course of his remarks, said that
Mr. Howitt began by opposing national association because he
thought it would result in the adoption of creeds and dogmas,
and now he had veered completely round, and was opposing
it because it did not endorse creeds and dogmas.
Mr. Goles, of Chicago, said that he had listened in America
for very many years to every possible argument that could be
brought against organisation among Spiritualists, yet he had
lived to see great State organisations established there; also a
national organisation. No great work had ever been accom¬
plished on the face of the earth without organisation, although
it had its evils; for instance, the persons who form a council
may set themselves up as judges, and say that an individual
is incapable of working efficiently for Spiritualism. Still, the
vast amount of good done by an organisation, practically
overbalanced entirely all objections that could be raised;
single individuals and private circles could do much, and he
had tried this plan himself for years, but the progress was
then slow. Directly a dozen join together, they begin to help
each other. In England, as in America, they would be unable
to prevent association ; they must have it, whether they liked
it or not, as it would come by a process of natural law. The
National Association would be of immense use to Spiritualists
as a central pivot; organisation would not stop individual
effort, but allow all to work as before; such had been the case
in America. The individuals are glad of the organisation,
since they often have to go to it for help. He had listened to
almost every argument that could be conceived, in America,
against organisation, and had seen the work of private indi¬
viduals fail most dismally, as compared with the work done
by the very worst organisation, full of faults. (Applause.)
Mr. Ashman said that there was one association in this
country before the National Association started; if they
would show him anything better than he already possessed, he
would join it at once, and if people saw it working in truth
and love, they would join it very fast. He then proceeded to
complain of the helpless condition in which some mediums
were left, and to complain that Marylebone Spiritualists did
not subscribe enough to pay for their Sunday lectures, whereas
the persons connected with the temperance movement readily
subscribed enough to cover losses over halls and meetings.
Mr. Gail said that the facts in the last part of Mr. Ashman’s
speech, formed a strong argument in favour of organisation.
Mr. Whitley then rose to reply. He quoted from the
speeches made at this and the previous meeting, put interpreta¬
tions on them which the authors never intended their words
should bear, then proceeded to argue that the National
Association would practically act out his misinterpretations.
Messrs. White, Joy, Hunt, and Harrison, then rose in
succession, and complained that Mr. Whitley had twisted their
words so as to misrepresent their meaning.
The Chairman said that small cliques were invariably the
most bigoted, which was one argument why a large organisa¬
tion should be better than a small one.
The discussion of the subject was then adjourned until next
Monday evening, October 19th, at eight o’clock, and Mr. Joy
was unanimously invited to open the debate on that evening.
The Mesmeric Influence of Church Ceremonies.—
It has been stated that during last year’s Revival in London
there was a nocturnal service in one of the Ritualist Churches
in which, at the close of a very moving address,- the congre¬
gation were invited to mark their adhesion to the preacher’s
appeal by getting up and joining a procession just about to
circulate through the Church. When the procession started,
led, of course, by the priests and acolytes, with banners and
incense, nobody at first attempted to rise, and it is certain
that a very large part of the congregation had no intention of
doing anything of the kind. But the music was exceedingly
inspiring, and as the march proceeded one after another left
his or her seat as it passed and joined it. By degrees, like a
snow-ball, the procession gathered strength, the music waxed
louder and more brave, the church was filled with the smoke
of incense, and the moving throng passed through the aisles,
and at the end of all only a very small minority were found to
have retained their self-command and kept iheir seats.—
Echo,
186 THE SPIRITUALIST. Oct. 16, 1874.
A CURIOUS LUMINOUS PHENOMENON IN THE
ISLE OF WIGHT.
Mrs. C. Anderson, a lady well known to many
London Spiritualists writes to us as follows :—
“ On the third of this month, September, I went
with my daughter and servant to Freshwater and
Alum Bay, some seventeen miles, to see a dear friend
who was there for a few days from Rochester, and
on starting for home the rain that had threatened all
day came down in torrents, nearly blinding us. When
night closed in it was so dark that we could not see the
road. In my irritation at this annoyance I mentally
upbraided “ Oress,” who has for years been my
controlling spirit, at his want of love in not helping us,
when I heard this reply distinctly—‘What is worth
having is worth asking for. Did you ask me to do
so, dear child ? ’ I had not. But immediately a light
was thrown all along the road we had to travel, and
this light played on the umbrella of the servant sitting
opposite in the pony chaise. I drew my daughter’s
attention to it, and she insisted it must come from the
moon or a bright cloud, and in her scepticism stopped
driving and looked up, but all was dark as Erebus,
with the exception of this light on us and along the
path. This continued till we reached home, thus
proving not only the nearness, but the love and power
of these bright ones. The light was as clear as the
brightest moonlight.”
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING- OR THE COUNCIL.
Last Monday night a Council Meeting of the British
National Association of Spiritualists was held at Lawson’s
Booms, Gower-street, London, under the presidency of Mr.
Alexander Calder. There were also present Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory, Mrs. Everitt, Miss Houghton, Mr. Algernon Joy, Mr.
Keningale Cook, Mr. E, T. Bennett, Mr. T. Everitt, Mr. E. D.
Rogers, Mr. Morell Theobald, Mr. George King, and Mr. Joseph
Freeman.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed.
MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS.
A letter from Mr. Bowman, of Glasgow, about public
lectures by Dr. Sexton, was referred to the Finance
Committee.
Mr. Algernon Joy (Honorary Secretary) read a letter from
Captain Hudson, of Swansea, suggesting the alliance of Swan¬
sea Spiritualists with the National Association.
The consideration of this matter was deferred.
Mr. Robert Cooper, of Eastbourne, Mr. W. P. Adshead, of
Belper, and the Rev. F. W* Short, of Woolwich, were elected
members of the Council. The latter rejoined the Council
because the theological clause in the prospectus had been
struck out. Mr. Cooper wrote that he had felt for a long time
the want of co-operative effort among Spiritualists, and he did
not believe in the alleged evils of union among Spiritualists,
who, however, must keep clear of a creed. He believed union
to be strength.
Mr. C. W. Pearce resigned because the theological clause
had been struck out of the prospectus. His resignation was
accepted.
The Finance Committee’s Report showed a balance in hand
of £82 9s. 9d., and recommended that payments of £1 and
upwards should be made monthly by means of cheques.
Mr. Keningale Cook said that the Birkbeck Bank would be
a good one for the Association to use, since it allowed interest
on small deposits.
The Chairman said that that was a matter for the treasurer
to consider.
Mr. George King read the report of the committee which
arranged Mr. Morse’s Sunday address. There was a loss of
£8 over it, because special efforts had been made, by advertis¬
ing and circulars, to get up a good audience for him in the
middle of the dead season, and these efforts had been emi¬
nently successful.
Mr. Joy read the report of the Bye-laws Committee, which
was again referred to the committee for amendment.
OPEICES EOR THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
Mr. E. T. Bennett, of Reigate, read the report of the Offices
Committee, which recommended that the following circular
should be sent to all the members of the Association, and to
other ladies and gentlemen interested in the progress of
Spiritualism :—
British National Association of Spiritualists.
“ Our Association has now made a fair start on a firm basis,
and we feel that the time has arrived when it is needful for it
to have a home of its ow,n in order that the objects indicated
in the second article of our constitution and rules may be
carried out.
“ During the infancy of the Association we firmly resolved
not to get into debt,—not to spend any money which was
not virtually in hand ; and we are convinced that this is the
only sound principle on which to act in our future growth and
development.
“ It will be impossible for a central establishment to be
commenced, even on the smallest scale, without incurring a
considerable annual liability. We have therefore decided to
appeal to our members, and to other Spiritualists and friends
—who may be inclined to aid us,—to form a Guarantee Fund
for three years ; that fund, or such portion of it as it may be
found desirable to fepend, to be devoted to the cost of rent,
furnishing, and management of the central establishment.
The ordinary incpme of the Association, arising from the
annual subscriptions of the members, will thus be left avail¬
able for special and more direct efforts for the promotion of
Spiritualism in London and the provinces.
“ The immediate object which we have in view is a place
where London and Country Spiritualists can meet, where
enquiries can be made and reliable information can be obtained,
and where arrangements can be effect id for holding seances,
both for the general public and for f piritualists exclusively.
A reading-room and library will also l > established as soon as
possible, to be supported by subscribei i, on as liberal terms as
shall be found practicable.
“ The smallest amount that we consider would justify us in
commencing an Establishment, consisting of offices, reading
and seance rooms, would be £300 per annum. But if we were
able to commence with a Guarantee Fund of from £400 to
£500 per annum, we should endeavour to combine a hall for
soirees, lectures, and public meetings, and should be able to do
far more than double as much for the advancement of
Spiritualism and the permanent establishment of a really
National Association. Of course, if the Institution should be
self-supporting the guarantors will not be called upon for their
contributions; and in any case only a small portion of the
money will be at present required.
“We respectfully solicit contributions to the Guarantee
Fund for three years, feeling convinced that we shall earn the
confidence and approval of subscribers by the way in which
we shall carry out the plans we have in view. As we are
anxious to open offices as early as practicable, you are invited
kindly to send a reply not later than Friday the 23rd.
“ Signed on behalf of the Association,
Edward T. Bennett,
Secretary to the Offices Committee.
The Holmes, Betch worth, near Reigate,
October, 12th, 1874.
Mr. E. D. Rogers moved, and Mr. Keningale Cook seconded
that the circular be endorsed, and the committee instructed to
look out for premises; this was carried unanimously.
Mr. Bennett announced that he had already received from
several gentlemen, premises amounting to £65 a year towards
the Guarantee Fund.
Mr. Morell Theobald thought that £100 a year would be
enough.
Mr. Joy said that it was absolutely necessary to have a
manager to give all his time to the business of the Association,
so this expense was connected with the taking of offices. If as
much as £150 a year could be guarantee^, Mr. T..Blyton could
be had as manager. . •'
Mr. E. T. Bennett read a letter from Mr. Haxby applying for
the assistant-secretaryship.
Mr. Joy said that another had been received from Mrs. Jack-
son, but the Finance Committee felt that there was much work
connected with the office which a lady could not very well
undertake.
The Finance Committee was empowered, within certain
I limits, to make a temporary arrangement with Mr, Haxby.
187
Oct. 16, 1874.  THE SPIRITUALIST.
MR. J. M. PEEBLES ON NATIONAL ORGANISATION.
Mr. Joy then read the following letter from Mr. J. M.
Peebles, in reply to the circular to the members of the National
Association, asking them to vote for or against the abolition
of the theological clause in the prospectus :—
“ A. Jov, Esq,—My Dear Sir,—I vote ‘ for,’ because I am
opposed to sectarianism in Christianity, sectarianism in Spirit¬
ualism. I am in favour of the broadest toleration.
“ And while I can subscribe to no creed I am in favour of
organisation, and a platform of general principles.—Most truly
yours, J. M. Peebles.”
Hammonton, Atlantic County, New Jersey, U.S.A.
September 8th, 1874.
Mr. E. D. Eogers said that Mr. J. J. Morse had promised
the Spiritualists’ Eegister Committee a list of a large number
of the names and addresses of Spiritualists residing in the
provinces, and Mr. W. H. Harrison had also promised a list,
but was prohibited from giving a proportion of the names and
addresses in his possession.
A SOIREE IN DECEMBER.
Mr. E. T. Bennett said that soiree.^ were exceedingly
popular, so he would propose that a soiree be held in Novem¬
ber ; it ought to cover its own expenses, and the committee
not bo empowered to spend over ten shillings more than the
receipts.
Mr. Keningale Cook seconded the motion, and said that he
thought that some special feature of public interest ought to
be connected with each soiree.
Mr. Joy read a letter from Miss Kislingbury, proposing
monthly soirees, to bring friends together, and promising to
work in the matter on her return to town.
Miss Houghton thought that monthly soirees would come
too frequently to answer, at all events at first; they sliould
not try to plant a full-grown tree at once, but begin in a
smaller way.
Mr. Joy remarked that the soirees must be made to pay
their own expenses, and not be allowed to draw upon the
funds of the Association subscribed by members residing in
the provinces.
The Chairman said that if they paid their expenses there
could be no objection to having as many as possible ; it would
not be well to get up more than one other just yet, especially
as the income of the Association for the year had nearly
run out.
Mr. Bennett remarked that the Cleveland Hall soiree paid
its own expenses.
It was then resolved that a soiree should be held early in
December, under the management of a Committee, consisting of
Mr. and Mrs. Everitt, Mrs. Theobald, the two Mrs. Fitzgerald’s,
Mrs. Eogers, Mr. Freeman, and Mr. Bennett, Miss Kislingbury
and Mr. Joy being ex officio members of the Committee. Mr.
Freeman was appointed secretary.
Mr. Joy read a letter from a gentleman in Manchester,
recommending that steps should be taken to make Spiritual¬
ists, or at all events the members of the Association, better
known to each other; it would be of great value to many
Spiritualists when travelling.
THE ASSISTANT-SECRETARYSHIP.
Mr. Joy next read a letter from Mr. Blyton about the office
of permanent assistant-secretary. He said that the North
London Eailway Company had just promoted him, and placed
him where he had better prospects for the future; he could
not give up certainty and permanency for uncertainty, espe¬
cially as he had others depending upon him, so the terms on
which he would give up his present situation to work for the
National Association would be £150 a year, guaranteed for
three years by responsible and substantial guarantors.
' The consideration of this matter was postponed.
NEW MEMBERS POR THE COMING YEAR.
Mr. E. D. Eogers said that he knew that some persons were
waiting till the end of the year before they would join the
Association, and it was well the Association should know, as
sqbn as possible, what* its strength would be during the coming
year; he would* therefore propose that the subscriptions paid
by persons who join the Association between this time and
the end of December, should do for the year 1875.
This was seconded by Mr. Everitt, and carried unanimously.
The proceedings then closed.
Mrs. ‘Woodforde has returned to town again, and is
giving seances as usual.
THE FAREWELL SOIREE TO MR. MORSE.
Mr. J. J. Morse, the best of the very few professional trance
mediums for public speaking developed in this country, being
about to leave England on a lecturing tour in the United
States, a complimentary benefit farewell soiree was planned by
his London friends on his behalf, and it took place on Thurs¬
day, last week, at the Co-operative Institute, Castle-street,
Oxford-street, W. There was a large attendance, but the hall
being a spacious one, there was room for plenty more than «
those who were present. After the lapse of two hours, during
which tea was served, and the time spent in friendly conversa¬
tion, Mr. Thomas Everitt took the chair. Mr. J. J. Morse,
Mr. Algernon Joy, Mr. E. T. Bennett, Mr. E. D. Eogers, Dr.
George Sexton, and Mr. Cogman, also decupled seats upon the
platform.
MR. EVERITT ON MR. MORSE’S CAREER.
The Chairman said—Respected friends and fellow-labourers
in the great and glorious cause of spirit communion, we may
cheerfully congratulate each other upon what has already
been accomplished by this great spiritual movement, knowing
that it is but the drop to the ocean as compared with the in¬
exhaustible store of blessings in reserve for the human family.
Looking at the great results which have taken place through
such delicate instruments as the mediums generally are, we
are reminded of the saying of the Apostle Paul, that God
chooses the weak things of the world to confound the mighty,
that the weakness of God is stronger than men, and that the
foolishness of God is wiser than men. Notwithstanding all
the opposition which has been brought to bear against Spirit¬
ualism by scientific men, theologians, and the materialistic
and sceptical world in general, our cause goes steadily on, and
we advisedly say to our opponents, “ Cease your opposition,
for it is madness to put forth such puny efforts against heaven,
and the hosts of heavenly beings who are arrayed on our side
for the good of the human race. It is hard for you to kick
against the pricks ; for we not only believe, but we know that
you might as well try to drag the sun from the firmament with
a shepherd’s crook, or to roll back the waves of the mighty
ocean, or to stem the light from the glorious orb of day by a
wave of the hand, as to think that you can arrest the flood of
spiritual light now flowing from the spirit world.” Can any
unprejudiced man, who has the least knowledge of the great
moral change which the angel bands are effecting in the world,
lay his hand upon his heart and calmly say that these glorious
revelations, marvellous manifestations, and these intromis¬
sions into the spirit world, are the work of the Devil, or the
result of imposture and delusion? We rather think that such
a man would acknowledge that such facts are intimations that
the time is coming, and now is, when “ your sons and your
daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see
visions, and your old men shall dream dreams,” when all shall
know of their immortality from the least to the greatest, when
this knowledge shall cover the earth as the waters cover the
seas, and when men shall no longer have to ask, “If a man
die, shall he live again?” Our meeting to-night, my friends, has
a twofold object—namely, to rejoice with our friend and brother,
Mr. Morse, on this, his fifth public spiritual anniversary,
and also to bid farewell to him, we trust for a short time only.
You, by your presence, show the interest you feel in him, and
the work to which he is devoted, and for which he is so well
fitted. By his unobtrusiveness, forbearance, and gentleness,
he has gained many friends, not only in the metropolis, but
in the provinces. No harsh, bitter, or unkind words fall from
his lips: he is the willing servant for humanity’s sake of his
intelligent spirit-guides, who have become deservedly popular
in this country. He has had many difficulties to struggle
against, not only from the peculiar nature of his mediumship,
but from his pecuniary position, especially during the first
years of his mediumship. His first public seance was given
at Mr. Burns’s on the third Friday of Oct. 1869, from which
time the seances were continued every week without a single
omission until the close of 1871. His salary from Mr. Burns
and from his seances averaged about fifteen shillings per week,
to use his own words, “ a most munificent remuneration.”
However, these weekly seances were regularly reported in the
Medium ; they were looked forward to with great interest, and
gained for our friend no small amount of popularity. In
October, 1870, by the advice of his spirit-guides he got married,
a step which he doubtless would have hesitated before taking,
188
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 16, 1874.
had it not been for his strong faith in the wisdom and fore¬
sight of his counsellers. The second Sunday after his mar¬
riage, his chief control “ Tien,” delivered a very impressive
message to his wife, informing her that they would tide over
their difficulties, and he made encouraging announcements as
to their future prospects, every word of which, I am informed,
has been fulfilled to the letter. In the beginning of 1872, Mr.
Morse made his first appearance at Liverpool, and from that
time dates the beginning of his success in every respect. In
July of the same year he resigned his situation at Mr. Burns’s,
the many calls on his time requiring the whole of his atten¬
tion. Since then his position has been advancing both in a
pecuniary and public point of view. Although he is not
making a fortune, his position is much better than it was, as
the following items will show. In 1871 he received £50, in
1872, £88; 1873, £125; and this year up to the present time
he has received £108, apart from those exceptional benefits,
such as soirees, got up for his especial aid. I think we cannot
say that Mr. Morse has been overpaid for the valuable services
he has rendered to the cause. I will now leave him to speak
upon other phases of his public life, heartily commending
him with the fraternal greetings of all his friends to our Ameri¬
can brethren, trusting that they will show him all manner of
kindness for his work’s sake. (Applause.)
The Misses Maltby then played an overture, “ Le Cheval de
Bronze," after which Mr. W. Griffiths gave a song, “ Alice,
Where art Thou ?” followed by a song by Madame Schneegans,
“ When the Elves at Morn do pass,” all of which were well
executed.
DE. SEXTON ON SPIRITUALISM: IN THE PROVINCES.
Dr. George Sexton said that at friendly meetings like that,
long speeches were out of place, and the listeners were so well
informed on all matters connected with Spiritualism, that it
was difficult to find a subject on which to dilate. He was in
somewhat the same position as regarded the knowledge of the
listeners, when he recently visited Seghill, to lecture on
Spiritualism in its relation to subjects mooted in Professor
Tyndall’s address to the British Association at Belfast.
Seghill was a large mining village in Northumberland, with a
population of two thousand pitmen, who live in little cottages
in which each family frequently had to cook, wash, eat,
drink, and sleep in a single room, so he remarked to a friend—
“ What can these people know or care about Professor
Tyndall’s address ?” His friend replied—“ Oh, I assure you
they know a great deal about it,” and he (Dr. Sexton) found
that this was the case; that many of them had read it over
and over again, and were well up in all its points. He also
lectured in Newcastle on Spiritualism, and had ‘enthusiastic
audiences, and at Glasgow was well received, to the great
disgust of the secularists, who were annoyed at his conversion
to Spiritualism. Spiritualism was making rapid progress
among the secularists everywhere. Mr. David Duguid’s
mediumship, which was exceedingly powerful, was doing great
good to the cause of Spiritualism in Scotland; he did not
know of a more powerful medium anywhere. Mr. Morse also
had done much, not only in Scotland, but throughout the
country; everywhere people spoke well of him, and he (Dr.
Sexton) had made a long journey to be present at the soiree
that evening, to say good-bye to him, and he hoped that he
would have a pleasant voyage. (Applause.)
Master, B. Smith next played a solo on the violin, “ The
Blue Bells of Scotland,” and it was warmly applauded.
AN INSPIRATIONAL ADDRESS BV MRS. TAPPAN.
Mrs. Gora L. Y. Tappan passed into the trance state, and
said:—There are two occasions in life when the highest senti¬
ments of humanity are awakened, the one being the meeting
with friends, and the other the parting with friends, and both
these feelings have doubtless been awakened this evening.
Spiritualism proper does not depend upon any one individual
or class of individuals for its advancement; it has no priests,
oracles, shrines, or temples, in the ordinary sense of those
words, yet there is a peculiar class of individuals without
which Spiritualism could not go forward; this class consists
of as great a variety of individuals as humanity itself, yet when
they are chosen by the inhabitants of the spiritual world to
represent any one phase of Spiritualism, it is a duty to sustain
them—we refer, of course, to mediums. Without them to per¬
mit communion between the two worlds, you might as well
expect to be able to convey a telegraphic message without
telegraph wires. Mediums are endowed with all the weak¬
nesses of humanity, and there is one requirement of which
they stand in special need—it is not primarily the best external
circumstances and conditions, not primarily the want of the
essential material things of life, but chiefest and most para¬
mount is sympathy; that should be given to the fullest
and most absolute extent, and then the medium is in the
best condition for giving forth the truths of Spiritualism.
Among no other class of people in the world is it so
important that the vital sources should be unimpaired as
among spiritual mediums; if you cut off the supply of
sympathy from them, you cut off half their inspiration. It is
for one purpose, and one only, that we are here to-night,
namely, to unite the voice of both worlds to give hearty
greetings, and sufficient of this solvent of the universal spirit,
to cheer him in whatever may be before him in his journey
through life. America sent Spiritualism to England, conse¬
quently it has been said, and considered by the public, to be
one of those Yankee notions which ought to be looked upon
with the utmost suspicion; but now this condition will be
reversed; you are about to send to America an advocate of
Spiritualism, as last year you sent Gerald Massey. It so
happens, also, that the movement began almost simul¬
taneously in both countries; the strongest testimony, the best
compilation of facts and of those evidences which make up
intellectual truth, come from this side of the Atlantic, with
the names of Dr. Sexton and other such veterans appended.
That which it is convenient for America to adopt is not now
the question; Spiritualism is no longer a matter confined to
one continent—it belongs to the whole world ; it is universal,
combining two worlds together, the mundane and the supra-
mundane. We give to the soul and spirit of our friend and
brother such heartfelt and cordial greetings, such sympathy
as shall bear him onward and forward in his career, letting
him know that he is not rejected of his own, but buoyed up
by them. These are the purposes and these the offerings we
bring; not that we consider that he will require them on the
other side of the Atlantic, for there they are warm-hearted,
ever ready to receive strangers; whenever a stranger lands
upon their shores he is sure to meet with a welcoming voice.
The peculiar nature of mediumship is such that it needs
extraordinary support, which we trust will become more and
more common among Spiritualists ; people can afford to
quarrel in the scientific and theological worlds, since it
is a part of their creed that God is a God of anger;
among Spiritualists none of the old serpent should be
allowed to creep out. There should be no word of
unkindness or judgment passed one upon another, for of all
religions that claim to be universal and to have the power of
uniting unlike particles, Spiritualism claims to be the brightest
and most catholic. There is no need that one individual
serving in a particular capacity, shall pass judgment upon
another individual serving in a particular capacity. If Spirit¬
ualists can ill afford to have ill-feeling towards each other, of
all classes that cannot afford it mediums can in no degree
afford approach -towards it; in their case there is a fatal
tendency to unkindness, but we beg that you put this serpent
absolutely beneath your feet. As one star differeth from
another star in glory, and as everything in nature performs its
own office, so we have never known a medium who did not serve
one particular purpose which he or she alone could serve in
the cause of Spiritualism; be that position an honour or a
dishonour, if you are fit for it, it follows that you are valuable
in the kingdom of spirits. We ask you to serve with diligence,
with the desire to further the truth, and that it be not con¬
sidered in any one instance a matter of individual honour or
dishonour, but that it be considered that every individual
beneath the eye of heaven is chosen for some special purpose,
even though there be no recognition by man, and no smile
save that of the angels and of God. (Applause.) If the work
of our brother had been a thousandfold less, and a failure,
had he spoken but one word at a fit time and on a proper
occasion, he would equally have deserved whatever sympathy
we can give, but having done what he has been required to do,
let him go forth laden with our sympathies to the world where
they will be increased. We need not bid him “ God-speed,”
but as he has been faithful to his trust, taking uncom¬
plainingly the buffets and modestly the praises of the world,
the chiefest and highest wish that we can bestow, is that he
may ever be a fit instrument for conveying the glad tidings of
great joy to all people, that there is no death. (Applause.)
Miss Malvina Claxton then sang a song, “ To the Woods,”
after which Miss Clark and Miss M. Claxton played a duet.
The Chairman then presented Mr. Morse with a purse con¬
taining £16, the proceeds of the soiree.
MR. MORSE’S PARTING WORDS.
Mr. Chairman, Lambs and Gentlimen,—or more appro¬
priately, my friends, one and all;—a somewhat sorrowful duty
Oct. 16, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
189
now devolves upon me. It is to say “ good-bye,” but before
doing so finally, I must crave your indulgence and request
your attention for a few moments, while I speak of the past,
of the present, and of the future. It is now six years since I
first became acquainted with Spiritualism, little thinking at
that time, how intimate my life and name would become with
our cause. By a series of circumstances which I need not
recapitulate here, I became acquainted with several active
labourers within our ranks, notably, my revered and honoured
friend, J. M.Peebles; also one,wellknown to us all,who rendered
me needful aid in my early days; and to whose publication
of my meetings and seances I was in no small measure
indebted for the popular reception I met With in the provinces—
I refer to Mr. James Burns, editor of The Medium and Day¬
break. One other gentleman to whom I would also return my
grateful thanks, not only for what he has done in the past,
but also for what he is doing in the present, who also gave
copious reports of my early London meetings, and whose
friendship I highly esteem, must be noticed here—I speak of
Mr. W. H. Harrison, editor of The Spiritualist. In those
early days I was also indebted to Mr. C. W. Pearce; to
his kindly aid, I owed my release from no few difficulties. To
our respected chairman, and his wife I would also offer my
tribute of esteem and respect; I value their friendship more,
the more I know of them. My earlier career was a long struggle
against many difficulties and disadvantages; but I manfully
adhered to my post, facing them always with as stout a heart as I
could muster, ever trying to be contented and hopeful, and to
this day I have never had reason to repent my allegiance to
Spiritualism. To enumerate all those who have bestowed
kindness upon me, and whose favours I have received, would
be to name nearly all the Spiritualists in London and the
provinces. I trust, therefore, it will suffice, if they will all
believe me when I say, as I do truly, that my gratitude has
outlived the occasion that called it forth, and that their words
of kindness and deeds of goodness will never fade in my
remembrance. For the six years I have been a medium I can
trace a distinct improvement during each twelve months, and
never was the success of my guides and the popularity of my
mediumship higher than it is at present, though in this
matter I can claim no special credit. To my spirit guides I
am indebted for all; it is to their ability and to their wisdom
that the success of my career is due. In thus looking over
the past, I find ample material for solid satisfaction, and
a sure foundation for lasting results, which fill my mind with
love and gratitude to those who have laboured with and for me.
To my knowledge I have never had a disagreement with any
<ji my co-workers in the cause. I have diligently laboured in
my own sphere of action, and carefully avoided encroaching
on those fields which the talents of others best fitted them to
occupy. When questioned as to the abilities of others, my
reply is, “ Upon my professional brethren I venture no opinion;
they must—as we all must—stand or fall upon their own
merits.” When I find so learned and eloquent a labourer in
our cause as Dr. Sexton generously coming forward on this
occasion to deliver an address, and see the presence of our
respected chairman in conjunction with that veteran worker,
Mr. Shorter, who have each given me their support to-night,
I feel I may point to these matters as some evidence of the
kindness with which my co-workers look upon me. To refer
to the present. My position here this evening, the friends by
whom I am surrounded, the many kindly words which have
greeted my presence, the hearty “ God-speeds” I have listened to,
and this extensive assembly all conspire to fill my heart to over¬
flowing, and no words that I can command would convey to you
the emotion that I experience. To the spiritual press I return
my sincere thanks for the publicity they gave of the approach
of this my farewell meeting. I am most grateful for the
presence of my friends who are here, and for the generous,
hearty co-operation of the Council of the British National
Association of Spiritualists I am most deeply thankful. I look
upon it as a fuller and ampler reward than I am entitled to
expect for the little I have done to aid them. And now
permit me a few words in explanation of my coming journey. It
was conceived and furthered under the sole suggestion and
advice of my spirit guides. At the time I received the intima¬
tion, in April last, I was [truly at a loss how the proposed
journey could be undertaken; pecuniarily I was not in a posi¬
tion to go to America. My guides intimated to me that
I need not be apprehensive; all that I should require would be
forthcoming. I am proud to say, such has been the case ; the
spontaneous and liberal responses at this and my other fare¬
well soirees, will now enable me to prosecute my voyage with
comfort, and to make the required provision for my home
expenses, for I regret to ay that I am constrained to leave my
wife and child at home. My task is now done. Words of
parting seem sad and fill our minds with gloom, and in my
sorrow, I trust I may have the consolation of knowing that
when I return, the warmth of your welcome may compensate
me for the pangs of parting, and assure me that though I have
been absent I have not been forgotten. My early friend
Mr. Peebles has promised to meet me in New York, and to
introduce me to the Spiritualistic public in America.
(Applause.)
MR. SHORTER OH INTERNATIONAL SPIRITUALISM.
After a song from Mr. Claxton,
Mr. Thomas Shorter spoke of the kindly disposition of Mr.
Morse, and said that the kindness and sympathy generally felt
for him, would spiritually bridge over the space between him
and his English friends when he reached America, just as the
rolling waters of the ocean bridge over the space materially.
There would be a warm welcome for him on his return from
that land to which Europe was indebted for the advent of
modern Spiritualism. The lady through whom the movement
began was now permanently residing in England with her
child, and Spiritualism in this country had been greatly
helped by American trance speakers, of whom one—^present
that evening—was second to none. (Applause.) Mr. Morse
was the best public trance speaker who had been developed in
this country; in the United States he would see much that
was new and strange, but there was another world which was
still more strange—stranger than fiction—and which far
exceeded in its wonders all the creations of romance, it was a
“miracle land” indeed, and with it Mr. Morse was not
unacquainted.
Mr. Shorter closed his remarks by reciting a poem, entitled
“ The Miracle Land.”
Mdme. Scheenegans next sang “ I Love my Love,” very
beautifully, and Miss Claxton sang “ The Maiden’s Rose ” with
good effect.
INSPIRATIONAL ADDRESS BY MR. MORSE.
Mr. J. J. Morse was then entranced, and under spirit in¬
fluence said—Mr. Chairman and friends : Words from us this
evening may seem somewhat out of place, although doubtless
your kindness may consider them an essential part of the
programme, and we thank you for the invitation to address
our friends here present. This medium has been educated by
us, we are the originators of his utterances in the cause of
Spiritualism, and we have endeavoured to make our work
useful to the world. There is one item to which we would call
your attention; we desire to return thanks to that lady
whose kindness to our medium has been uniform and con¬
stant, and who has brought about the results you see in this
meeting to-night; we refer to Mistress Maltby. (Applause.)
We come to say for a time—“ Farewell.” We have laboured
in the ranks of your movement for some few years, and have
always adopted one simple rule, namely, not to ask you to
accept our statements as true merely because we utter them,
but to reason upon them for yourselves, and accept only what
you can assimilate; thus has been avoided one charge some¬
times brought against Spiritualists, that they bow down their
reason at once before any wandering spirit who comes near a
wandering medium. A man who has passed over the river of
death, is sometimes no better than he was on the other side;
accept or reject only what your reason tells you to, and you
will never have cause to regret your entrance into the ranks
of Spiritualism. To speak of our work would be unwise.
We return to you all our sincere thanks for your presence
here to-night, and for the sympathy you have extended to¬
wards our instrument and ourselves, and we hope to be able
to show good results when our ministry shall have been con¬
cluded. We part from you for a time. One whose face and
voice are well known to you will be far away in another land;
many will watch his progress with interest—perhaps with
anxiety—we leave the results to wiser and brighter powers
than ours; we are but servants in the land of eternal truth.
To say “ Farewell ” is not within the genius of Spiritualism,
for Spiritualism has brought the dead to life, proving that
“ separation ” is the true word; for though the river of death
should roll between us, need we say “ Farewell ” in sorrow
and in tears ? Man knows by the facts and the philosophy
of Spiritualism that where the thought of man is, his pre¬
sence is a fact, and union is an accomplished reality; the
loved are ever united, and sympathy is the golden cord which
binds mankind together in bonds of love and unity, wherever
they may be. Returning thanks to one and all, we would not
place one before another; ye are all brothers and sisters,
190
THE SPIKITTJAL1ST.
Oct. 16, 1874.
whose destiny is immortality. One word more before we
part, and it is upon the subject of Spiritualism. Spiritualism
is the embodiment of all truth appertaining to man’s highest
nature; it is the visible manifestation of the Divine presence
ever in and near you, and willing you to do His work ; it has
brought you a high and holy religion which knows no dis¬
tinction of creed or colour, but recognises all as brothers and
sisters. Such a broad religion should cause you to harbour
only the kindliest feelings, and let this be the case; it is a
religion as high, and pure, and noble, as the Deific nature
itself, it is God’s best gift to man; it is the most powerful
weapon which truth can use against error; it will lift humanity
upwards and onwards to that bright future, when man shall
know that God is the Universal Father, and mankind a
brotherhood. Our hope is ever upwards to our Father, God.
We bid you all a kindly farewell, and hope to meet the same
kindness from you on our return. (Applause.)
The Chairman—Now, friends, our meeting must close, and
I have to thank you for your kind attention, looking forward
to a happy reunion on Mr. Morse’s return from the United
States. He only expects to be there eight or nine months—let
us hope not so long.
Shortly afterwards the meeting broke up. Among the pro¬
vincial visitors present at the soiree were Mr. and Mrs. F.
Everitt, of Bishop Auckland, and Mr. Hinde, jun., of Darling¬
ton. The Spiritualistic press was largely represented, the
editors of The Spiritual Magazine, The Christian Spiritualist,
The Pioneer, and The Spiritualist, being present.
FAREWELL SOIREE TO MR. MORSE IN LIVER¬
POOL.
A pleasant evening was spent in the rooms of the Psycho¬
logical Society of Liverpool, on Friday, Oct. 2, the occasion
being a complimentary farewell benefit soiree to Mr. J. J.
Morse. Shortly after seven the company began to assemble,
and by eight o’clock the room was completely filled. The
chair was taken by Dr. Wm. Hitchman. In opening the pro¬
ceedings, the learned doctor gave an impromptu poem and a
speech, which were loudly applauded. The musical arrange¬
ments were carried out under the experienced direction of Mr.
Bowen. Miss Hilton’s singing, also, was excellent. The other
ladies and gentlemen who took part in this portion of the
evening’s programme were Miss Fanny Gay, Miss Oakes, Miss
Chatham, Mr. Davies, Mr. Owen, and Mr. Hope (the secretary
to the Society). Mr. Owen also favoured the company with an
original ode, composed expressly for the occasion. Mr. Morse’s
controlling spirits bade the listeners all an affectionate fare¬
well, and Mr. Morse, in his normal condition, in a short
speech alluded to the great spread of Spiritualism in Liver¬
pool since first he visited the town. Mr. Geo. Farmer, editor
of the Pioneer of Progress, and the vice-president of the
Society, Mr. John Lament, made a few remarks. The younger
and more sprightly members of the company occupied their
time in dancing until an early hour, when the company sepa¬
rated. All were unanimous in the kindliest feelings towards
the guest of the evening; they heartily wished him a pleasant
and profitable stay on the other side of the Atlantic, and a
safe return to his native land.
Last Monday night there was a Spiritualistic soiree at
Brighton, at which Mrs. Tappan was present.
The Rev. E. R. Young in Liverpool.—Mr. F. R.
Young, late editor of the Christian Spiritualist, gave two in¬
teresting discourses in the rooms of the Liverpool Psychological
Society, on Sunday last. The subject in the afternoon was
“ Dreams and what they teach,” and in the evening, “ Why
do people get drunk ? ” The attendance on both occasions
was exceedingly good, especially in the evening. Mr. John
Priest will lecture there next Sunday.
' Departure op Mr. Morse.—Mr. J. J. Morse left Liver¬
pool yesterday in the S.S. Celtic, White Star Line, for New
York, and bears with him the good wishes of all English
Spiritualists. It is now rather more than five years since his
mediumship began to be developed, and at the outset, when
scarcely able to take care of himself, like many persons in the
incipient stages of mediumship, Mr. Burns took him by the
hand, and gave him valuable help at that critical period of his
life, whereby a good trance lecturer was gained by the move¬
ment. Mr. Morse’s first public trance address was delivered
before the St. John’s Association, Clerkenwell, towards the
close of 1869, and was reported in The Spiritualist.
iloetrg.
UNITED WORK.
Come forth from the valley,
Come forth from the hill,
Come forth from the workshop,
The mine, and the mill:
Prom pleasure or slumber,
From study or play,
Come forth in your myriads
And aid us to-day.
There’s a word to be spoken,
A deed to be done,
A truth to be uttered,
A cause to be won.
Come forth in your myriads,
Come forth every one!
Come youths, in your vigour;
Come men, in your prime;
Come age, with experience
Fresh gathered from time ;
Come workers 1 You’re welcome 1
Come thinkers! You must 1
Come, thick as the clouds
Of the midsummer dust—
Or the waves of the sea,
Gleaming bright in the sun;
There’s a truth to be told,
And a cause to be won.
Come forth in your myriads 1
Come forth every one! Charles Made ay.
(EorrespnTience*
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
NATIONAL ORGANISATION.
Sir,—As you have quoted part of a conversation, in which I
mentioned to you that the editor of the Spiritual Magazine
had said that he could not admit any reply to Mr. Howitt’s
last letter, from me, in his next number, it is only fair to add
his reasons, which appeared to me sufficient, viz., that he had
already accepted one reply from a member of our Council, and
that he was crowded with matter.
Moreover, after my conversation with you, I sent a short
note to the editor in question, containing some important cor¬
rections as to matters of fact, and this he had already placed
in his printer’s hands, and had promised to insert, if possible,
before he had seen your remarks. Algernon Jot.
25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W.
11th October, 1874.
MATERIALISATION SEANCE AT DARLINGTON.
Sir,—On Wednesday evening, a seance was held in the
large room, Bidsdale-street, Darlington, and the circle was
composed principally of Spiritualists, to the number of fifteen.
The results were of the most wonderful and satisfactory
nature, as the light enabled all present to exercise the most
searching and careful inspection of the phenomena which it
was our good fortune to witness, through the mediumship of
Misses Wood and Fairlamb, of Newcastle.
The conditions were soon found to be excellent, for we were
not kept in suspense much above five minutes before the first
shadowy form appeared before the curtain, only to vanish as
quickly. Immediately afterwards, the little spirit answering
to the name of Pokky confidently emerged from the cabinet,
displaying beyond the slightest doubt her jet black arms, and,
at the request of myself, she opened the folds of her dress,
and exposed distinctly to view a portion of her black body.
She then retired to give place to Sissy, who had tried to
materialise herself before, but, as ! have already said, vanished
almost immediately. This time Sissy was fully equal to the
task, for she was as solid in appearance as a churchyard
ghost; her height was considerably less than that of the
medium, so most conclusively placed beyond doubt the ques¬
tion of the possibility of deception on the part of the medium,
Miss Fairlamb.
The first act of the little spirit was to open an umbrella
that happened to be within reach ; holding it in one hand,
she took a small bell in the other hand, and to the singing
beat very correct time. After gliding about within a radius
of four or five feet, she retired, having made herself visible
for fully eight minutes.
The third form which came from behind the curtain very
shortly after the disappearance of Sissy was entirely enveloped
in white, and was recognised by some of the friends present by
the name of Minnie. She was in height the same as the
THE SPIRITUALIST.
191
Oct. 16, 1874.
medium, about five feet one inch, but not nearly so stout; she
also took in one hand the umbrella, and with the other placed
upon her head a black felt hat belonging to one of the sitters;
the hat had been left behind the curtain. In ihis grotesque
garb she took two little bells in the unoccupied hand and rang
them, beating time to the singing; she then returned the
articles to their places, sat down very confidently upon the
platform near her, took an accordion in her hands and
sounded it, keeping time to the singing. When the singing
was over, she returned the accordion to the platform, threw a
packet across the platform to where I was sitting, then took a
pencil in her hand and commenced writing upon a piece of
paper the following words, at the desire of some of the sitters,
“ My dear friends, I am glad to meet with you. Good night,
and may God bless you all, Minnie.” I must net forget to
mention, the paper had been previously initialled for the satis¬
faction of any present who might suspect collusion. After the
writing was finished, Minnie arose, walked or glided straight
across to where my brother was sitting (a distance from
the medium of quite twenty-seven feet), handed him the paper,
slowly returned, bowed, and retired. So ended to some a most
satisfactory and wonderful seance, and to others, possibly for
want of more stringent test conditions, the contrary.
One important feature was very conspicuous. The medium
could not possibly personate a childlike form without kneeling,
which process would have Very considerably altered the natural
and correctly proportioned forms that appeared, and would
also have interfered with the graceful movements which were
so apparently striking to all the sitters present. Then again,
to a sceptic, the polonaise of the medium was very much
crimped, proving, also, that the medium’s body must have
been either reclining or sitting for some time upon it. For
my own part, the young ladies have submitted so courteously
to being secured on other occasions, that I am satisfied in my
own mind that deception has no connection whatever with
their mediumship. Thos. F. Hinde.
Darlington, Oct. 11th, 1874.
MR. SPURGEON AND SPIRITUALISM.
Sib,—I see by a paragraph in the last number of The
Spiritualist, that Mr. Spurgeon has at length got a glimmer¬
ing that Spiritualism is true. To justify his real or assumed
ignorance of the matter, he says he still believes it to be hum¬
bug in most oases, and, as might be expected, smells brimstone
in it.
Nearly twenty years ago Eev. Adin Ballou said: “The
Alpha of their objections is that it is humbug, and the Omega
that it is the devil.” As this is the course it generally takes,
it is not a matter of surprise that it should be the same with
Mr. Spurgeon as with others of his class.
The real wonder is, that a man in the position of Mr. Spur¬
geon should live all these years, with the facts of Spiritualism
all around him, and yet not be aware of their existence. One
could imagine a country clergyman, living in some obscure
village, being ignorant of them, but for a man to be so, in
the position and with the pretensions of the gentleman
in question, is indeed marvellous. It cannot be because his
attention has not been called to the subject. Some six or
eight years ago I occasionally sent him a pamphlet, and I dare
say, if the truth were known, he has been well supplied with
spiritual literature. The probability is that he has shut his
eyes to the facts as long as he well could, or as long as it
suited his purpose. Let us hope now that his eyes are open¬
ing to the truth that, to him and his followers, in the words of
Gerald Massey, “ It will make religion infinitely more real,
and translate it from the domain of belief to that of life.”
Eastbourne, Bobebt Goopeb.
ENNESPALLEN’S MEDIUMSHIP.
Sib,—During the last two years you have kindly published
some letters of mine on the subject of Spiritualism; may I
ask a like favour for the one I now write ? Then I was waver¬
ing between two opinions, the solitary phenomenon I had wit¬
nessed being insufficient to convince me of its truth, yet was I
unable to banish it from my mind as an untruth. But now I
can no longer doubt; were I still to do so, I should but obsti¬
nately refuse to believe, though the very proof I had always
required to convince me of its reality was given, and in the
most satisfactory manner. Now I know, that under certain
conditions, the dead can and do communicate with the living.
When lately staying at the hotel at Scarborough, I had the
pleasure of meeting some believers in Spiritualism. At our
first light seance, the only manifestations we could obtain
were unsatisfactory; the table spun violently round, knocking
against the other furniture, then, as if in utter fury, dashed
itself repeatedly against the ground, where, to our dismay, it
lay so broken, that we could no longer place it upright.
The next evening I and another lady (Miss W.) had a seance
alone ; the candles were extinguished, the blinds drawn, so
that none but the very faintest light stole into the room; our
hands were scarcely placed on the table, when the spirit of one
I had often wished to hear of, distinctly rapped out his name,
told where he had passed away, and of the terrible disease
which swept him off in a distant land. He was unhappy,
weary, and restless, far from the heaven which at last he would
reach, though it might not be for ages, and my spirit sobbed
within me for the pain of that poor lonely spirit who had come
back to earth, full of bitterness and unrest. It was the first
time I had spoken with the dead; the veil that had separated
me from those who had passed away was rent, a feeling of
strange solemnity crept over me; a laugh at that moment
would have been to me as frightfully discordant as a laugh in
the presence of one who was passing from earth. Yes, it was
all true, perfectly true, that the disembodied spirit could hold
communion with the spirit still clothed with mortality.
The next evening we had a light seance of a more cheerful
character; amongst others, an old highlander, a clansman of
Major M s, made his presence known by the most vigorous
tilts of the table, and question after question was answered in
the most precise manner as to the past, present, and future.
It was now time to return home. A pleasant month had sped
away all too quickly, and soon Scarborough, in the dim dis¬
tance, was fading from our sight. Now that I had parted from
my friends, through whom I had been so quickly developed as
a medium, I feared the spirits might no longer come to me,
and the next evening we had a trial seance, consisting of two
others besides myself; it was a great success. A little foreign
room leading into a conservatory was chosen for our seance
room; the spirits directed the door to be left open during the
day, to admit the scent of the flowers. Nine different spirits
came to us, amongst them an Italian girl named Lorpus, who
had died at the age of twenty, of fever; then a Greek called
Doss. As our knowledge of each other’s language was very
limited, we could only make out one or two words, and that by
going over the Greek alphabet. Next came a boy named James
Mackintosh. Then the name of Frederick Drake was spelled
out; he said he was a German, that he had been a sculptor,
and lived in the reign of Anne. On looking at a book of refer¬
ence, we found there had been a celebrated German sculptor
of that name, born in 1805, but no mention is made of his
death. Afterwards came a spirit who professes to be able to
reveal the future; he certainly answers every mental question
as easily as when spoken aloud to; he has never once failed in
that respect. Some stay with us scarce longer than is required
to spell out their names, others again seem disposed to talk to
us all night long; but my two sitters soon get weary, therefore
I am obliged to say good night to the poor spirits sooner than
I would. I have now given you a mere sketch of a few of our
seances, fearing your space would not have admitted a more
detailed account. Already you have my name and address,
but not for publication; with your permission I will still sign
myself Ennesfallbn.
[Through such a superior medium, it is probable that spirits will be able,
before long, to give messages or poems of much value and beauty. We
would recommend her, while the mediumship is developing, not to sit with
disbelievers, and to be careful to keep away from all but close and warm
friends, especially at seances; it would be wise, also, to encourage the
higher or mental manifestations, and to discourage the lower or physical
manifestations, no matter how wonderful the latter may chance to be.—
Ed.]
OFFICES FOR THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
Sib,—Your columns this week will probably contain some
reference to the guarantee fund which is being raised to
enable the British National Association to establish a home
of its own, and a centre of operations. The members will
receive the circular letter on the subject, which has been
approved by the council; but many of the members may
have friends who are not known as Spiritualists, or who are
only interested in the movement, who, if they were applied to,
might be willing to aid in this way. A little outside exertion
on the part of some of our members would thus materially
strengthen our position.
On behalf of the Association, might I ask them kindly to
take the hint. Edward T. Bennett.
Betchworth, near Beigate, Oct. 18, 1874.
192
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 16, 1874.
A PASTING LETTER FROM MR. MORSE.
Sib,—Permit me to acknowledge, through your columns,
the following amounts subscribed towards the expenses of my
late soiree, by the under-mentioned friends. Also let me, at
the same time, tender them my sincere thanks for the same.
J. T. M. Esq., £5; Arthur Maltby, Esq., £2; Alex. Calder,
Esq., £l Is.;. Mr. Adshead, £1 Is.; A Friend, £1 Is.;
Mr. Coleman, 5s.; Mrs. Tebb, 10s.; Mr. Eeimers, 5s.; Mrs.
Desmond Fitzgerald, 5s.; A Friend, £1 Is. Total, £12 9s.
With many thanks for aid received from yourself, sir, believe
me yours fraternally, J. J. Morse.
S0IE.EE OE DARLING-TON SPIRITUALISTS.
On Tuesday evening last week, a soiree of the Darlington
Association of Spiritualists was held at their rooms at East¬
bourne, Darlington. Fifty-four members sat down to a very
bountiful table, although not a few others were prevented
from attending by urgent business. Mr. T. P. Barkas, of New¬
castle, was among the guests present. After tea, the business
of the evening commenced.
Mr. T. P. Hinde said that it was with sincere pleasure he
had the honour, as the secretary of the Darlington Spiritualist
Association, of addressing them at another quarterly gather¬
ing, and to see so many friends who were not afraid of the
many unkind—and in some instances cruel—expressions that
had fallen from the lips of .those who consider themselves
faithful representatives of that meek, kind, and Godlike ex¬
emplar—Jesus. For the truth’s sake He suffered, and what a
glorious privilege it was to be able to follow in His footsteps.
They ought to feel gratified at seeing such a cheerful company
assembled, and at the healthy state of their funds, money by
the outside world being always considered to be a certain sign
of prosperity. The subscriptions had in the brief space of
nineteen weeks reached (after expenses had been paid) the sum
of £4 8s. lid., thus forming a basis for further useful work. He
was pleased to see such excellent and reliable mediums pre¬
sent. The work of the association had been, in regard to its
special mission, but limited during the past quarter. The
most prominent incident was the previous visit of the Misses
Wood and Fair lamb, who gave seven seances at the house of
Mr. John Graham ; one materialisation seance also was held in
the Society’s room. He felt confident that universal satisfac¬
tion was felt at the ready and courteous manner in which the
mediums submitted to the most crucial tests ; the phenomena
displayed were of the most varied description, and the mediums
in every instance were discovered at the close to be tied pre¬
cisely as when the seances commenced. One of the most im¬
portant steps the Association had taken was the adoption of a
library fund. The extract from the minute book was as
follows :—“ Proposed by Mr. William York, and seconded by
Mr. G. It. Hinde, ‘ That a fund shall be commenced from this
date (August 28th) for the purpose of establishing a library of
Spiritualistic literature in this town.’” This was carried
unanimously. As the library had been only seven weeks in
existence its funds were not large, namely, £1 5s. fi^d., yet it
already betrayed all the bone and sinew of a future great and
lasting work, for the rapid development of which he would
earnestly urge the members and all friends of the Association,
to render that pecuniary aid which was so essential to the
attainment of so worthy an object. Already they had been
promised several valuable gifts in the shape of books, coupled
with the leading Spiritualistic periodicals at present being issued.
It might not be out of place, before closing, to offer a few
words of caution bearing upon the future weal of their little
society, in the face of the lamentable dissension that was
being made public through the columns of two of their lead¬
ing periodicals, and which could not but be viewed by all
right-thinking Spiritualists as most reprehensible and damaging
to the cause of Spiritualism; it ought to be unanimously pro¬
tested against throughout the land. As the proverb said,—
“ How great a fire a little spark kindleth.” They should all
avoid hard and unkind words towards each other, letting
their watchword be deeply stamped and brightly burnished
upon their memories,—that word, so often used, but alas, so
seldom fully realised, was “Harmony,” and his prayer was
that it might ever reign supreme in their midst. (Applause.)
Mr. Suter, of Bishop Auckland, then made some remarks
upon the present position of Spiritualism in that town.
Mr. Freund spoke about the formation of a Spiritualistic
library in Stockton.
During the rest of the evening the time was passed in sing¬
ing and dancing.
Passed to Spirit Life.—On the 8th inst., at 24, Mot-
combe-street, Belgrave-square, after a few hours’ illness,
Walter Crookes, third surviving son of Joseph Crookes, Esq.,
of Brook-green, Hammersmith, aged 37.
Pine’s Spiritual Telegraph.—This instrument consists
of a circular board with letters round the edge, and a pointer,
which turns upon a pivot in the middle of the board; the
fingers of the medium touch this pointer. A Leicester corre¬
spondent writes, that Mr. J. D. Horn, of 4, Cart’s-lane, Lei¬
cester, made and used such an instrument years ago. Mr.
Herne also used one about four years ago at his public seances
in Great Coram-street, London; it was not circular, however,
but of the form of a quadrant, so that the pointer had to move
backwards and forwards, and could not turn right round. We
can find no evidence that messages given through Mr. Pine’s
instrument are less influenced by the mind of the medium,
than messages given through the planchette or the hand o! a
writing medium. In all of these cases the isolation of the
medium gives greater accuracy. The statement that some
thousands of spirits were occasionally present to see a com¬
mon-place message of a few lines signalled through Mr. Pine’s
instrument, does not savour of reliability. Professor Hare’s
instruments were better, the indices being out of sight of the
medium.
Mrs. Tappan on “Why does not God Kill the
Devil ? ”—Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan gave the second of three in¬
spirational addresses at the Grand Concert Hall, West-street,
Brighton, last Sunday. As on a previous Sunday night, there
was a large audience—from twelve to fifteen hundred ladies
and gentlemen being seated in the body of the hall and the
back gallery—who listened appreciatively to what was said.
Mr. W. Devin presided at the organ. Several members of the
assembly wrote on pieces of paper subjects upon one of which
they should like Mrs. Tappan to address them. These papers
were deposited in a hat, and, in order to allay any suspicion,
a gentleman was requested to step forward, and take three
papers out of the hat, the writing on which would be read to
the audience. Mr. Clark, Dovecot House, Wood-green, near
London, responded to the request. The subject was “ Why
does not God kill the devil ? ” Mrs. Tappan at once com¬
menced to discourse upon the devil. It was well known, she
said, that outside of the theological world the feeling was be¬
coming stronger and stronger each day that the chief Satanic
personality which human beings had to fear was to be found
within themselves (Slight applause) ; and if the questioner
were really in earnest in asking why God did not kill that per¬
sonality, the speaker would state that He would be under the
painful necessity of slaying ninety-nine one-hundredths of the
human family. (Applause.) Before the address was concluded,
the questioners and all interested in the subject were assured
that the spectacle of God slaying Satan was going on every
day wherever a crime was conquered, a temptation resisted, or
enlightenment took the place of ignorance. No questions were
asked at the close of the discourse. For the impromptu poem,
the subject “ The angels at the sepulchre ” was chosen. Upon
this theme Mrs. Tappan delivered a number of lines in blank
verse. Gounod’s march “ Romaine ” terminated the proceed¬
ings. —Brighton Daily News.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
D.—Brighton:—Write to Captain Hudson for it; his address was
printed in the last number of The Spiritualist.
R.G.—We do not know whether the difficulties in communicating
through mediums are such that the sensitive is sometimes made
to say exactly the reverse of what the spirit meant, with no
intentional deception on either side. Let two line wires be
screwed by accident on the two wrong terminals of a needle
telegraphic instrument, and the needle will move in the reverse
way to that intended by the operator sending the message, and
if both the operator and receiver do not understand the instru¬
ment they are using, they will be confused by the facts, and
perhaps blame each other for what they suppose to be inten¬
tional mystification. Such things have actually occurred in
practice.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
Treasurer.—Herbert N. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane
Offices —64, BERNERS STREET.
Hon. Sec.—Mrs. Lowo (LOUISA)
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition, price 3s.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz.
London :—Simfkin, Marshall & Co.
Oct. 16, 1874,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND OLAIEVOTANTE, whose reputation is,
well known throughout Europe and America, can he consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
12 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 21, Princes-
street, Hanover-square, two doors from Regent-street.
R. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb's Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening.. Address as above.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, twill give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in "Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bernard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRYOTANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Campden-hill, Kensington.
'R. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution,^85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter. '•* 
T V. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
9* . Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Re'Uister your Letters.
'R. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return in
or about the month of June next.. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—War wick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.
kR. M’LEOD AND SIBYL—MAGNETIC HEALING
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefitted. By letters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfield, Esq., 15,
Lower Belgrave-street, Pimlico. S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture. Terms 2 guineas.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by~li. W. ~Fltnt,
kj 39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms; Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
HOTOGRAPHIC COPIES OF THE ILLUMINATED
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
THE PROGRESSIVE SPIRITUALIST AND FREE
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman.
Price Threepence. To be had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hUl, Hendon. N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21, Green-street Grosvenor-square, W
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-bill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, War wick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple,E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Ross-Church, Mrs. (FlorenceMarryat), 21, Colville-rd.,Kensingston-pk., W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfield, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thomham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Bichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath. S.E.
Davies, Rev. C. Maurice. D.D., 44,Netherwood-rd., West Kensington-pk., W.
Dawe, N. F., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
I Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder's-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N. W.
Fitton, Richard, 34, Walnut-s'reet, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road North,
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
(freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A.S , 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., Waterloo Hotel, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-street, Hyde-park, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.O.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King's-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road, St. John’s-wood.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., f'lub-chambers, Regent street.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29. Dalyell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, M.A.,M.D., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, Hazel Down, Teignmoutb.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-la;ne, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Sirawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietkens, E. A., 18, Oakley-square, N.W.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, PaU Mall,
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapbam Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
ISITORS to LONDON will find Comfortable Bedrooms
and Good Attendance at Mrs. Jackson’s Table flHote. Moderate
Charges. 3, Torrington-street, Torrington-square, London, W.O.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee r
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
Information about the society may be obtained from the Officers of the
Association by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee Rooms,
30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE.
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
J. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c, &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to Mr. BARKAS),
N ewcastle-on-Ty ne.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all.Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russell-strbet, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Etq.,25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. {Home Corres¬
pondence)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. {Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary (pro tern.).
Mr. Louis Freeman, York-hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emils de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. I’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pasth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of tbe Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko. Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M Peebles Esq., Hammontou, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor (Progressive Spiriiualist), Melbourne, Australia.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. Constant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Rue de Rome, Paris
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
MmeG. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Gr. 0. Wittig, Esq., Numberger Strasse 35, Leipsic.
Mons. Buguet, Paris.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 16, 1874.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
' INVESTIGATION.
THE “PIONEER OF PROGRESS ” PRINTING AND
PUBLISHING COMPANY,
Spiritualism deserves investigation because witbinthe last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London' Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John'L’ubbock,’ Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena.: The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S.Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. R. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Eev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; .Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.E.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Eobert Hannah, Esq.;F.Q.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.E.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Eobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Eeed, Esq.; C. Bussell Eoberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law';
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred E. Wallace, Esq., F.E.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceedingfr om
articles, of furjiiture,’ the- floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accbkipanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
, occur, • without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
2.: That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
- present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals,' answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
Onebf the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All" were members of the committee, persons of social
position,, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.'’ p •   
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters.' One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
hall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
ouch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
vOpe means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange-
if ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
spgak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to me letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits. out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, andjvery sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority Of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
. members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
koirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of'
mediumsbip than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
4, KINGSGATE STEEET, HOLBOEN, LONDON, W.C.
In the Printing Department every arrangement has been made for the
prompt execution of all orders. Printing of all kinds done cheaply and
well. Estimates given.
In the Publishing Department is kept a complete assortment of
Spiritual, Progressive, Eeform and Miscellaneous books at wholesale and
retail prices. London and country agents supplied with all kinds of
Spiritual Literature in one parcel immediately on publication. Terms:
Cash Payments. Catalogues of books, giving prices, &c., may be had upon
application. —
TO SPIRITUALISTS AND OTHERS.—All who desire
to read the literature of Spiritualism and other progressive move¬
ments, should subscribe to
THE “ PIONEEB OF PEOGEESS ” LIBEAEY,
Which contains a large collection of Spiritual and other Progree-i
sive Works. Additions of new and choice books are being made
daily.
Terms: £1 Is. per annum. 10s. 6d. Half-yearly. 2s. Monthly. Cata¬
logues 3d. each.
EVEEY THUESDAY MOENING.
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS,”
A Weekly Eecord of Spiritualism, Scientific and Ethical.
And contains articles by Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton, “Fritz,”
Eev. Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes; Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, and other
general information.
ONE PENNY.
Published at 4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn; Wholesale Agent, F. Pitman,
20, Paternoster-row, London, E.C., and can be ordered of any bookseller.
INVESTIGATOES AND ENQTTIBEBS into Spiritualism may obtain,
gratis, all information concerning the various societies, national and local,
seances, mediums, lecturers, &c.
All communications to be addressed, George Farmer, 4, Kingsgate-street,
Holborn, W.C.
THE WONDER OF THE AGE. JUST ISSUED.
FTIHE TWO DISCOVERIES, OR KEY TO PINE’S
JL SPIEITUAL TELEGEAPH.
This Key not only unlocks the abstruse labyrinths of Mathematical
Science, but enables every person, who values the privilege, to converse as
freely in domestic retirement with friends in spirit life, as when they were
on earth; and contains a series of communications of [the most intense
interest, received by this new Invention, with an engraving of the
instrument.
BY CLEMENT PINE.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, and Stationers’ Hall
court, E.C.
Also published by the Author at Bridgewater. To be had of all Booksellers.
In substantial paper covers, 152 pp., 8vo. Price Is. postage 2d. Stereo¬
typed and copyright secured.
THE SPIEITUAL DEPAETMENT contains the confessions and
conditions of eight spirits, well known to the Author in Earth-life, who had
deviated from the {path of duty; also the experiences of as many more
spirits well known to him, who had performed their duty on earth, and
experienced a happy^ntrance into the spirit realm. The conditions of
spiritual existence, even their divine unions' in marriage, are completely
exemplified by this new mode.
The mathematieal discovery increases the accuracy of astronomical
observations, tenfold, by a process so simple as to suit the public
chools.
In handsome Cloth, price 2s. 6d. post free.
Psychopathy or, the true healing art.
By JOSEPH ASHMAN,
Principal of the Psychopathic Institution, 254, Marylebone-ioad, London,
N.W.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—Introduction.
Dissatisfaction with Ordinary Systems of Medicine—The Nature of
Disease—One primal Principle of Cure—Weaknefs and Strength—Man
like an Engine—What is Vital Force?—Health, Breath, the Blood—The
Vital Principle beyond these.
Chapter II.—The Vital Principle.
The Stomach—Man a Plant—The Internal Sun—Man a Microcosm-
Caloric—Arterial Combustion—Temperature of the Body—The Nervous
System a Source of Heat—Nerve Force—Difference between the Gan¬
glionic and the Cerebral and Cerebro-Spinal. Nerves — Office ‘of the
Ganglia and the Cerebellum—Nature of the 1 Vis Jiervosa—lhe Soul
Force.
Chapter III.—On the Nature and Cure op Disease.
The Perfect Magnet—The Healthy Organism—The Source of Vital
Force—How produced—The Vital Force and Nerve-aura may be Com¬
municated—The Influence of the Old on the Young—The Hand a Psychial
Instrument—The Philosophy of Hand-Shaking.
Chapter IV.—Healing.
Two Vital Fluids—Their Signs—The Vital Magnetic Fluid: Mode of
Applying it—The Power of the Hand over the Temperature of the Body—
The Nerves the Medium of Influence—Process ' without Contact—
Healing at a Distance: Marvellous Cures—The Impartation of the Aura
to Water, &c.—Necessity of Passivity and Benevolence—Concluding
Bemarks.
London: J. Burns, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co,, at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. .W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.C,
