A F(ECOF(D Of THE
PROQREfJS Of THE gCIEjMCE /.NO ETHICS OF £PIF(ITU/0LI£M.
[REGISTEBED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 38.—(Vol. il, No. 10.)
LONDON: TUESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1872.
FORTNIGHTLY PUBLICATION OF “THE
SPIRITUALIST.”
From this time forth The Spiritualist will he
published on the first and fifteenth of every
month. Our next number will therefore he
issued on the first of November.
THE SYSTEMATIC APPEARANCE OF SPIRITS IN
LONDON.
The readers of these pages have been informed from
time to time, during the past two years, of the progress
of the development of the medium ship of Miss Florence
Cook, aged sixteen, daughter of Mr. Henry Cook, who
resides at Hackney, and is a leading member of the
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism.
After obtaining in great perfection such manifestations
as table manifestations, raps, direct spirit voices, float¬
ing of the body in the air, trance and clairvoyant mani¬
festations, direct spirit writing, and so on, spirit faces
began to make themselves visible in the light through
Miss Cook’s mediumship. These living faces were
formed in the dark, in a darkened room or cabinet, with
curtains over the entrance; and afterwards the faces
were pushed out through the curtains into the light for a
few seconds only at first, though now sometimes for five
minutes at a time, so as to be seen and talked to by the
observers outside. The heads have always been more
or less covered with drapery of the purest white; at
first this drapery covered not only the sides and backs
of the heads, but encroached very much upon the
cheeks, and the faces could only bear a very feeble light
for a short time. Now the faces are uncovered almost
to the ears, and they bear a strong light for a long time.
The spirits say of the light, “ It makes us feel tired.”
The intent gaze of the observers also pains them, caus¬
ing, they say, a burning sensation. Perhaps this is
ip^'k^BaSny'Wonflerful spifitu-abiEfanifestations—SiTe'h’ for
> instance 'as the playing of Mr. Crookes’s accordion imcZef
a table—take place either in darkness, or with some
screen between the eyes of the observers and the thing
manipulated.
The spirit Katie King is very much like Miss Cook,
and thiA at-first was a great source of annoyance to the
medium, though now many other spirit faces come
bearing scarcely a trace of resemblance to Miss Cook.
We say “ scarcely a trace ” because, although faces
sometimes come nearly twice as big as the face of the
medium, sometimes also with disarranged teeth, and
once with a great cut over the forehead, in all of them
there is a trace of resemblance to her, principally about
the eyes and nose. Katie says that when they begin
making these faces, they are as much like the medium
as pieces of jelly turned out of the same mould, but
they are altered afterwards. As the manifestations are
'developed she says that the faces will grow more and
more unlike that of the medium. All the faces, except
one or two special ones, are fairer in complexion than
the face of Miss Cook. Katie’s face is not always the
same. Once she put it out of the cabinet as black as
ink, and shining like patent leather ; on another occa¬
sion it had a chocolate colour. Her eyes are sometimes
grey and sometimes dark. Her head is larger than that
of Miss Cook ; Katie has more breadth of forehead.
The cabinet is simply a tall cupboard, with an open¬
ing in it about a foot square, high up, near the ceiling ;
it was minutely described, with measurements, by
Mr. Blyton in our last number, and there is no other
entrance to it than through the doors in front; this we
state decidedly, from absolute knowledge. The ob¬
servers sit in the light in front of the doors, and lock
the medium in directly she enters the cabinet. Katie
says that the faces are made of emanations tangible
enough to spirits, thrown off from the bodies of all the
members of the circle, the medium included. Next to
the medium, the most useful sitters are the servant
Mary, and Miss Edith Cook, aged five. Either Mary
or Edie is usually ordered by Katie to sit in a chair,
with her back to the cabinet, but outside the cabinet
like the rest of the sitters ; neither of them feel much
influence as the manifestations go on. Mary says the
effect is to make her feel rather hot and tired. The spirit
Katie says that although the substances in the heads
come from all the members of the circle, the life in
them, while they last, is all taken from the medium, who
is very much exhausted by the manifestations, but soon
recovers strength again.
A seance usually consists of three or four sittings,
varying perhaps from fifteen to twenty-five -minutes
each. Between these sittings Miss Cook is ordered by
Katie to walk in the cool open air of the garden ; at the
same time the doors of the seance room and cabinet are
thrown wide open, so that all may be thoroughly aired
and cooled. The medium is usually in a trance in the
cabinet while the faces appear, but not always; the
spirits have more power to produce the faces when she
is entranced; but Miss Cook does not like it, as she
very naturally wishes to see all that is going on. Sing¬
ing is demanded at times of all the members of the
circle, who also have to keep their seats unless invited
to rise; in fact, the great success is in great part due to
the fact that mortals who do not know how the faces are
made, are not allowed to impose their own conditions,
mental or physical, upon spirits who do know how to
make them, and consequently are the best judges of what
is necessary. At this point there is no harm in digress¬
ing a little to remark that although Spiritualism is un¬
doubtedly both a mental and a physical science, it is
more a mental than a physical science ; that is to say,
that( Professor Huxley with his ideas of the Bishop
Berkeley stamp, would make quicker headway in the
investigation of Spiritualism than would Professor
Tyndall. Spiritualism is a region where physics cannot
make much progress without the-aid of metaphysics..
At each successive sitting Miss Cook grows weaker,
and at last leaves the cabinet with a feeling of giddi¬
ness, and a slight swaying motion; cool air soon re¬
moves these unpleasant effects. When she wakes from
the trance in the cabinet she is usually, but not always,
leaning forward in her chair almost horizontally, and
she feels a weight on her back almost as if someone
were standing on it, but she cannot say that she has
ever distinctly felt the impression of feet. The eyes
of the spirits have often a somnambulic glassy look, and
this is a sign of weakness, of power; the glassy look
generally disappears if the members of the circle sing
well together, and are delighted with the manifesta¬
tion ; the eyes then grow brilliant and sparkling, and
begin to move more easily in their sockets ; the spirits
can then see out of them, and this they cannot always
do in the somnambulic stage.
The spirits have permitted these faces to be felt, at
first only in total darkness, but gradually with the addi¬
tion of more and more light. They were first felt in
just light enough to see them by, last Saturday week.
To get a good seance in the evening. Miss Cook should
have nothing to weary body or mind throughout the
day, and after a substantial dinner she should go. to
sleep for an hour or two. Her mother says it is more
like a trance than a sleep, and is very deep. After she
wakes up she should have nothing but a light tea before
the seance begins. Meals heavy enough to make the
medium feel sleepy are always bad before any seance.
Stimulants, such as wine, increase the power, but should
be avoided. The afternoon sleep is the most important'
thing, and other mediums have discovered .itSvVaiue.
When she wakes up her hair is- usually in a very elec¬
trical state; it will stick out considerably, and some¬
times give sparks with friction. As the hair of other
people in the house will not usually do the same at the
same time, the effect does not appear to be due to dry¬
ness of the atmosphere, or to other external causes, but
to something appertaining to the medium herself. There
would therefore appear to be a fallacy in the conclu¬
sions which Mr. Yarley once published in these pages ;
in detailing his experiments to determine whether the
human body gave off electricity, he did not say that
he tried experiments with any other human body than
his own; such experiments as were tried, were of course
so carefully done, and with such sensitive apparatus,
as to be quite conclusive in that particular case.
The electrical condition of Miss Cook’s, hair before a
seance has been so often noticed, as to leave no doubt of
the fact being a fact.
For the past two years Mr. and Mrs. and Miss Cook
have at considerable expense to themselves, given their
friends many opportunities of witnessing the various
manifestations, but recently found that they could not
possibly keep open house for all who wished to come.
Hence professional mediumship was recently contem¬
plated, with all its attendant unpleasantness, and pos¬
sibly the retardation of the speed of development of the
wonderful manifestations which have been so carefully
fostered. At this juncture a gentleman, from Didsbury,
near Manchester, stepped in, and more than protected
Mr. Cook and family against money losses in the matter.
Published on the 1st and 15th of every
Month; Price Fourpence.
so that no charge will be made to those who have the
privilege of being invited to Miss Cook’s seances, which
can only be held twice a week, because of the exhaus¬
tion of strength they cause. Already it has been found
utterly impossible to admit half the ladies and gentle¬
men who have desired to be present.; there is admission
only by invitation and by previous appointment, and it
is waste of time for strangers to call upon Mr, Cook at
his house. It is desired that the manifestations shall
be utilised more especially for scientific purposes.
By saving Miss Cook from professional mediumship,
thereby giving her greater facilities to work for the
good of the cause, the gentleman who has paid the
expenses incidental to the seances, has done much good
to the cause of both Spiritualism and science. Miss Cook
will not give seances away from her own home. Home
influences have much to do with the success of the
manifestations, and it is an established fact, that the
manifestations are always stronger than elsewhere in a
a house the medium lives in. The late Mr. Cox, of
Jermyn-street, found that this was the case with Mr.
Home. When Miss Cook’s cabinet was first made,
Katie could hot do much at the earlier sittings; she
said that there was too much of the influence of the
carpenter left in the wood-work. When it was -after¬
wards painted and varnished, the manifestations were
weakened for a day or two.
Much of the success of the manifestations depends
upon the visitors, who should join heartily in the sing¬
ing, and in every way try to promote the happiness of
the meeting. When a bad antagonistic mental influence
is present, the power is weakened, the spirit faces are
more deathlike, and show themselves for a shorter time..
None but ladies and gentlemen of honourable cha¬
racter have hitherto been admitted to the seances, hence
up to the present time there has been no trickery,
untruthfulness, or unpleasantness, on the part either of
the spirits or the mortals. Katie often permits her
face and hands to be "lelt: on condition that there shall
be no grasping or pinching, nor has anybody attempted
to break faith with her. In America the sitters have
not always been so honourable^ and within the past
year the Banner of Light has printed some of the results
of the tricks of visitors. A boy medium obtained spirit
hands, and a person present squirted some ink over the
hands ; when the boy was released from the cabinet his
hands were covered with ink, and the. youth was
denounced as an impostor then and there. But a gen¬
tleman who had once seen the boy put his hands only,
under a shawl, to get darkness, and then seen spirit
hand and arms coming out at the further end of the
shawl, was not satisfied. He tried experiments, and
found that colouring matter placed upon the spirit
hands afterwards appeared on different parts of the
body of the medium. The spirits told him not to use
poisonous colouring matters in the experiments, as it
would get into the lungs and other parts of the body of
the medium, to his injury. All these things are matters
for careful experimental investigation.
We will now give a description of some of the mani¬
festations obtained through Miss Cook’s mediumship
since the publication of our last number, and arranged
in chronological order.
September ISth.—This narrative is sent to us by a
lady who does not wish her name to be published :—
Sir,—I was present yesterday evening. Sept. 18th, at a
seance at Mr. Cook’s, of which I should like to give you a few
details.
The circle consisted of Mr. and Mrs. Cook and family, a
distinguished Fellow of the Royal Society and his wife, and
the editor of a well-known scientific journal, besides myself,
who am a personal friend of Miss Cook’s, and was staying in
the house. We sat for face manifestations. Miss Cook was,
of course, the medium, and was tied with a rope to her chair
(by spirit power) inside the cabinet, in the manner fully des¬
cribed by Mr. Blyton in your last number.
The knots being examined and approved by the members
of the circle, we all joined in singing. After some time tho
spirit Katie appeared at the opening of the cabinet, and we
had a very good view of her face under a strong light. It
was more perfect even than usual, and the head was com¬
pletely formed all round.
In due time a female face of very different aspect from
Katie’s presented itself,. It seemed unable to speak, but the
lips were opened several times, showing teeth of exceeding
whiteness and regularity. It intimated by signs that it
wished to address itself to one of the party in particular, the
Editor before mentioned, whom I will call Mr. X., but he
failed to recognise the face as that of a departed friend. The
spirit then turned towards him, and drawing aside the
drapery, showed a deep cut on the side of the temple, above
the left eye. We asked if this wound was the cause of
death. The spirit nodded assent. Still no recognition on.
the part of Mr. X. and the face disappeared. This was all
74
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Oct. 15, 1872.
rather solemn, but the performance ended in a semi-comic
i manner as I will endeavour to relate.
A little later in the evening Katie asked Mr. X. to go into
the cabinet, remove the chair, and stand opposite to Miss
Cook, holding both her hands. The editor entered bravely.
Having been for some time an ardent investigator of the pheno¬
mena of Spiritualism, he felt himself doubtless as well-versed
in its mysteries as is possible to a non-mediumistic perspn.
His remarks kept us au courant of all that was going on in¬
side the cabinet. “ The medium has almost turned herself
round ; she is resting her head in the corner ; I think she is
entranced,” &c. Presently Mr. Cook said he could see some¬
thing waving about inside the cabinet above Mr. X. “I am get¬
ting very hot,” said the editor ; “1 feel very weak, I should like
to come out.” We heard him, somewhat amused, but heeded
not, trusting to Katie that all would be well. Then in
louder, and at last terrified tones—“ Let me out ! let me out!
I shall-faint! ” We unlocked the door and released the poor
captive, who staggered out, looking scared and deathly pale,
and more like an orthodox ghost than anything we had yet
witnessed. We laid him on the floor, and administered a
little cold water, and in a few minutes he (not having fainted)
awoke to the absurdity of his situation, and left to
catch the last train. Mr. and Mrs.   also left
almost immediately. So much for the effect of" a little
personal experience of spirit-influence on scientific ob¬
servers ! I wish Katie and other spirit-practitioners would
administer a few more good doses of psychic force to its
eminent discoverers and advocates J We should soon see
IT.U.S.’s, M.D.’s, and B.Sc.’s, floored one after the other,
without respect of person, rank, or degree. 1
After the departure of our friends, as it were in a whirl¬
wind, we tried to collect our scattered senses, and prepare to
retire. But the spirits had not done their work, and were
not going to let us off till they had finished. Miss Cook was
sitting entranced upon the sofa with her head buried in the
cushions, moaning and begging for another seance. It was near
midnight but we were forced to comply. The medium waS
placed in the cabinet; loud knocks were heard inside, and in
a few minutes the strange face re-appeared, with a black cap,
or very closely-matted black hair (I could not distinguish
which) under the white drapery. The words “Take note,”
had been previously rapped out. The spirit re-asserted its
connection with Mr. X, and its anxiety to be recognised, and
the face wore a pained expression. Now mark the following.
As w.e watched, the upper features became gradually blurred,
and finally blotted out altogether, and there remained what
appeared to be a blank mass’ of flesh, over which the drapery
was closed by degrees, until nothing could be seen between the
folds, but the point of tlie nose and mouth. Then the head
dropped below1 the opening.
Katie afterwards told us it was well we had sat, for the
spirit wanted to finish what she had begun with Mr. X.
If she had not been able to do so, she would have haunted
the medium till her next seance, to her great discomfort, pos¬
sibly to her injury.
I make no comment on this last, but it was to me the
lesson of the whole. A. B.
Mr. X. say's that he thinks that the heat of the small
cabinet had, perhaps, as much to do with his faintness,
as spirit-influence, and that, upon entering the cabinet
again a few days later, when in stronger health, nothing
of the kind occurred.
September 20th.—On this evening an ordinary table
seance, at which we were present, was held at Mr.
Cook’s. Mrs. Cook told us that after Mr. X. left, at
the last seance, Miss Cook entered her bedroom, and
unexpectedly saw the spirit face with the cut over the
eye, which frightened her. Then the other sitting
described by our correspondent took place. One other
case of a spirit getting near mediums, and then being
unable to leave them without certain conditions being
furnished, once came under our notice, but we have no
space now to give details.
At the table seance Katie was asked “ If the spirit
who wished to be recognised, could not tell her name,
why did not Katie, who had been with her in the cabi¬
net, tell us her name for her ? ” Katie replied, evasively,
“ You may be shut up in an omnibus with people, yet
not Tcnoiv their names.'” “ Yes ; but we do not do hard
work for the people in the omnibus, and help them to
materialise themselves.” “ Well, the truth of the matter
is, I wont tell you her name. We give these manifesta¬
tions under guidance, and are not our own masters or
mistresses as to what we shall reveal. You will knotv
some time or other who the spirit is.”
The spirit in question appears sometimes with, and
sometimes without, the cut over the eye.
September 22nd.—The gentleman who wrote the
following report is a Government official:—
Sir,—We sat for faces at 7.30, Mr. and Mrs. Cook, Florrie,
Kate, Donald, Mary, and myself. Miss Cook sat down in
the cabinet; at her feet were a couple of tubes, and a piece
of thin rope, about four yards long. I locked her in. Your
lamp was full on the cabinet. Katie spoke, and said we
were to sing, which we did heartily. Katie then told me to open'
the cabinet and look at the medium. The rope was tied round
both her wrists, the ends brought round her neck, tied there
again, find then brought down and tied to sides of chair—
about four to six tight knots at each tie. This was done in
about four or five minutes. At Florrie’s wish I sealed the
knots securely at both wrists and on one side of the chair.
I then asked her to rise, which she did with difficulty, the
chair holding down her arms and forming a most uncom-
fqrtable appendage. Door locked by me again ; more sing¬
ing, then Katie’s face, first apparently dull and lifeless, the
eyes fixed, but gradually, as we sung, increasing in prettiness
and animation. The face was very much like the medium’s,
except that it had a dimple in the chin, and was broader
across the eyes. It remained at the opening for ten minutes,
and talked to us all; but when it’spoke it seemed to shrink
back into the shadow, and the movement of the lips could
with dififiiulty be seen. Katie wore the usual white spirit
head-dress. We were then told to release the medium.
We found her in the same position, but entranced. The rope
was unmoved and the seals unbroken. I was forced to
cut the rope, which I did, preserving the knots untied and
seals intact. The rope is now in my possession. Interval of
half an hour, the medium appearing much exhausted. Locked
her up again, not tied this time ; no other faces than Katie’s
had been given. Singing for quarter of an hour, when a
curious face (apparently a woman’s) presented itself. The
eyes were closed, there were no eyebrows, the nose was a
mere “ snub,” the mouth a scarcely perceptible pucker. A
white cloth was drawn over the head, and between the fore¬
head and this cloth was no hair, but what appeared to be a
dark gap. This was an “ uncanny ” face, and did not speak.
It slowly moved backwards and forwards for about three
minutes, and then fell back out of sight.
More singing (called for by alphabet and raps this time),
and after about five minutes a third head, also a woman’s,
appeared. It was good-looking; not like the medium in
appearance at all, and had black sparkling eyes. It wore a
high white headdress (in shape like those enormous oil-cloth
caps worn by the Parsee merchants who are often seen'
about the City). It moved about freely and turned round,
and showed ms a well formed and pretty left ear. It did not
speak. .1 asked if it was known to any in the circle, or your¬
self, and it shook a negative. It peered down at little Edith
(who was sitting against the cabinet door fast asleep) and
opened its mouth, but could make no sound. After keeping
in view five minutes, it fell back, and was gone. Katie then
spoke (without showing herself again), and directed me to
“ put myself inside with the medium.” This I did, and sat
in the chair, while Miss Cook stood ; I held both her hands,
and Mrs. Cook locked us in. I felt the influence strongly, as
I have done before at some sittings, my breath seemingly
being slowly pumped out of me. But in a few minutes this
ceased. I sat inside for ten minutes or more, but saw and
heard nothing. Florrie said she saw a white cloud forming
over my head, but I looked and saw nought. The folks out¬
side got tired at last and let me out. We then locked the
medium up again, and Katie said that the power was used
up (this was given by alphabet and raps), and that the
medium was to be awakened. I did this by upward passes
with difficulty, and left her for a moment, when she went off
again. I tried once more, and brought her out into the room.
For the rest of the evening ■ she was half asleep, and could
hardly walk. It is evident that these face manifestations use
up her strength enormously.
I ought to state that while I sat in the cabinet Mary was
bidden to sit with her back to the door, and that we had a
short sitting round the table previously for ten minutes to
“get up the power” by Katie’s direction.
September 27th.—Mrs. Corner has sent us the fol¬
lowing letter :—-
Sib,—Will you allow me a short space in your most interest¬
ing journal to narrate a few of the incidents which took place
at a seance my daughter and I attended last evening (Friday),
at Mr. Cook’s |
About 7.30 p.m. we entered the seance-room, when Miss
Cook went immediately into the [cabinet, inside of which were
a chair, two tubes, and six yards of soft rope. The doors of
the cabinet were closed and locked. The sitters were, Mr.
and Mrs. Cook, the Misses Katie and Edith (the latter, I may
remark, a most beautiful child of five years of age), Master
Donald Cook, my daughter, and myself. We had only sat
about three or four minutes, when the tubes began to be
thrown about, and we heard Miss Cook beg of Katie, her spirit-
friend, not to knock her about so much. Miss Cook then said
she was being tied, which process occupied about two minutes.
The doors of the cabinet were then unlocked, and we found
the medium securely tied, the rope being twice round each
wrist, secured by about half a dozen knots on each; it was
then taken up to her neck, which was encircled by six coils of
the rope, secured not only by a knot, but a pin, which Miss
Cook wore in her collar, was taken out, and used also in
pinning the rope, which was then made fast to the back of the
chair. The knots were then sealed, and the doors again closed,
Katie asking us to sing. The medium, during this time, was
in her normal state, when the spirit Katie bid her go to sleep,
telling her she would sing her to sleep. We distinctly heard
her singing some old nursery rhymes, in that hushed style you
would use in singing a child to sleep. This she soon accom-.
plished. Shortly after, the tubes appeared at the opening in
the cabinet, and Katie said, “ Mrs. Corner, I know you; but who
is that you have with you? ” I replied, “ This is my daughter,
Carrie.” “How do you spell it ?” she inquired; and upon my
informing her, she appeared satisfied. A hand was then seen
at the opening, followed by a face—calm—beautiful, the eyes
liquid and sparkling, the lids winking in a natural manner, a
finely cut mouth, and very white teeth. On the top of the
forehead she wore a white, apparently linen, band, which also
formed her head dress. Upon our exclaiming how beautiful
she was, she acknowledged the compliment, by gracefully
bowing her head. The light was fully turned on the face,
which remained five minutes; it then seemed to gently fall on
one side and disappear.
Katie next said she would show us a very beautiful face of a
Parsee; this appeared in the course of a few minutes. The
Parsee wore a high, white head-dress, somewhat resembling a
sugar-loaf, which was very becoming to her eastern .cast of
features. She turned her head round so that we might see
her hair, and her beautifully-shaped ear. This face remained
three minutes, when Katie told us we were to give up for a
short time. The cabinet was then opened, and we found the
medium deeply entranced. As soon as the effect had gone off,
my daughter commenced to untie the knots ; with the help of
a stiletto she accomplished the task in about nine minutes.
After chatting for about half an hour, Miss Cook again
entered the cabinet—this time minus the rope. Katie very
soon entranced her, and told Mrs. Cook she would bring her
aunt Mary. Mrs. Cook said this was a sister of her father
who had not manifested before. This face Mrs. Cook did not
immediately recognise, as it was much younger than she last
remembered her aunt, but there being a peculiarity in the
formation of the mouth, Mrs. Cook remarked her aunt had a
singularly-formed mouth. Katie said, “ Yes, that is your
aunt’s mouth.” Mrs. Cook asked some questions of the spirit,
who looked very earnestly at her, and, by the movement of the
mouth, tried hard to speak, but could not. This face re¬
mained five minutes, and then left us. In a short time Katie
again showed her face—I think more beautiful than before.
She said “Mrs. Corner, ■would you like to feel my face?” On
my replying “ I should like it very much,” she said. “You will
not pinch ?” The light was immediately put out, and I went
up to the cabinet, and raised my hand, which she took, and
passed over her face. She then raised my hand to her lips
and kissed it, saying, “ Will you let me do what I like ? ”
On my replying in the affirmative she said, “ I like this—I
will adorn my medium with it,”—while so saying she gently,
but swiftly detached a portion of my head-dress, with hair
pins attached, saying, “You shall not have it again.” She
next said, “ Mrs. Corner, will you send some notes of this to
Willie Harrison ?” which I promised to do. Katie’s last re¬
marks were, “Mrs. Corner, would you like a dark seance't”
and upon my replying,, “ Yes, Katie,” she replied, “I .will
wake my m'edium, and you shall have one,” after which we
heard her rousing the medium. During this second seance my
daughter locked the door, and kept the key in her pocket.
Upon her unlocking it, the medium walked out, apparently not
much weakened by what she had passed through. We then
had an ordinary dark seance.
I must apologise for the length of this record, but feel as if
I could fill a page of your paper, with the history of this, to
my daughter and self, most enjoyable evening.
3, St. Thomas’s-square, Hackney, Amelia Cobner.
September 28th, 1872.
September 29th.—The following is from a Norwich
literary gentleman, well known in the newspaper
world :—
Sir,—I take it to be a fact that the phenomena produced
through Miss Cook’s mediumship are not merely as wonderful
as any which have yet been witnessed in this country, but
have the peculiar advantage of being manifested under con¬
ditions more than ordinarily satisfactory to sympathetic
visitors, and at the same time eminently calculated to carry
conviction to all honest sceptical enquirers. This must be
my excuse for asking you to find room in The Spiritualist for
a short account of what I witnessed on the evening of Sun¬
day, Sept. 29, at the residence of Mr. Cook, of Hackney.
The seance took place in the breakfast-room, the circle ,
consisting of Mr. and Mrs. Cook, Mrs. Cook’s sister, Mr. and
Mrs. Bird (of Brixton), Miss Florrie Cook (the medium),
two younger sisters,'and a brother, the servant of the house,
and myself. The cabinet had been formed by boarding up
one of the recesses by the fireplace from floor to ceiling,
entrance being gained by folding doors five feet six inches in
height, above which is an opening one foot square at which
the spirit faces are shown. I need not waste space by de¬
scribing how the seance was conducted, further than by saying
that the members joined'in singing at intervals appropriate
hymns and melodies, and in cheerful conversation; and I
shall save time, too, by avoiding all comments and specula¬
tions, and confining myself to a plain, simple, and pure
matter of fact description of what was seen and done.
I begin then by saying that I had free access to the cabinet,
and could find nothing but solid wood in front and solid
walls behind ; and that notwithstanding that Mr. and Mrsj
Cook very courteously allowed me to do just as I liked,
I could throughout discover not the slightest symptoms of
trickery or delusion and consequently do not believe that
there were any. It should be noted too, that during the
whole of the sitting—with a slight exception to which I shall
presently refer—all the proceedings took place in the light
of a good paraffin lamp.
Miss Cook took her seat in the cabinet on a small cane-
bottomed chair, placed with its back against the side wall, the
space from front to back not being deep enough to allow her
to sit in any other way. At her feet I placed a long piece of
soft rope, and having closed the doors and locked them, I put
the key in my pocket and sat down within a few feet nf the
cabinet to “watch and wait.” The medium thus closeted,
joined with the circle in conversation for a few minutes, and
then a fresh voice was heard apparently talking with Miss
Cook in the cabinet, and now and then addressing some
remark about the medium, to the circle. The owner of this
voice calls herself Katie King, and says that she is the
daughter (not the wife) of the spirit John King (alias Sir
John de Morgan) well known at several spiritual circles.
After a lapse of eight or ten minutes from the time that
Miss Cook had entered the cabinet, Katie requested me to
unlock the doors and look at the medium. I did so, and
found that she had been most elaborately bound to her chair.
Each wrist was tied with a series of very beautiful knots very
like a crochet chain in appearance, but, as I afterwards found,
much tighter than a crochet chain would be. From the wrists
the rope passed round the waist, and thence in a very curious
and ingenious manner round the neck in a kind of slip-knot,
so that, as I found on trial, any motion of the hands would
tighten it there, and so most effectually prevent the hands
from being employed in active use. From the neck the
rope was passed round the back of the chair, and finally
tied in tight knots to the bottom ledge. I candidly
confessed that I could not have tied the medium so
securely as she had thus been tied by invisible agency.
To “make assurance doubly sure,” I waxed the knots,
sealed them with a spade guinea, locked the medium
up in her narrow prison, and resumed my seat. Katie’s
voice was heard again after a few seconds, telling the medium
to go to sleep, and soon afterwards assured us that she was
“ off,” and that she herself was preparing to show her face—
and sure enough there appeared at the opening at the top of
the cabinet what looked at first something like a slightly
luminous disk, but which quickly took the form of a female
face, as like as possible to any female face I ever saw in the
flesh, except that I have not often been fortunate enough to
see one so beautiful. And this face looked, smiled, nodded,
and talked to us several minutes—while at Katie’s own re¬
quest the light of the lamp was thrown full upon her. I will
not attempt to describe the face—for I am no hand at that
sort of thing. I have already said that it was very beautiful,
and I have only to add that the sole drawback to the pleasure
I had in looking at it arose from what I can only describe as
the “glassy” appearance of the large full eyes, and also from
the fact that the sides of the face and the head were bound
about by a coarse white linen cloth, which looked as solid
and material as the face itself. Nor will I say anything about
what we said to Katie, or what she said to us. It was, un¬
doubtedly, interesting to the circle, but might be of no
interest to your readers.
Katie at last told us that if we wished to see something
“ very pretty,” we could do so if we would sit again, but that
the present sitting must be suspended for half-an-hour, and
the medium must be released from her bondage. I sprang up
at once, and unlocked and threw open the doors, hoping to
catch a sight of Katie inside before she had finally vanished
from our physical gaze; but she had been too quick for me.
All I found inside was Miss Cook, still in her trance, and
bound as I had left her, not a knot loosened, and not even a
seal broken. 1 set to work to release her, but the rope being
so soft the knots had been formed so close and tight that I
could do nothing with them with my nails, and so I had to
use my teeth to them; and even then it took me nearly ten
minutes to set the medium free.
After an interval the seance was resumed, and a face said,
to be that of a Parsee lady, showed itself at the opening. 4
had thought Katie beautiful, but the Parsee was far more so.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
75
There was something peculiarly spirituel about the counte¬
nance. Unfortunately she could not speak, and could only
answer our questions by nods or shakes of the head. Once
when a remark was made about the very apparent solidity of
her cheeks, she put her hands to them to show that they
yielded to the pressure of her fingers. Her face was much
fuller than Katie’s, her eyes were of a different colour, and
her hands were considerably smaller. A sweet smile passed
over her face when anything was said that pleased her, and
her lips often quivered in an apparent attempt to reply, the
failure being followed by a shadow of sadness and regret. The
sides of the face were not covered as Katie’s were, but she
wore a tall headdress of similar fabric.
As I have said all these manifestations took place in the full
light of a good paraffin lamp, thrown by a reflector on the
faces. One experience which we afterwards had in the dark
I must now briefly mention. Katie having paid us one more ;
visit we took advantage of it to ask whether we might touch
her. We were told that at present this could not be done in
the light, though it was expected that after a few more sittings
the conditions would allow such a very natural desire on the
part of tbe circle to be gratified. But Katie said that our
wish should be complied with if the light were put out, and
this having been done, Mr. and Mrs. Bird and myself went
up to the cabinet one by one and were allowed to feel her
hands, and face, and head. ' Bor myself I can only say that
they felt just about the same as I should expect the hands,
face, and head of a friend in the flesh to feel—but 1 must
confess that I should have liked to do what Katie cautioned
me not to do, when she asked me not to “ pinch.” The
lamp was then relighted, Katie greeted us with a final
“ Good night—God bless you,” and our marvellous experi¬
ences were ended.
In conclusion, I desire to express my thanks to Mr., Mrs.,
and M iss Cook for their kindness and courtesy on the occa¬
sion of my visit, and to express a hope that Miss Cook’s won¬
derful mediumship may be the means of extensive usefulness
in giving ^ full realisation of, the intimate relation of the
spirit world with that in which it is our own lot yet to dwell.
Old Palace-road, Norwich, Edmund D. Rogers.
October 7, 1872.
Mr. Bird, who was present at the same seance, has
sent us the following letter :—
SIR,—Mr. Rogers being a visitor at our house, Mrs. Bird
and myself have read his letter to you about our seance with
Miss Cook, and we desire to state that we think it a very good
and accurate account of what we all witnessed. I desire to
add, that the fabric about the heads of the spirits appeared
to us to possess a whiteness of remarkable purity, though it
may, perhaps, have been coarse in texture. Several of us
thought Katie looked pale when she first appeared ; before
she appeared the second time she said, “Now I’ll put some
colour in, my face.” She then showed herself with a good
colour. All the spirits were very considerably fairer in com¬
plexion than Miss Cook. That one seance with Miss Cook
has been more convincing to me than all the other physical
manifestations put together, which I have seen during the
three years that I have known anything about Spiritualism.
10, Park Grove, Brixton, S.W. Earl Bird.
October ls£.—At a face seance held on this date at
Mr. Cook’s, Mr. George Dombusch, of Hackney, and
some members of his family, were present. Katie ap¬
peared, also the spirit who states herself to be a Parsee.
The latter says she is “ a messenger,” but no explana¬
tion of the term has been given. At this seance the
spirit faces were felt for the first time in the light, but
too feeble a light to see them by.
Later in the evening there was a second seance for a
few minutes. Katie, in the dark, gave us something to
feel, saying,—“That is what we make the faces of.
Do not pinch it.” It felt like a piece of damp wash-
leather. Next she said,—“ Keel this ; it is true spirit
drapery.” The texture was certainly remarkable. As
it was drawn over the fingers, it felt as light and fragile
as a spider’s web,—fine silk would be coarse and heavy
in comparison. “ Now feel it materialised,” said Katie,
and it felt like the heavy white drapery which ordi¬
narily adorns the spirit heads.
October 5th.—Among the witnesses present at this
seance "were the Author of the “ Unorthodox London”
letters in the Daily Teleyraph ; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Dr. John E. Purdon, of Sandown, Isle of Wight; and
the Editor of the Spiritualist. The following account
of what was seen is reprinted from last Thursday’s
Daily Telegraph. It appeared in that journal under
the heading of “Spirit Eaces, by Our Own Com¬
missioner ” :—
I am about to attempt what I am aware is a difficult task—
namely, to describe dispassionately and judicially one of those
so-called higher manifestations of Spiritualism about which
people are apt to write and speak too much, as it appears to
me, in the capacity of advocates for or against. I shall endea¬
vour to describe what I saw here in London a few nights ago,
as impartially as a judge might sum up a case from his notes
of evidence. It is literally what I am doing. I am transcribing
rough notes made at the time, and on the spot where the cir¬
cumstances which I narrate occurred. I empanel the British
public to say whether they think I have seen something very
remarkable or been egregiously gulled.
A few days ago I received an invitation from a Spiritualistic
friend to attend one of the seances of a lady whom I must call
Miss Blank, because her name is not public property. She is
not a professional medium; she receives no money from those
who visit her house, and has no wish to have that residence
besieged, as it certainly would be if I gave the slightest clue to
her name and address. She has no desire, so she says, even for
notoriety on the score of the manifestations of which she is the
unwilling agent or medium. The peculiar character of these
manifestations is the production of the spirit face, or even
partial form, no longer in darkness, hut under a strong light.
Now, I had seen tables dance and heard them rap; I had wit¬
nessed Mr. Home’s “ levitation,” and listened to John King’s
unspirit-like voice; I had even felt spirit-hands, as they were
called, once or twice; but all these manifestations, except the
tilting and the rapping, had taken place in the dark; and I
object to darkness. I love light, like an ancient Greek. It
was the light element, I frankly confess, which mostly attracted
me to the seance of Miss Blank. Miss Blank’s papa—for the
young lady is but sixteen—lives on the outskirts of London—
as Spiritualists always seem to do, and is a respectable man
in some small commercial line of life. Besides the medium,
who is a pretty, Jewish-like little girl, there were three other
children present, all of whom discoursed of spirits in the most
off-hand way. Mamma and aunt made up the domestic por¬
tion of our circle, and there were, besides, the editor of a
Spiritualistic journal, another pronounced Spiritualist, a doctor
from the country, who had had something to do with developing
the medium, and had been converted by her to the doctrines
of Spiritualism; an old gentleman from Manchester, and my¬
self—eleven in all, irrespective of our little hostess, the pretty
medium.
After a brief confab in the front parlour we descended to the
nether regions, where the spirits were in.the habit of making
their appearance in a small breakfast-room next to the kitchen.
The original method of “ development ” was simple in the
extreme. Miss Blank went into the room alone. A curtain
was stretched across the open doorway, leaving an aperture of
about a foot deep at the top; and in this rather Punch-and-
Judy-like opening portions of the spirit face gradually showed
themselves—first a nose, then an ear, &e.—to the circle who
sat on the stairs. Now, however, that the power was more
developed, a sort of corner cupboard had been fitted up with
two doors opening in the usual manner from the centre, and
an aperture of some eighteen inches square in the fixed por¬
tion at the top. At this I was told the faces would appear.
A lamp on a table in the other corner of the room was so
arranged as to shed a bright light on this opening, whilst it
left the rest of the small apartment in subdued but still in full
light. I examined the cupboard or cabinet carefully, put a
chair in, and saw little Miss Blank carefully shut up inside
like a pot of jam or a pound of candles. A rope was put in |
her lap, the object of which will appear anon, and we all sat
round like a party of grown-up children waiting for the magic
lantern.
We were told to sing, and so we did—at least the rest did ;
for the songs were Spiritualistic ones for the most part, which
I did not know. They were pretty, cheerful little hymns, such
as “ Hand in hand with Angels,” “ The Beautiful River,” and
Longfellow’s “ Footsteps of Angels.” By-and-by, raps in the
inside the cupboard-door told us to “ open sesame.” We did
so ; and there was pretty Miss Blank tied round the neck, arms,
and legs to the chair, in a very uncomfortable and apparently
secure manner. We sealed the knots, shut her up in the cup¬
board, and warbled again. After some delay a face rose gently
to the aperture rather far back, but presently came well to the
front. It was slightly pale, and the head was swathed in white
drapery. The eyes were fixed, and altogether it looked ghostly.
It remained, for some, disappeared and re-appeared; and the
lamp was turned full upon it, but the ej\es never lost their
fixed stare, and showed no symptom of winking. After several
minutes it went altogether. The doors were opened, and little
Miss Blank was found, still tied, with seals unbfoken, and to
all appearance in a deep sleep. She was “ entranced,” I was
told. “ Katie,” the spirit, (for she was a familiar in the most
literal sense), informed me that she gathered the “ material ”
for embodying herself from the breaths of the circle, and took
the “life ” from the medium. Miss Blank was then awakened,
uncorded, and taken to walk for a quarter of an hour in the
back garden, as she was much exhausted; and we went upstairs
to recruit as well. We had to make this break thrice during
the evening.
When we re-assembled, after a good deal more singing than
I cared about, another appearance took place in obedience to
the command of the doctor, who had been in jfche East, and
asked to see a Parsee friend. After some delay, a head ap¬
peared, surmounted by a turban, and with a decidedly Eastern
expression of countenance and dark complexion. It did not
satisfy the doctor, who declared that the face bore a resem¬
blance to the one demanded, but that the head-gear was not
en regie. This was Tableau No, 2, which took along time
and almost interminable singing to bring about. Then there
was another adjournment. The children were sent to bed,
and the maid-servant—who, it appeared, was great at singing
—came in from the kitchen to join the circle. There was one
advantage, papa and mamma told me, about these manifesta¬
tions ; they rendered the children quite superior to all ideas of
“ Bogey.” I could not help asking myself- whether I should
have dared to go to bed under such circumstances in my days
of immaturity.
In scene the Third, the face was quite different. The head
was still surmounted by white drapery, but a black band was
over the forehead, like a nun’s hood. The teeth were pro¬
jecting, and the expression of the face sad. They, fancied it
was a spirit that was pained at not being recognised. When
this face disappeared, Katie came again for a little while, and
allowed me to go up to the cupboard and touch her face and
hand, after first putting to me the pertinent question, “ Do
you squeeze ?” On assuring her I did not do anything so im¬
proper, the manipulations were permitted. This was the
finale, and the circle broke up forthwith. The geiltleman from
Manchester was delighted, and all the Spiritualists, of course,
were loud in their commendations. I reserved my judgment,
as my custom always is when I see anything that beats me.
I was sufficiently struck by what I had witnessed to accept
readily an invitation to another seance on a subsequent occa¬
sion. In the meantime I should like to submit these few
particulars to a dispassionate jury for them to decide whether
I was really for those three hours in direct contact with super¬
natural beings, or simply taken in by one of the most satis¬
factory ‘1 physical ’ ’ mediums it was ever my good fortune to meet.
We do not know that the author of the above is
accurate in stating Dr. Burdon to be a Spiritualist.
He has not said so. He is a new inquirer, who has
only just satisfied himself as to the reality of the phe¬
nomena, and who accidentally retarded rather than
assisted Miss Cook’s development.
At this seance spirit faces were first felt in this
country in light enough to see them by. Mr. Black¬
burn was first called up to pass his hand over Katie’s
face. Our turn came next. “ Does breath come from
your lips when you are not speaking?” was asked
Katie shook her head in reply. Soon afterwards she
said,—“ We shall be able to let you paw these faces in
full light before long.” On this occasion there was
very little difference between the face of the Parsee and
the face of Katie. The third spirit (not recognised)
had a painful expression of countenance, and altogether
different head and face from the others. She attempted
to speak, but failed.
October 9th.—Mr. Gledstanes and Mr. Chinnery, of
Paris, attended Mr. Cook’s circle by invitation. Mr.
Gledstanes has sent us the following letter :—
Sir,—Messrs. CMnnery and Ivemey, with myself, having
been kindly invited by' Mr. Cook to attend a seance at his
house, we had the opportunity of seeing various spirit-faces.
Miss Cook, upon going into the cabinet, was tied fast to her
chair by the spirit they call Katie, who requested us, in a
whispering Voice, to seal the knots; this we did carefully,
stamping the wax with a signet ring. About five minutes'after
the door had been closed, a head, covered with white drapery,
slowly rose to the aperture; its eyes were open, and it re¬
mained quite long enough for us all to have a good look at it,
with the light turned full upon it. This face certainly bore
a very strong resemblance to the medium. This was the
attendant spirit, Katie, herself. She disappeared, then re-ap¬
peared a few times. After her last appearance, we were told
to open the door and untie the medium; and we found her
just as we had left her, with the seals unbroken, and bound
fast to her chair. With some difficulty we released her from
the cords, which had been passed round her neck in a most
unpleasant manner. We were directed by the voice to wait
twenty minutes, in another room, before proceeding with the
seance, after which we were called upon to tie the young lady;
but we begged to be allowed to waive that ceremony, as we
were all perfectly satisfied as to the genuineness of the mani¬
festations. The next face that appeared was differently draped,
the head being covered with several thick folds of beautifully
clean white cloth; this was recognised as “the Parsee.” It
seemed to be floating in the air, which, indeed, it really was,
only as much of these apparitions being formed as is shown to
us. Then we had a real black man, as black as black can be;
this was Mr. Tecumseb. As he did not appear able or willing
to make any remarks all I know is that he was a real black
fellow, and they called him “ Tecumseh.” We were ordered
to retire again for another interval of twenty minutes'. Upon
opening the door of the cabinet we found Miss Cook in a deep
trance, and it was several minutes before she came to herself.
Upon again assembling, another face showed itself with pro¬
minent teeth, and rather a square jaw, which Mrs. Cook said
was her aunt. I asked the apparition if that were the case,
and not being able to speak, it nodded its Jhead in assent.
Katie appeared again several times ; she rested her chin com¬
posedly on the ledge of the aperture and looked quietly and
calmly at us all for some time. Other faces appeared, some¬
times with the, eyes closed, and sometimes open, but with
rather a ghastly look, as if they had no speculation in them.
Upon my saying “ Open your eyes,” to a face that had them
closed, they were immediately opened with a quick jerk, which
reminded me of the way a doll’s eyes are opened by pulling a
wire. The formation of these faces seemed to be a work of
great difficulty and trouble to the spirits, and of fatigue to the
medium. We went away certainly very grateful- to Mr. Cook
for his kindness in allowing us to be present at so very in¬
teresting a seance. We also have to thank Miss Cook for her
kindness in enabling the spirits to show us such wonderful
things. J. H. Gledstanes.
October Wth.—A seance took place at Mr. Cook’s; and
among the visitors present were the Countess' Paulett,
Mrs.fL. Makdougall Gregory, the Editor of the Daily
Telegraph, the Author of the Unorthodox London letters
in the Daily Telegraph, and the Editor of this Journal.
Katie appeared while the medium was tightly bound in'
her chair, the two knots at the two ends of the rope
having been sealed. Afterwards a face, nearly black,
was seen for a moment or two, not long enough to be
clearly observed; hut nothing further worthy of notice
was witnessed. Miss Cook having been unwell all day
from a cold in the head, the manifestations were
weak. She had also not had the usual afternoon sleep
necessary before a successful seance, having been too
excited, perhaps, in consequence of being shown up
in the Telegraph as “ a pot of jam or pound of
candles.”
Katie [is fair, and the medium very much darker in
complexion. After Katie appeared on this occasion
the wax on the knotted ends of the rope was unbroken,
and the time occupied in the untying of the knots and
releasing of the medium was six minutes. The rope
was still tightly knotted at both wrists. We did not think it
our business to ask the influential gentleman who did
the untying, for any expression of opinion respecting
that which he had witnessed.
We have seen much of Miss Cook’s mediumship,
which is governed by very delicate conditions, and is
easily broken down. Hitherto she has not had to face
opposing mental influences, but has met Spiritualists
only, or high-class thoughtful people, who do not make
mediums unhappy, and who comply with the conditions
which experience has proved to he necessary. Mrs.
Holmes’ mediumship is powerful in resisting opposing
influences; disbelievers ought first to have several
seances with Mrs. Holmes, till the rough edge is taken
off their prejudices, and afterwards, in a more tractable
frame of mind, have a seance with Miss Cook, if they
are fortunate enuogh to be able to gain admittance.
REAL AND SHAM SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHS.
Several months ago it became our duty to point out
that a photographer at Holloway was selling a quantity
of artificial ghost-pictures, made chiefly by double ex¬
posure of the negative plate, and that many Spiritualists
were buying these pictures under the impression that
they were genuine spirit-photographs. To the practical
photographer there was no question that the pictures were
shams, and that portions of some of ►them were artifi¬
cially worked in by hand, and were not on the original
negative at all. We also revealed how Mr. Herne, the
medium, of the firm of Messrs. Herne and Williams,
had stood as a sham ghost, and aided Mr. Hudson in
76
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 15, 1872.
the deception. We likewise published that Mr. Williams
had confessed his knowledge of the imposture on the
part of Messrs. Herne, Hudson, and others, to Mr.
Benjamin Pycock.
The editor of the Spiritual Magazine, who all along
has “ written up” these dummy pictures, last month
printed the fdllowing letter :—
To the Editor of the “ Spiritual Magazine."
Sir,—In consequence of having seen statements in the issue
of the Spiritualist of the 15th instant, I beg to inform you
that I called on Mr. Benjamin Pycock, of Brooke’s Hotel, 33,
Surrey-street, Strand, yesterday, the 20th September, and
showed him the statements referred to in the Spiritualist. He
expressed to me the greatest astonishment, and' denied the
matter in toto, saying that he had never made any such com¬
munication, neither had I made any such confession to him. I
simply give this as it comes from him, and I think it needs
little more denial of the editor’s insinuations against me ; one
false statement proved throws doubt on others. I shall
answer the matter more fully elsewhere, as I do not wish to
occupy too much of your space. Mr. Pycock has expressed
his willingness to corroborate what I now say. The other
statements made with reference to me are equally unfounded.
C. E. Williams, Medium.
Seeing that Messrs. Herne and Williams had recently
printed a deliberate untruth, as proved by circumstances
which took place in the house of Mr. Henry Morris, of
Manchester, the editor of the Spiritual Magazine might
have sent to Mr. Pycock to learn whether there was
any truth in the above letter before printing it.
Mr. Williams also wrote to the Medium of Sept. 27th :
But what I particularly wish to write about—the object, in
fact, of this letter—is the assertion made in the last paragraph
(No. 4), that “Mr. Williams called one morning upon Mr.
Benjamin Pycock, one of the investigators, and confessed to
him that he knew that Mr. Herne had been in Mr. Hudson’s
studio looking on, while another person stood as a sham
ghost during the first exposure of the plate.” When my
attention was called to this, I went, on Saturday morning, the
21st instant, and called on Mr. Benjamin Pycock. I took a
copy of the Spiritualist with me, and asked him what he
thought of the statement made therein, and whether it was
correct. He assured me it must be entirely a mistake.
He had never made any such communication to the
editor of the Spiritualist, neither had I, on any occasion,
made such a confession to him. I told Mr. Pycock that I
should have to deny the statement in print. ... I have ful¬
filled my task so far as I am able, and throw myself upon your
readers’ sense of justice.—I remain, Sir, yours truly,
Charles E. Williams, Medium.
We saw the above while at Folkestone, and posted
the paper to Mr. Pycock without note or comment, and
the following copy of a letter, which had been delivered
into the hands of Mr. Williams, was sent to us by
return:—
Brook’s Hotel, 33, Surrey-street,
Mr. Ed. Williams. Strand, Oct. fj 1872.
SiR,Ji—This morning a copy of the Medium has been for¬
warded to me, with a report in your letter of an interview
you had with me.
' I told you distinctly that I was unaware of any publica¬
tion in The Spiritualist that I had determined, after your
nartner’s rudeness and untruthfulness, to have nothing further
to do with these charges. I did not say “ the statement must
be entirely a mistake nor did I say “neither had you made
such a confession to me; ” nor did I give you any powers to
put my name again in print.
I do tell you that you had better let me in this matter rest,
for if you are disposed to force me to write upon this dispute,
what I shall say will neither do your partner nor Mr. Hudson
any good ; “ the more you stir,” &c., will prove a truism in
this case.-f|l am, Sir, obediently yours, B. W. Pycock.
Before Mr. Williams went to Manchester, and
directly after he knew that the marks of deception had-
been photographed so as to be clearly discernible by
practical men, he went to Mr. Pycock. and made a
full confession of the doings of Messrs. Herne, Hudson,
and others. Mr. Pycock informed Mr. Blyton and our¬
selves of it at once.
Mr. T. Blyton, of 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.,
wrote a short letter of six or seven lines only, to the
"editor of the Medium, two weeks ago, stating the
above facts, and that no doubt Mr. Pycock did not
authorise Mr. Williams’s letter. The editor of the
Medium did not publish Mr. Blyton’s note, thereby
allowing Mr. Williams’s untruths to stand uncon¬
tradicted in his journal.
The Spiritual Magazine is a respectable journal,
though it has been hoaxed considerably, and it will not
allow untruths to remain in its pages uncontradicted.
We shall see the above letter of Mr. Pypock’s in it
next month.
Tne Spiritual Magazine sets up the desperate defence
that spirits put the many marks of double exposure on
Mr. Hudson’s plates, and that the “ ghost ” on the now
celebrated picture of the double of Mr, Herne is not
himself, but his brother “Willie.” The editor says :—
Let me here mention a fact which is, I think, decisive of
the question. One evening, my friend Mr. Henry Bielfield, of
208, Euston-road, called on me, and in conversation remarked
that he had, in the morning, accidentally met Mr. Heme in
an omnibus on the way to Mr. Hudson, where Mr. Herne
said he was to he by 11 o’clock, his spirit-brother having
made an appointment with him to be there at that time, and
promised that he would endeavour to appear with him on the
plate. This was told to me before any copies of this photo¬
graph were printed, and, of course, before any controversy con¬
cerning it had arisen.
We have received th6 following letter:—
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
Sir,—I find in your last issue an article headed, “Real and
Sham Photographs,” in which there is an extract from the
Spiritual Magazine relative to my meeting with Mr. Herne,
at Mr. Hudson’s. Through some misunderstanding on the
part of my friend “T. S.” what occurred is not correctly re¬
lated, and I have written the editor a correct statement of
what took place. It is this <—
Mr. Jones, of Enmore-park, made an appointment with me,
accompanied by Mrs. Bielfeld, to meet him at Mr. Hudson’s.
On our way Mr. Herne came into the same omnibus, he also
going there. When we arrived Mr. Jones and two of his
daughters were waiting, as we were rather behind the ap¬
pointed time. Mr. Herne excitedly said, “I have an engage¬
ment with a lady here at eleven o’clock.” Mr. Jones replied,
“We' also have an appointment for the same hour, and our
party is'now present but yours is not.” “ Oh, yes she is, ”
said Mr. Herne, who then informed us that it was a spirit
friend. Mr. Jones kindly gave him the precedence, playfully
saying, “On condition that you will let me have a copy of
what may appear on the plate.” This was agreed to.
After a short delay, Mr. Herne returned from the studio,
saying it was done. Our party then went in, and whilst there
Mr. Jones asked to see the negative of Mr. Herne’s photo¬
graph. Mr. Hudson replied that Mr. Herne had taken it
with him. All our party understood from what Mr. Herne
had said that it was a spiritual likeness of a lady and not of
a gentleman that appeared on the plate. Mr. Jones has since
informed me that he has several times asked Mr. Hudson to
let him see the negative, and his answer has always been,
“ Mr. Herne has not returned it.”
I will only remark, in conclusion, I regret that during the
controversy on this subject so many sarcastic allusions have
been made about the part Mr. Jones has taken in the investi¬
gations, as I believe his only aim has been to endeavour to
arrive at the truth. Henry Bieleeld.
208, Euston-road, 25th Sept., 1872.
Mr. John Jones writes us that Mr. Herne told him
that he obtained a likeness of his spirit sister on this
occasion.
Mr. E. D. Rogers, who understands photography
well, has sent us the following letter:—
To the Editor of the “ Spiritualist."
Sir,—I wrote last month to the Editor of the Spiritual
Magazine on the subject of Mr. Hudson’s so-called spirit por¬
traits, but my letter was not inserted, and I therefore ask you
to be kind enough to let it appear in the Spiritualist. To any¬
body who really understands photography, the editorial articles
on the subject vo the. Spiritual Magazine are amusingly ridicu¬
lous, written, no doubt, in perfect honesty and good faith, but
giving evidence of a lamentable incompetence to deal with
the question. Edmund D. Rogers.
Norwich, Oct. 7th, 1872,
[Copy of Letter to the Editor of the Spiritual Magazine^
Sir,—Allow me to say a few words about spirit-photographs.
I do not know Mr. Hudson. I never saw him. I have no
personal feeling whatever in the present controversy. But I
am very jealous of the reputation of Spiritualists for good
sense, and very anxious that a journal of such respectability
as the Spiritual Magazine should not give its countenance to
a sham.
I believe spirit-photography to be possible ; but I have had
considerable experience as a photographer, and I can no more
doubt that some of the so-called spirit-photographs are make¬
ups than I can doubt my own existence. I saw several proofs
the other day from one of Mr. Hudson’s plates, on which was
supposed to be a spirit portrait. All the proofs were shaded
off at the foot. Why ? As there was no attempt to make
vignettes of them by shading them off also at the head, I
could conceive of no other reason than that it would be incon¬
venient tp let the sitter’s feet be seen. And so it turned out,
for one of the proofs, in which the shading off had not been
complete, showed ample evidence of two exposures, the back¬
ground being clearly discernible through the sitter’s legs.
One word more. In regard to these very pictures, Mr. Hudson
was asked to say plainly whether they were genuine spirit
photographs or not, and instead of giving a direct answer, he
thought it more prudent to make an evasive reply.
I know that it has been< said that our'spirit friends can, if
they choose, produce on the plate all the appearances which
are usually taken as evidence of two exposures, one for the
“ ghost” and one for the sitter. But why should they, seeing
that it is hard enough to convince the world even with pic-
tures which have alb'the appearances of honesty ? As to the
genuineness of some of Mr. Hudson’s pictures, the plainly ex¬
pressed opinion of a highly intelligent and strictly honourable
gentleman like Mr. Beattie, of Clifton, who is not only an
ardent Spiritualist, but also a very able photographer, would
be valuable, and should practically settle the question ; but
for those who are not so easily convinced, I would suggest a
reference of the question to a jury of men of equal reliability,
if a sufficient number of them can be found.
Edmund D. Rogers.
Mr. Champernowne, of Kingston-on-Thames, pub¬
lished that he in photographing Mr. Herne, had, with
one exposure of the plate only, obtained a picture in
which the background appeared in front of Mr. Herne’s
legs. Last month we called for the publication of this
picture, or for copies of it, but none have been forth-
teoming. The photograph is withheld from examina¬
tion, and the statement remains an unproved assertion
made by a biassed writer. Thus another great point
relied upon by the editor of the Spiritual Magazine
proves to be worthless.
Some of Mr. Hudson’s pictures have been manufac¬
tured by tricks of exposure; in some cases the negatives
have been elaborately worked upon by hand after they
were dry; in some cases there have been tricks in the
printing, in the mounting, and in the treatment of the
pictures after they were mounted, to hide the marks of
double exposure. And these tricks all through the
process of manufacture are written up as the work of
spirits !
We know that all along Mr. Hudson has produced a
certain proportion of real spirit pictures, but for some
months he increased his profits by mixing up sham
ones with them. Rjimours, which may be true or
false, have reached us that of late he has been walking
in the path of honesty, and, some time ago, he gave
fair warning to all but the simple as to the real value
of his pictures, when he published—“ I will not
guarantee them to be spirit photographs.” The editors
of some of our contemporaries then came forward and
guaranteed them for him, rendering our task of expos¬
ing the deception very difficult. This Journal has been
shown up to their readers as a bitter perscutor of inno¬
cent people, though it has not uttered an unkind word.
The people who have been deceived by the miserable
productions, and who have paid heavily for sham ghosts,
have a little claim to consideration, but our contempo¬
raries do not seem to think so;
It is a pity that our friend, the editor of the Spiritual
Magazine, who knows nothing of photography, persists
in writing critical articles about photographs he has
never taken the trouble to go and see : it is also to be
regretted that he innocently goes for all the information
he wants to Messrs. Herne and Williams, and prints
what they tell him without investigation. We do not
see that anything is to be gained by prolonging the
.discussion, but it might not be amiss if a great frame
j full of Mr. Hudson’s sham pictures were placed on public
i view, side by side with another frame, containing all
the articles and letters which our contemporaries have
published in support of the said pictures.
A CLERGYMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
The following remarks upon Spiritualism were made by
the Rev. Charles J. Taylor, Vicar of Holy Trinity Church,
Folkestone, in a sermon preached to his congregation on
Sunday morning, August 11th :—
The first question, with most’ religious persons, respecting
Spiritualism, would he—If communication with departed
spirits he possible, is it lawful to encourage or to seek it ? To
the Jews I have no doubt it was wwlawful. If the Mosaic law,
for instance, against “ them that have familiar spirits,” would
not apply to the case of many of the so-called mediums, it is
impossible to see to what sort of case it would apply. We,
however, are not subject to the Mosaic law; and, in the
absence of any peremptory command in the New Testament,
it would seem that we are left to judge of the propriety of the
matter upon general principles. Knowing, then, that Spirit¬
ualism has, with regard to its own class of subjects, turned
away many from what are usually called orthodox views, and
(as it is but fair to add) has turned away some from scepti¬
cism to at least a partial belief, I felt induced to examine
what was evidently capable of exciting a considerable influence
over religious opinion. The enquiry was undertaken several
years ago ; but it is for the first time that I am mow induced
to refer to its results from the pulpit, through having learned
that some of the congregation are interested in the subject. I
may state then, that to questions put by me, or about me in
my presence, the answers were always in the highest degree
failures. Some instances being excepted where there was an
even chance for the truth or error of the reply, as, for example,
where the answer must be “yes!” or “no!” (in which cases
“yes!” and “ no !” werepretty equally distributed) the answers,
when capable of being tested, were always either incorrect or
nonsensical. In more than one instance, this failure was so
marked, that it was intimated to me, by way of explanation,
that some persons bring bad spirits with them to a seance,
which overpower the better sort, and becloud the manifesta¬
tions. I, however, gratefully asknowledge the courtesy as
well as the readiness with which my inquiries were almost
uniformly facilitated. Such having been my own personal
experience, I have to set against it the alleged very different
experience of many respectable and intelligent persons, and I
am inclined to think that if the Spiritualists are altogether
mistaken in the principal article of their distinctive belief,
and no intelligences other than those in the flesh intervene at
their gatherings, they are so plausibly misled sometimes by
the phenomena, that a sweeping charge of credulity would
not be at all universally applicable. They concern themselves
with a very obscure side of human nature; but one which
ever and anon throughout history has made itself felt. Some
of the alleged phenomena may have been imagined rather
than have occurred—may have been (to use another form
of speech) subjective rather than objective—but even so,
perhaps all the more if this be so—I think that when
the so-called spirit manifestations shall have been thoroughly
sifted, we shall have found the key to those many and
puzzling narratives of the quasi-supernatural which men at
present usually accept or reject according to their theolo¬
gical prepossessions, rather than according to any critical
rule. Then may we be able to trace a common thread
running through the stories of the Romish saints and
Ecstaticas; of the Jansenist and Irvingite miracles of
healing ; of utterances in foreign or unknown tongues ; of
predictions, of second-sight, and of apparitions. And, if
I mistake not, we shall then find that, whatever there
may be in them which had not hitherto been “ dreamt
of in our philosophy,” there is nothing in any of them
before which we should bow down our reason, so as to accept
any doctrine or fact, merely because it is supported by their
authority. Such an investigation, however, would demand
much both of calmness and of judgment; and the subject is
surely an unfit, and even hazardous one for young, excitable,
or untrained minds. It is impossible to doubt that a great
amount of imposture or delusion has been somehow or other
mixed up with it. Nothing, for example, has been more
common than for a communication to profess to come from
the spirit of Bacorq Milton, or Shakespeare ; nothing has been
rarer than for the communication itself to rise even to the
earthly capacity of him whose illustrious name it bore. There
is one conclusion of comprehensive practical import, which
must, I think, be forced upon any one who may acquire any
considerable acquaintance with spiritualistic literature and
manifestations. The communications can have no authonty.
Their accounts of the unknown state may be true or false in
any particular instance ; but whether true or false, there is
no certain means of judging. Most persons are apt to jump at
once to the conclusion that if spirits do communicate, their
statements must needs be true and authoritative. They argue as
did those Pharisees who said, “ If a spirit hath spoken to him,
let us not fight against God.1’ No assumption can be more un¬
founded, if the assertions of the Spiritualists are true. Whether
spirits (of some sort or other) do ever directly communicate,
I will not pretend to decide, though I have never myself seen
anything which would lead me to think so; but if they do, it
Oct. 15, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
77
is quite certain that their communications are destitute of
authority. Almost every conceivable doctrine and heresy
may be found supported by one or another’ of them ; generally
according to the bias of the medium, through whom they have
professed to be given. The advocates of the system explain
that spirits, orthodox and heterodox,—that spirits good, bad,
and indifferent,—take upon themselves to make communica¬
tions. Be it so : but there is absolutely no criterion by which
the character of the spirit who is communicating can be
judged of except the character of the communication itself.
Clearly, then, such communications, inasmuch as they must
derive all their acceptance from an act of our own judgment,
cannot have authority over our judgment; and we should be
very foolish to allow them any. Indeed, this conclusion is
substantially adopted by many of the Spiritualists themselves.
Whilst feeling it well to speak but briefly about Spiritualism,
I have tried to speak plainly and fairly, though conscious that
several points of interest have been fiecessarily unnoticed ;
and I am quite prepared to' let the, effect of my own very un¬
favourable experience of alleged spirit-communications be
modified, if it should ever lie within the power of any one to
show me results of a more satisfactory character.
SPIRITUAL CONVERSAZIONE AT HACKNEY.
On Monday evening, September 16th, a conversazione, in
connection with the Dalston Association of Inquirers into
Spiritualism, was held at the residence of Mr. George Dorn-
husch, of Victoria Park, London. Mr. Thomas Wilks, president
of the Association, occupied the chair, and there was a large
attendance of members and their friends.
The President, in his opening address, said that the Asso¬
ciation had done much good work during the past two years
in spreading a knowledge of the truths of Spiritualism in
Hackney, Dalston, Kingsland, and surrounding districts.
Many of the members who had left the society were then
holding regular seances in their own homes, and new members
had risen up to take their place. The Association was gradually
accumulating a valuable library, and altogether it was in a
prosperous condition. It had about forty members, but many
friends who were not members attended some of its meetings;
he advised these to join it at once. He felt that they were all
much indebted to Mr. Dornbusch for the elegant reception he
had given to the Association that evening.
Mr. Dornhusch said that he required no thanks; he was
only doing his Master’s work, and the thanks were due to those
who had had the preparations to make in connection with the
meeting. He was pleased to be able to bear testimony to the
truth and genuineness of Spiritualism; there were so many
proofs of the fact that it is possible to hold communion with
spirits in many different ways, that doubt was impossible.
On the preceding evening he had been favoured with an invi¬
tation to a seance at the house of Mr. and Mrs. Cook, and the
manifestations through Miss Cook’s mediumship were tho¬
roughly genuine and satisfactory; the spirits had spoken
there most distinctly, and on one occasion their dear friend,
Katie King, recited a whole poem ; he did not know that there
was any record of so long a recital having been given before
by a spirit. The spirits could see clearly in the dark,
and they had proved this to him by the way in which they
touched him. His City friends would think that he was going
mad if he told them that he had felt the hand, arm, and cheek
of a spirit; the witnesses of such facts were just as mad as
others who saw things which came under their daily observa¬
tion. Spiritualism solved the great problem as to the im¬
mortality of man, and gave a more satisfactory solution of the
question than was obtainable from any other source. He
desired to return thanks to the visitors who had attended to
contribute to the general pleasure.-
A little routine business was then transacted, after which
some duets and solos were given by the more musical members
of the party, and the proceedings closed in a lively manner, by
the dancing of a set of quadrilles in the spacious drawing-room.
Among those who took part in the evening’s proceedings were
Mr. T. Blyton, Miss Kislingbury, Mrs. and Miss Corner, Mrs.
and Miss Dornbusch, Mr. Arthur Varley, Miss Houghton, Mr.
J. B. Ortton, Miss Kate Miller, Mr. J. J. Morse, Mr. J. Burns,
Mr. George Blyton, Miss Florence E. Cook, Mr. and Mrs.
Cook, Mr. J. B. Taylor, Mr. W. H. Harrison, and others.
Guppy.—On the 28th September, at 1, Morland-villas,
Highbury-hill-park, N., .the wife of Samuel Guppy, Esq., of
a son.
t«Ii
Blyton—Beae.—On the 8th inst., at St. John’s Church,
Hackney, by the Bev. W. A. Hulbert; Thomas Blyton, Esq.,
of Dalston, to Mary Jane Sarah, second daughter of Frederick
Bear, Esq., Plaistow, Essex.
Dr. Hugh McLeod isnow delivering a course of Thursday
•evening lectures on Spiritualism at Newcastle, in connection
with the Newcastle Spiritual Association. Mr. Bayfield is the
Chairman. Questions are answered at the close of each lecture.
Me. J. J. Moese’s Mediumship.—Mr. Morse, the well-known
trance medium and inspirational public speaker, is about to
visit Scotland and the Midland districts for six weeks. Before
he leaves London, the third anniversary of his public seances
at Mr. Burns’s, 15, Southampton-row, Holborn, will be held
on those premises on Monday next, October 21st, in the even¬
ing, tickets one shilling each. He has not informed us at
what hour the visitors are expected to meet, but probably at
six o’clock; perhaps the time is stated on the tickets, which
may be obtained at the above address. When the conditions
are good, Mr. Morse is the best public trance speaker connected
with the movement; we have shorthand notes of a lecture he
recently delivered under spirit influence, and we hope to be
.able to publish the same soon.
The Royal Institution.—The Christmas course of lec¬
tures at the Boyal Institution tuis year will probably be
delivered by Dr. William Odling, F.B.S. Professor Tyndall
has left England for the United States, taking with him his
two assistants and a great quantity of scientific apparatus.
He is due in New York about this time, and must have had a
•very stormy passage. He will most likely not return to
England till February or March. The physical and chemical
■‘laboratories at the Royal Institution have just been entirely
pulled down, so that the original rooms in which Faraday
laboured, and Sir Humphrey Davy first produced the wonder¬
ful metal potassium, are now no more. Fresh laboratories are
to be erected, more in accordance with mordern requirements.
Pictures of the'interiors of the old laboratories were published
two or three years ago in the Engineer.
PRIVATE SEANCES.
{Reported by permission.)
OCTOBER 9th.—SEANCE AT THE COUNTESS' PAULETl’S.
Last Wednesday a seance took place at Lady Paulett’s,
20, Hanover-square. About twenty guests were present,
among whom were Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Colonel
and the Honourable Mrs. Lane Fox, Miss Vere, Mrs. F.
Passy, Mr. Yere, Mr. Henry Vere, and the Rev. Mr.
Clark.
Mrs. Bassett, of Thornham-Grove, Stratford, was
the medium ; she attended with her husband, who sat
at the opposite end of the room, so as to be at a great
distance from Mrs. Bassett during the seance. Good
clear raps were obtained in the light, and after the
sitters were arranged, the gas was turned out. Two
out of the three spirits whose voices are usually heard
at Mrs. Bassett’s seances made their presence known,
but the medium, being a stranger to the members of
the circle, was in a timid nervous state, and some of the
visitors present knowing nothing about .Spiritualism,
and being unacquainted with the conditions which
favour good spiritual manifestations, altogether the
power was weak, and the evidence was not conclusive
to observers as to the genuineness of the voices. When'
the power is strong, the spirit calling himself James
Lombard speaks from a point a foot or eighteen inches
above Mrs. Bassett’s head, so that the person sitting
next her can tell that he is rather high in the air,
though others further off cannot do so, the ear acting
very deceptively as to the direction of sound. On this
occasion, the conditions being unfavourable, the gentle¬
man sitting next her, who was a thorough disbeliever,
testified to the fact that the voices seemed to be close to
her, and not above her.
Phosphorescent lights, which were intensified by
the singing of a few of the members of the circle, were
seen dancing about rather high up in front of the medium,
and travelling over a moderately large range of space.
A visitor present touched the lights, and said they were
carried by hands, and drew therefrom conclusions not
particularly favourable to the medium. This is a common
mistake with inquirers, as all Spiritualists know very
well that materialised spirit hands feel just the same as
the hands of living human beings, though some¬
times they are cold and wet, and that spirit hands are
usually floating about busily in the air daring the
occurrence of certain physical manifestations. Those
who sat next and close to Mrs. Bassett testified that
she sat very motionless the whole evening so far as they
could tell; she was also sitting on a chair which made
a creaking noise, if she moved to a very small extent.
Afterwards there were loud clear raps in the light,
causing slight vibrations in the wood of the table, the
medium being absolutely motionless. ,
The average conclusion of the observers afterwards
was that the seduce was unsatisfactory, but that the
raps were very unaccountable.
Mrs. Bassett is a non-professional medium, who
sometimes accepts and sometimes refuses travelling
expenses. We have seen solid objects moving about in
her presence in the light, without being touched, at the
house of Miss Ponder, of Hayter-terrace, Brixton-rise,
Brixton.
, Soon we will print an article stating some of the
conditions which sitters at circles should comply with,
to get the best physical manifestations.
OCTOBER 10th. SEANCE AT MRS. MAKDOUGALL GREGORY’S.
Last Thursday at a seance at the house of Mrs. L.
Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-
square, among the guests present were Miss Vere, Mrs.
F. Passy, Mr. Vere, the Rev. Mr. Clark, and Mr. J. T.
Peele, the eminent artist.
Miss Louisa Hudson was the medium ; she has clair¬
voyant powers, and is an inspirational speaker; unlike
many such sensitives, she does not lose consciousness
while she is speaking, but cannot control her utterances
at the time. She clearly described the departed father
of Mr. Clark, whom she saw standing in the room ; no
1 leading questions ” were put to give her any clue, and
the minutely-detailed description was accurate, except
as to the stature of the deceased. The medium had
never seen Mr. Clark till the seance began. She also
described vividly and minutely a lady she saw standing
near Mr. Clark ; he did not say at the time whether he
recognised the spirit, but we have since heard that he
knew who she was.
Miss Hudson then told how two of the visitors were
sometimes influenced by bad spirits, and told them the
best way to shake off the said influences.
Miss Hudson is a new professional medium, who has
been known as a private medium for two or three years,
and bears a high name for integrity and truthfulness.
Although she gave good proofs of spirit identity at the
seance now under notice, at a few other recent seances,
of which we have been informed, no such proofs were
obtained. But spirit teachings are given through her
mediumship, also symbolical visions, so that a sitting
with her is very interesting to thoughtful people, especially
to those who have some acquaintance with the specula¬
tions or revelations of Swedenborg, as to the conditions
governing spirit communion and spirit life.
CANON CALLOWAY ON PSYCHOLOGICAL
PHENOMENA.
No. 3.
The following is a further portion of the paper by the Rev
Canon Calloway, M.D., of Natal, read before the Anthropo¬
logical Institute:—
MESMERISM.
2. The will of one person brought to bear on the nervous
system of another. This is the second means I have men¬
tioned as being capable of producing phenomena similar to
those which have formed the subject of this paper.
We have seen that these phenomena may arise either when
a person is in perfect health, so far as can be seen, as in dreams
and some spectres; such phenomena are then called physiolo¬
gical ; or- they may arise as the result of disease, or the
administration of medicine—that is, where there is a percep¬
tible disturbance of the health ; they are then called ‘patholo¬
gical. The distinction is not only important as a classification,
but has practically this advantage, that it intimates that such
phenomena may occur as a purely functional manifestation,
and not be attended with any perceptible disease of the nervous
centres or the general health. And this is probably absolutely
true. A dream may be no more a symptom of disease than
an uncommon idea; a spectre, than a brilliant fancy; a sym¬
pathetic feeling, than a feeling of hunger; a presentiment,
than the instinctive love of life.
I have spoken of mesmerism as the will of one person brought
to bear on the nervous system of another. By this definition
we avoid all theoretical explanations, and speak merely of
facts, the reality of which no one, who has paid only a little
attention to mesmeric phenomena, can at all doubt.
For what we know there may be a subtle element, as Mesmer
taught, pervading the entire universe, influencing alike the
most distant of the heavenly bodies, and the nervous system
of man. For what we know there may be a universal fluid
pervading all things, and giving all things a sympathetic rela¬
tion with each other; or there may be a telluric influence
which affects man and all other things which move on this
earth.
For what we know, the human body may be a kind of
magnet, and there may radiate from it an influence—a material
fluid of external tenacity—of greater or less intensity, and ca¬
pable of affecting those who are capable of being affected by
it, whilst it is incapable of affecting the insensitive, just as the
magnet attracts iron, but does not attract wood.
There may be, for aught we at present know, any or all of
these things. But we cannot say they have been demonstrated.
For few will accept, as of any value, the so-called facts of
Beichenbach, or believe that what his diseased and excited
patients thought they saw, had any more external objective
reality, than the spectres which haunt the fever patient, or
the man who has eaten hashish.
But there does not appear to me to be any greater a priori
difficulty in believing that one human being is able to act on
the nervous system of another, either by visible manifestations,
or invisibly by the mere influence of the will, than in believ¬
ing that a magnet can attract a needle, whether placed with it
on the same table, or separated from it by some intermediate
substance. It is simply a question of fact. The attractive
power of the magnet is a very marvellous thing, which it would
be difficult to believe possible, if it were not a commonly
known fact. And mesmerism, like alchymy, though it may
have been deformed by much that is foolish, deceitful, and
untrustworthy, may yet lead to an accumulation of facts in
relation to mental manifestations, and to many important dis¬
coveries as to the power and capabilities of the human mind.
The advocates of mesmerism claim for it the power of in¬
fluencing the nervous system very much in the same way, as
we have seen, it can be influenced by diseases and by medi¬
cines. All persons are not capable of being influenced by it.
But only a certain class which is liable to have spectres, and
to manifest the other phenomena of which we have been speak¬
ing, viz.—the delicate, the nervous, and the hysterical. The
mesmeric state is produced either by the unaided will of the
mesmeriser, which, it is said, can be effectually exerted near the
patient, or at a distance from him ; either in the same room
or in a different apartment, or even at considerable distances ;
either when seen or unseen by him. Or the will may be aided
in quickening or insuring its influence by other accessions,.as
passes made by the hand, or other extraneous means.
The nervous system of the person under the influence of
mesmerism assumes an abnormal condition ; and in this con¬
dition exhibits remarkable phenomena, varying considerably
in character, from a slight disturbance of sensibility to a most
exalted condition of the senses on the one hand, or entire in¬
sensibility on the other; or from a slight mental exaltation of
the mind to the highest forms of ecstacy or cataleptic trance.
The senses may be affected in three ways: they may be
exalted, or transferred, or obliterated.
1. Exalted. When excessive sensibility is produced, the
ear is so stnmg as to catch and record the finest vibrations of
sound; as in fever, it detects but a whisper, and in connection
with an increased acuteness of the intellectual faculties enables
the mesmerised to interpret half sentences uttered in the
lowest possible tone. The eyes see more distinctly, or ordinary
vision gives place to spectral forms.
2. Transferred. Then it is said that the senses can be
transferred to other parts of the body. The power of seeing
is no longer excited by the eye, but by the epigastrum or the
back of the head, and is not interrupted by intermediate
media; that is, light is not required as a means of seeing; but
there is developed a power to penetrate boards placed between
the eye and external objects, or even through thick walls, or
the mesmerised reads through his eyelids, or recognises what
is going on at any conceivable distance.
It is clear that if such things are real facts, it is improper
to speak of them as resulting from a transference of sense ;
for without the eye, and without light, whatever extraordinary
results may arise resembling sight, it cannot be sight—at
least not sight by the organs of sight. We therefore conclude
that whether a mesmerised person reads through his eyelids
or sees through a deal board, or a stone wall, or isy cognisant
of things happening many miles off, the eyes have nothing
whatever to do with such a power. But all such phenomena
must be classed together with clairvoyance; that is, an inner
sense or power of seeing without the organs of sight, is excited
into action, and the person who has been made clairvoyant by
the artificial means of mesmerism is, for the time being, in1
the same state as the seer, or person possessed of what is
called “ second sight.” .
But I must add that very much of what has been stated on
the subject of transference of the senses, appears to me to be
utterly unreliable.
3. Obliterated. .The mesmeric influence may be so exerted
78
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 15, 1872.
as to obliterate sensibility, and the mesmerised can undergo
severe operations without feeling pain, just as under the in¬
fluence of chloroform.
The mind also may be affected so as to be simply exalted.
It then comprehends things with great intellectual acuteness,
grasps information with a hind of intuition, and combines
facts into remarkably accurate generalisations. Or it may
pass quite out of the territory of ordinary intellectual endow¬
ments, and become clairvoyant and prophetic; that is, become
possessed of far sight, both as regards space and time. Or the
mesmerised may pass into a state similar to that described as
sometimes resulting from the use of belladonna ; he may not
perceive so as t® be conscious of external things, but may
move about like a machine, the mind apparently being cut off
from communion with the outer world. Or he may pass into
a state of trance, being destitute both of sensibility and of con¬
sciousness ; but, like persons in trance, the mind may be in¬
tensely active, and whilst entirely shut out from things around,
may be busily occupied in fiction of the imagination.
It is said, also, that the will of the mesmerised is entirely
under the influence of the mesmeriser; that one will appears
to govern the two. There is sometimes an absolutely perfect
sympathy between them. If one professes to feel thirsty, and
wills it, the other feels thirsty. If he drinks, the thirst of the
other is allayed. If he declares that certain objects are in
sight, the other sees them, and can be induced to pursue them.
If one thinks on any particular subject, so does the other.
Some years ago a great deal was said about phreno-
mesmerism, a name given to certain phrenological manifesta¬
tions under the influence of mesmerism ; and it was supposed
by some that the division of the brain into phrenological organs
was demonstrated to be true by the fact that the mesmerised
would manifest the supposed properties of any particular organ
which the mesmeriser touched. There can be no reasonable
doubt of the fact under some circumstances. But the ex¬
planation appears to me untenable. I would refer such extra¬
ordinary phenomena—and they are so extraordinary that I do
not wonder at anyone considering them impossible who has
not actually seen them—rather to the state of the senses and
of the mind, which I have just mentioned as being produced
by mesmerism, viz.—1. An exalted condition of the senses, by
which the mesmerised is sensible of sounds and sights which
escape common observers. 2. An exalted condition of the
mind, which, acting as a poetic or prophetic impulse, renders
it capable of powers, of which it is incapable in its ordinary
state. 3. Sympathy, by which two minds, those of the mes¬
meriser and mesnferised, are brought into that intimate rela¬
tion with each other that the mesmerised thinks in accordance
with the thoughts of the mesmeriser, casting, however, around
them the bright halo of his own exalted condition, and giving
them the tint of his own peculiarities.
ABSTKACTICW OB' MIND AND SELF-HESMEEISM.
3. Self-abstraction. This is a third means which I have
mentioned as being capable of producing extraordinary
phenomena.
There is scarcely anything in the whole range of psychology
more interesting or more remarkable than the power which
men have—some more, some less, some in a great degree,
some scarcely, or not at all—of separating themselves from
communion with the outer world by self-abstraction. We
cannot enter very fully into the subject here. But probably all
of us know something of that mental concentration, either
when engaged in some intense thought, or when occupied by
some overwhelming sorrow, which makes us, for the time, in¬
sensible to external things; the senses seem, for the time, to
have a barrier placed between them and the mind, and bodily
sensations and bodily wants are alike unheeded. We can,
also, by an intense effort of the will, cease to feel a bodily
pain—toothache, for instance. As a mesmefiser by mesmeric
passes can throw a patient into a state of mesmeric insensi¬
bility, and operate on him without causing pain, so a person
by intense concentration of thought can produce insensibility •
in his own body.
So, also, a continued effort of concentration or abstraction,
especially if aided by fasting or other exhausting causes, will
give rise to an exaltation of the mind, similar to that occa¬
sioned by mesmeric manifestations. And during the self-
induced mesmeric state, a person may be subject to visions, or
have a poetic, oratorical, or prophetic impulse. Our great
Newton, when busied in those mighty problems which have
both aided and advanced human knowledge, was frequently
thus abstracted from the world around him; he would sit
for hours on the side of his bed partially dressed, and at his
study table, utterly unconscious of persons going in and,out,
and insensible also to the calls of hunger. And Tennyson is
said to pass into a similar state, brooding, as it were, over
some great poetic thought, which will at length burst upon
him in all its beauty ; not so much as the result of thinking
as the intuition of genius released from the fetters of the
senses and the outer world.
There are certain religionists who unknowingly adopt a
system of self-mesmerism. They have been met with at all
periods, and among every variety of people ; in ancient Greece
and in Egypt; in India and in Europe ; in America and South
Africa; in the first centuries of the Christian era, and in the
19th century; before the promulgation of the Gospel, and
they will probably be met with till the end of time.
The method adopted is in all cases curiously alike. They
try to produce an entire self-abstraction from external things ;
they shut them aid. out to the utmost of their power, and con¬
centrate their thought—or rather, as they would say, fix their
spirit’s eye, for they must be abstracted even from thought—on
the subject of worship, or on\ some ideal fancy of their own
imagination. We need not refuse to believe, nor wonder, that
by such a method they become exalted, that they see visions
and hear voices, that they have the range of their sympathies
extended, that an inner sense is called into action by which
they can recognise what they could not recognise by the organs
of sense; that they become clairvoyant and prophetic. They
self-mesmerise themselves, and manifest some of the most re¬
markable phenomena of the mesmeric state. It appears to me
that we may accept such facts—for facts they are—as a proof
that deep in man’s inner spirit there lies, as I have intimated
above, a power as yet undeveloped, but still a power to hold
communion with the spirit-world ; and a proof, too, that we
are not “ all flesh and blood ” only, nor absolutely dependent
on material organs, but that the spirit, though bound for the
present to a body, has independent powers of its own which,
under certain exceptional circumstances, it is permitted
even now to exercise. It is a spiritual intuition, by which
favoured ones are at times enabled to see truth at a glance
without passing by the long and tedious paths by which" the
generality of men ar,e obliged to attain it. The seer, the pro¬
phet, the poet hence derive their powers; and the man of
genius and the man of science, too, often look back on their
greatest works and their greatest discoveries, as having come
to them, not by a mighty effort of the reasoning powers, but
rather as by a light from another sphere of which their minds
have been the passive and involuntary recipients.
It may be interesting to give a few examples.,
HEKMOTIMUS.
Hermotimus, the famous prophet of Clazomence, when after
death he had a temple erected to his honour and was wor¬
shipped as a god, had the power of departing from his body ;
his soul departed from its earthly tabernacle, is said to have
wandered over every part of the earth, and when he returned
again to animate it, he came charged with the secrets of futu¬
rity.- Here we have a Pagan passing into trance-sleep by
some self-mesmerising process, for, it is said, the separation
of the soul from the body was a voluntary act, and in that
state having visions, believing himself to traverse the universe,
and to hold intercourse with supernatural beings, and in this
state of mental exaltation to have a glimpse of the future.
But Hermotimus paid a heavy penalty for his power. During
one of his absences, his wife, wearied with frequent desertion,
burnt the deserted body. Dr. Aytoun has made the tale of
Hermotimus the subject of a ballad, in which he appears to
represent the act of lone, his wife, as done-in ignorance.
O’er her husband sat lone bending,
Marble-like and marble-hued he lay;
Underneath her raven locks descending,
Paler seemed his face and ashen grey;
And so white his brow,
"White and cold as snow,
“ Husband! Gods 1 his soul hath passed away!
“ Raise ye up the pile with gloomy shadow,
Heap it with the mournful cypress-bough!”
And they raised the pile upon the meadow,
And they heaped the mournful cypress too.
And they laid the dead
On his funeral bed,
And they kindled up the flames below.
Night again was come ; but oh, how lonely
To the mourner did that night appear!
Peace nor rest it brought, but sorrow only,
Vain repinings and unwonted fear.]
, Dimly burned the lamp,
Ohill the air and damp,
And the winds without were moaning drear. .
Hush! a voice in solemn whisper speaking,
Breaks within the twilight of the room ;
And lone, loud and wildly shrieking,
Starts, and gazes through the ghastly gloom.
Nothing sees she there—
All is empty air—
All is empty as a rifled tomb.
Once again the voice beside her sounded,
Low, and faint, and solemn was its tone—
“Nor by form nor shade am I surrounded:
Fleshly home and dwelling have I none.
They are passed away,
"Woe is me! to-day
Has robbed me of myself, and made me lone.”
PLOTINUS.
Plotinus, a heathen Neo-Platonist, recommends this self-
mesmerising as a means of comprehending God. He says:—
“You can only apprehend the Infinite by a faculty superior to
reason, by entering into a state in which you are your finite
self no longer, in which the divine essence is communicated to
you. This is ecstacy. It is the liberation of your mind from
its finite consciousness.”
The object of Plotinus was “ to raise himself to communion
with, and ultimately to absorption into, Deity, by that strongest
exercise of the rational will which results in self-annihilation,
and in a state of absolute passivity.” And in this state he
mistook the visions of an exalted mind for glimpses of another
world, and the suggestions arising in a disturbed, nervous
system for divine revelations.
JAMBLICUS.
His pupil, Jamblieus, who, it is said, was once “ raised nine
feet from the ground by an ecstacy of prayer,” reminding us
of the claims of some modern mesmerists, in allusion to the
ecstatic prophets of his time, says :—
“ Men of this order do not employ, in the elevation they ex¬
perience, the waking senses as do others. They have no pur¬
pose of their own; no mastery over themselves. They speak;
wisdom they do not understand, and their faculties, absorbed
in a divine power, become the utterance of a superior will.
Often at the moment of inspiration, or when the afflatus has
subsided, a fiery appearance is seen—the entering or depart¬
ing power. Those who are skilled in this wisdom can tell by
the character of this glory the rank of the divinity who has
seized, for the time, the mystic soul, and guides it as he will.
Sometimes the body of the man subject to this influence is
violently agitated ; sometimes it is rigid and motionless.
“ In some instances sweet music is heard, in others dis¬
cordant and fearful sounds. The person of the subject has
been known to dilate and tower to a supernatural height, in
other cases it has been lifted up into the air. Frequently not
merely the exercise of reason, but sensation and animal life
would appear to have been suspended ; and the subject of the
afflatus has not felt the application of fire, has been pierced by
spears, cut with knives, and been sensible of no pain. Yea,
often the more the body and the mind have been enfeebled by
vigil and by fasts, the more ignorant and mentally imbecile a
youth may be who is brought under this influence, the more
freely and unmixedly will the divine power be made manifest.
So clearly are these wonders the work not of i human skill or
wisdom, but of supernatural agency ! Characteristics such as
these I have mentioned are the marks of the true inspira¬
tions.”
Here is a pagan polytheist who flourished in the fourth cen¬
tury,—a man who believed that Deity would be affected by
“incantations, ceremonies, suffumigations, and sacrifices,”
and be induced to listen to supplicants by threats and insults :—
declaring his belief that the skilful mystic could recognise by
the character of a fiery appearance, similar to that by which
the eater or smoker of Indian hemp is affected, “ the rank of
the Deity ” which inspired him ; giving as the characteristics
of the true inspiration, characteristics now well known,
phenomena arising from mesmeric passes, from medicines or
from disease, and ascribing to supernatural agency the symp¬
toms of a disordered brain ! A warning for those who are
tempted to go out of this world for an explanation 'of pheno¬
mena which are above their comprehension, or which they
cannot trace to natural laws!
SELF-MESMERISM IN INDIA.
In India devotees whose principal aim it is to realise what
they call “ the emancipation of the spirit,” are called Yogis.
They adopt a system, of self-mesmerism. Yaughan, speaking
of one of them, says :—“ He planteth his own seat firmly on a
spot that is uhdefiled, neither too high nor too low, and
sitteth upon the sacred grass, which is called koos, covered
with a skin and a cloth. There he whose business is the re¬
straining of his passions should sit with his mind fixed on one
object alone ; in the exercise of his devotion for the purifica¬
tion of his soul, keeping his head, his neck, and body steady,
without motion—his eyes fixed on the point of his nose, look¬
ing at no other place around.” In the latest stage the eyes
also are closed, while the fingers and even bandages are em¬
ployed to obstruct almost completely the- avenues of respira¬
tion. Then the soul is said to be united with the energies of
the body; both mount, and are, as it were, concentrated in
the skull, whence the spirit escapes by the basilar suture*, and
the body, having been thus abandoned, the incorporeal nature
is reunited for a season with the Supreme.” And what is the
result ? Those who have attained to this emancipation become
degraded, useless, worthless miscreants. And the proper ex¬
planation appears to be this:—Being dissatisfied with being
wh-at they are, and striving by unnatural means to make them¬
selves what they are not and ought not to be, they succeed iu
destroying moral and intellectual health, and become drivelling
maniacs, seeing an imaginary God with a diseased body and
disordered mind, instead of with the liberty of a true intelli¬
gent devotion.
It was probably in India that Colonel Townshend, whose
case is mentioned by Dr. George Cheyne, learnt that “ by
composing himself he could die when he pleased.” Dr. Cheyne,
Dr. Bayard, and Mr. Skrine waited upon him to be witnesses
of this, to them, unheard of and marvellous power. He com¬
posed himself on his back and lay in a still posture for some
time; gradually the pulse sank, then ceased, the beat of the
heart could no longer be detected, nor could any breathing be
noticed by the nicest examination. The doctors looked on
astonished, and after waiting some time concluded that he was
actually dead ; but as they were going away, they noticed a
slight movement of the body, and life came back again in the
same gradual way as it had departed.
SAINT ANTONY.
And in medieval times similar phenomena appeared in the
Christian Church. Men oppressed by the state of things around
them sought refuge not only in the practical duties of life, but
also in fasts and macerations, and separation from human
society; by these means they destroyed their bodily health,
and their nervous system, and became subject to ecstacy ; they
saw visions, heard voices, thought themselves subjects of the
especial spite of evil spirits, wrestled with demoniacal tempta¬
tions, or soared above the earth to enjoy the beatific visions of
a higher world, and came back to,their ordinary state to retail
the thoughts which had passed through their own excited
imaginations as the revelations of heaven. Many errors were
consequent, and they were persuaded from greater extrava¬
gances, and the iniquities which are often attendant on such
phenomena, only by being impelled by higher motives, and
being in possession of a holier creed.
We will just allude to two—St. Antony, the founder of
Egyptian monastries, if not absolutely the first who adopted
in Egypt the ascetic life; and Hilarion who was the founder
of a similar system in Palestine.
St. Antony having subjected himself to severe training by
self-denials, fastings, prayers and watchings, reflects on the
past and the present, on the outer world from which he has
separated, and the recluse life he has adopted, the practical
duties of life in actual converse with other men, and the soli¬
tary duties demanded by religion ; and as he balances different
motives, he begins to confound the action of his own mind
with satanic agency. He believes he has elected to serve
God not only in the best way and the most pleasing to Him,
but in the only safe way. And let us notjblame him too much
for coming to such a conclusion in the state of society in which
he lived. But having come to this conclusion, having made
this election, all thoughts that rise in his mind of an opposite
character are.regarded as a “great dust-cloud of arguments ”
raised by Satan to turn him from his holy purpose, and are
rejected as temptations. After these debates between inner
voices, the first vision he is recounted to have seen is that of
the spirit of impurity “ in the form of a black child, who ad¬
dresses him with a human voice, saying, ‘ I have deceived
many; I have cast down many. But now, as in the case of
many, so in thee, I have been worsted in the battle.’ ” The
vision and the voice are both creations of St. Antony’s own
imagination,—both subjective brain sensations, and bear the
stamp of their origin too clearly to be mistaken.
He would often pass whole nights without sleep. His food
consisted of bread and salt, and water was his drink ; he ate
only once in twenty-four hours, after sunset, and sometimes
only once in two days; he lay on a mat of rushes or on the
bare ground. Badly fed, badly clothed, badly lodged; not
even giving the body the chance of health by habits of common
cleanliness; labouring ever to keep his mind in a state of
strained devotion; believing more truly in the presence and
power of evil spirits than many now-a-days believe in the
existence of God, he prepares himself to become the subject of
visions. He shuts himself up in a tomb ; demons come and
beat him till he is speechless. His-friends remove him from
his dreary place of self-confinement, but he again" returns to
it, and here let me give verbatim what was the result as given
in his life by Athanasius.
“ So in the night the demons made such a crash, that the
whole place seemed shaken, and the demons, as if breaking in
the four walls of the room, seemed to enter through them,
changing themselves in the shapes »of beasts and creeping
things, and the place was forthwith filled with shapes of lions,
bears, leopards, bulls, and snakes, asps, scorpions and wolves,
and each of them moved according to his own fashion. The
lion roared, longing to attack; the bull seemed to toss; the
serpent did not cease creeping ; the wolf rushed upon him ;
and altogether the noises of the apparitions were dreadful, and
their tempers cruel.”
But if Antony believed in the real presence of demons who
had assumed the form of beasts, he believed more truly still in
the real presence of a Divine power by which they were re¬
strained. So though suffering dreadfully in body “ he lay
unshaken and awake in spirit.”1 And at length, “ looking up,
he saw the. roof, as it were, opened, and a ray of light coming
down towards him. The demons suddenly became invisible,
and the pain of the body forthwith ceased, and the building
became quite whole.” He then hears a voice from heaven
consoling him and giving him promises for the future, in which
we again detect the working of Antony’s own imagination,—
the echoing back to him as from another world the thoughts
which had their origin in his own mind. (Hingley’s Hermits.)
Some may be disposed to laugh at this as miserable fanati¬
cism. For my own part I confess I am more disposed to ad¬
mire the faith and constancy of mind which could, with the
creed and superstition of the day, save him from utter insanity
and despair.
We regret to be obliged to keep over several letters and
reviews this month for want of room, and request our cor¬
respondents to make their letters average not more than a
quarter of a column in length.
Oct. 15, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
79
©mespontience.
[Great freedom is given to correspqndents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
THE EXPERIENCES OE AN INVESTIGATOR.
Sir,—Permit me, as-briefly as possible, to state my experience
of Spiritualism.
On the 29th September, wishing to know what the subject
was about and whether there was anything in it or not, I
called on Miss Lottie Fowler.
This was my first investigation—
During what I was told was the trance, she related some
very accurate incidents of my past life, made statements con¬
cerning the future, and also furnished me with a mass of misty
information of whiph I could scarcely make/ head or tail,
and which might or might not be true. _
My feeling on leaving her was one of some astonishment
and anxiety to get something more tangible.
The same night I called on Mr. and Mrs. Holmes.
This lady was very loth to sit as she said she felt a lack of
power and disinclined.
Being desirous at once to go to the root of the matter I
pressed the point and the result sent me home in a whirl of
bewildered belief. The guitars, &o., distinctly played all over
the room, the ring was put on my arm, instruments into my
hand, &c., &c.
A tiny hand pressed my head. “ Honie, sweet home,” was
• sung to me by certainly neither Mr. nor Mrs. Holmes, and
from all parts of the room came evidences of a delightful
supernatural.
I tested communications in various satisfactory ways.
The next evening, 30th, I went to Messrs. Herne and
Williams.
I told them I was a sceptic and investigator—quite new to
it. Indeed, I was so behind time, and the room so very full,
that it was'only as a favour that I was admitted. Here I was
gently touched in the face, and on the head, by what evidently
was no mortal power. I heard the voices, felt the air, table
moving, etc.
I also, for the first time in my life, beheld a real “ghost”—
spirit, I should say—whose name I gathered was “Katie King.”
I felt, however, I had not hit off the exact thing yet; the
spirit seemed too material.
On the 1st October I called on Mrs. Olive, 49, Belmont-
street, Chalk Farm-road, and here I come to the point of my
letter {—
From my first sitting with this lady, I felt I had got com¬
paratively deep into this beautiful reality. I no longer desired
tests. My understanding and conviction were too forcibly
appealed to.
Spirit relatives and spirit friends, of whose frequent presence
near me I had been informed at the other seances, came and
spoke to me in terms, it is impossible to describe, such as I
feel utterly unable to express.
At any rate I felt. I had hit off the right medium at last. I
have since repeatedly visited her, and although I have been to
Miss Hudson, and also to one of Mr. Morse.’s seances, not one
of the others has furnished me with that delight and new life
‘which has been daily poured into me by spirit after spirit at
Mrs. Olive’s from that beautiful spirit land. «
I state my own case merely. The disposition or tempera¬
ment of others may not derive from the medium the deep
satisfaction that I have.
But I would say to all who are honestly, however sceptically,
desirous of investigating this great mystery, and who have got
beyond the mere tricky test portion of the business, to go to
Mrs. Olive.
They will there find their understanding and conviction
powerfully appealed to, and will have the pleasure of listening
to the deep convincing tones of truth.
And I trust that the time is not far distant when the in¬
trinsic value of Mrs. Olive’s at present but little known
mediumship will be appreciated as it deserves to be.
I started as an impartial sceptic ten days ago. If I am not
at the present moment an out-and-out Spiritualist, all I can
gay is that I am something uncommonly like one.
Richard Arthur Salmond,
Woolwich, October 9, 1872. Lieutenant, Royal Artillery.
THE EEEICACY OE PRAYER.
Sir,—Are there not some things which we have no right
to pray for ? If so, these particular thiugs must be separated
from the others, before we can attempt to gauge the efficacy
of prayer.
For instance, ought we to pray to God to remove evils which
we have the power to remove ourselves ? If I purposely put
my hand in the fire, have I any right to pray that I shall not
be burnt ?
Typhoid fever is due to the escape of sewer gas. The man
of science uses the brains the Almighty has given him, re¬
moves the cause, and does away with the pestilence. The
theologian, .on the contrary, neglects to cultivate the intellect
given him from on high ; he wastes his time in idle prayer;
the fever carries off him and his fellows. All the prayers in
the world will not remove so much fever as good drainage,
and it is a beneficent and holy law that such is the case,
otherwise there would be a premium upon idleness, and upon
lack of independent and intelligent exertion.
The British race is deteriorating in stature and in vigorous
health. Will any amount of prayer alter this ? Not a bit of
it. It is caused by the influx of the rural population into our
overcrowded large towns, and by the gradual decline of rural
districts ; also by the bulk of the means of subsistence in the
country, being drained by partial laws into the hands of a
few pepple. If we permit landlords, and landowners, and
lawyers, and ecclesiastics to make laws at the expense of the
nation for their own particular and private benefit, we must
expect a large amount of pauperism and national suffering.
If land were bought and sold as rapidly and inexpensively as
other property, as in other nations, so that a natural order of
things should prevail, and the men who cultivate the ground be
the men who own it, in a few years we should see an increase
in natipnal prosperity and happiness, which a hundred years
of prayer would never bring about. What a different state of
affairs we should see in Ireland especially.
If we have no right to consume time in praying for the re¬
moval of sickness, which ought to be employed in finding
out and removing the causes of that sickness, and if we have
no right to pray for the removal of, national sufferings which
we inflict upon ourselves by our own apathy and ignorance",
are there any boons for which we have a right to pray ?
I do not say that there are none, but should like to have
clearly defined lists of things for which we may pray, and
things for which we may not pray.
Perhaps, if men by honest hard work of spirit, mind, and
body, removed those evils which they inflict on each other,
they would, to their own surprise, find themselves in a state of
perfect health, happiness, and intelligence, with nothing left
to pray for. In such cases it would become evident that the
truest prayer consists in honest hard work ; that God helps
those who help themselves, and none other.
A man striving hour by hour to do what is right, and over¬
flowing with love to every living thing which draws breath,
seems to me to be in very direct communion with the Source
of all purity and power, and to be one living in a state of con¬
tinual prayer. At the same time, he may be one who never
goes down on his knees, who never utters forms of words, or
enters buildings where men with low foreheads march about
in white shirts, and with long candles in their hands, singing
—the men, not the candles—melodiously to the noise of wind
instruments. X.
September 4th, 1872.
Sir,—If your correspondence on the efficacy of prayer has
not already assumed too large proportions, may I add facts
which seem to me relevant to the subject.
Some months ago, after we had permitted our servants to
sit at one of our seances, one of them determined to try what
could be done in the kitchen
“ To raise the spirits from the vasty deep,”
and she succeeded much beyond her desires.
For several nights in succession she was awoke from her
sleep by violent rapping on the door and walls of her room,
and at last on the head of her bedstead. The continuous
knocking so alarmed her, she left her room and went to sleep
in another with the nurse. But the rapping followed, as I
heard myself one night when I happened to be awake on the
floor below. I spoke seriously to the servants about tamper¬
ing with Spiritualism, and gave them instructions how to
gain conversation, and thus allay the disturbance. But in
vain ! A new phase of annoyance followed, for the idle spirit
got power to hiss in the servant’s ear as she walked along the
passages, and he knocked about the walls of the kitchen. One
day she was bringing up a tray full of dinner things, when
the spirit uttered a growl, which so terrified her, she nearly
dropped the tray and rushed in terror into the dining room.
About this time one of my children was similarly annoyed
when alone upstairs.
At our next usual seance I invited the servants to sit with
us ; and as soon as we had established communication with
the spirits, I asked the reason of this annoyance. I was told
that it .was from an idle spirit, who, seeing' the servants’
anxiety for communication, and that she possessed some un¬
developed mediumship, had just sufficient power to do what
he had done. “ But how are we to get rid of the annoyance?’’
I asked. “ All pray now, and whenever you feel it coming,
and let Kate pray.” We did most earnestly then, and at our
family altar. From that day to this we have had no repetition
of such annoyance.
More recently at one of our family sittings, when my little
boy was entranced and speaking happily, he suddenly put on
a look of terror, seized hold of me and said, “ Fray, pray,
pray.” I did so quietly, and restored calm, then asked
“ What was it ?” “A black spirit tried to get into our circle,
but it rushed away directly you began to pray.” It is evident
such petitions were for good, and as evident that the answers
came to the prayers of faith. But if I pray for any.other good
thing, and do not immediately get it, am 1 to consider prayer
of no avail ? No, my faith points back to Christ teaching
His disciples to pray, and even Christ Himself spending whole
nights in what then seemed unavailing prayer. “The cup”
did not pass from Him, and the darkest hour seemed one of
failure. But He has said, “What ye know not now, ye shall
know hereafter;” and no statistics gathered in this world
would ever convince me of prayer’s inutility. Prayer cannot
be gauged by philosophical instruments ; it belongs to the
spiritual region, which is yet far beyond their ken.
Hendon, October,3, 1872. Morell Theobald.
Sir,—The subject of prayer is not yet exhausted; much
has been said, but little to the point. Opinions lead only to
discussions, which, if not followed up by demonstration, re¬
main fruitless. We want something more. I, for one, shall
be quite willing to accept Mr. Colquhoun’s invitation to pur¬
sue the dark and lonely road of inquiry into this obscure sub¬
ject as soon as we can get a compass to guide us.
I think that something like the experiment suggested by
Professor Tyndall might be tried ; but we, who know the
difficulty of obtaining right conditions for the production of
the physical part of spiritualistic phenomena shall be careful
not to look upon the failure of a self-imposed test in experi¬
ments which, in the nature of things, must be far more subtle
and delicate, as sufficient proof of the falseness of the pre¬
mises. As the basis of our research we have, 1st. The universal
instincts of a praying humanity, and 2nd. Certain asserted re¬
sults recorded in the history of man from the earliest ages
down to the present time.
I do not see any impropriety in testing this method by
scientific methods. Science and religion cannot be at variance ;
if they appear to be so, it must be because our conclusions
with regard to one or the other are at fault. Our chief diffi¬
culty seems to me to lie in our want of fitting instruments for
conducting experiments ; but I have some reason to hope that
those persons whom in a former letter I have ventured to call
“ prayer mediums,” will, when properly developed, furnish the
means required.
Your correspondent “ W. L. A. ” asks me to define com¬
munion as distinct from meditation. I should say that one is
contained within the other ; complete communion consisting
first of an active raising of the mind by silent or spoken
thoughts, and secondly of a passive waiting for impressions or
inspirations which shall be out guides in those matters in
which we have sought for direction.
It may be that the only true prayer for man is that conveyed
in the words, | Thy will be done.” It may be possible to live
instinctively a life on earth that should be the practical ex¬
pression of that prayer. To those capable of such a life, prayer,
as a distinct act, may be superfluous; but as long as through
the weakness of our mortal nature, we cannot always stand
upright, it seems to me that an appeal to the Unknown for
help, which it is beyond human power to give, is both natural
and rational, and cannot well be without response from One who
created us both with the feeling of our weakness and with the
longing fcr a higher power and stronger life. Most of the
collects of the Church of England service seem to me to be
conceived in the true spirit of prayer.
To find the conditions under which we can best receive that
help is the aim of those who are interested in this inquiry.
Adamanta.
Sir,—Your correspondents adverse to prayer, remind me'
of the theorymongers so notably snubbed by Stanley, in his
defence of Livingstone, who, sitting in their easy chairs, or,
it may be over vyine and walnuts, without knowledge, without
experience, create a theory, and dogmatically declare the river
runs out of, not into, the Lake Tanganyika. Stanley says:—
“ Livingstone and I saw it, felt it, running into the lake, but
the better way would be, if you refuse our testimony, for you
to go and see and feel for yourselves.” So I advise those of
your letter writers, who deny special providence (though in
carefully-expressed wordage) either to accept the affirmations
of those who have seen and felt special providences in answer
to prayer, or go and try for themselves in an hour of agony. 1
I and others have frankly acknowledged the results of per-,
sonal experience. If your correspondents ignore our evidence,
and still assert that which we know to be false ; we have done
our duty; but regret the last word should, in The Spirit¬
ualist, be given to those who, without experience, deny testi¬
mony.
Perhaps I had better extend this letter by referring to the
experiences of Christian churches, as perceived through the
biographies of their members. I know scores of instances of
special providence through answered prayer ; and no wonder
The fundamental faith of Christians is immortality—is life
after death. That state may be one of happiness or of un¬
happiness. The sectional opinion or details connected with
that life after death, may be varied, may be open to debate
as to exact accuracy; but the vital fact of immortality—true
Spiritualism—has ever been, and still continues the faith of a
Christian. “ In my father’s house are many mansions—I go
to prepare a place for you.”
I am not aware of any book or books among the classics
recording that any body of men has so clearly affirmed and
steadily adhered to the immortality of man, as the Christian.
Deny it who may, the fact remains that Spiritualism, as known
to us, and accepted by us, has sprung out of Christ, and been
preserved by the churches. The physical phenomena of rap-
pings and attendant phenomena were an outburst from those
churches which, more than others, recognised the personality
and action of Divine power. Take, for instance, the Wesley
family, whose eminence was heralded by physical phenomena ;
whose faith in a personal omnipotent God, who heard and
answered prayers, is nationally known to us. Again we take
Mr. Fox, of Rochester, America. He was a praying Christian,
a believer in an omnipotent; answering God. His three
daughters have been used, fit tools for the rough mental
material to be acted on. D. D. Home has sprung from the
Scotch praying Christians, and others also I could name. The
Camisards of Switzerland, whose history is a marvel, held the
same prayer-faith, or, rather, had the same knowledge, and
used it.
The Christian churches are loaded with mediums of varied
gifts, as numerous as in the apostles’days, through whom
phenomena come ; but who aje snarled at as bigots by deists,
cold shouldered by many of those who occupy the priests’ office,
for place, pay, and power, who devil the phenomena ; and these
Christians, opposed also by some Spiritualists, who lately
were deists, and who would rather take a spirit message from
their ^ Aunt Molly,” than from a higher source ; so the said
Christians are content to enjoy themselves in their own way
in the privacy of home life.
Who were the men who first moved against slavery, and the
olden atrocities of prison life ? Praying Christians. Who
were the first to promote the education of the people ? Praying
Christians. Who have been the founders of nearly all our
charities, the leaders, the givers of cash by tens, and hundreds
and thousands of pounds ? Christians, who believe in prayer.
Men who, conscious of having a living Father, with whom
they were in affinity, mediumistically acted under Divine
guidance. Who have been the leading talkers, writers, and
fault-finders, whose philanthropy never goes pocket deep ?
Those who do not believe in the omnipresence of “ Our
Father.”
“ G-od is His own interpreter,
And He will make it plain.”
Enmore-park, S.E. Enmore Jones.
THE MOABITE STONE.
Sir,—Captain Burton and others surely must be very young,
or forgetful. I remember, when a youth, that the slap-dash
opposition to the Bible was, “The miracles are impossible,
the historical narratives are a myth. The Bible was concocted
during the middle ages by the priests to cajole the,people.”
Since then, the unearthed stone hieroglyphics of- Egyptian
and Assyrian history, have confirmed the literal accuracy of
the historical narratives in the Jewish Scriptures, even to some
“ impossible ” incidents. The “ middle ages ” untruths are no
longer tenable, because the three copies of the Scriptures
extant, written shortly after the closing events narrated in the
New Testament, are now in possession of the three leading
Christian powers—British, Roman, and Russian, the. repre¬
sentatives of the Protestant, Roman, and Greek Churches.
And now we have the Moabite stone suddenly found, and
narrating on its surface the correctness of even the name of
the king reigning in Moab at the time. The omissions in the
narrative on the stone do not at all affect the correctness of
the fullness of the Bible narrative. How could the Moabitish
enemies know what was transpiring in Israel ? The Jewish
chronicles of historical events clearly unveil the Jewish belief
in one God, an omnipresent God; who, having to use that
nation for a future purpose, guided them, sometimes through
sunshine, sometimes through storm.
As to the “ impossibility of the miracles,” which used to be
the favourite weapon in my younger days, later days have not
only shown their possibility, but I and/many others have seen
reproduced nearly all the miracles recorded in the Jewish and
Christian Scriptures.
Burton, therefore, ought in honesty to have pointed out the
extraordinary accuracy of the Jewish written narrative, and
the accuracy of the many copies that must have been taken of
those chronicles during a period of so many thousands of
years, as attested by the recently discovered stone, which has
lain for thousands of years on the mountains.of Moab, unno¬
ticed by its people, and tendered to the infidels of the age,
with the Egyptian and Assyrian hieroglyphics, as proofs
direct, that as in historical accuracy as to kings and peoples-,
so in the narratives of God’s power given in the same books, we
have, as it were, the mannerism of the Deity age after age, in
carrying out His plan to complete the happiness of the whole
human family through Christ, the enunciator of man’s immor¬
tality. Deny who will, Christianity, by means mainly of the
Protestant division of it, is moulding the nations of Europe, of
America, of Africa, of Asia, of Australia, to the great, grand
principle of protection, to each and every one who avoids
injuring his neighbours ; who tries to copy his Divine Father
because his Father, God,.is Love. Enmore Jones.
80
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 15, 1872.
FACTS FOE NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
The phenomena seen at spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
within the ordinary range of human experi¬
ence, mat it is quite right not to accept them
on the testimony of others. Each individual
should witness and test them personally, and
believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
is gained that denial is impossible.
EVinENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses that the phenomena of Spiritualism are
actual facts, and not imposture or delusion, has of
late years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Robert
Chambers, Mr. C. F. Yarley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
Mrs. S. C. Hall, and others, all made affidavits
strongly in favour of Mr. Home.
It also came out in the evidence given at the
trial, that Mr. Home had been the invited and un¬
paid guest of the Emperor and the Empress of the
French, the Emperor, Empress, and the late Em¬
press Dowager of Russia, the Grand Duke Con¬
stantine, the King of Prussia, the late King of
Bavaria, the late King of Wurtemburg, and the
Queen of Holland. Mr. Home says that all his
life he has never taken a farthing of pay for his
. seances.
Mrs. De Morgan has written a book, entitled
From Mattes' to Spirit (Longmans), where she
gives many interesting particulars, the result of
ten years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in his preface to the book, says:—
“ I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot he taken by
a rational being to be capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground
firm under me.”
Mr C. F. Yarley, C.E., F.R.S., the Atlantic
Cable Electrician, has testified that Spiritual
phenomena are produced by disembodied spirits.
Mr. John Bright, M.P., testified to Mr. J. M.
Peebles, late American Consul at Trebizond, that
he had seen some of the phenomena, and they
appeared to be produced by spirits, though he was
not sure on the point.
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President
of the British Association at Norwich in 1868,
spoke very highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, F.L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist. Professor Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
action’’ theory explained all the facts,' A friend
wrote to him detailing things he had’seen which
were inexplicable by: that theory. ■ Hare at once,
like a sensible man, went to sefe for himself. The
result was that he came into communication with
some of his own departed relatives.. He then
made ■ mechanical .telegraphic, machines, Which
were intelligently "worked by spirits while the
apparatus was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote a book recording all these
facts. That book is now in the British Museum
Library. „ Judge Edmonds, of New York, is another
very eminent American Spiritualist, who has also
written interesting books on the subject. Recently,
in England, Yiscount Adare has written a book
bearing testimony to the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and movements of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley.
Mr. W. Crookes, F.R.S.,(editor of The Quarterly
Journal of Science), Mr. Serjeant Cox, and Mr.
William Huggins (Vice-president of the Royal
Society), have certified that certain of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism are real. A scientific
committee of professional gentlemen, appointed by
the Dialectical Society, came to the same conclusion
after two years investigation ; their official report
is printed in No. 26 of The Spiritualist.
A work entitled The Booh of Nature, by C. 0.
Groom Napier, F.C.S. (London, John Camden
Hotten, 1870), has a preface by the late Lord
Brougham, in which that eminent statesman
says:—
“There is but one question I would ask the author, is
the Spiritualism of this work foreign to bur materialistic,
manufacturing age?—No :for amidst the varieties of
mind which divers circumstances produce, are found
those who cultivate man’s highest faculties;—to these
the author addresses himself. But even in the most
cloudless skies of scepticism I see a rain-cloud, if it be no
bigger than a man’s hand; it is Modern Spiritualism.”
In addition to the above evidence, there is the
testimony of numbers that the modem spiritual
manifestations are realities. Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New America estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United States at rather less than
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybody has made. There are ho accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
When reports of the speeches of spirits are printed m this
Journal, non-Soiritualists should understand that spirits
out of the body are wise or foolish, truthful or untruthful,
just the same as spirits in the body. Moreover, they are but
individuals, so do not know everything. The statements of a
spirit are but the assertions of an individual; but by com
paring the statements of many spirits, it may in time be
possible to discover in what points they agree, and to sift
out the unreliable communications. Many spirits cannot
see each other, any more than we can see them, and as some
of them are thus in different states of life, it does not follow
that contradictory messages are therefore untruthful.
^Spirits are of different religions, consequently their teach¬
ings do not altogether agree; there is no more uniformity
in the next world than in this one. It is the business of this
iournal to report facts, so we are in no way responsible for
the religious, scientific, or any other teachings given by indi¬
vidual spirits.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family
friends and relatives, often gives the most satisr
factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the same time, as no fully developed
medium is present among those who have never
obtained manifestations before,, the probability is
that there will be no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for every one successful
new circle thus started without a medium, there
are six or seven failures, but "ho accurate’statistics
on this point’ have yet been collected. When
once manifestations have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power.and reliability at suc¬
cessive-sittings. The following is. a good plan of
action
1. , Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but
cool rather than warm—let arrangements be made that
nobody shall enter it, and that there shall be no inter¬
ruption for one hour- during the sitting of the circle.
Wet, damp, and foggy weather is bad for the production
of physical phenomena. - .
2. Let the circle, consist of four, .five; or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit round an un¬
covered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands
in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance.
Any table will do, just large enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it
sometimes, but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, plac some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may be
obtained. |
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, except with well-developed
physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, but an
acrid feeling against them is a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature. A prayerful,
earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely, to avoid confusion, let one person only speak,
and talk to the table as to an intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean
“Yes,” one means “No,” and two mean “Doubtful,”
and ask whether the arrangement is understood. If
three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, aud spell us out a
message ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established. '
8. Alterwards the question should be put, “ Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations ?”
Probably some members of the circle will then be told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will be
afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who. is the
medium ? ” When spirits come asserting themselves to.
be related or known to anybody present, well-chosen
questions should be put to test the accuracy'of the
statements, as spirit out of the body have all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms
of other forms of mediumship than tilts or raps
may make their appearance.
► RITiSH IMPERIAL INSURANCE
* ’CORPORATION, LIMITED.
Incorporated pursuant to Act of Parliament.
Capital—£200,000 in 200,000 Sharks of £1 Each.
Head Offices:
BROWN STREET and-MARSDEN STREET,
MANCHESTER.
■ Chief London Offices:
20,; KING WILLIAM STREET, E.C.
Central Trustees:
Augustus Frederick Bayford, LL.D., Senior Regis¬
trar, Court .of Probate, Doctors’ Commons, London;
and Chancellor of the Diocese of Manchester.
William Gimber Goodliffe, Accountant General,
India Office, Westminster, London.
Charles Oppenheim (S. Oppenheim & Sons), Director
of the Union Bank of London, Austin Friars, Old
Broad-street, London, E.C.
Christopher Weguelin (Thomson, Bonar & Co.)
Director of the Bank of England, 57j, Old Broad-
street, London, E.C.
Auditor:
Dr. William Farr, F.R.S., &c., &e., London, and
Southlands, Bromley, Kent.
The system of Insurance carried out by the “ British
Imperial ” (originally devised by Dr. Farr, F.R.S., &c.,
&c., of Somerset House, and adopted with some modifi¬
cations by her Majesty’s Government), is perfect in
Security, Equity, and Convenience.
In Security, because every With Profit, and Self-
Insurance Policy, is iss’ued upon English Government
Securities, held in Trust, away from the control of the
Directors, for the sole purpose of meeting policy claims,
the amount invested (80 per cent, of the whole premium)
being shown by the National English Life Table, com¬
piled by the Registrar-General for the Government to be
more than sufficient to provide thq sum insured under
the policy.
In Equity, because in the event of an Insurant failing
to continue the payment of his premiums, only sufficient
thereof is retained by the Corporation to profitably cover
the risk incurred upon the life during the time it was
covered by the insurance; the remainder being returned
to the Insurant. The amount returned varies according
to the Table under which the Insurance is effected,
between nearly one-half and three-quarters of all the
premiums.
In Convenience, because the “ Surrender Value ” is
endorsed on every Policy, and is made payable at three
days’ sight. It can also be used to its full amount, by
payment of 5 per cent, per annum interest on the sum
withdrawn, without invalidating the Policy.
JOHN A. FEIGAN,,
General Manager.
WILLIAM DAVIES,
Secretary.
B
RITISH NATIONAL INSURANCE
CORPORATION, LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE- MILLION STERLING.
•Iff ad Offices.
BROWN-STREET AND' MARSDEN-STREET,
MANCHESTER, j
LIST of SUBSCRIPTIONS to partially
meet the EXPENSES of the more FREQUENT
PUBLICATION of “The Spiritualist”:—
Charles Blackburn, Esq    : ...
“ A Friend at a Distance ” ...   ... ...
A. L. Elder, Esq., per Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
W. Tebb, Esq ■ 
Enmore Jones, Esq   
Q, F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S.' 
Friends at Brixton:— £ s. d.
Miss Ponder   ... 1 0 0
Miss E. Ponder     10 0
Mrs. Rudd    1 0 0
“Longfellow” ..V  1 0 0
Mr. Withall   ...   10 0
Mr. E. Bird    10 0
George Dawson    10 0
Dawson Rogers   ... 10 0
Mr. Rogers ...  , 10 0
Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald  10 0
Mrs. Gunyon     10 6
s. d.
0 0
0 0
5 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
“A Friend,” Temple ... ...
N. F. Daw, Esq 
Richard Beamish, Esq., F.R.S.
The Countess of Caithness ...
Mr. and Mrs. Edmiston 
Algernon Joy, Esq. ... ..: ,..
“A Friend,” Manchester 
“AFriend,” Regent’s-park ...
Miss Kislingbury  
G. Nelson Strawbridge, Esq...
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory
Miss J. H. Douglas  ...
“A Friend”    
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
8 0 0
3 3 0
3 3 0
,3 3 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
2 0 0
110
10 0
10 0
10 0
10 0
10 0
10 0
110
FIRE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may
be effected with this Corporation upon every description
of property at equitable rates.
Bonus Returns.—In all cases where no claim has
been made upon the Corporation during the year pre¬
ceding, a Bonus of ten Per cent, will be returned on
the payment of Renewed premiums.
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing
Employers against loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of
persons holding confidential and other places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the
Policies of this Corporation as security for the Poor Law
Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM-STREET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of
influence and standing to act for the Corporation in
unrepresented localities.
British imperial life, and
BRITISH NATIONAL (FIRE AND GUARAN¬
TEE) INSURANCE CORPORATIONS.
Applications for Agencies to either of the above Cor¬
porations can be made to C. W. Pearce, at the Chief
London Offices, 20, King William Street, E.C., from
whom Prospectuses, Proposal Forms, and all other infor¬
mation, can be obtained.
Price 2s. 6d.
Subscriptions in aid of this object may be remitted to
N.Fabyan Daw, Esq., treasurer, 2, Portman-chambers,
Portman-square, W.; Benjamin Coleman, Esq., Bernard-
villas, Upper Norwood; or to Enmore Jones, Esq., En-
more-park, South Norwood, S.E.
September 8th, 1872.
Gr. H. ANDREWS,
Glimpses of a brighter land.—
Showing the harmony of things Spiritual with
things Material.
“ The tone of the book is exceedingly pure and good.”
—Christian Spiritualist.
*** A List of Spiritual and Mesmeric works on applica¬
tion.
London: Bailliere and Co., King William-street, Strand.
TAILOR, &c.,
61, Lambs Conduit Street, Foundling, W.C.
JjiPPS’S COCOA.
supplied with clothes cut in the most fashionable manner,
good materials, and sound workmanship, at very mode¬
rate charges. Fit and styls perfect, having been many
years in the well-known firm of Messrs. Pulford and Co.,
65, St. James’s Street.
Trousers, from ... ...
Vests  
Black Suit, from
Unrivalled Black Doe
Tweed Suit 
£ s. d.
0 13 6
0 7 0
3 0 0
110
2 10 0
And all other Garments at the same moderate charges.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, MEDICAL
AND BUSINESS CLAIRVOYANTE AND
TEST-MEDIUM, from America, can be consulted daily
at 24, Keppel-street, Russell-square, W.C. Hours from
10 till 8. Terms. 21s.
In the Press. A new Volume of Poems, price 2s. 6d.
AN INVALID’S CASKET. By J. H.
Powell,uuthor of “Life Incidents and Poetic Pic¬
tures,” &c. “ An Invalid’s Casket ” is the result of
nearly seven years’ poetic musings, the majority of the
pieces being composed in America. The object of the
present issue is to secure (if possible) means, from its
sale, to support the family of the author.
Intending Subscribers will confer a favour by forward¬
ing their Names, Addresses, aricl Subscriptions at once
to J. H. Powell, 179, Copenhagen-street, Caledoniau-road,
London, N.
The Civil Service Gazette remarks—“By a thorough ,
knowledge of the natural laws which govern the opera¬
tions of digestion and nutrition, and by a careful applica¬
tion of the fine properties of well-selected cocoa, Mr.
Epps has provided our breakfast-tables with a delicately-
flavoured beverage which may save us many heavy
doctors’ bills.J’
Made simply with Boiling Water or Milk.
Each packet is labelled—
JAMES EPPS & Co., Homoeopathic Chemists, London.
Also makers of CACAOINE, a thin Evening Beverages.
D ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF EN-
quirers INTO SPIRITUALISM, 74, Navarino-
road, Dalston, E. Seances are held every Thursday
evening- at 8 o’clock; and a Library is in course of
formation for use of members. Prospectuses and Rules
on application to the Secretary. Subscription 3s. per
quarter in advance. Thos. Blyton, Secretary, &e.
A
304 pp., 8vo, cloth gilt, price 5s., post free.
LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Thomas L. Harris.
Glasgow: John Thomson, 39, John-street.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE ME3-
MERIST and RUBBER. Clairvoyant Exami¬
nation and complete Diagnosis, One Guinea. Mes¬
merising or Rubbing, One Guinea per week, and travel¬
ling expenses.
Miss Godfrey may be seen, by appointment, at 161,
Hampstead-road, N.W. ,
Foolscap 8vo., cloth. Published at 3s., now offered at
2s.; post free, 2s. 3d.
THE MENTAL CURE: illustrating: the
Influence of the Mind on the Body, both in Health
and Disease, and the Psychological Method of Treatment,
by Rev. W. F. Evans, author of “ The Celestial Dawn,”
“ The Happy Islands,” “The New Age and its Messenger,"
&c., &c., &c.
The design of this Treatise is to explain the nature and
laws of the, inner life of man, and t6 contribute some
light on the subject of Mental Hygiene, which is beginning
to assume importance in the treatment of disease, and to
attract the attention of physiologists. The author has
aimed to_illustrate the correspondencp of the soul and
body, their mutual action and reaction, and to demonstrate
the casual relation of disordered mental states to diseased
physiological action, and the importance and mode of
regulating the intellectual and affectional nature of the
invalid rnffier any system of medical treatment.
Glasgow: James M’Geachy, 89, Union-street.
MISS HUDSON, Normal Clairvoyant and
Prophetic Medium, RECEIVES VISITORS
daily (Sundays excepted), from Twelve till Six o’Clock,
at her Residence, 17, Castle-street, Wells-street, Oxford-
street. Terms, Fire Shillings each ‘ Visitor. Private
Parties also attended in the Evening; terms, One Guinea
and travelling expenses.
EBIRD, Builder, House-decorator,
• Plumber, and Gasfitter,- desires to inform his
Friends and Employers ’; that he has taken NEW
PREMISES, at 11, Park-grove, Shepherd’s-lane. Brixton,
opposite the Railway Station. Estimates given for every
description of work in the aho^e branches.
BEYERIDGE & FRASER, Printers of
The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descrip¬
tions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
Aaron franklin, preserver of
BIRDS, ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF
NATURE, Museums and private collections attended.
British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’ heads, fox’s heads,
shells, and corals in groat variety. The Spiritualist and
kindred periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847
Aaron Franklin, 58, Suffolk-street, Birmingham.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One
Volume Demy Svo., pp. 780, price 7s.’6d.
Emanuel swedenborg : his
LIFE AND WRITINGS. By WILLIAM
WHITE. Wherein the History, the Doctrines, and
the other-world Experiences of the great Swede are con*
cisely and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin
and Condition of the Swedenborgian Sect. The Volume
is illustrated with Four Steel Engravings, by Mr. C.
H. Jeens—1. Jesper Svedberg, Bishop of Skara. II.
Emanuel Swedenborg, aged '46. III. Swedenborg’s
House, Stockholm. IV. Swedenborg, aged 80.
London : Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
The rise ■ and progress of
Spiritualism in England, by Benjamin Coleman,,
recently published in the Spiritualist, reprinted in
pamphlet form, on toned paper,, with coloured wrapper
The discussion is also included in the pamphlet. Copies
may be had at one shilling each, of Mr. E. W. Allen,1
11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C., and are of especial value for
presentation'to those who are uninformed on the subject:
of Spiritualism, j
Price, 6d. Cloth, 9d. Post free.
HEAVEN ’ OPENED. — Part II. being
further’cjescriptions of, and advanced teachings
from, the Spirit.Land. Given through the mediumship
of F. J. T. With" an Appendix containing the Scripture
proofs of Spiritualism.
J. Bums, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.; E. W. Allen, 11,*
Ave-Maria lane, E.O., or F. J. T, 21, East Ascent,
St. Leonards-on-Sea.
4.IS0 Parti., price 6d. Cloth, 9d.
Just Published.
The report of the London*
DIALECTICAL SOCIETY’S Committee on Spirit¬
ualism, together with a full account of the proceedings of
the Committee, the Reports and Minutes of the Experi¬
mental Sub-committees, and the evidence.pro and contra,
of the following eminent persons:—Lord Lytton, Lord
Lindsay, Lord Borthwick; the Countess de Pomdr;
Professor Huxley, Professor Tyndall; Drs. W. B.
Carpenter, Chambers, Davey, Dixon, Edmunds, Kidd,
Robertson, Garth Wilkinson; Mr, Serjeant Cox;
Messrs. Edwin Arnold, Henry , G. Atkinson, Laman
Blanchard, Chevalier, Damiani, I,(ion Favre, Camille
Flammarion, Hain FrisweU, D. D. Home, William
Howitt, H. D. Jencken, George Henry Lewes, Hawkins
Simpson, J. Murray Spear, T. Adolphus Trollope, Crom¬
well Varley, A. R. Wallace, W. M. Wilkinson; Mesmes.
Anna Blackwell, Hardinge, Houghton, &c., &c., Ac. Price
15s. London: Longmans, Green, Reader, and Dyer.
THE SPIRITUALIST NEWSPAPER.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
Three shillings and sixpence for the first fifty
words or portion of fifty words, and sixpence for every
ten words in addition. When four or more insertions
of the same advertisement are ordered, half-a-crown for
the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and four-
pence for every ten words in addition, each insertion.
Ten initial letters or figures count as one word.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertise¬
ments, because it circulates largely among those adver¬
tisers desire to reach, and an advertisement is not lost to.
view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the paper is not
usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters
consisting of personal opinions, for publication, are
requested not to make them more than a third of a
column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received
for papers unaccompanied by a remittance. .The next
twelve copies of The Spiritualist will be posted to any
address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 4s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
intents.
The Systematic Appearance of Spirits in London ... 73
Real and Sham Spirit Photographs   ... 75
A Clergyman on Spiritualism ...     76
Spiritual Conversazione at Hackney  77
Mr. J. J. Morse’s Mediumship     77
The Royal Institution ...    ... 77
Private Seances.  ... ... ...   77'
Canon Calloway on Psychological Phenomena, III.—
Mesmerism; Abstraction of Mind and Self-Mes¬
merism ; Hermotimus; Plotinus ; Jamblieus ;
Self-Mesmerism in India; Saint Antony  77,78
Correspondence:—The Experiences of an Investi¬
gator;' The Efficacy of Prayer; The Moabite Stone 79-
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridub & Fraser,
at the Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents,
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published,
by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London E.C. -
