AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[BEGISTERED FOB TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 147.—(Yol. VI.—No. 25.) LONDON: JUNE 18) 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
(Eontms
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The Approaching Dissemination of Allan Kardec’s Doctrines in Eng¬
land ... ... ... ...     ... ... ... 2S9
Marvellous Exhibitions of Power by Materialised Spirits   290
The Psychological Society:—Facts Connected with Memory—The
Memory of the Events of Life Shortly Before Death—Alleged
Duality of the Mind—Evidence Against the Duality of the Mind—
Concluding Bemarks by Mr. Serjeant Cox  291
The Duality cf the Mind. By E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-Law  293
The Persecution of Spiritualists in Paris  294
National Association of Spiritualists:—Meeting of the Council—New
Members, and Election of Officers—Report of the Finance Com¬
mittee—Miscellaneous Business—The Rational Association and
the Board of Trade—Constitution and Rules—Resumption of the
National Association Soirees—Suggested Periodical Meetings to
D scuss Subjects Connected with Spiritualism—Proposed Public
Reception of Mr. Morse—Engaeement of Mediums by the Asso¬
ciation—The Proposed Philosophical Department   295
Buguet’s Pictures and the British Journal of Photography ...   297
Swedenborg’s Clairvoyance...   .... ... ...  '  298
Correspondence:—Spiritualism in Marylebone — Galvanometrical
Tests—Remarkable Manifestations through a New Medium—
Spiritua'ism and the Book of Common Prarer—The Unseen Uni¬
verse—Buguet’s Conduct—Dishonourable Spectators at Seances ... 298
Paragraphs:—Btixton Psychological Society, 297; Reception at Mrs.
Gregory’s. 297; National Association Seances, 300; Dr. Sexton at
Goswell Hall, 300; Mrs. Tappan in Liverpool, 300; Reception by
the Countess of Caithness    300
Answers to Correspondents      300
EAST LONDON SPIRITUAL MEETINGS. — LEC¬
TURES giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Sonthampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager,
RS. ERMINE VASSAR, the Remarkable Clairvoyant
and Test Medium, just arrived from the Continent, has takertrooms
at 21, Priuces-street; Hauover-squfd’e, W.. where she will he pleased to
receive all who wish to he»r from their Spirit Friends. Can also Prescribe
for Disease. Terms, One Guinea. Hours from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
PHOTOGRAPHIC COPIES OF THE ILLUMINATED
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size. 3s.; small size, Is.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cath£drale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
The British National Association op Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualsts of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposa1
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psyenological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year
1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, at which
all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the Spiritualists of the chief
towns in the United Kingdom, were renresented. The amount of the
annual subscription to the National Association is optional, with a min¬
imum of five t hillings a year. Each member has a single vote at the
general meetings, and is eligible for election to all offices.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested io communicate with Miss Kislingbury,
Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38. Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.O., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules
may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Wohum-street.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected wi'h Spiri’uallsm, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
in addition to tbe.be»t writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
A Seance room can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
WILL hold
ITS NEXT CONVERSAZIONE
On Wednesday, July 21s£, at their Rooms, 38, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.C. Entrance in Woburn-street.
These meetings have been organised at the request, and for the benefit of
Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting friends and members,
and of discussing matters of interest connected with the Spiritualistic move¬
ment.
Music and other entertainment will be provided at each meeting.
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of interest is re¬
quested for exhibition
Hours, from 7 to 10.30 p.m.
Admission by Tickets only, to be obtained in advance of the resident
secretary, Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Snciete Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
rpHE SPIRITUAL AND PSYCHOPATHIC INSTI-
JL TUTE, 1, Dunkeld-street (opposite Emmanuel Church), West
Derby-road, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Healers sent to all parts (terms
per arrangemen’.) J. and L. E. Coates, Principals.
THE PROGRESSIVE SPIRITUALIST AND FREE
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Ty*RMaN,
Price Threepence. To behadof W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALI STS.
PRIZE ESSAYS.
The Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists offers
THE GOLD MEDAL OF THE ASSOCIATION,
Or the turn of £20 in money, for the best Essay upon the following subject
The probable effect off Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral, and
Religious Condition of Society.
Second Peize, £10.
The competition is open to all British turn or naturalised British sub¬
jects, and to all Foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
The essays to he forwarded, not later than the 1st October, 1875. to the
Resident Secretary, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O., of
whom further particulars can be had on application.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 18, 1875,
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY S', MES¬
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY,
ON SALE AT THE-.
BRANCH OFFICE OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST" NEWSPAPER,
38, GEEAT EUSSELL-STEEET, BLOOMSBUEY, LONDON, W.C.
(Entranoe in Wotrarn-street). '
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Eobert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A standard work
containing interesting and well authenticated facts, proving the reality
of spirit communion. It also contains an elaborate essay deiining the
author’s views of the relationship of Spiritualism to the Christian
Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD,
by Eobert Dale Oweji. An excellent book of absorbing interest, replete
with well authenticated narratives describing manifestations produced
by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of the Dialec¬
tical Society. This committee consisted of literary, scientific, and
other professional men who investigated Spiritualism for two years
without engaging the services of any professional medium, after which
they published the report. Original edition, 15s.abridged edition,
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM,
by William Crookes, F.E.S. The best work ever published to scientifi¬
cally demonstrate the reality of some of the physical phenomena of
Spiritualism. 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Alfred
Russell Wallace, F.E.G.S. This book contains a masterly argument in
reply to Hume’s Essay on Miracles. It also records a large number of
interesting spiritual manifestations, and contains some of the personal
experiences of Mr. Wallace. 5s. ,
LANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE, by Epes
Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well authenticated spiritual
phenomena. Information about the relationship of Spiritualism to
Religion and Science is also given. 6s.; New edition, 7s. 6d.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey. A brilliant,
well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly bound, with gilt
edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This book consists of
essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific aspects of Spiritualism.
3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR SPIRITUALISM EX¬
PLAINED, by Fritz. A practically useful work for inquirers, giving
general information about English professional and non-professional
mediums, also about the periodical and other Literature of Spiritualism.
3s.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant at Law, An
introduction to Psychology. This book admits the reality of some of
the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but argues that they are pro¬
duced by an alleged Psychic Force, unconsciously governed in its
action by the thoughts of the medium or the spectators. 8s. The
first vol. of this book, which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of
print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev. F. G.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly published book contains Facts and Traditions
relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions, Wraiths, Warnings and
Witchcraft. The author admits the reality of Spiritual visitations but
considers Modern Spiritualism to be diabolical. He, however, gives
valuable facts, previously-unpublished, and prints the only authorised
and complete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Hbrd Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown Svo., 15s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCE OF SPIRITUALISM, ♦ by
M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains experi¬
ments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Fr’re Will. 2s. 6d.
ARCANA OF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vols., 12s.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clairvoyant. 8s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND, by Maria M. King. 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, by Lizzie Doten. Best edition, gilt.
10s. Cd.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE, by Lizzie Doten. Last edition,
gilt. 10s. fid.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem by Lizzie
Doten. 2s.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard. 6d.
MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E. Newton. Is. 3d.
LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H. Powell, Is. 3d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s. 6d.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive principles.
5s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD.
Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H. S. Olcott
14s.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes Sargent.
7s. fid.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MESMERISM,
ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY.—Continued.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. Vol. L, 7s. 6d.
Vols. II and III 8s. each.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s trans¬
lation.) 7s. fid.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
She SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles. 7s. 6d.
STATUVOLENCE, OR ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM.
7s. fid.
MRS, CROWE’S NIGHTSIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma Hardinge.
15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 6s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting little
hook, containing Messages given by Spirits through the Writing Me¬
diumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by Adolphe
Didier. 2s.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr, Bucknill and Dr. Daniel
H. Tuke. 25s.
PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY, by Serjeant Cox. Is.
. WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS.
s. d.
Natures’ Divine Revelations     17 0
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia.     7 6
The Teacher. „ II. ,,       7 6
The Seer. „ Hf- « ..j    7 6
The Reformer. „ IV. ,,   7 G
The Thinker. „ V. „       7 6
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis  7 6
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land   4 0
Arabula, or Divine Guest      7 6
Approaching Crisis, or Truth v. Theology        5 0
Answers to Kver-recurring Questions from the People   7 6
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual  3 6
Death and the AJter-Life    4 0
History and Philosophy of Evil    4 0
Harbinger of Health    7 6
Harmonial Man, or Thoughts for the Age     4 0
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memorander.)     7 6
Philosophy of Special Providence  3 0
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion    4 0
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers  8 0
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse        6 6
The Inner Life, or Spirit Mysteries Explained   7 6
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves   7 6
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings   5 0
Tale of a Physician, or Seeds and Fruits of Crime   5 0
Diakka, and their Earthly Victims   3 0
Congugal Love; Truth v. Theology     3 0
Morning Lectures     7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS.
s. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson)     24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recom¬
mended by The Spiritualist newspaper    2 S
Keys of the Creeds     5 0
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing Interesting
particulars and legends relating to Buddhism  ;  14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel)    5 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes)'...  18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal)   5 0
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal;   15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen   7 6
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1875.
President'.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitchman, Messrs. John Priest.
R. Casson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. G,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation,
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
VOJLUJWE ^IX. JvfUJVIBEFI TWENTY-fIVE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JUNE 18th, 1876,
Established in 1869.
HARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTSThree shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the TTnite4 Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or h'regulanty in the supply of ‘‘ The Spiritualist” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Bruuswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Bandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street,
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thomfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe
and London, is one shilling.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOE, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, ana
umbrellas.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 3rd Edition, with Appendix.
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz. Price 3s.
London.—Siupkin, Marshall & Co.
THE APPROACHING DISSEMINATION. OF ALLAN
KARDEC’S DOCTRINES IN ENGLAND.
Mr. Trubner has favoured us with advance sheets
of portions of the translation of Allan Hardee’s Spirits*
Boole, the greatest work of that author, and one which
will be published in the English language for the first
time, within two or three days from this date. The
translation has been made by Miss Blackwell, who in¬
formed us some months ago that she has rigidly
adhered to her duty as a translator, without allowing
her personal opinions in any way to modify the original
text; even in her own preface to the translation she
has abstained from imparting any colouring, for her
introduction consists only of an interesting outline of
the life and character of the author she reveres.
In that outline she ignores the statement made in
the first number of The Spiritual Magazine ever pub¬
lished—namely, that Allan Hardee, before he took up
with the reincarnation doctrine, belonged to the College
of Jesuits. Mr. W. M. Wilkinson, the late proprietor
of that journal, recently informed us that he had abso¬
lute information on that point. In the last number
of The Spiritual Magazine, Baron von Holmfeld states
that Hardee was originally a literary assistant of
Yeuillot, the celebrated editor of L’Univers, the organ
and the instrument of the Jesuits; that Allan Hardee
acted under their instigation, and that they were
delighted at the schism he had made among Spirit¬
ualists by a doctrine which had been selected because
of its absurdity. Baron Holmfeld further asserts that
a document was recently drawn up by the Jesuits,
urging the Government to suppress Spiritualism gene¬
rally throughout France, because it was creating a new
schism in the Roman Catholic Church, hut that the
death of Allan Hardee the very day before it was to be
signed put a stop to this manoeuvre, though why it
should do so he does not explain.
A doctrine which has influenced the majority of the
Spiritualists of Europe must have something in it, andi
that men have no recollection of a previous existence is
no argument against it, for trance mediums daily pre¬
sent the phenomenon of double consciousness, having
no knowledge at one moment of their sayings and
doings the moment before. Be this as it may, and
assuming that Jesuits in legions are trying to enforce
the doctrine, English Spiritualism cannot be injured by
it, or treat it with injustice, so long as we adhere to the
scientific method of dealing with new truths. That
method is, first to collect undoubted facts without any
theories, and then toaccept no more conclusions than the
facts force their students to admit—conclusions which
nobody can then contradict. If any ardent follower of
Allan Hardee says we must accept the theory at the
outset, and subsequently find facts to fit it, that is
equivalent to saying that we must build the chimney
and the roof of a house first, and look out for a founda¬
tion afterwards; in other words, the proposition is that
Spiritualism shall be made a theology and not a science.
290
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 18, 1875.
Hitherto the spirits have not taught reincarnation
through English mediums except when a disciple of
Allan Hardee has been in the room. If this condition
of things should change hereafter, the question will
still remain—“ What influence have the thoughts of
the sitters over the mesmeric sensitives known as
mediums ?” The English mind is too solid and sub¬
stantial to accept new doctrines in a hurry; its un¬
friends may say that it is too thick and muddy, its
defenders may argue it is but the counterpart of good
old British.oak. In either case it will do well to get
its facts first and find its theories afterwards, and whilst
freely giving ear to all new ideas, to class them at first
in the region of dreams and speculation, until they
have done battle for their right to live, and to take up
a position in realms of true philosophy.
MARVELLOUS EXHIBITIONS OF, POWER BY
MATERIALISED SPIRITS.
The Banner of Light (Boston, U.S.) of May 29th
last contains an article by Mr. James Hook about the
appearance of materialised spirits through the medium-
ship of Mrs. Annie Stewart, of Terre Haute, Indiana.
He says that Mrs. Stewart, aged twenty-eight, is
married, and has two children; also that her medium-
ship has been well tested by sceptics. He adds:—
The cabinet which is used for the light seances has
been critically examined by hundreds, and taken to
pieces by numerous visitors, with the assurance that they
could “ find the place where the accomplice gets in and
outbut the same cabinet which has been used for six
years, and no place but the doors found for any one to
enter or retire, is still in use, without condemnation,
and will remain so while in the hands of its present
owners. The cabinet is about three by six feet in size,
with doors in front; it rests upon stools which raise it
eighteen inches from the floor, and it stands in the
centre of one side of the room, isolated from the wall,
with a platform in front, and on a level with the floor
of the cabinet, seven by eight feet in dimensions. All
in the room are thus able to obtain a fair view of the
cabinet and of all the movements during the seance.
The audience are seated facing the cabinet in front in
such manner that each person can look directly into
said cabinet when the doors are open. The front circle
is composed of the committee or developing circle, and
is not changed; the spectators are ranged in the rear.
The cabinet is always open to inspection before and
after the seance.
The medium enters the cabinet alone, in plain view
of all, and in full gaslight; and, when seated, the doors
are shut and the light turned down to a mild twilight.
Music supervenes, and in a short time the medium is
rendered unconsciously entranced by an intelligence
known as Minnie (an Indian spirit). The medium
remains in an unconscious state during the seance. Soon
after the entrancement of the medium, the spirit
Minnie talks to us from the cabinet, and materialised
forms appear at the door. Though nine different forms
have appeared in one seance—each in its own order,
male and female, joyous or sad—usually there are not
more than three or four, and they are the active
workers; they tell us their band numbers twelve.
Charles Smith, who is the leader or manager, does not
-show himself very often; Minnie, who controls the
medium, Minwaugh, an Indian chief, and Minnie’s
husband, Mrs. Kersey McLean, Alice Belle Pervis—
known as “ Belle ”—and the spirit of a coloured man,
called “Bill,” are the most active workers. “Belle”
went to spirit-life about seven years ago, aged about
fifteen years, from near Quincy, Illinois. She was
known by the medium and her husband while in this
life; she made her first appearance here about four
months ago, and has been an active worker in both dark
and light seances. She is the only one of the band who
has ventured to bring the medium, while entranced, out
of the cabinet upon the platform, in full view of all,
she. Belle, being fully materialised at her side, and talk¬
ing to us in a distinct voice at the time, while Minnie
used the vocal organs of the medium, and answered
questions propounded by us. These two forms stood
palpably before us, not over five feet from us, and, to
remove all doubt that two living beings were before us,
while the hands of the medium were used in handling
the doors of the cabinet, Belle ©lapped her hands with
sufficient force to be heard by all.
We proposed to weigh her (Belle), having platform
scales provided; she assented. The scales being
placed on the platform, she stepped upon them, and was
announced to weigh fifteen pounds; another trial indi¬
cated one hundred and fifteen pounds; a third five
pounds. She has been weighed several times since, the
result differing from nothing to one hundred and twenty
pounds at will. The medium’s weight in normal con¬
dition is one hundred and thirty-three pounds. At one
seance the medium (entranced) and Belle, being both
on the scales together, were found to weigh one hundred
and thirty-five pounds; at a second time, immediately
after, they were found to weigh one pound. This
investigation was accomplished with care and delibera¬
tion, and was a perfect demonstration of the power of
spirit oyer matter. Belle was found at one time to be
able to keep the scale in such a flutter that it was
impossible to obtain her correct weight, the scale running
from nothing to one hundred and twenty pounds at
will, and she laughing at us all the while for our
awkwardness in the weighing.
At a recent seance Belle gave us an exhibition of
wonderful physical strength, handling a common wooden
chair with one hand, sustaining it over her head, and
holding it out at arm’s length with one hand in a
manner that astonished all present. The cabinet door
being partially open, enough to perceive the medium
therein, she picked up a musical box weighing thirty-
six pounds from the platform, held it over her head, and
swung it around with as much apparent ease as a stout
woman would do; she then came from the platform,
took a chair and seated herself beside a member of the
front circle, remained for a moment in conversation
with him, then arose, and crossing the platform, seated
herself on the other side, close to the husband of the
medium. She then returned to the cabinet, carrying
the chair with her, and threw the doors wide open,
taking a seat in the chair beside the medium. Her
lively appearance and pleasant manner during this
performance were the admiration of every one present.
While thus seated by the medium in the cabinet in
full view of all in the house, she said she would knit a
stocking for the poor, and then and there before our
eyes—talking to us all the time—she materialised a
stocking by appearing to knit it; the yarn or material
was black, her dress was white, and we could see the
progress, could mark what appeared to be ^knitting
JiMif 18, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
291
needles, and could hear them grating as she appeared
to knit; as the stocking grew in size she would note its
progress, saying, “ Jfow it is a finger long,” “ Now it is
a finger and a half long,” “ Now it is two fingers,”
“ Now it is ready to heel,” “ Now it is ready to toe;”
and at the expiration of about five minutes, said, “ Now
it is done,” and stretching it out before us, it appeared
as the perfect form of a stocking about the size for a
child eight to ten years old. She brought it to the
front and allowed us to examine it; it felt like heavy
worsted goods; she remained a minute exhibiting it,
then turned and went to the cabinet; as she entered the
door she turned around, and the stocking was non est!
Some time since we were talking with Belle about
Katie King materialising her hair and dress, and cut¬
ting them for It. D. Owen and others, and she said she
could do the same, directing me to procure scissors and
have them ready when she should call for them. Soon
after, during a seance, while she was standing in the
cabinet door, with the medium by her side, she called
for the scissors and commenced cutting pieces from her
dress and throwing them upon the platform, asking, as
she threw them down, “Do you want more? I have
plenty of it, and can make it as fast as I can cut it,”
which appeared to be a fact, as, \ after she had cut off
what would require a square yard of the goods to make,,
we could not see—although allowed to examine the
dress—where it was taken from.
On another occasion Belle remarked that she would
give us a good test, and calling for a pair of scissors,
and standing before us on the platform, she cut a lock
of hair from her left temple; the hair was about four¬
teen inches long as she held it in her hand; she brought
it forward for us to examine; it was real hair to the
touch. We laid a white handkerchief on the carpet
(the carpet being dark), so that all in the room might
see clearly, and she laid the hair on the handkerchief,
stretching it out to its full length. As soon as she took
her hands off the hair it would begin to be agitated,
and to draw up; she would straighten it out again,
and as soon as her hands were off it would be in motion
again. She retreated to the cabinet, telling us to watch
the hair; she had scarcely reached the cabinet when
the hair began to move, and in ten seconds had left the
handkerchief and disappeared from our sight. Belle
laughed, and told us to pick up the handkerchief to
see if it was not beneath it. We did so, but found no
hair there. She repeated the hair experiment with
like result. She then, by request, came and put off from
her foot a slipper; she stood by it until all could get a
fair view of it, and then retreated to the cabinet, stand¬
ing in the door. The slipper began to exhibit an oscil¬
latory motion, moved from off the handkerchief, and
commenced gliding toward her; the nearer it ap¬
proached the door the faster it went, until lost from
our sight in the cabinet.
These statements will seem'like delusion and decep¬
tion to the sceptic; but we record nothing but what
we have seen, and only a part of that; and we do not
blame those who have never witnessed these wonderful
phenomena for doubting, for it was astounding to us
who were present looking on. The committee managing
these seances do not claim to be wise beyond their fel¬
lows, but we do claim 'that, having passed the ordeal of
several years’close investigation with different mediums,
and having endeavoured under all circumstances to
arrive at the truth, we think any attempt at deception
made in our presence would be speedily detected. Our
friends or honest inquirers after truth will always find
a hearty welcome at our seance room in Dr. Pence’s
Hall, where they may know for themselves.
Jam.es o OK.
Terre Haute, Ind.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
On Wednesday evening last week the last meeting of the
Psychological Society this session was held at 9, Conduit-
street, Begent-street, London, under the presidency of Mr.
Serjeant Cox. Among those present were—Sir J. Heron Max¬
well, Bart., Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Mr. George Harris,
F.S.A., Bev. W. Stainton-Moses, F.B.S.L., Mr. Tagore, Mr. H.
D. Jencken, M.B.L, Mrs. Wiseman, Mr. Coffin, Mrs. Fitz¬
Gerald, Mr. Ashman, and Mr. J. F. Collingwood (Secretary
to the Anthropological Institute).
The Secretary read a letter from Mr. Sprague, the editor of
one of the American Quarterly Eeviews, setting forth his
pleasure that scientific methods were about to be introduced
into psychology in place of metaphysical speculations, and ho
had much pleasure in becoming a honorary member of the
Society. He intended to visit London in the autumn to
receive a prize of £200 which he had gained for the best
essay on the “ Codification of International Law,” awarded
to him by the Social Science Congress.
Mr. Serjeant Cox said that a New York physician was about
to join the Society, and would contribute information about
remarkable cases of clairvoyance.
FACTS CONNECTED WITH MEMOKY.
Mr. George Harris said that before the ordinary business of
the meeting commenced he wished to mention one or two simple
facts in support of the principles which he had maintained
in his recent paper on “ Memory,” namely, that those ideas
only are retained which make more than ordinary impression
upon the mind at the time they occur. Of the vast number of
ideas which passed through his memory during childhood he
was totally oblivious, yet of certain isolated occurrences he had
a perfect remembrance. Thus he perfectly recollected the first
view of the sea that he ever had, although he was only five
years old; he remembered its bright blue surface and the white
sails; he could also perfectly recollect hearing the news of the
battle of Waterloo when he was six years of age; he could
remember the room he was in when the news was brought, yet
he could recollect scarcely anything else that occurred at that
period of his life. These particular things made a strong im¬
pression upon the mind at the time, so could be recollected by
the memory. Some curious circumstances, illustrating the
action of memory, had engrossed public attention some¬
times. One was the Leigh peerage case, the other the
Tichborne trial. In the first of these cases a number of
witnesses was called, most of them rustics, to depose to the
former existence of a monument in a church, which monument
was supposed to have been surreptitiously removed. All the
witnesses recollected seeing the monument, but no two of them
agreed precisely as to its size, shape, or colour. This was
exactly what took place with regard to common objects which
in no way concern us: we retain a general recollection of their
existence, but no very distinct ideas as to their particular
qualities. In the Tichborne case it was thought very extra¬
ordinary that the claimant should so entirely forget all the
Greek which he learned at the college at Stonyhurst. This was
not altogether uncommon among those who take no interest
whatever in classical studies ; but that he should forget every¬
thing about the college buildings themselves, also the grounds
adjacent, was quite at variance with the psychology of memory,
inasmuch as these would naturally be associated with his sports
and daily life.
THE MEMORY OF THE EVENTS OF LIFE SHORTLY BEFORE DEATH,
Sir John Maxwell said that he belonged to the navy. He
went to sea in 1823 as a jolly little middy, fifteen years of age.
His ship started from Chatham in September for South
America, and whenever the big anchor was let go, he, as a boy,
took a great delight in seeing it splash into the water. The
^hip had to anchor at Portsmouth in seventeen fathoms
water. He stood where he ought not to have been, in order to
see it splash into the sea, and was caught in a bight of the buoy
rope, the consequence being that two boys went over instead of
one. (Laughter.) He at once lelt that he had been capsized;
then he knew that he was in the water, and he felt just as if ho
were sitting quietly suspended in the air with everything beau¬
tifully green around him; he had no fear; he was thinking
292
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 18, 1875.
what his father, mother, and sisters would say when they
heard that he was drowned. Then things rushed into his
memory—little things, little untruths; he remembered that he
had told one about pulling a plant out of the ground ten or
twelve years before; on another occasion he helped himself to
a bit of cheese, and when his mother accused him of taking
it he said that his nurse had given it to him, which was a
lie, the truth being that he had stolen it. While be was
thinking over these things, he felt a sudden tug at his collar;
it was the boat-hook of the bumboat woman, who fished the
future Nelson out of the water, and placed him among the
legs of mutton and cabbages in her boat. The captain after¬
wards gave him a good-natured scolding for being out of his
place. On another occasion he was nearly drowned in Alum
Bay, and experienced similar sensations.
Mr. Stainton-Moses asked whether these recollections as¬
sumed an objective form. Did he see the occurrences with
his eyes as if they were outside himself, or did the recollec¬
tions come up in his own mind ?
Sir John Maxwell said they were entirely in his own mind.
Mr. Jencken said that six years ago he was attacked by a
mob in Spain, and practically speaking he died four times that
night, for he swooned away and came to again four times.
The whole of his life passed before him like a panorama ; he
thus read off a part of his life, then became conscious again
of the onslaughts of the mob. A gun was fired at him, the
mob disappeared to his consciousness, and again the vision of
his past life returned, taking up the thread of events where
it had left off. This occurred four times, each successive
reverie beginning where the other had finished.
ALLEGED DUALITY OF THE MIND.
Mr. Serjeant Cox then read a paper upon the Duality of the
Mind, a portion of which is published in another column.
Mr. George Harris said that men sometimes feel as if they
had several minds at work; especially was this so in the case
of conscience; one set of thoughts urged the man in one
direction, and another in the other. There was no doubt as
to the duality of the brain, and he thought it probable that
the brain reflected the nature of the mind. Whenever the
body had double organs, the one was corrective of the other;
for instance, if one eye was injured, the vision became im¬
perfect, and he believed that a man who was deaf in the one
ear was less perfect in his judgment of music in consequence.
Sir John Maxwell said that he hoped that the subject of
religion would not be brought in to protest against the facts
of psychology, for he believed that the facts elicited at the
meetings of the Society would prove some of the most interest¬
ing psychological facts in the Bible. For instance, in the
seventh chapter of Bomans it was said, “ For the good that
we would, we do not; but the evil which we would not, that
we do.” Arguments had been brought up at the meeting ex¬
plaining why this should be so, for the chapter bore out
exactly what Mr. Harris had been saying. He believed that
men should investigate everything they possibly could, and
that every one who did not agree to such a self-evident pro¬
position must be a mere fool. (Laughter.)
EVIDENCE AGAINST THE DUALITY OF THE MIND.
Mr. Tagore said that a complicated mental problem had been
brought before them by Mr. Serjeant Cox. The brain had two
lobes; it was not two distinct brains, but two lobes acting in
unity; therefore, on the ground of the construction of the
brain, he thought that the doctrine of the duality of the mind
should be received in a very modified sense. (Hear, hear.)
Nature had provided two lobes, one of which could act when the
other was lost or injured, but the action was less perfect than
when the whole brain was uninjured; when two eyes acted in
federal union there was perfect vision, but when one was in¬
jured the sight was not so good as before. He thought that
the assertion of the duality of the mind would be a false ex¬
pression in physiology, and it was necessary for a scientific
society to be particular in its nomenclature. As to what had
been said about conscience, conscience had never been de¬
veloped in the career of the Boman and Greek races, but was
found entirely in Christianity; conscience was but a struggle
between savage and civilised instincts, and although he was
originally a Brahmin, he accepted Christianity because it
brought him a higher development of morality.
Mr. Stainton-Moses said that whether conscience was a
Christian product did not affect psychology, and the more the
Society kept from the dangerous ground of theology,—ground
which was dangerous to all societies,—the more it would avoid
quicksands. The subject penned by Mr. Serjeant Cox was one
of vast, importance. If he had two minds which could act in¬
dependently of each other, then circumstances might arise
when he should be brought to believe that he was not himself
at all; therefore he should require the most stringent scientific
proof of such an alleged fact before he could accept it. They
must remember that the hypothesis before them was rejected
by the vast mass of physiologists. There were two or three
great names enlisted on one side of the question, but there
were three or four hundred on the other—not that this cir¬
cumstance proved the doctrine to be erroneous, for he knew
that there were truths which the vast majority of the world
would not receive, although they were written in letters of
light; at the same time, he contended that he ought not to
accept the doctrine before it was proved. Vast issues of far-
reaching importance were involved in the endorsement or re¬
jection of the doctrine; therefore they should require plain
demonstration before they accepted it. He did not think that
this question could be decided entirely inside the Psycho¬
logical Society; it wanted the consideration of various minds
versed in various kinds of technical knowledge, for it was a
subject on which laymen must not decide ex cathedra. Might
he be asleep at one time in one place, yet gathering informa¬
tion in another place .to be reproduced in his normal state ?
If so, he must ask the question, “ Who am I?—what am I? ”
Mr. Coffin said that before the time of Dr. Wigan it was known
that certain phenomena seemed to indicate the existence of
the duality of the mind, for many curious facts pointed to this
conclusion. Somnambulists, and even persons with appa¬
rently normal brains, sometimes passed through changes
and took up different thoughts, different morality, different
conscience, and a different individuality, without any apparent
connection between the two. These facts had long been known
to psychologists and to the medical profession at large, and
Dr. Wigan was at war with the profession when he connected
these facts with the two lobes of the brain. When compari¬
sons were made relating to the duality of the brain and other
parts of the body, physicians argued that it was merely duality
of function, and not duality in essential things. Might not
this duality exist merely for economic reasons ? It was once
supposed that nerves carried orders from the spinal cord to
perform certain acts, also that they transmitted sensations
in the opposite direction; but now it is held that the two
kinds of nerves are distinct up to their terminations, and that
there is no confasion in regard to these functions. He thought
that it was now pretty generally proved that each part of the
body exercised but one function, and that the tendency to
divide things physical and spiritual into two or three instead
of one was founded on error.
Major Owen said that he quite agreed with what Mr. Stain¬
ton-Moses had said, that the Society was getting into the
subject of physiology, and losing sight of psychology. A single
individual had been known not only to suppose himself to be
two different persons at two different times, but three, four,
five, or six different persons; so he thought that that destroyed
the idea of duality altogether, and made it of no consequence.
He knew of a case where a man’s brain was cut completely
in two by a sabre. The man lived for two days afterwards,
yet his senses were all right, showing that injury to the brain
did not correspondingly affect the mind.
Mr. Coffin said that they were not discussing abnormal
states of the mind.
Mr. Stainton-Moses—What is normal and what is abnormal f
(Hear, hear.)
Major Owen said that he was dealing with facts, and he did
not know if they were normal or not. He had seen persons
controlled in the trance state, in which condition they had
believed themselves to be several persons.
Mr. Stephens said that the manifestation spoken of took
place through the brain, so psychologists must have an ele¬
mentary knowledge of physiology, and know a little about the
brain before they could deal with the questions which would
come before them. (Hear, hear.) They could study the mind
only through its material manifestations.
CONCLUDING REMARKS BY MB. SERJEANT COX.
Mr. Serjeant Cox said that the question was a large one,
therefore in his paper he could only state elementary princi¬
ples. Only through the brain could they learn about the
mind, and he held that the brain was merely the organ through
which the soul expressed itself; the brain he took to be an
unintelligent organ, acted upon by the external world, and the
impressions thus conveyed were received from the brain by
the soul. He took it that the primary object of the two lobes
of the brain was, that the soul should not be dependent upon
one alone. One side ol the body was sometimes paralysed
June 18, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
293
when the brain was injured, but the soul was not thereby in¬
jured, simply because a portion of the machinery through
which it ought to act was broken; he thought that the
soul might sometimes act independently of the body.
The promoters of the Psychological Society had more
than reason to be satisfied with the progress it had
made. The attendances had been greater than at any
other scientific society with which he was acquainted,
except the Geographical, and all those who had attended the
meetings felt that they had learned something by so doing,
and had gained evidence that there was [a very wide field of
operations before them in the future. Many had been anxious
to attend to hear the discussions, for the subjects dealt with
were of profound importance. During the vacation the
Council hoped to promote the interests of the Society, and it
hoped to meet the members again at the end of October, when
an enlarged list of supporters and a variety of papers on dif¬
ferent subjects were promised. Pacts and phenomena would
be volunteered in the meantime to the promoters of the
Society, and as well-attested facts were excessively valuable, he
hoped that those who had promised them would send them in.
The Society wanted reliable information about remarkable
facts without any theory or foregone conclusion appended;
psychologists should rest more upon facts than upon opinions
evolved from their own inner consciousness. The Society was
closed to nothing but theological questions, and it would be
glad to receive information on any subject whatever, popular
or unpopular; it was not composed of materialists or of anti¬
materialists, but it only wanted to know what doctrine was
true, and to hear what was to be said by all persons on all sides
of every question. (Hear, hear.) Those who joined the
society late in the year would not have to pay a full subscrip¬
tion for the whole year.
The proceedings closed with the usual votes of thanks.
THE DUALITY OF THE MIND.*
BY E. W. COX, SEKJEANX-AT-LA.W.
Taking for my standpoints the facts—
(1) That we have two distinct and perfect brains united for
common action, perhaps by the bands that pass between them,
certainly by the common base upon which they rest;
(2) That the brain being the material organ by means of
which the individual Conscious Self maintains its communica¬
tion with the material world without, and performs its func¬
tion in its present state of existence, such a double brain
conducts to the inevitable conclusion that we have two minds
that act in perfect harmony in the normal condition of the
organism, but which can and do act separately in many of its
abnormal conditions and under special circumstances.
These conclusions of Gall, Spurzheim, Wigan, Sir Henry
Holland, and Brown-Sequard being accepted as the actual
form of our mental structure, there remains to us the im¬
portant and interesting inquiry—
What are the consequences of such mental structure ?
To what extent are those anticipated results ascertained by
observed mental phenomena ?
These questions will occupy the remainder of this paper,
and probably two or three more which I hope to have the
honour to submit to the Society during the next session; for
they will certainly demand, and doubtless will then receive, the
most ample consideration and discussion by the members.
My present purpose is to direct their thoughts into a channel
probably new to most of them, but which, carried to their
consequences, will work a revolution in Psychological and
Mental Science, viz. :—I propose to follow very nearly the
division of the subject adopted by Dr. A. Wigan, to whose
admirable treatise I must express my obligation for some of the
cases I shall have occasion to cite. But it is also fair to state
that I had never seen this book until the present paper had
been commenced. The conception of the Duality of the
Mind suggested in the little treatise on “ What am I ?” was
deduced entirely from the teaching of Dr. Gall that the brain
is duplex. Brown-Sequard had not then confirmed the fact,
which was denied by the physiologists and mental philoso¬
phers who held themselves to be authorities.
The first proposition to be submitted is—
1. That each of our two minds can and does work as one
whole and complete Mind.
This follows as the necessary result of the brain structure.
* A portion of a paper read at the last meeting of the Psychological
Society.
If the brain be the mental machine, and if the brain be
double, and if each part of that double brain be a complete
organ, there must be a double action of the mental machinery.
But of that double action there is but one consciousness.
How can this be ?
The mechanism of the organ of vision shows us how it can
be. We have two eyes. Two distinct pictures of the one
object of sight are depicted upon those eyes. But we are
conscious of one picture only. Why? Because the two
branches of the optic nerve which carries the impressions of
them to the brain, to be there communicated to the Conscious
Self, are so adjusted that the two pictures blend and form one
picture, as is proved by the stereoscope. So the two brains
are adjusted. By reason of their having a common centre at
which all impressions are received from without, and to which
all internal action is conveyed from within, and at which the
Conscious Self exercises over the brain and the [nerves below
the controlling power of the Will, the same action is usually
set up by the same cause at the same instant in both the
brains—that is in both minds. Their common action conse¬
quently appears to the Conscious Self (or Soul) as one act,
impression, or emotion. Only when something occurs to
disturb that community of action is there any consciousness
of the double process. Precisely as with the two eyes we
discover their double image when by force or disease they are
thrown out of focus, so the Mind is, in such cases of temporary
or permanent disarrangement, unfocussed, as it were, and the
Conscious Self receives two impressions instead of one, as will
be instanced in a subsequent part of this investigation.
A multitude of undisputed facts prove that one brain can
be destroyed, or its action paralysed, and yet the other brain
preserve its power and perform all the mental functions. As
already stated, this result may be witnessed in cases of para¬
lysis. One-half the body has lost sensation by reason of
disease in one brain only; the other side of the body con¬
tinues in full possession of its powers of sensation and action,
because the other brain is uninjured. Dr. Wigan tells us of a
boy who, climbing a tree, fell on a sharp edge of iron, which
sliced off a large portion of the skull and brain on one side
of his head; 4 oz. of his brain were thus lost. His mental
faculties remained uninjured until his death from haemorrhage
many days afterwards. In another case, one hemisphere of
the brain was wholly destroyed by disease, but the man con¬
versed rationally. Dr. Conolly records the case of a man of
family, one side of whose brain was found on examination to
have been annihilated by an abscess, and in its place was “ a
yawning chasm." His mental faculties were apparently quite
perfect to the moment of death. Dr. James Johnson reported
another case of a man who preserved his mental faculties,
although, on a post mortem, it was found that one hemisphere
of the brain had been reduced to a thin membrane, the whole
solid contents of one-half of the cranium having absolutely
disappeared. A similar case is recorded by Gruveilhier, of
complete atrophy of the left side of the brain without ap¬
parent injury to the intellectual powers, proving conclusively
that the functions of the mind were performed wholly by the
right side of the brain.
These are but a few of a multitude of cases reported by
medical observers, and they are adduced here merely as
illustrations of the evidence upon which the' great physio¬
logists named have based their contention that each brain
is a complete machine, capable of performing alone the work
of mind.
But I must accompany this proposition with a slight reser¬
vation. Neither Dr. Wigan nor Brown-Sequard recognises
the existence of distinct faculties as being located in distinct
parts of the brain. Neither of them, therefore, appears to
have studied the bearing of the dual mind upon the various
mental operations, and the effect of the destruction of one
brain upon the action of the other. Caution is therefore neces¬
sary in subscribing to their unreserved assertion that in all
the cases noted by them the entire mental operations were
unaffected. It is almost certain that with the two brains, as
with the two eyes, the double action causes more completeness
in the mental view. Vision with the two eyes gives to objects
the roundness wanting in vision by one eye, an effect dis¬
tinctly discovered by the stereoscope. It is probable that the
double brain operates in the same manner. It is also more
than probable that certain mental operations require the
assistance of both brains, such as the process of reasoning,
which is the work, not of one faculty only, but of many, and
for its perfect accomplishment probably acquires the co-opera¬
tion of the two minds. But this is a question that must here¬
after be considered by the Society. It is here referred to as a
294
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 18, 1875,
reservation from the too general assertion that one brain can
perform the functions of mind perfectly though the other
brain he destroyed. Dr. Wigan, indeed, recognises the fact
that the highest exertions of mind require the concentration
upon them of the exertions of both brains, and he has noticed
in all cases of extensive disease of one brain an “ inability to
exercise continuous study, or to learn by heart,” although
the one healthy brain may exercise the ordinary functions
of mind.
It is, perhaps, necessary to prevent possible misconception
by stating once for all that, when the terms “ mind ” and
“ brain ” are here used, it is not in the sense in which they are
used by the Materialists, who contend that the brain is the
mind, and deny the existence in man of anything other than
brain. The proposition I venture to advance is that the brain
is the material mechanism by which the operations we call
mental are conducted, and that “the Mind" is the name
given to the sum of these operations viewed as a whole. But
besides this material mechanism there is the Conscious Self,
that takes cognisance of the conditions and actions of the
brain—the mind—and controls them by that Psychic or Soul
Force we call the Will.
Dr. Wigan presents the argument in this conclusive form :—
<* One of two things must be: either each hemisphere is a per¬
fect whole, capable of exercising all the functions which in the
aggregate form the mind of the individual, or else each half
must exercise some of those functions, and the other half the
remainder, so as between them to make up a mind.
The exact resemblance of the two hemispheres at once
negatives the supposition that they perform different offices.
If the functions of mind were performed cumulatively by the
two, it is clear that, on being destroyed, portions of the mind
only would be annihilated, and not the whole.”
The propositions sought to be maintained in this paper
are : —
1. That the brain is constituted of two hemispheres.
2. That the brain is the mechanism by which mental
operations are conducted.
3. That one hemisphere of the brain may be injured or
destroyed without seriously impairing the operations of the
other hemisphere.
4. That in such cases the mental operations also proceed
without serious impediment.
5. That therefore each hemisphere of the brain is a complete
and perfect mental machine, capable of performing alone most,
if not all, mental operations.
6. That therefore we have two minds.
7. That this is proved abundantly by recorded cases of
persons who have exercised the ordinary mental faculties when
one brain has been destroyed.
The subject will be continued in future papers. In the
meanwhile the serious attention of Psychologists is invited to
it, for it would be impossible to exaggerate its importance to
our Science.
THE PERSECUTION OF SPIRITUALISTS IN PARIS.
The present position in relation to the false charge against
M. Leymarie is that M. Lachaud (the “ Serjeant Ballantyne ”
of France), has the tolerably easy work of proving that
Buguet’s assertions are worthless, but in the case of Firman it
is necessary to prove the reality of materialisations, which part
of the case his counsel refuses to undertake, and it will probably
be done by Mr. O’Sullivan, who has worked so earnestly in this
matter. Several English Spiritualists have sent over affidavits
bearing on the case.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sin,—I have nothing new to report to you since my letter of
last week, and when one has nothing to say he had better say
nothing. You publish on Thursday. The trial of our friends
takes place on Wednesday and Thursday. If, by improbable
possibility, it should conclude on Wednesday, I will telegraph
the result. I do not regard Leymarie as being in serious
danger; he is accused only on the word of Buguet, and, in
view of the abundant proofs of the mendacity of the latter, I
cannot conceive how Leymarie can possibly be convicted on
the statements of such a patent liar. I shall feel equally con¬
fident in regard to Firman, who is equally honest and inno¬
cent, so far as merely regards Baguet’s declarations of his
(Firman’s) complicity or connivance with his frauds; but his
case is complicated with the Mme. Huguet prods verbal. On
this point, too, I should have no fear of the result before an
English or American court, for the charge could be com¬
pletely pulled to pieces, notwithstanding strong and plausible
erroneous appearances. It is settled that Firman’s counsel, M.
Carnaby, will plead only such aspects of the case as his point
of view (he not being a Spiritualist) will permit him to present,
and Firman will claim the right of being heard for himself on
the rest of the case. Of course this means only reading (or
having read for him, since he does not speak French) an argu¬
ment prepared for him according to the truth and to his own
ideas.
If I began by saying that I had nothing to say, yet have
written you a letter, I can only plead the extenuating circum¬
stance pleaded once by a lady in an awkward predicament,
that it is “ a very little one.” J. D. O’Sullivan.
Paris, June 14,1875.  
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
On Tuesday evening last week a meeting of the Council of
the British National Association of Spiritualists was held at
38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, under the pre¬
sidency of Mr. Alexander Calder. The other members pretent
were—Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Mr. E. Dawson Bogers, Dr.
Pearce, Mr. Keningale Cook, Mr. George Robert Tapp,
Mr. Samuel Chinnery, Mr. Desmond Fitz Gerald, Mr. Edward
T. Bennett, Mr. Henry Withall, Miss Withall, Mrs. Everitfc,
Mrs. Maltby, Mr. E. Parkinson Ashton, Mr. Morell Theobald,
Miss Houghton, and Mr. George King.
NEW MEMBERS, AND ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
The following ladies and gentlemen were then elected
members of the Association: Mr. Millar, Mr. Vacher, Mrs.
Keningale Cook, Miss Wbitear, Mr. Newbold, Col. Sir W. Top-
ham, Mr. Allen, Mr. Walhouse, Mr. Coffin, Mr. Deane, and
Mr. Andrews.
Mr. Chinnery proposed, And Mr. Ashton seconded, that Mr.
T. H. Edmands should he elected a member of the Council.
Mr. E. Dawson Rogers said that the nomination of Mr.
Edmands had been in mistake sent in a day too late at the
recent election, so it would be but a proper and graceful act to
appoint him. The Council only had power to add a few more
members to its body, there being already about ninety, so that
the limit of one hundred had been very nearly reached; for
this reason it should be careful not to fill up the few vacancies
too quickly, and not to add any new member without very strong
reasons.
Mr. Edmands was then unanimously elected a member of
the Council.
Mr. E. D. Rogers said that as that was the first meeting of
the Council after the recent election, it had to appoint its own
vice-presidents. He would move that the vice-presidents of
the preceding year be re-elected.
Mr. Morell Theobald seconded this, and it was passed unani¬
mously.
Mr. Rogers gave notice that at the next meeting he should
move that Mr. Tod be invited to become a member of the
Council.
It was then resolved that the following friends should be
invited to become honorary and corresponding members of the
Association :—Col. Olcott (author of People from the Other
World), M. Bassonperre, President of the Spiritist Society at
Brussels, the Baroness von Galdenstiibbe, and Mr. Beverly, of
Dunedin.
A letter from M. Constant, of Smyrna, dated April 8tb, 1875,
was then read. M. Constant said that he had much pleasure
in introducing to the Council of the Association His Excellency
Ahmed Rassim Pasha, Governor-General of Vilayet d’Aiden,
who desired to be nominated a honorary member of the
Association; he said that His Excellency was devoted to the
cause, was fully convinced of the truth of Spiritualism, and
had, moreover, been a medium from his birth. He was an
energetic, clear-headed man, who made no secret of his
Spiritualistic convictions, hut spoke of them to all his friends,
and made proselytes in the highest ranks of society; he had
even arranged that seances should he held in the Government
palace at Smyrna, a thing altogether without precedent. But
the removal of the Grand Vizier, Husein Avni Pasha, and his
nomination to Smyrna, obliged Rassim Pasha to leave the
latter place, to the great regret of his friends there. It was
probable that Rassim Pasha might some day occupy the
eminent post of Grand Vizier, and there was no doubt that he
would do much in spreading a knowledge in the East of the
truth of Spiritualism, also, that he would second the efforts
which he (M. Constant) was making in this respect. . Rassim
June 18, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
295
Pasha had studied the works of Kardec, had read in Dr.
Fuel’s review the experiments of English men of science, and
he had requested M. Constant to state to the Association that
the phenomena of Spiritualism were known ih the East among
several religious sects, but were studied in secret. M. Constant
further said that details relating to the mediumship of liassim
Pasha would be published in a book, entitled Spiritualism in
the East, which he was about to write. M. Constant added
that as he was about to leave Smyrna and take up his residence
in Italy and Switzerland, in order to carry on certain literary
work which would aid in the development of Spiritualism in
Eastern countries, he should he obliged to all those members
of the National Association who would send him letters of
introduction to English or foreign Spiritualists of their
acquaintance who might be residing in the principal towns of
those two countries. Such letters should be sent to his
present address in Smyrna.
Ahmed Bassim and Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld were
then unanimously elected honorary members of the Associ¬
ation.
KEPORT OF THE FINANCE COMMITTEE.
The Finance Committee’s report showed that, owing to the
bazaar, there was a balance in hand of £163 17s. lOd. The
outstanding liabilities of the Association were estimated at £40.
The Secretary reported that she had received £3 in sub¬
scriptions since the last meeting. She also reported that about
seventy members had not yet paid in their subscriptions for the
current year.
It was resolved that application should he made to them for
the amounts.
MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS.
Miss Kislingbury read a letter from Miss Anna Blackwell,
asking the Association to accept her portrait, which she had
forwarded in response to the published request to the members
of the Association to send their photographic likenesses.
The Secretary next read a letter from Mr. Harrison, recom¬
mending that a monthly stock account, showing all the
changes in the property belonging to the Association, should
he submitted regularly to the Finance Committee, so that not
only should all the changes in the funds of the Society come
before the Council at its meetings, hut all changes in its pro¬
perty. All large public companies, he said, had to keep care¬
ful stock accounts, and he thought that the National Associa¬
tion should work on a good business system, for there was no
telling how large the London establishment might grow, or how
many branches it might have in the future.
The Chairman said he thought it was a very good suggestion.
No.resolution was passed, and the subject dropped.
The Secretary announced that she had heard from the
honorary secretary, Mr. Algernon Joy, who had reached Cali¬
fornia in safety and in good health.
Mr. E. T. Bennett proposed that the furniture and books of
the Association should be insured against fire to the extent of
£500.
This was seconded and passed unanimously.
Mr. E. D. Rogers said that practically no one called at the
Reading-Room of the Association after seven o’clock on Satur¬
day evenings, and as the secretary wished to leave earlier on
Saturdays, he thought that a change might be made.
Mr. Tapp said that during the summer few people would he
likely to call during the evening, but in the winter months
that condition of things would probably change. He thought
that the Reading-Room might close earlier during the summer
months.
Mr. Rogers said that they hardly knew at present what the
demand for admission to the Reading-Room would be, as the
whole establishment was a new one.
After some discussion, it was unanimously resolved to close
the Reading-Room on Saturday evenings at six o’clock.
Votes of thanks for books presented to the Library were
then passed by the Council to Mr. Martin R. Smith, Mr.
Whitear, Sir Charles Isham, Mr. T. Shorter, Mr. Morell
Theobald, the Countess of Caithness, Mr. A. Leighton, Mr.
Robinson, and the Baroness Galdenstiibbe.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory said that the Baroness Gulden-
stiibbe had supplied her with several copies of the works of
the late Baron Guldenstiibbe, which she wished the Associa¬
tion to distribute among Spiritualistic societies; also that it
should keep some copies for itself.
The Secretary read a letter from Mr. Whitear, setting forth
that those of his works which he had lent to the Library might
he kept for twelve months, but that if his death should happen
meanwhile he wished the books to become the property of the
Association.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND THE BOAED OF TEADE.
The Secretary then read the following letter from the Board
of Trade:—
Board of Trade (Railway Department), London, S.W.,
24th May, 1875.
Madam,—I am directed by the Board of Trade to acknowledge the
receipt of your leder of the 14th instant, in support of your application on
the part of the British National Association of Spiritualists for a licence
under the 23rd section of the Companies Act, 1867.
In reply I am to state that the Board of Trade regret that they are
unable to alter the opinion expressed in their letter of the 28th ultimo.—I
am, Mariam, your obedient se'-vant. Hats Rif G. CALCRAFT.
Miss Kisiingoury, Secretary to the British National
Association of Spirit ualists. ,
Dr. Pearce wished to know whether the Association had the
right to enrolment, or whether enrolment was optional on the
part of the Board of Trade. He was going to read a paper
before the Dialectical Society on the Lunacy Laws, and it would
help him in his argument to bring up this illustration of the
evils of an irresponsible government department having the
power to arbitrarily accept or reject any association of English¬
men when a claim was made for registration.
Mr. Rogers said that a solicitor had told him that in many
of these Acts of Parliament the word “ may ” means “ must,”
and that, when any arbitrary exercise of power takes place, the
higher courts will reverse such decisions, and see that justice
is done. - Still, it was not desirable to go to law.*
Mr. Keningale Cook said that it was known that the Anthro¬
pological Society was in course of registration, but it would be
well to learn how far the Board of Trade had gone in registering
religious bodies.
The Secretary said that Mr. Martin Smith, who had given
much attention to the subject of registration, thought that the
matter had better be quietly dropped for a time.
CONSTITUTION AND RULES.
Mr. Rogers produced the regulations which had been sub¬
mitted to the Board of Trade for registration, and said that
had enrolment taken place the said regulations would have
formed the new rules of the Association, but that there were
points in the old rules which it would have been necessary to
adopt as bye-laws. The “Articles of Association” as they
stood could not be used as rules—they were not written in
proper form, but he proposed they should be incorporated with
the former rules of the Association. Perhaps this had better
be done by a committee appointed for the purpose.
The Chairman said that he thought it would be a good plan
to adopt, also that a number of copies of the proposed Articles
of Association, which were at present in type, should be struck
off, so that they would be ready for use when it was thought
desirable to send in another application for enrolment. The
said articles had been drawn up with much care and trouble,
and all the results of the work should not now be lost.
The suggestion of Mr. Rogers was adopted, and the whole
matter, together with that of the bye-laws, was referred to the
Registration Committee.
On the motion of Mr. Morell Theobald, seconded by Mr.
Keningale Cook, it was resolved that in future the Council
meetings of the Association should be held on the second
Tuesday in every month.
Mr. E. D. Rogers moved that the Finance Committee he re¬
appointed, for, according to the rules of the Association, it
went out of office at the annual meeting.
As Mr. Humphreys had not attended any of its meetings, he
was not reappointed, but Messrs. Morell Theobald, Martin
Smith, George King, and Alexander Calder were re-elected as
the members of the Finance Committee.
RESUMPTION OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION SOIREES.
Mr. Keningale Cook asked how it was that the soirees had
been abruptly brought to an end. They gave great pleasure
to the members, and promoted social feeling, so some meetings
of the kind, even if on a smaller scale, ought to he held as
usual. He would propose that the soirees in some form should
be carried on through the summer.
Mr. G. R. Tapp remarked that for the sake of country
friends the soirees should not be discontinued. When London
Spiritualists went out of town, friends from the country were
coming in, and they ought to have an opportunity of attend¬
ing some social gathering of Spiritualists. He did not say
that the soirees should be held every month, but he thought
that there should be one or two in the course of the summer.
Mr. Parkinson Ashton said that if the soirees involved pe¬
cuniary loss that point had to be considered.
The Secretary said that in some oases there had been profits,
* A barrister tells us that in law the word “may ’’in such cases means a
reasonable, and not an arbitrary exercise of judicial power.—Ed.
296
THE SPIKITUALIST.
June 18, 1875.
and in others losses; taking them all the way through, there
had been a loss of about £5 altogether.*
The various items of outlay were then considered, and Mr.
Eeningale Cook said that to reduce the future expenses suffi¬
cient seats ought to be purchased for permanent use instead of
hired; the expenses for flowers should also be reduced, and
every attempt made to render the soirees self-supporting.
Miss Kislingbury said that M. Aksakof would probably visit
England early in September, and Mr. Morse would soon
return from America; in both these cases the Association
ought to give them soirees.
Mr. Tapp said that he thought that the soirees should not be
discontinued until M. Aksakof came in September, for such a
course—as he had before stated—might be disappointing to
those country friends who chanced to visit London in the
summer.
Mr. Keningale Cook said that the soirees kept people to¬
gether, and much disappointment was caused when the un¬
expected announcement came like a thunderbolt that they
were to be discontinued; he would therefore propose a middle
course, namely, that two soirees instead of three should be
held during the next three months in the rooms of the Asso¬
ciation on dates to be fixed by the Council.
Mr. Tapp seconded this, and the motion was passed with
one dissentient—Mr. Eogers.
Miss Houghton moved, and Mr. Bennett seconded, that the
next soiree be held on Wednesday, the 21st July.
This was passed unanimously.
SUGGESTED PERIODICAL MEETINGS TO DISCUSS SUBJECTS
CONNECTED WITH SPIRITUALISM.
Mr. George King said the various learned societies had
meetings for the reading of papers and for discussions there¬
upon ; could not such meetings be combined with the soirees,
and the Council chamber be set aside for the purpose?
Mr. Bogers said that he should like to see such meetings,
but not on the same night as the soirees, for the latter had been
such successes so far, such a source of enjoyment, and those
who attended were so especially relieved because there was so
little speech-making, that he did not wish to see discussions
mixed up with the soirees.
Mr. Bennett said that some of the visitors at the soirees,
especially strangers, had said they would like to hear more
speaking and more about Spiritualism.
Miss Houghton said that as they had no hall and the com¬
pany was disseminated in so many small rooms, they could not
well have a public meeting.
Mr. King said the present was not the time of year to start
such meetings, which need not be held on the nights of the
soirees. He would bring up the matter again at a more appro¬
priate time.
PROPOSED PUBLIC RECEPTION OF MR. MORSE.
The Secretary asked whether Mr. Morse should not be in¬
vited to one of their soirees soon after his return.
Mr. Bogers moved that a public reception should be given
to Mr. Morse when he returned, and that the Association
should ask him to give the meeting an account of his experi¬
ences in America. .
This resolution was passed unanimously.
The Council next passed a unanimous vote of thanks to
those who had presented goods and lent objects for the bazaar;
also to those who assisted at the stalls.
ENGAGEMENT OF MEDIUMS BY THE ASSOCIATION.
Mr. Bogers reported that there had been a meeting of the
Seance Committee, and that Miss Kislingbury had recorded the
resolutions passed as follows:—
A meeting of the Seances Committee was held at 38,
Great Bussell-street, on June 2nd, 1875, Mr. M. B. Smith,
Mr. E. Dawson Bogers, Mr. D. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. Keningale
Cook, and Miss Kislingbury were present. The Committee
being agreed that it was necessary to provide facilities for
forming circles for inquirers joining the Association, it was
resolved that the following be a recommendation to the
Council:—
That all persons desiring to join a circle for investigation shall give in
their names to the Secretary, and that the Secretary be authorised to pro¬
mote the formation of such circle and to negotiate with mediums, under
the following conditions.
(1) That the circle consist only of members of the Association.
(2) That the medium be engaged at the expense of the members of the
circle.
* Did the purchase of goods to reduce cost of future soirees cause this
small balance of loss ?
(3) That the seance room be engaged by the members of the circle.
(4) That all circles be held in the light.
(5) That the Association, though careful to recommend as far as possible
mediums of established good reputation, be not held responsible either for
the conduct of the medium or for the manifestations occurring at the
circle.
(6) In order to meet the difficulty of certain persons, the further question
of granting certificates for genuine mediumship (as in Mr. K. Cook’s original
motion, No. 373), though acknowledged to be of the highest importance,
was deferred by the Committee.
Mr. Bogers continued that he thought the Secretary had
made a mistake in inserting the clause that all circles be held
in the light. He did not remember that any such resolution
had been passed by the committee, but perhaps he might be
mistaken ; if so, others who were present could correct him.
Mr. Keningale Cook said that he did not remember that any
resolution had been passed by the Committee that no circles
should be held in the dark. They had better not lay down
an arbitrary rule of that kind.
Mr. Bogers said that the difficulty to be solved was this:—
If a charge were made at the doors the police might come to
the seances, and if anybody chose to suppose there was impos¬
ture they would have a legal hold upon the Association ; there¬
fore it was suggested that none but members of the Associa¬
tion should be admitted to the seances on payment. Still it
was desirable to admit strangers to some extent. Mr. Black¬
burn had written a letter making suggestions which would
perhaps answer if carried out. The following was his letter:—
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Bussell-street, London,—I wish you would
submit to the next Council meeting of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, an idea perhaps worthy of being put into action. By way of
giving a status to the Association, suppose Mr. Williams were to be engaged
one night every month for twelve months by several private members, and
no charge were made for admission; but tickets given by a committee ap¬
pointed specially. Something of this kind would attract attention when
it became known, and bring into use the new cabinet which I hope Mr.
Harrison has got made and painted black inside. I shall be glad to sub¬
scribe £1 per month with two or three more to establish it, as outsiders
would be induced to visit if free of charge.—Truly yours,
Parkfield, near Manchester. Charles Blackburn.
Mr. Bogers continued that if Mr. Blackburn’s plan were
carried out, the subscribers. ought to be allowed tickets for
gratuitous presentation to their friends; thus inquirers might
be admitted to the seances. When inquirers came in future,
the secretary could recommend them to apply to the gentle¬
men who had tickets at their disposal. Any committee which
started seances on this principle would have to pay for the
use of the room as well as the expenses of the medium. He
did not think that any committee should take out of the
hands of the gentlemen who paid the expenses the primary
right to admit whom they pleased. Further, if one of their offi¬
cers could do this, he would have the unpleasant work of select¬
ing visitors from a number of applicants, thereby giving offence.
The chief use of appointing the committee would be for the
purpose of having some control over the seances themselves ;
for instance, one or other of the members of the committee
should always be present at the seances as chairman, to keep
order and decorum, and to act as the representative of the
Association. Under such conditions, he thought the whole
plan could be worked. Various minute arrangements would
have to be made, to which the Council could not well give
time and attention, so the whole matter had better be placed
in the hands of a committee.
Mr. Keningale Cook wanted to know, if people came and
offered to pay for a seance, whether they could have one, or
would the secretary have to tell them that they must become
members before they could get facilities. Some people could
not become members conscientiously until they had attended
a few seances, and found that there was some truth in the
matter.
Mr. Bogers said that anybody could hire a room for seances,
and the secretary might state to such inquirers that she had
a few names down of strangers who wanted to get up a seance;
she might tell the applicant that his name could be added to
the list; thus inquirers could gradually make up a party of
their own. All mediums must be engaged by subscription
among the members of the circle themselves.
Dr. Pearce asked why members should not be allowed to
purchase tickets to give away to strangers or disbelievers.
Thus the Association would be held harmless.
Mr. Bogers moved, and Mr. Theobald seconded that a
committee be appointed to amalgamate the plan recommended
by the committee with the plan of Mr. Blackburn, and that
the said committee should consist of Mr. Fitz-Gerald, Mr.
Keningale Cook, Mr. G. B. Tapp, Mr. Martin Smith, Mr.
Everitt, and Mr. Chinnery, with power to add to their num¬
ber from among the members of the Counoil.
June 18, 1875. THE SPIRITUALIST.  297
THB PROPOSED PHILOSOPHICAL DEPARTMENT.
Mr. Harrison reported that he had snbmitted the plan for
establishing a Philosophical Department to the various gen¬
tlemen named in his letter on the subject, but two of them
were travelling on the Continent and one in the north of
England. As yet he had only had a reply from Mr. Black¬
burn, who said that he was willing to aid in the plan, but did
not see that much could be done in the matter unless he
(Mr. Harrison) and Mr. Yarley would give occasional scientific
lectures, illustrated by experiments. This was a good idea,
and he (Mr. Harrison) had had it in his mind all along, but
could do nothing in the matter uhtil the scientific apparatus
was placed on the (premises, after which such plans would
come to maturity in a natural manner. But at present appa¬
ratus was lying idle which he had no power or right to bring
upon the premises. Until a committee hired a room of the
Association for the purpose, or until the Association offered
one, nobody had any right to place quantities of scientific
apparatus upon the premises; but once get it there, there
might be a chance of doing something, should time and other
work permit.
The Council then proceeded to consider the case of the
persecution of Spiritualists in Paris. The particulars of the
debate on this 'subject were published in the last number of
The Spiritualist.
Mr. Bennett gave notice that at the next meeting of the
Council he should move that the sum of £2 2s. be granted by
the Association in aid of the Sunday lectures proposed to be
given by Dr. Sexton at the West End.
The proceedings then closed.
BUGUET’S PICTURES AND THE “BRITISH
JOURNAL OF PHOTOGRAPHY.”
The following letter was posted last Tuesday to Mr. John
Traill Taylor, acting editor of the British Journal of
Photography:—
To the Editors of the “ British Journal of Photography.'1
Gentlemen,—Mr. Newman, of Folkestone, has called my
attention to an editorial leading article published in your
journal of Friday last, headed “ Spirit Photography under a
Cloud,” containing certain misstatements about me, having
no foundation in truth; and as they would be of an injurious
nature if believed, I have to ask you to correct the same in
your next issue.
In opening your article you say :—“ Some remarks that have
appeared in this Journal respecting M. Buguet, a Parisian
photographer, who, it was alleged, obtained genuine spirit
photographs—have brought down upon the heads of the
editors no small amount of animadversion. Was not the
genuineness, it was asked, of the spiritual origin of the Buguet
photographs attested by Mr. W. H. Harrison, a whilom contri¬
butor to this journal, and the present editor of The Spiritualist,
and did not a whole host of dilettanti, including the names of
some who stand very high in science, say it was all correct ?
and were not the uncles, aunts, grandfathers, grandmothers,
and other relatives of several of the sitters recognised in these
spirit photagraphs ? All this, we admit, is quite true.”
Your statement that I have attested the genuineness of the
spiritual origin of Buguet’s photographs is not true.
I only saw Buguet at his work once, and published the
results of my observations in The Spiritualist of June 26th,
1874. In that article I described what I saw without com¬
ment, and the only remarks I made bearing upon the genuine¬
ness of the photographs or otherwise, were the following:—
HI offered to take the negative myself, he (Buguet) merely
standing by to get the influence of his mediumship upon the
plate. This he declined, saying that the manifestations were more
likely to be successful if he handled the plates and chemi¬
cals throughout. . . . Obviously it is not possible to say
much about spirit photography, on the slender experience of
observing one experiment; but I do not know how to produce
by artificial means a similar picture under like conditions.”
That is all I know personally about Buguet’s manipulations.
The additional face on the picture 1 saw taken was not recog¬
nised by the sitter.
Further on in your article you say
“ Although it is not many months since M. Buguet left
this country accompanied with such honour as the spiritual
periodicals could pay him, and with the pecuniary gleanings
already indicated, one journalist, Mr. Harrison, now writps—
4 M. Buguet has turned out to be a thorough scoundrel. He
has made a confession in which he asserts that he has never
taken any genuine spirit photographs' This statement, be it
observed, is simply a quotation. But what, it will be asked,
has given rise to such a great change in Spiritualistic
opinion?”
There is no truth in the above statement about my change
of opinion.
Last Friday (when your publication was informing your
readers that I am now making different statements about
Buguet to those I made when! saw him) I was at the residence
of a notary connected with the Court of Queen’s Bench,
making a legal deposition to be given in evidence at Buguet’s
trial; and in that deposition I said—441 saw Buguet taking
photographs on one occasion only, and the account which I
published in The Spiritualist of June 26th, 1874, I hereby
declare to be true.”
In the first paragraph quoted in this letter you say that the
names of some who stand very high in science have attested
the genuineness of the spiritual origin of Buguet’s photo¬
graphs. This statement is not true; the only person very
high in science who saw him taking pictures in England was
Mr. Crookes, who only saw the operations once, and told me
that he could discover no trickery, but, from the general ap¬
pearance of the results, thought that some very clever impos¬
ture was at the bottom of the whole matter.
The only attestation I have seen of the genuineness of
Buguet’s photographs in England, written by a person who
understands photography, was published by the editors of the
British Journal of Photography on the 24th of July, 1874.
The witness was Mr. Beattie, of Clifton, and his statement, as
published in your journal, was: 441 sent a clever artist to his
(Buguet’s) studio, and on the plate he got a likeness of his
mother, who had been dead for fourteen years. I say nothing
of the production; there was and could be no doubt of the
likeness, and no likeness of her exists except a poor daguerro-
type taken of her body after death.”
I desire to make no comments about the above quotations.
What I actually said is here placed side by side with what you
told your readers that I said, and they can judge between us
in this matter. William H. Harrison.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office,
38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Mbs. Bassett, the well-known medium, has removed
from Stratford and taken up her residence at 1, King Edward-
street, Liverpool-road, Islington, London, N.
A small lady’s hand-bag has been left at the Rooms of
the National Association at 38, Great Russell-street, by some
visitor to the conversazione held in May last. It will be re¬
turned to the owner on application to the Secretary.
Brixton Psychological Society.—A discussion meet¬
ing of members of this Society was convened for Thursday,
the 10th inst., the subject being 44 Mesmerism.” By reason,
probably, of the early hour (6.80 p.m.) appointed, the attend¬
ance at 6, Loughborough-road North, was on this occasion
very small, and the main topics of the discussion were there¬
fore deferred to a more favourable opportunity. Various ex¬
perimental illustrations of the effects of mesmerism were,
however, given by Mr. D. G. Fitz-Gerald, a mesmeric sensi¬
tive being in attendance for the purpose, and these experi¬
ments afforded considerable satisfaction to those who were
present.—Emily G. Fitz-Gerald, Hon. Asst. Sec.
Reception at Mbs. Gbegoby’s.—Last Friday Mrs.
Makdougall Gregory gave a reception to Spiritualistic and
other friends, at which the following guests were present:—
Mrs. Ramsay, Miss Ramsay, Sir William Fairfax, Bart., Lady
Fairfax, Sir William Scott of Ancrum, Bart., Lady Scott, Sir
George Scott Douglas, Bart., of Springwood Park, Lady Scott
Douglas, the Lady Yere Cameron of Loohiel, Major Mackenzie,
Mrs. Mackenzie, Major-General Brewster, Lady Brewster, the
Rev. Mr. Haweis, Mrs. Haweis, the Rev. Mr. Shaw, Mrs. Shaw,
the Rev. Mr. Fisher, the Rev. Mr. Hill, Miss Hill, Mrs. Schlet-
ter, the Misses Schletter, Mr. Harrison, Lieut.-Colonel War-
rand, Mrs. Inglis of Red-hall, Miss Inglis, Dr. Farquharson,
Mrs. and Miss Showers, Miss Slope, Mr. and Mrs. Slope, Mrs.
Dimsdale, Captain James, Mr. Allcock Stewell, the Lady
Helena Newenham, Mrs. and Miss Alice Henley, Mr. Ethelbert
Fairfax, Mr. and Mrs. Waldie Griffith, of Henderside Park, the
Rev. Mr. Stainton-Moses, Miss Catherine Poyntz,the Rev. Dr.
Cosmo Gordon, Mrs. Strong, the Misses Strong, Mr. Maitland,
Mr. Crichton, Miss Cecilia! Douglas, Mr. F .Fuller, Mr. Poyntz
Stewart, Mr. Alexander Monro, Miss Munday, and Mr. Boulton
Bennett.
2S)8
THE SPIHITHALIST.
June 18, 1875.
SWEDENBORG’S CLAIRVOYANCE.
We have received the following letter from Mr.
Atkinson:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—Kant could not have been at Gottenburg and present
on the occasion of Swedenborg’s clairvoyance in respect to
the fire at Stockholm; for although “ he lived to a great age,
he never once quitted the snows of murky Konigsberg” (see
Lewis’s Ai/e of Kant), and seems not to have heard of the
occurrence until nine years afterwards. His letter giving an
account of the matter ends thus:—
Wbat can be brought forward against ihe authenticity of this occur¬
rence ? My friend, who wrote this to me, has not only examined the
circumstances of this exiraordinary case at Stockholm, but also, about two
months ago, at Gottenburg, where he is acquainted with the most re¬
spectable houses, and where be could obtain the most authentic and com¬
plete information, as the greatest part of the inhab'tants who are still
alive were witnesses to the memorable occurrence.—lam, with profound
reverence, &c. Emanuel Kant.
Kcenigsburg, Aug. 10th, 176S.
If the error occurs in any life of Swedenborg, I think it
should be corrected, and it might be well to print the letter of
Kant entire. It will be found in the Appendix to my Letters
to Miss Martineau, p. 300. In my opinion this phase of clair¬
voyance arises from brain sympathy, rather than from some
mysterious and extraordinary gift with the seer.* All the
facts point to this solution, and it is the object of philosophy
to reduce marvels to plain things, and not to inflate plain
things into marvels. Of course Swedenborg’s friends and re¬
lations in Stockholm would be highly excited on the occasion,
and be thinking of the absent Swedenborg, whose house was
in danger; thus the whole occurrence would be communicated
to tbe seer's sympathetic and sensitive brain, and the actual
reality would seem to come before him. The same explana¬
tion would account for what Bacon relates, that “ people
being in theatres, at plays, have had news of victories and
overthrows some few days before any messenger could come.”
Of course a mental impression does not pass through space
any more than light and sound do; but the physical or
spiritual correlative would influence the medium of communi¬
cation, and set up a corresponding physical state in the sen¬
sitive brain, or in whatever the recipient fact may be, with
its mental correlative occurring in consequence. The thing
is easily conceived, and falls in with a general law of percep¬
tion by a communicating medium, though conceivability is
not to be held to be the criterion of truth. An ignorant
savage might find it impossible to conceive how the marks
and scratches on this paper could convey intelligence, and
even Professor Tyndall finds it inconceivable how the fact
occurs of mental states proceeding from physical ones, from
tbe action of the physical brain or from any other sort of
imaginary substance, the action of which fundamentally
must be automatic. But in this case, as in all others, we
must he content with the order of nature as we find it, since
more we neither know nor can know, and which is the
primary axiom of philosophy. Henry G. Atkinson.
Hotel de la Gare, Boulogne.
Mr. Atkinson is right in his statement that Kant
verified the evidence, hut that Swedenborg did not
make the revelation to him personally. But several
examples of the clairvoyant power of Swedenborg are
on record in his “ Life,” written by Mr. Wm. White ;
here, for instance, is a quotation from that work:—
In tbe year 1761 the Queen of Sweden (Louisa Ulrika, sister
of Frederick II. of Prussia) received a letter from the Duchess
of Brunswick, in which she mentioned that she had read in
the Gottingen Gazette an account of a man at Stockholm who
pretended to speak with the dead, and she wondered that the
Queen in her correspondence had not referred to the subject.
The Queen had doubtless heard of the Marteville affair, and
that, coupled with her sister’s curiosity, probably prompted
her to look after Swedenborg. Out of many authorities, I
select Captain Stahlhammer’s account of what ensued :—
“ A short time after the death of the Prince of Prussia Swe¬
denborg came to Court, where he was in the habit of attending
regularly. As soon as the Queen saw him, she exclaimed,
‘ Well, Mr. Assessor, have you seen my brother? ’ Swedenborg
answered, he had not; whereon she replied, ‘If you should see
him, remember me to him.’
“In saying so she did but jest.
* Does Mr. Atkinson mean that knowledge by “brain sympathy” of
what is taking place 300 miles a nay is not extraordinary ?—Ed,
“ Eight days after Swedenborg came to Court, but so early
that the Queen had not left her apartment, where she was con¬
versing with her maids and other ladies. He did not wait for
the Queen’s coming out, but passed directly to her room, and
whispered in her ear. The Queen, struck with astonishment,
was taken ill, and did not recover herself for some time. After
she had come to herself she said to those about her, ‘ There is
only God and my brother who can Jcnow what he has just told me.'
“ She owned that he had spoken of her last correspondence
with the Prince, the particulars of which were known to them¬
selves alone.
“ The only weakness of this truly honest man was his belief
in the apparition of spirits, but I knew him for many years,
and I can confidently affirm that he was as fully persuaded of
his intercourse with spirits as I am that I am writing at this
moment. As a citizen and as a friend he was a man of the
greatest integrity, abhorring imposture, and leading an exem¬
plary life.
“ I am no follower of Swedenborg. The love of truth alone
has induced me to give a faithful relation of an event which has
been so often stated with details entirely false; and I verify
what I have written with my signature.
“ Charles Leonard De Stahlhammeb.”
Stockholm, 13th May, 17SS.
(Eorrespotumue.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
SPIBITT7A1ISM IK MAEYIEBONE.
Sir,—At the monthly social meeting of the Marylebone
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, held at 90, Church-
street, on the 9th inst., it appeared to be the general opinion of
the meeting that lectures delivered once a week upon Spirit¬
ualism, would considerably assist in spreading its truths. It
was also suggested that certain evenings (to be publicly
announced) should be devoted to correcting erroneous state¬
ments which occasionally appear in the different organs of
the press concerning Spiritualism; and it was proposed and
seconded that a meeting be announced to take place on Wed-
nesdy, the 23rd inst., 8 o'clock, to make arrangements for
carrying out tbe above suggestions. All Spiritualists taking
an interest in such work, are cordially invited to attend.
G. F. Tilby.
90, Church street, Paddington, W.
June 12ib, 1875.
GALVANOMETRICAL TESTS.
Sir,—Lest the account in your last number of an experi¬
ment with the reflecting galvanometer exhibited at the Asso¬
ciation Soiree, should prejudice the estimation of the just value
as a testing instrument of an ingenious form of rheometer,
permit me to say that though in coarse adjustment the cur¬
rent may be diverted, and circuit maintained as described,
without suspicious index fluctuation during contact substitu¬
tion, subsequent experiment shows the impossibility of so
doing even in view of the index, if the adjustment be delicate
enough. To this end, experimenters may observe that extreme
delicacy, depending on the least resistance of that part of the
circuit exterior to the body, is secured by short thick con¬
nexions, a conductible battery, good contacts, and the gal¬
vanometer shunted down to small angular deflections.
W. H. CorriN.
University College, London, June 14th, 1875,
REMARKABLE MANIFESTATIONS THROUGH A NEW MEDIUM.
Sib,—Allow me space in your columns to make known
what to me were very wonderful manifestations, which took
place at my chambers last evening. Before doing so I must
remark, by way of explanation, that I have been sitting at
the house of a private family circle, a lady member of
which is a very strong medium, who is controlled by the
spirits of her brother Willie and her grandmother Fanny
Johnstone. Some short time since Willie promised to make
and play a concertina, and yesterday I received a note from
my friends that a spirit communication had on the previous
evening been received, that Willie had completed his in¬
strument and desired them to sit at my rooms on Friday
evening, when he would play it. Accordingly the appoint¬
ment was kept. The circle—consisting of five individuals,
three ladies and two gentlemen—was formed, and the seance
commenced at nine o’clock in a darkened room, doors all
June 18, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
299
carefully closed, with the gas slightly turned on. After
sitting a short time slight raps were heard, and the table
moved; the gas was by invisible means lowered, as at the
time all hands were joined and seen. This had the effect of
making darkness just visible. To this two of the ladies ob¬
jected, and desired to leave the circle, which they did, retiring
to another room. Shortly after—the gas having been entirely
extinguished—a written communication was made that we
should put the medium (the lady before mentioned) behind a
screen, and that the two gentlemen should remain sitting at
the table. In obedience to this injunction a cabinet was im¬
provised in the window recess, and the curtains drawn over the
medium. The two gentlemen returned to the table as de¬
sired, and commenced a plaintive song; shortly after a rustling
sound was heard, like the violent friction of silk, and
presently the medium called out for a light, as she was
all wet, some liquid having been thrown over her. There¬
upon the gas was lighted; the medium came out of the
so-called cabinet, and was found to be covered with a delicious
perfume. Hereupon the two ladies joined the circle; the
medium again retired, the gas slightly turned on, and a hymn
sung, during which a noise was heard like the distant rattle of
a tambourine. Hereupon, the medium stated she had a bunch
of keys in her pocket, which she threw out on the door seme
distance from where she was sitting; directly after this the
rattling became more distinct, but still appeared to be at a
distance. While the hymn was still being sung, the medium
stated that the spirit of Willie was present, together with
another male spirit form, and holding a concertina, and
shortly after she became entranced. While in this state,
something was thrown across the gas chandelier towards the
table where we were sitting, and struck one of the ladies’
chairs ; this subsequently turned out to be one of the mediums’
boots. Presently, I was seized with a most extraordinary feel¬
ing, which I can only describe as a sensation of having a large
quantity of the points of pins rubbed down my flesh, followed
by cold water, at the same time being in a violent perspiration,
accompanied with great nervous trembling, over which t had
no control. At the same time, the medium apparently was
seized with a violent paroxysm of agitation, and then the
slight musical sounds of a concertina were heard, which gra¬
dually became louder and nearer as the concertina accompanied
the notes of the hymn. As the sound approached, so the
trembling increased. The music continued until the ter¬
mination df the hymn. Tae hymn and music were repeated.
While the music was playing, the sounds of two separate sets
of distinct raps were heard, one on the door and the other on
the ceiling, and, on the ceasing of the music, a rational con¬
secutive conversation was kept up with these spirits. After
the music was terminated, Willie promised further stronger
manifestations on a future occasion, and a portion of the con-
certain was given to the medium, which the spirit said he gave
to show the reality of the instrument, and then the power
bei^g exhausted, the seance terminated.
The portion of the concertina is now in my possession.
With regard to the perfume, tambourine, and concertina, I
most solemnly affirm that no such articles were in my chambers
at the time, as the former I never keep; and not being a per¬
former on the instruments mentioned, I have no use for the
like, and never possessed them, and they could not be con¬
cealed on the person of the medium, as she was searched before
sitting. I must also mention that this was the first occasion
a seance has been held in my rooms; that there can be no
deception about the foregoing facts, and no object for such,
my friends are private individuals in affluent circumstances,
having nothing to gain thereby, or any interest to serve, and
are only inquirers like myself into the truth of Spiritualism.
In conclusion I may state with regard to myself that for
years I was a great unbeliever, until I was asked by my friends
to sit with their circle, and when I saw such marvellous cir¬
cumstances and manifestations, and being convinced that there
was no trickery or deception practised, against which I took
every precautionary step, I cannot resist the belief in my own
reasoning faculties, and close my eyes to facts which clearly,
to my mind, demonstrate that there exists a spiritual com¬
munication with us poor mortals in the flesh.
Walter M. Miller, Solicitor.
91, London-wall, London, E.C., 12th June, 1875.
SPIKITUALISM AND THE BOOK. OP COMMON Pit AT EE.
Sir,—Can you inform me if there is any intention on the
part of the gentlemen who are revising the Holy Scriptures
and Book of Common Prayer to omit from the latter “A
Prayer for the Clergy and People,” or rearrange it to suit the
views of the “ strictly orthodox” in the Church, who ascribe
all the marvels of spiritual manifestations to the devil ? The
prayer distinctly sets forth that God alone worketh great
marvels. That people who were supposed to be dead, and
whose bodies have most certainly been buried, should appear
to their friends and converse with them for hours, in carefully
sealed rooms, must be admitted to be a great marvel; and that
this is constantly happening we have the testimony of hun¬
dreds of reliable witnesses. William S. Watson,
Assistant Paymaster, B .N.
H.M.S. Monarch, Lisbon, June 8,1875.
THE “UNSEEN UNIVERSE”—BUGUET’S CONDUCT—DISHON¬
OURABLE SPECTATORS AT SEANCES.
Sir,—With every new contribution of mine I hope it may
be the last for some time, in order to avoid giving the impres¬
sion of intruding too often in your paper ; but every mighty
wave of progress sets my little ship in motion, until it is
forced to throw out its anchor for a while. The time of my
yearly holidays for a couple of months abroad is drawing near,
so the impatient reader may rest satisfied that he will enjoy a
long pause, unless the editor prefers to insert parts of my let¬
ters referring to the seances of a highly gifted private medium
here, which letters have been ready for a long time, waiting
for the proper moment or space to appear, and to invite the
concluding report. A detailed account of progress in Man¬
chester, and my experiences in connection with it, will most
likely form the finale of my share in reporting our private
circle, destined, as it seemed, to rival any other on record, but
it gave way under the vulgar and crushing attacks of ignorant
sceptical fanatics, outnumbering by far the fanatical believers.
My present inducement to write is your most interesting and
important number containing the excellent article on The Un~
seen Universe (“ as seen by the authors ” should be added). It is
evidently written under the influence of sound, clear intelli¬
gence, and will do much good. It is indeed refreshing to see
Spiritualism so gracefully met half way without the practical
knowledge of its facts. The tendency to draw strange phe¬
nomena into the domain of subjective impressions reminds
me of the philosopher who on his walk lost himself in specu¬
lating whether the whole world might not be merely subjective,
until a brick fell on his head, his felt hat saving him from
serious consequences; but, stunned,he dashed against a lamp-,
post, and the foundation for recognition of objective reality
was for ever established in his mind. It would be very grati¬
fying if chance brought these talented authors in contact with
our facts.
The Buguet affair looks ugly enough, even admitting that
many mediums previously gave strong proofs of a wide gulf
between mediumship and personal moral character. I myself
cannot join in the same strain of condemnation of a traitor,
who preferred bodily to spiritual liberty, since here in Man¬
chester similar conduct has been adopted to save a little social
inconvenience and great imaginary material interference. A
slip from the road of righteousness by strong pressure or tor¬
ture may easily be forgiven, but the continuance of Buguet’s
treachery after release gives either a painful picture of a de¬
graded human being, or perhaps ” the terrors of a court of
justice under false pretences ” corrupting every human being
who is not a born saint.
Turning away from this chapter of melancholy confusion,
a peculiar sensation came over me by reflecting on Mr. G.
Blyton’s suggestion, which, if I understand it correctly,
means to cheat a medium to test his or her honesty. If the
hitherto strictly observed conditions prove really unneces¬
sary, all former tests, which made the medium absolutely
powerless to cheat, may be done away with, and instead of
placing eminent scientific men like Crookes and Yarley in
front, let a trustworthy and reliable person sit as a spy behind.
In some cases materialisations may then really take place;
but the detective, being mistaken by the spirits for an
assistant medium, may, after getting out of a trance, report
only the delightful “ snooze ” he enjoyed in his corner. The
sceptical audience then would reward him with the suspicion
that during loud singing he struck a bargain with the medium
to share the glory or profits. From a purely practical point,
such plans lose their effect by publicity, for a sharp medium
will carefully study new dangers. But another plan might
answer just as well. Let a curtain fill the open space and the
detective sneak between the wall and the door, and, when the
form has advanced sufficiently far into the room, quickly close
the door; then the ghost is in the trap. After the figure has
been examined, it will soon be seen whether the drapery
belongs to “ summer-land ” or the adjoining bedroom, the
300
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 18, 1875.
washing mark being taken as a guide. If so, the secret of
materialisation will be revealed. We may hope that Mrs. Fay
will give her manifestations without curtains, and the solution
of the wonders will be complete.
It seems somewhat capricious on the part of the occult
forces in nature that we are not allowed to watch every step
of their evolution ; otherwise we might study the growth of a
plant, for instance, by every now and then grubbing up the
root. Eut this is not permitted : it must have its conditions
—a good handful of earth and darkness too. When, however, it
appears on the surface, then we may observe it with all sorts
of instruments, microscopes, &c.
In conclusion, I think the appeal on behalf of Mr. Firman
deserves urgent consideration, as long as his case is not
proved beyond doubt a real exposition of fraud. I feel strongly
inclined towards Mr. Sullivan’s view of the affair, but must,
of course, submit to those who have correct knowledge of
the particulars. To my mind, such kinds of exposure only
show a tremendous amount of stupidity or neglect on the part
of the investigators ; for a medium previously thoroughly
searched, cannot produce garments in a strange place,
searched too; but if he is well secured to his seat, then he
may have his portmanteau along with him, provided all
other arrangements preclude the access or help of con¬
federates. C. Beimers.
Manchester, May 30th, J 875.
Mr. G. H. Newtojst, of 90, Burford-road, Stratford,
Essex, writes that he desires to join an investigation circle in
Stepney, Bow, Stratford, or thereabouts.
National Association Seances.—According to the
latest report of the Committee of the National Association of
Spiritualists, it is proposed to hold monthly seances for a
period of six months, to which inquirers may be admitted by
tickets free of charge. For this object members are invited to
subscribe at the rate of 7s. per ticket, which ticket will bear
date and will be at the disposal of the subscriber for that date
only. Each seance will be attended by some member of the
committee, or some member of the Council appointed by him,
who will be held responsible for the maintenance of order at the
seance.
Du. Sexton at Goswell Hall.—On Sunday evening
last Dr. Sexton delivered a discourse at Goswell Hall on the
“ Unseen Universe,” consisting mainly of a criticism of the
recent work of that name and a reply to the article of Profes¬
sor Clifford on the same subject in the current number of the
Fortnightly Review. Doctor Sexton gave a thorough exposition
of the views enunciated in the work as to the nature of matter,
the doom of the present material universe, and the ethereal
worlds hereafter to come into existence. He also castigated
very severely Professor Clifford for the contemptuous and
abusive tone displayed by him towards Spiritualism and reli¬
gion. A tolerably good audience was in attendance, and
considerable interest appeared to be felt in the subject. Next
Sunday evening Dr. Sexton will lecture in the same place on
the “ Characteristics and Tendencies of the Age.”
Mrs. Tappan in Liverpool.—The Liverpool Mercury
says: “ Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan delivered a lecture in the
Concert Hall, Lord Nelson-street, on Saturday evening, on
‘ Spiritualism versus Science.’ Dr. Hitchman presided, and
there was a large attendance. The lecturer was supposed to
be in the trance state, and to speak under the inspiration of
Benjamin Franklin. Whether such was the case or not, we
can only say that the oration, in its way, was undoubtedly a
wonderful performance.. Mrs. Tappan possesses extraordinary
powers of eloquence. Her discourse occupied over an hour,
and throughout that time she had not to hesitate for an instant
for a single word with which to express her thoughts. The
lecturer commanded a flow of language truly marvellous, and
enlisted the closest attention from the audience, who, at the
conclusion of her address, greeted her with rounds of applause.
It was stated that owing to the disgraceful conduct of some of
the audience on the occasion of her last visit to Liverpool, an
opportunity of putting questions to her could not be given,
but a poem would be recited by her on any subject suggested
by a member of the press. A poem on ‘ Happiness ’ was
then delivered extemporaneously by the oratress.—The Chair¬
man remarked that Mrs. Tappan had given three thousand
sitnilar addresses and extempore poems on subjects suggested
by the audience, giving the utmost satisfaction on every occa¬
sion. It became a question, therefore, whether she was a
medium or a prodigy of a human being. It was for the audi¬
ence to endorse the one opinion or the other.”
Mr. J. T. Rhodes, late of Kilburn, who is now in New¬
castle, informs us that one of the most active workers in
Spiritualism there is Mr. W. H. Robinson, of Chester-le-Street,
who has done much to spread a knowledge of Spiritualism in
Northumberland and Durham.
In consequence of the disappointment expressed on all
sides at the discontinuance of the monthly soirees given'by
the Association, it has been resolved to hold another conversa¬
zione on the '21st July, at the Rooms of the National Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street.
Reception bv the Countess of Caithness.—Last
Monday the Earl and Countess of Caithness received at din¬
ner at their residence in Portland-place—His Excellency the
Persian Minister, the Princess Malcom Khan and Mademoiselle
Dadien, the Duchess of Saldanha, His Imperial Highness
Prince Rhodokanakis, Monsignor Capel, the Earl of Camper-
down, the Countess of Dunraven, Mr. and Lady Isabella
Schuster, Lady Beaumont, Dowager Lady Bateman, the
Hon. Mrs. Herbert (of Llanarth), Sir Tollemache Sinclair
(M.P.), Mr. Uniaque Lawlor, and Senor del Astillo. Later in
the evening her ladyship had an assembly, which was nume¬
rously attended. Amongst the company were the Marchioness
of Ormond and Lady Blanche Butler, the Countess of Antrim
(Laura), the Count and Countess Batthyany, the Earl of Perth
and Misses Sturns, Lord and Lady Aurelius Beauclerc, Lord
and Lady Clarence Paget and the Misses Paget, Lord and
Lady Stanley (of Alderney), Lady Clevante and Miss Murray,
Lady William Graham and Miss Dashwood, the Lady Edith
Drummond, the Lady Caroline Ricketts and Miss Ricketts,
the Lady Abercromby, Lady Carew, Lady Charles Pelham
Clinton and Miss Clinton, Lord Redesdale, Mr. and Lady
Constance Bellingham, Lady Edith Noel, the Yicomte de St.
Jean, Lady Mathison, Sir Walter and Lady Caroline Stirling,
Lady and Miss Cochrane, Lady Carbury and Miss Evans-
Freke, Lady Lurgan and the Misses Brownlow, the Lord Chief
Baron and Miss Fitzroy-Kelly, Lord Seaton, Sir Andrew Bu¬
chanan (Her Majesty’s Minister at Court of Vienna), Sir John
and the Hon. Lady Sebright, Sir Charles and Lady Clifford,
Sir Daniel Lange, Mrs. Holford, Mr. and Miss Herbert (of
Llanarth), Mr. Barrett Lennard, Mr. Wm. H. Harrison, Mr.
and Mrs. Cleland (of Stormont), Hon. George Duncan,
Hon. Frederick Cavendish, Mr. and Miss Capel-Cure, Mr.
Edward Maitland, Mr. Lippincott, Captain Nisbett (R.N.), the
Hon. Colonel Cathcart, Mr. James Ashbury (M.P.), Colonel
Gourley (M.P.), Murza Mohamed Khan, Murza Mikayl Khan,
Mrs. White, Mr. Cavendish Taylor, Mr. Herbert Evans, Col.
Beresford, Signor Rondi, Baron Devany, Mr. and Mrs. Lewis
Loyd, Mons. and Mme. de la Quintana, Colonel D’Oyley, Mr.
and Mrs. Prideaux Brun, Mr. and Mrs. Walpole, Mrs. and Miss
Byron, Miss Gamble, Capt. Shaw, Lieut,-Gen. Brewster, Hon.
Mrs. George Brown, Mr. Fredk. Fuller, Mr. Slade, Mr. Herbert
Evans, Mrs. and Miss Stevens, Captain and Mrs. Johnson,
Mr. and Mrs. and Miss Hornyolds, Mrs. and Miss Connor,
Mr. and Miss Burgess, Mrs. and. Miss Chambers, and Mrs.
and Miss Craigie Halkett.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Some communications have been received too late for publication,
setting forth that Mrs. Tappan is lecturing with much success in
Liverpool, and will give addresses on Sunday afternoon and even¬
ing next, £& 3 and 7 p.m.
■Will be published in a few days.
THE SPIRIT’S BOOK.
BY ALLAN KARDEC.
Translated into English by Anna Blackwell.
Price 7s. 6d. Postage 3d.
Post Office Orders tqi be made payable to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist
Newspaper branch publishing office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Lately Published. Crown 8vo., Price 3s. 6d.,
SON, REMEMBER; An Essay on the Discipline of the
Soul beyond the Grave. By the Rev. John Paul, Rector of St.
Alban's, Worcester.
“ vSuch a work will be warmly welcomed by all Spiritualists, and espe¬
cially by those who seek and find in Spiritualism a firm basis for moral
and religious teaching.”—Spiritualist, March 25th. 1875.
Published by H. K. Lewis, 136, Gower-street, London.
WANTED a SITUATION in the Carpets and Fur¬
nishing, by an experienced Man, or Place of Trust, where the
hours are not later than 6.30 p. m. Midland Counties and South of Eng¬
land preferred. Age 30. Address T. H., Spiritualist Office, 11, Ave
Maria-lane, London.
June 18, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS. (Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Here ford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougal), 21. Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S. W.
Hitchman, William, M.R.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq., Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, War wick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.E.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer. Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-road,
Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House. Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thornham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F.A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chadwick, Sheldon, 54, Mortimer-road. Downham-road, Kingsland, E.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos.. 11, Belle Yue terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-roud Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 30, Campden-hill-gardens, Kensington, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., 28, Portland-place, Reading.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder's-bill, Hendcn, Middlesex, N. W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. TeL E, 6, Loughborough-road, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6, Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S. S.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-stieet, W.
James, Capt., 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, 199, Lohdon-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plafstow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 8, Granville-terrace, 8haftesbury-road, Hammersmith, W.
Mawson, Wm. Brvham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Mleers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk
Morse, J. J., Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs,. 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C. T., M.R.C.S., 19,Nottingham-place, York-gate, Regent’s-pk.# N.W.
Pearce, Richard, Percy-cottage, Pellatt-grove, Wood-green, N.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.W.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.W.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-road., S;E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, Gj. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-bill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E. C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Fernside, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Shad well, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., ana 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms. St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withal], H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith,’ Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.M.1.1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Yay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pe&th.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
General Don Joaquim Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Pans.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M Peebles Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co., New Jersey, U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A. .
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardings Britten, 155, West Brookline-street Boston, U.S.A,
A. J. Riko. Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
C. Constant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne, Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg University,
Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 35, Gartenhaus, Leipsic.
W. H. T erry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. 4
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 3.556, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany,* New York, U.S.A.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 221®, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 11, Rue d’Anieres, Paris.
Allied Society.
The Liverpool Psychological Society.
MRS. ANNIE EYA FAY, the celebrated Spiritual
Medium will give afarewell series of LIGHT and DARK SEANCES
with MATERIALISATIONS before departing for America, at her drawing¬
rooms, No. 21, Princess-street, Hanover-square, W., every evening at 8
o’clock, and Monday, Wednesday, and Saturday mornings at 3 o’clock.
Tickets 10s. each, to be obtained of Messrs'. Mitchell, and Lacon and Oliver,
Bond-street, and at 21, Princess-street.
R. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bemard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
R. W. GK SCORE Y, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubbek. having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-busb,
W. Please write.
i„.HISS GODFREY, CURATLYE MESMERIST AND
IvJL RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
Y. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
Mr. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIOJSAL SPEAKER,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return as
soon ,’as engagements permit. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—War wick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.  
DR. M’LEOD and sibyl—magnetic healing
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefltted. 'By letters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfleld, Esq., 15,
Lower Beigrave-street, Pimlico, S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
lO 39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
RS. OLI.YE, SPIRIT MEDIUM, 49, BELMONT-
STREET, CHALK FARM-ROAD, N.W. Trance communica¬
tions for Tests, Business and Medical advice, Healing by Spirit Mesmerism,
&c. Terms for private seance, one guinea., public seances on Tuesdays,
at 7 p.m., and Fridays, 3 p.m., at above address. Admission 2s, 6d. Pre¬
vious appointments should be made for private seances.
NOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER, Professor
of Curative Mesmerism (30 Years Established), attends patients
daily, from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indication of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
171 M. PARKES, SPIRITUALIST PHOTOGRAPHER.
: • Sittings a la seance by appointment, Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays. The magnesium light used in dull weather or when required.
Fee, one guinea per sitting. Address, 6, Gay.aes Park Terrace, Grove-road,
Bow, E,
V
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 18, 1875.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
SPiniTUAXiiSM deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Comthittee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
*• H. G. Atkinson, Esq., P.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. R. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte James Edmunds, Esq , M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.: Robert Hannah. Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Jlillier. Esq.; Mrs. J G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.: Albert Eisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq ; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace,Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported :—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls oi the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at tho time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported: —
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.'*  
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
ENQUIRERS into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
fheir own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
Bitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are. to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
iheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
6. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table til tings or raps.
7. When motiops of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligentb5ing. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
epirits come asserting themselves to bo related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
Tne best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations arc born of the
a pirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms Of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.!!
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Contineut of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection wih their communications in its columns are
Mr. 0. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.,; Mr. William Cro->kes, F.B.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Count de Medina
Pomar; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles Islam, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hun. A'exinder
Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Vay ('Austria); Mr. H
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason: Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe;
Herr Christian Reimers; Mr. Wm. White (author of the Life of Swedenborg);
Mr. J. M. Gully. M.D.; the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox London-, Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jeccken, M.R.I., Barris-
ter-atLaw; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LLM.; Mr. 0.
Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nos worthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury ; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States) ; Mr. W.Lindesay Richardson,
M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
In the Press and will be shortly published in one volume, handsomely got
up, and printed on toned paper, entitled
ANGELIC REYELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY OE THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an Angel in the
tenth state.
Contents.
CHAP. 1.—The Unity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.—.The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
„ 3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences in the
Spiritual world,
,, 4.—Spiriiual science. Science of the Kingdom of God.
„ 6.—The purpose of God in creation.
„ 6.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light
„ 7—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
„ 8.—The Placets Saturn and Ceres.
„ 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
„ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
,, 11.—The Lost Orb. Parti.
„ 12.—The Ar gelic Society of Aaron’s Rod.
„ 13—The Lost Orb. Part II.
„ 14.—Unitv, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ 15.—The Lost Orb. Part III.
16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an account of the
Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby, with her experiences in the
other life up through the states to the tenth in which she is now in, and
communicates as the Angel Purity.
With an iotroductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a full account
concerniog the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo printed, of the
Angel, the original of which was ptoducedby the direct operation of
Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjects treated of being of such a
thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense to make it a handsome
volume, and not being published with any regaid to profit, it is hoped that
a large circulation may be obtained.
Price of the volume 6s., and an early application is requested in the mean¬
time, to be addressed—
MR. T. GASKELL,
69, OLDHAM-ROAD, MANCHESTER
who has kindly consented to receive orders for ihe same.
I no THE GUARD IANS OF ORPHAN GENTLEWOMEN,
A or others deprived of the advantages of a Home Circle. A Lady of
unsectarian and liberal views wishes to receive into her house 'three
Young Ladies from the age of sixteen, in order to complete tbeir studies
by means of the classes held at ihe Crystal Palace school OF Art,
where the best masters are engaged. Board and residence, exclu ive of
school fees, 120 guineas per annum. Young ladies of good family from the
Continent or the Colonies would he acceptable. Address Y Z, Nicnolls,
Newsagent. Upper Norwood.  
mo THE READERS OF “ THE MEDIUM.” Answer,
JL to William Howitfs Letter on the British National Associatjon
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“lota.") Published by E. W.
Allen Ave Marn-lane. Price One Penny '
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Full wood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.C.
