A
RECORD OF THE PROQ^Ej5£ OF THE £CIEJHCE AND ETHIC? OF ?PII\ITCrA]LT?M.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 56.—(VOL. HI.—No. 17.)
t AATrvrvTVT tttt pv 1 q^q Published on the 1st anJ 15th of every
LONDON: JULY 15, 1873. Month; Price Fourpence.
SPIRITUAL CONFERENCE OF 1873.
Dr. Dee and his Medium Kelley .., ...       ... 268
A Case of Obsession in Manchester ...      261
Spirit Photography • .'.   ...   26.3
Lecture by Dr. Sexton—“ What is the Use of Spiritualism ?”   264
Spiritual Evi&ence      ... 264
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism  266
Professor Agassiz under Mesmeric Influence   266
Mediumship of an Archbishop of Canterbury        267
The Spiritualist Newspaper      267
Stereoscopic Spirit Photography     268
Correspondence:—Substantial and Potential Nature; f Psychological
Experiences      269
Spirit Identity  ‘ # ... ... 270
Paragraphs:—The Use of Crime, 262; Lady Doctors, 263; Spiritualism
in Oxford, 264; A Trance Lecture, 264; Spiritualism in East
London, 265; Organisation, 265; A Proposed Excursion, 265.
The Best Book for Enquirers.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing ■well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits; proving' by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fbitz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion. London: Simpkin, Maeshall & Co.
BIRKBECE: BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept •
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks,
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
THE COMMITTEE beg to call attention to the COMING
CONFERENCE, which appears in this week’s issue of the Spiritualist;
and all those interested in advancing the cause of Spiritualism or investigat¬
ing these questions are earnestly requested to aid the Conference by for¬
warding subscriptions to defray the expenses necessary for carrying outthe
project, to Mr. John Chapman, 10, Dunkeld-street, off West Derby-road,
Liverpool. Receipt of the subscriptions will appear in the next issue of
this paper. DAVID B. RAMSAY,
Secretary to the Conference Committee.
16, South Castle-street, Liverpool.
30th June, 1873.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF LIYERPOOL.
AT A MEETING of the Conference Committee of the
Psychological Society of Liverpool, held on Monday, June 23rd,
Mr. D. Gay in the chair, the following programme was considered arid
adopted as the business of the forthcoming Conference, and while the
Committee earnestly desire Delegates to prepare papers on these questions,
they are anxious to receive the titles of any other papers which the Delegates
may wish to read, providing that the substance of such papers is forwarded
to the Secretary on or before the 18th of July, so that the reading may be
arranged for in a business-like way.
ORGANISATION. • ’ •
National.
1st.—The advisability and practicability (financial)- &c.) of a National
Union. , . ■ '
2nd.—The best means of securing in future Annual National Conferences.
Local.
1st.—The advisability of Sunday Services and Week-day Meetings.
2nd.—The advantages of special buildings for Spiritual Meetings.
SPIRITUALISM IN ITS RELIGIOUS AND SCIENTIFIC ASPECTS.
1st.—The harmony existing between the Bible and the Teachings of
Spiritualism.
2nd.—Spiritualism in accordance with Natural Laws.
3rd.—The benefit of Physical Manifestations to the Community.
MEDIUMSHIB.
1st.—The peculiar temperaihents of different mediums.
2nd.—The arrangement of different mediums in a given circle for the
production of desired results.
3rd.—The duality of mediums.
4th.—Can any tests be applied to distinguish genuine mediumship,
5th.—The best method of developing mediums.
6th.—The utility of private circles.
EVENINGS.
1st.—Seance. 2nd.—Lecture. ■ 3rd.—Conversazione.
JPKf) nnO Ready to be ADVANCED by the TEM-
PERANOE permanent land and building
SOCIETY on Freehold and Leasehold Property, for any period of years
not exceeding fifteen, the Mortgage being redeemable by equal Monthly
Instalments. Interest (in addition to a small premium) 5 per cent, on the
balance each year.
Apply to HENRY J. PHILLIPS, Secretary.
Offices: 4, Ludgate Hill, London, E.C.
Note.—More than One Million and a Half Pounds Sterling have been
advanced upon House Property alone.
PUBLIC MEETING will be held at Cavendish Rooms,
Mortimer Street, Cavendish Square, on Thursdat, July 17th, 1873,
to Consider the LUNACY LAWS, and the Action of the Judges in connec¬
tion therewith. Chair to be taken by Dr. Sexton, at 8 p.m. Admission
Free; Reserved Seats, Is.
DR. HUGH McLEOD (duly qualified in Medicine and
Surgery), HEALS BY SPIRIT POWER, and with very great suc¬
cess. He visits patients in London or suburbs, and at his temporary re ■
sidence,
4, ALMA COTTAGES, CHESNUT ROAD, TOTTENHAM, N.
Fees: London or Suburbs, 21s.; Tottenham, 10s. 6d. The poor, who
can’come to the latter place, free. Cases which present extraordinary fea¬
tures submitted to a thoroughly trained clairvoyante, and without additional
charge.
Dr. McLeod is prepared to make arrangements for the delivery of ad¬
dresses on the Logic and Science of Spiritualism. His lectures are original,
and delivered extempore. Terms (easy) on application.
. DAVID B. RAMSAY,
Secretary to the Conference Committee.
16, South Castle-street, Liverpool,
June 24th, 1878.
THE ANNUAL NATIONAL CONFERENCE.—At a
general meeting of the Liverpool Psychological Society held on the
29th May last, it was decided to hold the ANNUAL NATIONAL CON¬
FERENCE of Spiritualists in the above town this year on the 5th, 6th, and
7th of August, and in order to facilitate the operations of the Committee
appointed to carry out the project, I would be glad if the secretaries of
societies would communicate with me at their earliest convenience, in order
that some idea may be formed as to the number of delegates likely to be
present. David B. Ramsay,
Secretary of the Conference Committee.
16, South Castle-street,Liverpool.
June 12th, 1873.
East London spiritual meetings.—lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Freel Supported by voluntary contributions.
Dalston association of enouirers into
SPIRITUALISM. {Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members,
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s.: quarterly ; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
THOMAS BLYTON, Secretary and Treasurer.
258
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 15* 1873.
CHARGE FOll ADVERTISEMENTS :—Three shillings
and sixpence far the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word:
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass Of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when readj but preserved for binding.
Oorbbspondbnoe.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third Of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane,- London, E.C. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscrijitiohs:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a retnittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 4s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or regularity in the supply of “ The Spiritualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always he informed of such impediments and regulari¬
ties, and copies can then he ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodieals:—
UNITED STATES.
BocheSter; N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Erancisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co.-, 614, North Fifth-streeL
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Bichard Eoberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTEALIA,
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Bussell-street.
Or The, Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Alleh, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-ehurchyard, by reniitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny;
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 12s. 6d., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe; and London,
is one shilling.
DR. DEE AND HIS MEDIUM KELLEY.
Db. John Dee, who is popularly knowh as the great
astrologer of the time of Queen Elizabeth, was born in
London in 1527, and soon gained fame as a mathemati¬
cian and philosopher. On the founding of Trinity College,
Cambridge, he was chosen as one of its fellows, and
afterwards went to Louvain, where he took his doctor’s
degree in civil law. In 1551 he returned to England
as rector of Upton-upon-Severn. He was accused of
preaching against the life of Queen Mary, for which he
suffered imprisonment, but after her death he rose in
favour with her successor, Elizabeth. During many
years before his imprisonment he studied psychological
phenomena as privately as possible, but was often in
danger in consequence of rumours that he practised
magical incantations; but about the year 1582, when
he first discovered the mediumship of his assistant,
Edward Kelley, he grew less reserved in making known
the results of his experiences.
There is in the British Museum library a book, published
in London by the Rev. Meric Casaubon, D.D., entitled
A True and Faithful Relation of what ^passed for some
years between Dr. John Dee and some Spirits. The book,
which is a large one, of about 500 pages, was, according to
the title-page, “ Printed by D. Maxwell for T. Garthwait,
and sold at the little north door of St. Paul’s and by
other stationers, 1659.” Dr. Dee died in 1608, con¬
sequently the book just mentioned was published about
fifty years after he departed this life.
In publishing the book Dr. Casaubon was under the
necessity of introducing it with a preface, setting forth
the possibility, probability, nay, the reality of inter¬
course with spirits, hence this preface contains many
arguments to the same effect as those in modern spi¬
ritual periodicals. He tells how convincing the facts
are to atheists and materialists, but at the same time
protects himself from the vengeance of the clergy of his
day, by stating that Dr. Dee’s spirits must have been
bad spirits—devils. The book itself consists entirely
of records of seances, made by Dr. Dee himself at the
time the facts came under his observation, and any
Spiritualist can see at once that it is as accurate and
reliable a diary as any man could write, although Dr.
Dee was wofully mistaken in many of his ideas and
conclusions.
From the records of these seances—Dr. Dee calls
them “ actions ”—it is clear that his assistant Kelley was
a physical medium, also a seer; he could see spirits in
crystals, he was clairaudiant; on some few occasions
he obtained direct spirit-writing, also the direct spirit
voice, and the movement of solid objects. He was a
passionate, sensual, and not very intelligent individual;
whilst Dr. Dee gradually became an enthusiast, Who
believed all the spirits told him, and was entirely ruled
by them in his actions. Dr. Dee believed that his
magic crystal contained some latent virtue, for, know¬
ing nothing of mesmerism, he did not think that it
merely served to draw the attention of the sensitive
from surrounding objects. He did not know that the
spirits most frequently in company with a medium are
strongly allied to the medium in moral nature, nor did
he know of the difficulty spirits have in signalling
proper names through the organism of certain descrip¬
tions of mediums. Hence, through Kelley’s medium-
ship, he believed himself to be in communion with
Michael, Gabriel, and other real or fabulous persons.
Edward Kelley was educated at Oxford, but did not
pass his examination. While rambling about the coun¬
try both his ears were cut off at Lancaster for some
offence, after which he became assistant to Dr. Dee, who
discovered his remarkable clairvoyant powers. Kelley
gave Dr. Dee much trouble; they frequently quarrelled,
and the messages which Dr. Dee received with sacred
awe, Kelley often treated with the utmost irreverence.
At nearly all their seances the crystal was called into
use, and in it Kelley saw the various spirits who spoke
to him. Kelley’s general opinion of the apparitions
was, says the chronicler, “ that they were meer illusions
of the Divel and evil spirits,” and Dr. Dee, “ sometimes
with much adoe, perswaded him to think better of
them.” Dr. Dee offered to “pawn his soul” unto Kelley
that they were good spirits sent from God as a mark of
special favour. Kelley was not satisfied, and insisted
that Dr. Dee should write his opinion of them in his
book; and there it stands to the present day. Although
Kelley was ignorant, some messages of high intelligence
were occasionally given through him, also some in Greek
and other languages which he did not Understand, and
he grumbled at being forced to utter “ such gybberysh.”
Kelley soon grew tired of the seances, and he cared
nothing for the revelations; he was on the point of
deserting Dr. Dee altogether, when the latter offered
him ^650 a year to remain with him as a “ skyrer,”
which was the Elizabethan term for “ medium.”
A little experience taught Dr. Dee that spirits could
sometimes say what was not true; this astonished him
very much; still, he maintained that the majority of the
spirits were good ones. The historian Casaubon was
July 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
259
perplexed by the evidence, and he asks how, if they
wete evil, lying spirits, they could give such good mes¬
sages about piety and godliness ? He also says that the
“Divel,” being the prince of this world, how was it
hd did not give his servants Dee and Kelley money,
tvhen they wanted it ? Dr. Dee, being interested, him¬
self questioned the spirits on this point, and they, told
him “ it was not their mission, and was out of their
power.”
It was about the month of February, 1582, that
Kelley first saw spirits in the crystal, which was “ a
stone in which and out of which persons who are
qualified for it, and admitted to the sight of it, the
shapes and figures mentioned in every action [seance]
were Seen.” When Kelley was ill or absent, Dr. Dee’s
son Arthur, or a youth named Bartholomew, who both'
had some slight medial powers, took Kelley’s place.
Soon after they began their seances, Dr. Dee and Kelley
tried very hard to please Albert Lasky, one of the
Princes Palatine of Poland, who wished the spirits to aid
him in ambitious political intrigues ; he Was often pre¬
sent at the seances, so also were Mrs. Kelley and Mrs.
Dee. The spirits made the whole party the most
glorious promises, just as they did to Mr. Crookes when
he first began to investigate Spiritualism. Among other
things, they promised to find the philosopher’s stone for
Dr. .Dee, at which he was greatly elated.
Just _at the time, when kingdoms were to be over¬
thrown, and the philosopher’s stone produced by spirits,
the mouthpiece of the angels, Mr. Kelley, grew more in¬
tractable. Row and then he was intoxicated, and Dr.
Dee complained that he could not rely on the truthful¬
ness of Kelley’s account of any <f action” at which he,
Dr. Dee, was not also present. Kelley frequently
advised Dr. Dee to give up Spiritualism, or “ it would
ruin himand as for the Spiritual promises, he said,
“ Yet, I am Thomas Didymus, and will believe these
things when I see the fruits of them.” Sometimes he
would enter the house in a passion about gossip respect¬
ing what people had been saying of him, and not at all
in a fit state of mind for a seance. On one of these
occasions, while summing up his grievances to Dr. Dee,
he said, “ I cannot abide my wife; I love her not—
nay, I abhor her.” This remark shows the state of his
mind, and tends to account for some few messages of a
directly evil nature which the members of the circle
received. One of the spirits most frequently with him
was a lively girl named, not “ Katie,” but “ Madini,”
who at one seance said, “ Curst wives and great devils
are sore companions”—a remark, it will be noticed, full
of the thoughts of the medium. At one seance he asked
Madini “to lend him £100 for a fortnight;” in fact,
his leading thoughts were earthly and sublunary, and Dr.
Dee states Kelley’s greatest fear was that of poverty.
On Thursday, April 19th, 1584, Kelley again told
Dr. Dee that he would have no more seances, for the
spirits must be all deluders “ who had not in two years’
space made them able to understand or do somewhat,”
so thenceforth he, Dr. Dee, must use his boy John as a
“ skyrer,” With some difficulty Dr. Dee pacified him,
whilst Michael and Gabriel rebuked the unfortunate
medium for calling them “devils,” and censured Dr.
Dee for want of faith. About this time, indeed, Dr.
Dee’s faith and enthusiasm were a little shaken. He
had been promised the philosopher’s stone by the spirits,
and in his turn had promised it to the Emperor Bodol-
phus II. of Germany, but the spirits had not produced
it, so Dr. Dee was certainly placed in an awkward posi¬
tion. Again, the spirits had told him (while in Prague
with Kelley for the purpose of visiting the Emperor)
some distinct and specific lies; among others was one,
that Sir Henry Sydney died on the 18th February,
1584, whereas he was alive. So Dr. Dee questioned
them very closely on these clear points. In reply
to his questions they made long harangues, and finally
satisfied him that it was all right, as spirit messages
must be interpreted with care. Dr. Casaubon calls
these recorded harangues “ sermon-like stuff.”
While waiting at Prague to see the Emperor, Dr.
Dee was a guest in the house of Dr.Hageck, where Kelley
gave him more trouble. He was called down one morning
to look at his assistant—the mouthpiece of Michael
and all angels—who was lying snoring on a form, on
which he had spent the night, having come home in a
state of intoxication with Alexander, the servant of
Prince Lasky. Alexander was also not sober, and in a
furious passion, because Kelley threatened to cut off his
head with a walking-stick. They had a violent quarrel
in Dr. Dee’s presence, and he had some difficulty in
separating them.
At last Dr. Dee had an hour’s interview with the
Emperor Kodolphus, whom he had previously well
deluged with the letters and tracts about the power of
spirits, and the production of the philosopher’s stone.
Bodolphus returned him his book Monas, saying that it
was “ too hard for his capacity to understand,” which
is just what the president of the spiritual meetings in
Harley-street recently remarked about an exceedingly
mystical paper read there. During the interview Dr.
Dee apparently did all the talking, telling how he held
constant conversations with the angels of the Lord, the
Emperor at the close making a few courteous remarks
in so low a tone that Dr. Dee heard them imperfectly.
From that time forth the Emperor took no notice of
Dr. Dee or his letters, but when Dr. Dee, tired of wait¬
ing, applied for a passport to return home, it was fur¬
nished without a moment’s delay.
While thus dancing attendance upon royalty in
Prague, Dr. Dee and his wife were reduced to extreme
penury, and Kelley was constantly threatening to leave
them to return home. Prince Lasky often aided Dr.
Dee at such times. While at Prague Dr. Dee, who had
always previously been looked upon as an honourable
and learned man,, was considered by most to be a char¬
latan trying to get money from the Emperor, and by
others he was charitably thought to be a visionary.
One nobleman delicately hinted to him, in a friendly
way, that his tales about spirits were so improbable
that he could not expect anybody to believe them.
There is no doubt that Dr. Dee’s actions were impru¬
dent, and that he was guided by blind faith instead of
common sense. To make matters worse, he heard in
Prague that Queen Elizabeth was angry at his long
absence, and that the Bishop of London intended to
charge him with necromancy on his return home.
Next they visited the court of Stephen, King of
Poland, who, after raising a few theological objections,
attended one of their seances. The spirits gave Ste¬
phen a long lecture, and Dr. Dee’s diary contains little
about what took place subsequently, but the king did
not befriend him in any way. Then they came in con¬
tact with Francis Puccius, a learned Florentine priest,
whom Kelley’s Protestant spirits seemed forthwith to
take a liking to, indeed they argued to him that the
Pope could not possibly be the Antichrist. The last
person of note on the Continent who seems to have
260
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 15, 1873.
taken any interest in the phenomena was Prince
Rosimberg, the emperor’s viceroy in Bohemia.
Dr. Dee and Kelley parted soon after this, and
in 1595, after his return to London, Dr. Dee sent in
a most abject “ apology ” to the Archbishop of Can¬
terbury, in order to escape prosecution for witchcraft or
magic. The whole of the apology is in print, and it
contains a list of forty-nine books written by Dr. Dee
on scientific subjects; among others he wrote a preface
to Euclid's Elements of Geometry. The address appears
to have been written in fear and trembling, for it was
no light matter to offend the clergy in the days of'
Good Queen Bess,” when the Protestant Bishop of
Norwich spent his leisure time in roasting Roman
Catholics, thereby proving the superiority of his tenets
over those prevalent in time of the “ Bloody Mary ” of
modern books “ prepared for the use of schools.” It would
have been dangerous in those days to call attention even
to the mediumship of former Archbishops of Canterbury.
However, the ecclesiastical authorities did not persecute
Dr. Dee, who appears really for a time to have after¬
wards obtained a precarious living as an astrologer,
though he was too honest to knowingly impose upon the
public. He died a miserable, heartbroken, disappointed"
man, atMortlake, in 1608.
The life of Dr. Dee is a warning to the few excep¬
tional Spiritualists, who yield to the authority of spirit
messages, and allow themselves to be governed thereby.
If spirits returned to earth to do physical work, which
is what materialists often mean when they demand that
spirits shall do “ something useful,” or if they returned
to teach men how to get money, or to carry out inven¬
tions, it is clear that they would be returning for an
illegitimate purpose,—that is to say, they would be en¬
couraging men and women not to use their own hands
and brains, but to become mere puppets in the hands
of the spirits. Any revelations which tended to release
men from the duty, happiness, and experience of work,
would be a curse and not a blessing to mankind. Hence
it is a matter of general experience among Spiritualists,
that the few persons who give up their individuality
and independence to spirits, so as to be governed by
them in worldly business, come, as a rule, to commercial
ruin. When the gates of the eternal world are opened
a little way, enabling us to catch glimpses of the land
beyond the grave, it is a degradation of the privilege,
that mortals should attempt to utilise it by asking the
spirits how to get money, how to get the “ philosopher’s
stone,” or should ask them, as the Rev. J. Murray Spear
did, to find the brains requisite for the making of new in¬
ventions. Poor Dr. Dee stood alone in his day in the
observation of psychological phenomena; he had no lamp
to illuminate the then untrodden path, he knew nothing
of _ the symbolical nature of spirit messages, he knew
nothing of the mesmeric power whereby spirits tried to
give teachings through the subjective visions they caused
to float before Kelley’s eyes; he knew nothing of the
peculiarities of the nervous system causing the messages
of the spirits to be more or less unconsciously warped
from the original meaning when passing through the
mind of the medium. Indeed, hard work and hard
study for years by scientific Spiritualists is yet necessary
to eliminate sources of error, and to clearly point out
all the blessings and dangers of Spiritualism; in the
meantime, the principle reported to have been uttered
by Saint Huxley should be acted upon, namely—
“ Scepticism is the highest virtue—blind faith the un¬
pardonable sin.”
When Dr. Dee returned to London from Prague, Mr.
Kelley resolved to do a little business with Rodolphus
II. on his own account, and being devoid both of the
honesty and high principle of his former master, he per¬
suaded the Emperor, who saw that Tie was no enthusiast,
that he knew how to make gold. Here was a sensible
man after the Emperor’s own heart, so Kelley was
knighted accordingly. The next we hear of him is
that-he was imprisoned at Prague, probably because
the gold was not forthcoming. He broke both his legs
in the attempt to escape in 1595, and died of the
injuries. This was at the very time that Dr. Dee was
trying to escape the talons of the Archbishop of Can¬
terbury in England. Kelley was born at Worcester in
1555, consequently was rather less than thirty years of
-age when acting as medium for Dr. Dee.
Thus it is established that regular spiritual seances,.
at which physical manifestations occasionally occurred,
were held in England three hundred years ago, and
were carefully recorded at the time by an eminent
mathematician—a fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge.
As scores of these seances, with the messages, were
printed and published two hundred years ago', it is
proved that regular spiritual seances were not first held
in America through the mediumship of the Eox family,
but were first held in England through the mediumship
of Kelley and Dr. Dee’s sons. Dr. Casaubon was the
Dale Owen and Dr. Gully of Oliver Cromwell’s time;
he tried to familiarise the public mind with the reality
of spirit-intercourse. His father. Dr. Isaac Casaubon,
was a learned Swiss divine, who in 1603 became head
librarian to Henry IY. of Erance; afterwards he re¬
moved to England, where a large pension was settled
on him by James I., who made him prebendary of
Westminster, also of Canterbury. Dr. Meric Casaubon
was a prebend of Canterbury, and held two livings in
Kent, which he lost during the civil war. Cromwell
offered him a large sum to write a history of the war,
but he refused. He also refused an appointment,
offered him by Queen Christina of Sweden, to superin¬
tend the Swedish universities. He not only published
many of Dr. Dee’s seances, but he wrote a book on
“ Credulity and Incredulity,” in which he maintained
the existence of witches. He was born at Geneva in
1599, and died in 1671.
Some of the original journals written by Dr. Dee,
but never printed, are in the British Museum library,
and contain much matter of interest to Spiritualists;
in short, there are materials in the British Museum for
a good pamphlet on Dr. Dee’s life and spiritual experi¬
ences, if anybody has the leisure and inclination to
write one, as proved by the results here given of our
few hours’ search there. Perhaps the most remarkable
physical manifestation witnessed through Kelley’s me¬
diumship by Dr. Dee, was the restoration of some of
his conjuring books which he had burnt in a furnace;
the spirits restored them to him in as good condition as
they were before he burnt them.
Me. Geoege Haebis, E.S.A., one of the members of the
Psychological Committee of the Anthropological Institute,
recently invited a number of ladies and gentlemen to a garden
party at his residence, Iselipps Manor, Northolt. Several
literary and scientific gentlemen, interested in psychological
subjects, were present, and among the guests were Mr. Cruick-
shank and Mr. Haliburton, son of Judge Haliburton (Sam
Slick). A very pleasant day was spent, and several speeches,
of more than average ability, were made on the occasion.
July 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
261
A CASE OF OBSESSION IN MANCHESTER.
BY THE AUTHOR OF “ 'WHERE ARE THE DEAD?”
Manx Spiritualists will doubtless have heard of a
pamphlet by Mr. Henry Meeson, of Manchester, en¬
titled, “ A Warning to Sinners and Others who are
Seelcing to Communicate with the Spirits that Sur¬
round Us,” in which the author details some very
painful experiences he has had in connection with
Spiritualism. As the result of his pamphlet appeared
to me to be likely to frighten timid people from having
anything to do with the subject, by means of the false
ideas of Spiritualism they would probably derive from
its perusal, I requested Mr. JMeeson to call, and took
down in writing the following explanatory statement
touching the cause, origin, and nature of his expe¬
riences, which will, I trust, throw some light upon his
case, and enable Spiritualists to make a proper use of
his “ "Warning ”:—
Mr. Henry Meeson, the author of the pamphlet, says he
first became aware of the presence of spirits about February,
1872, although he now knows from their communications that
he had been under spirit influence (so far as regards mental
suggestions) from his earliest childhood. These suggestions
have been of an immoral and evil nature, prompting him to
the commission of evil actions, and resulted, previous to
February, 1872, in reducing him to a very deplorable and
miserable state of mind, in consequence of which he was led
to drown the memory of the past in drink.
The first occasion on which he became aware that spirits
had any connection with him was about February, 1872,
when he fancied, one night as he lay in bed, that he heard
voices in the adjoining house, seeming to come through the
wall, and apparently carrying on a conversation upon the
most abominable and hurtful topics. He thought they be¬
longed to people in the next house, but could scarcely believe
it possible anyone on the face of the earth could have such
vile ideas. Shortly afterwards he heard voices downstairs,
as of a detective coming' to the house and speaking to the
landlady, and professing to haye come to arrest him for some¬
thing he had done. The voice of the landlady was so accu¬
rately imitated that he fully believed it was she speaking,
and he got up and listened in great alarm. The voices near
him then began speaking to him again, and directed him
what he was to do in order to escape the imaginary detective.
He made the necessary preparations, then went to the door
and shouted to the landlady, but was astonished to find he
had been deceived, and the house was perfectly still. He
then saw that the voices were supernatural, and as they con¬
tinued speaking to him he concluded they were spirits. He
asked them if they could show themselves. Whereupon there
appeared “ a kind of prismatic light on the wall like an
indistinct face,” which only remained for an instant of time.
This is the only instance in which he has seen anything,
excepting in visions where he has been partly entranced.
Their usual mode of communicating is by the voice. The
voices are, however, inaudible to other persons. Since that
date he has been followed by voices at all times and in all
places,—usually when perfectly alone, in country places, away
from human habitations, by two voices only, one belonging to
a male and the other a female. The male voice appears to
belong to a man who on earth was very clever and highly
educated. He talks intelligently upon all subjects that come
up in Mr. Meeson’s thoughts, and follows and comments on
anything he is reading. He is, however, of a very low moral
nature, and professes to be compelled to obey the commands
of other evil spirits who are about him, and to be the medium
of communicating from other superior spirits occasionally.
He hears many other voices besides the foregoing, some
appearing to be confined to certain localities which they are
unable to leave. In each populous place there are distinct
spirits. These are suffering punishments in their own locali¬
ties where their sins have been committed.
He has had several visions which he does not wish to
attempt to describe, the same vision being repeated several
times for a special purpose. He felt some kind of manipu¬
lation upon the top of his head, when he first passed into the
trance. He has remained partially in that state for about a
fortnight, and afterwards was made to write a great deal
on some laws of consanguinity in very wonderful and precise
language, showing that family ties are of the most sacred
character in the sight of the Almighty, and that sins com¬
mitted with or against near relations are the most abomi¬
nable ; but all that he wrote he was ordered to destroy. He
suffered from pains in various parts of his body which the
spirits had the power to produce whenever and wherever they
liked, during the time he had given himself up to them.
They could also surround him with some kinds of noxious
fumes, and make him hear various noises. Many of these
noises seem to be caused by vibrations of sounds produced at
considerable distances off, and which they are able to bring
close to and increase in power. Thus in speaking to him, if
there is any sound such as the trickling of water or the
rumbling of a cart, or even the loud ticking of a clock, they
are able to convert the sound into a voice speaking to him.
These, says Mr. Meeson, “are distinct from the direct male,
female, and children’s voices, for children are suffering for
filthy sins.”
He has suffered much from the temptations and evil sugges¬
tions of these spirits, as well as from the physical pains and
sensations they were able to cause him, and was nearly re¬
duced to the point of death. He succeeded in resisting their
temptations, and at one time prayed fervently that God. would
permit him to die, fearing to face the sinful temptations that
would beset him in the world. Afterwards a change took
place. He heard a solemn voice say, “ Thy sins are forgiven
thee,” and was told his spirit would be cleansed. He felt
then as if a new spirit had been put into, his body, which he
accounts for by supposing that the power which the evil spirits
had gained over him was removed, and since then he has been
under purer influences, and has been able to reject all the
evil ideas which the bad spirits continue to suggest to him.
He still hears the voices wherever he is, but he feels that he
has a spirit within him, protecting him and keeping him en¬
tirely from sin.
Mr. Meeson adds, in a letter:—
I still think I do right in warning persons not to seek to
communicate with spirits who produce such results as I read
of in table rapping, &c.
I have had the female spirit put to me some most beautiful
language, professing to be a ministering angel, giving me
most extraordinary ideas about the universe, comets, and
nebulse, which I have found to be intended to lead to the
greatest blasphemy against the Almighty—as I have dis¬
covered her to be the most vile, deceitful, treacherous, lying
being of all I have had to do with.
. * * * * *
I fear these manifestations on earth can only come from
evil spirits, but I can readily imagine, indeed, I know and
feel that there are beautiful, good, holy impulses, from spirits
to our minds, which I should be sorry to say a word against;
but I cannot connect these with such absurdities as occur
through some physical mediums.
I think some more experienced Spiritualist than
myself should deal with Mr. Meeson’s pamphlet. The
author seems to he honest and truthful in regard to his
facts, hut whether Spiritualists are to draw the same con¬
clusion from those facts which he does is quite another
question. The burden of his “warning” seems to be,
to caution all " not to seek communication with these
spirits in any way, for,” says he, “ I firmly believe the
seeking communication with these foul, evil, familiar
spirits to he as great an abomination in the sight of the
Almighty God as it was in ancient times. The im¬
pulses from good and holy spirits come to the mind,
the heart, the soul, and are not manifested by table-
rappings and absurdities.”
No doubt there is a great deal of truth and good
advice in Mr. Meeson’s pamphlet; but it is mixed up
with so much which is not sound, that, standing alone,
it is likely to do more harm than good.
In the first place, he is quite wrong in assuming
that none but evil spirits communicate at dark seances.
That such occasionally get into a circle and cause mis¬
chief there is no doubt; and this may explain the evil
influences to which many public mediums appear at
times to he liable. Where the medium is protected by
262
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 15, 1873.
a band of powerful spirits seeking to do good by con¬
vincing materialists of spirit existence, the evil spirits
are kept away. It is all very well that “ the impulses
from good and holy spirits come to the mind, the heart,
and the soul,” but the world at large will not take Mr.
Meeson’s ipse dixit for this. If everyone believed in
the future existence of the soul, there would be no need
to seek evidence of the fact by means of the physipal
manifestions witnessed at dark seances. Unfortunately
we live in a densely materialistic age, and as Mr. Morse’s
spirit guide, speaking through his mediumship at Man¬
chester, the other day, expressed it:—
Some people are so thick-headed that nothing but a hammer
and chisel will get the truth into their brains. We find many
of these people, and nothing but the hammer and chisel of
the physical manifestations will convince their sublime un¬
consciousness that there exists a soul in themselves and an
immortal wprld surrounding them. Thus to meet and con¬
vince such natures these external phenomena have to be pro¬
duced. After a satisfactory conviction is attained, the hard,
dense mind melts, becomes divinely sensitive ; all its atheism
is taken out of it, and it stands dressed in the garb of simpli¬
city and purity, waiting and listening at the feet of Eternal
Truth, and drinking in her inspirations.
Now, all Spiritualists admit, or ought to admit, that,
excepting for purely scientific purposes, they ought not
to be always running after the wonders to be witnessed
at dark seances, and moreover they admit that these
manifestations are produced principally by a lower
order of spirits, not necessarily evil, but of a less intel¬
lectual order, and more attached to the earth sphere.
Thus, we agree with Mr. Meeson that constant com¬
munication with low spirits, and more so with evil
spirits (excepting for the purpose of benefiting them),
is not a desirable thing, and when we Spiritualists have
had sufficient evidence of this nature to satisfy our¬
selves that spirits do exist, we then want to know
what they have to say for themselves, and we listen to
the addresses through trance mediums like Mr. Morse,
where, in the words of Mr. Meeson, we find “ the
impulses from good and holy spirits coming to the
mind.” Mr. Meeson admits that he “ has not been
connected with the so-called Spiritualists or mediums,
and has had no communication with them until quite
recently.” This phrase (in which he'appears to assume
that all Spiritualists are mediums) shows how little
Mr. Meeson knows about Spiritualism and the methods,
and objects, and nature of the communications with the
spirits of the deparated, which it is his object to de¬
nounce, as a “ great abomination in the sight of the Al¬
mighty God.” If Mr. Meeson were to study the literature
of Spiritualism, and even the reports of the much-despised
dark seances, he would find that the teachings of the
spirits we communicate with are highly moral, pure,
and elevating, breathing nothing but love to God and
our fellow-men, and that as regards theological teach¬
ings we accept only what appeals to our highest sense
of right. In short, we do not imagine spirits to be
infallible, and are not therefore likely to give ourselves
up to any class of spirits, but appreciate fully the
apostolic injunction to “ prove all things and hold fast
to that which is good.”
In conclusion, I suppose it may be said Mr. Meeson
has suddenly developed clairaudiant mediumship, by
reason of which he first became aware that the evil
impulses which he admits have haunted him from his
earliest childhood originated with the spirits of de¬
parted human beings. This was his first introduction
to Spiritualism, and it has been his salvation. The
great law of affinities, that “ like attracts like,” and as
we are pure or impure so shall we attract to ourselves
like influences from the spiritual side, seems to have
been at work in Mr. Meeson’s case, for he honestly and
manfully admits that he had yielded to the evil sug¬
gestions he received. There is one inconsistency in his
conclusions which I may as well here allude to. In
denouncing spirit-communion, he tells us “ the im¬
pulses from good and holy spirits come to the mind,
the heart, and the soul,” whereas in the foregoing
statement he says he received mental impressions of an
evil nature from his earliest childhood, and that these
were the causes of his committing the sins he now
deplores. Thus he clearly proves that evil spirits can
convey impulses to the mind as well as good ones, and
the proper conclusion would be that the more we seeTc
after the truth and educate ourselves, so as to be able to
distinguish the right from the wrong—the good from
the evil promptings—the more likely shall we be able
to resist the latter', as in raising our aspirations after
good we attract to us purer and holier influences.
I do not iptend to follow Mr. Meeson in his theolo¬
gical speculations further than to point out that in one
place he tells us these spirits “ are full of deceit, lies,
and treachery,” and then he tells us of “ the sufferings
and punishment many of them are enduring for having
given way to the idolatry of worshipping Jesus Christ
as the Almighty God.” Surely if they are so full of
lies and deceit, it is strange to find Mr. Meeson be¬
lieving all they tell him on this subject. Spiritualists
have received numberless communications from spirits
who still believe in the divinity of Christ, but they
certainly do not complain of any very horrible suffer¬
ings or punishments consequent on their belief.
Mr. Meeson makes the mistake of supposing, or at
any rate of leading his readers to suppose, that evil
spirits can annoy and trouble all investigators into
Spiritualism in the same way that he has been plagued
—that they “ can throw on human beings hot intense
burning pains, &c.,” and “ every thought we have is
instantly known to them.” Doubtless if we lead such
lives as to attract spirits of this kind, and by reason of
our mediumship they are able to place themselves en
rapport with us, and obtain such power over us as they
evidently succeeded in doing over Mr. Meeson, then of
course his conclusions would be justifiable and his
adyice would be sound.
Without a proper understanding of the subject Mr.
Meeson’s pamphlet is calculated to do Spiritualism harm
by deterring timid people from having anything to do
with it, and justifying the conclusions' of those whose
interest it is to denounce Spiritualism as “ the work of
the devil.” *
The Use or Crime.—A Victoria editor says,—“ The
people in this region have become so virtuous and well
behaved, that it is impossible for us to make an interesting
daily paper. We hear that a shipload of convicts is on the
way to pur virtuous port; and we look for greater activity in
our local news department as soon as the passengers shall get
fairly ashore.”—The Printer's Register.
* There are cases on record—and one notable case was published in the
first volume of Thv Spiritualist—in which persons afflicted by what
doctors call “ hallucinations,” have sat for the first time in a spirit circle,
and been at once cured, through other spirits thereby gaining power to
draw near, and to drive off the lower influences. A strohg mesmerist can
sometimes protect a medium from such influences. Mr. Meesbn’s facts
ought to make him reverse his advice, and recommend everybody to closely
study psychological phenpmena, in order to gain knowledge enough to
scientifically protect sufferers like himself. This is one reason why we
have given so much prominence of late in this journal, to exceptional cases
of obsession, at the risk of frightening the public. Let us look all dangers
fairly in the face, and learn enough to save sufferers who now are frequently
unintentionally driven mad by members of the medical profession, because
the latter know so little about psychology.—[Ed.]
July 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
203
SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHY.
From “ The British Journal of Photography."
If our senses perceive any phenomenon we do not under¬
stand, and so strange that our reason at first refuses to inquire
into the likely causes of it, it is, in such a case, manifestly
our duty to see, first, that the new appearance is not opposed
to the known and clearly-demonstrated truth we are already
acquainted with; and secondly, to make careful note of all
relating to such appearance, in order that if it re-occur a
sufficient number of times, and at the same time under the
observation of a strict and free mind, facts will become
plentiful enough to point the way to the law or laws upon
which the strange phenomenon depends. It must be obvious
that if we refuse to sift and record appearances which take
place, on the ground that they seem to go against our expe¬
rience, then little fresh ground will ever be broken. But
what have the brains of our scientific men been employed in
during this century ? Why, they have been making revela¬
tions, bringing to light, and reducing to law and usefulness,
principles that seemed opposed to all past experience and
knowledge. As, for instance, look at the deep-sea soundings:
the men so employed have brought to light facts that have
completely upset the notions held of organic life in the sea
even a few years ago.
I make these remarks as an introduction to some state¬
ments I am about to make relating to some experiments in a
new branch of photography,^—namely, the power or possibility
of photographing forms invisible to ordinary eyesight, and
that these forms indicate the presence of unseen intelligent
beings of some sort controlling the forms so photographed.
Lp.st year, at this time, I made a long series of experiments
of the same kind. The results of these experiments have
astonished many scientific men both in this and other coun¬
tries. Many smiled, and said I was self-deceived ; all gave
me credit for truth, but few for brains. I can assure my
readers that one thing is true of me—I always look right into
everything. I am pledged to nothing but truth, and if I see a
thing is straight I will not say it is crooked. Similar experi¬
ments have been made, by many men in various parts of
America and Europe. Some have been successful, some have
failed, and some, I believe, were guilty of deceiving in the
matter. My last year’s experiments I recorded at the time.
I will now give briefly an account of my first experiment
this year.
I, accompanied by a friend, called to see a professional man,
whom we did not find at home. Being disappointed, I
observed, “ I have long wished to see Mr. Hudson, who is said
to have produced ‘ spirit photographs.’ ” My friend agreed to
accompany me, and in a minute’s time we were in a cab, on
our way for Holloway-road. I fully instructed my friend as
to keeping my name unknown to Mr. Hudson. My companion
being an amateur photographer, he was easily “ coached up,”
on that point. In a short time we were at our destination,
and, cabby discharged, we entered a respectable-looking house.
The reception-room seemed as usual in ordinary establishments.
A lady remarkable in appearance attended to us. She was
most civil, modest, and unassuming in her bearing. The head
was broad set, indicating considerable balance of character.
After some talk I asked if her father ever made experi-
ments in spirit photography. She replied, “ Yes, sometimes.”
Was he successful? “Only occasionally.” She had just
taken from a drawer some samples to show us when Mr. Hud¬
son came into the room. I scanned him over from head to
foot. He seemed about fifty-six years of age, of a sanguine-
nervous temperament, much like a retired actor ; he possessed
a goqd frontal brain, but low in all the executive organs, self¬
esteem, firmness, and the instinct of persistence being all de¬
fective—a map you would not take for a deceiver, yet one you
would suppose might be easily led.
But I find I must be brief. After sufficient conversation
for us to understand each other, he said—“ Do you know my
terms ?” I answered, No.” He replied, “ They are one
guinea, and I make these experiments. If nothing comes on
the plates I cannot help it.” The daughter had told us that
Mr. Young had tried and had a complete failure.
I then said, I suppose you will allow me a full chance,
along with my friend, of investigating the experiments as
they proceed ?” He answered “ Yes,” freely. We then went
out to a garden and into as common a glass room as any I
have been in for years. It had an A shaped roof, with light
on both sides. The side and roof lights were curtained with
what once had been white, but were now yellow curtains. At
one end was a background painted seemingly in oil colour, of
the usual tint. This stood about two feet from the wall, leaving
room for a person to sit or stand, in a partially dark place
behind it. At the other end the usual operating room, freely
lighted with yellow light. The bath was a common one, made
of porcelain, without case or lid. The camera was a well-
worn bellows one, about ID by 8, drawn in to suit a portrait
lens of about six inches back focus. All the machinery I
most scrupulously examined, and at the same time had the use
of my friend’s eyes and other senses. I asked for the glass to be
used, and I secretly marked it. We saw it coated and pre¬
pared.
The daughter was to sit as the medium. I said I would
rather she would' stand by me than sit behind the ground,
which was agreed to. All being ready, I sat profile to the
background, in order that I might see it, my friend at the
same time controlling the exposure. The sitting occupied
about one minute. The result was a failure, no ghost being
then in attendance.
In the next experiment all was the same, except that the
medium sat behind the background. On the picture being
developed, a sitting figure besides myself came out in front of
me, and between the background and myself. I am sitting
profile in the picture ; the figure in three-quarter position, in
front of me, but altogether between me and the background.
The figure is draped in black, with a white coloured plaid
over the head, and is like both a brother and a nephew of
mine. This last point I do not press, because the face is like
the face of a dead person, and is under-lighted.
In my last trial—all, if possible, being more strictly
attended to than before, and in the same place, relative to me—
there came out a standing female figure, clothed with a black
skirt, and having white-coloured, thin, linen drapery, some¬
thing like a shawl in pattern upon her shoulders, over which
a profuse mass of black hair loosely hung. The figure is in
front of me, and, as it were, partially between me and the
camera.
A fourth experiment was tried, in which I did all the work
and my friend sat, but there was no result.
I wish, if this business be all deception, some one would
“ make a hole ” through it for me. Mr. Hudson was exceed¬
ingly careless as to my doings. He left me in the dark room
many minutes together, and there was nothing I left un¬
examined. Besides, in my own town, on Tuesday last, in
making a series of experiments, I got results of a singular
character, but which I will not publish until they are a little
farther advanced.
Now to conclude: if the figures standing by me in the
pictures were not produced as I have suggested (remembering
their possibility has been otherwise proved), I do not know
how they were there ; but I must state a few ways by which
they were not made. They were not made by double expo¬
sure, nor by figures being projected in space in any way;
they were not the result of mirrors; they were not produced
by any machinery in the background, behind it, above it, or
below it, nor by any contrivance connected with the bath, the
camera, or the camera slide. *
I apologise for taking up so much space with this matter,
but I hope the inquiry will interest some of your readers. It
may not appear to be capable of commercial application at
once; but surely we are not to measure all knowledge by that
standard. If there be truth in this matter, there is no truth
so important to our race. John Beattie.
. Clifton, Bristol.
A Spiritual Society has just been formed at Fenton;
Mr. Enoch Webb is the secretary.
Lady Doctors.—On Wednesday afternoon a meeting of
the Governors of the Bristol Hospital for sick Children and
Women was held in the Athenaeum, in that city, for the pur¬
pose of deciding whether future medical and surgical appoint¬
ments in that institution should be open to lady candidates. Mr.
MarkWhitwell presided, and there was a numerous attendance,
including several ladies, but few medical men. It was stated
that the surgical staff of the institution had threatened to
resign if Dr. Eliza Walker, who was a candidate for the office
of house-surgeon, was elected, as proposed by the committee,
but said they would reconsider their determination, if the
subject was referred to the subscribers. The Rev. Prebendary
Percival, Head Master of Clifton College, proposed that the
medical and surgical appointments of the hospital be hence¬
forth open to lady candidates. Mr. Augustus Phillips seconded
the motion, and, after a lengthened and animated discussion,
the motion was affirmed by seventy-two votes to seventeen.—
Haverfordwest Telegraph,
264
THE SPIRITUALIST.
LECTUEE BY DR. SEXTON.
. WTTAT IS THE USE OE SPIRITUALISM; ?
Last Sunday evening, in the course of a lecture delivered at
the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-street, Regent-street, Dr.
George Sexton, M.A., F.R.G.S., said that the present age was
essentially utilitarian, and that utility was made the test of the
value of almost everything with which we had to do. This
was no doubt a very low view to take of great questions, and
arose out of the grovelling materialism that. so abounded.
Men seemed to care far more for utility than for truth, where¬
as what we ought to do was first to ascertain if any theory put
forward were true, and proceed afterwards to discuss its utility.
Truth-seekers were few, but utility-mongers very numerous. In¬
stead of asking, “ Where can I find truth?” men now enquired,
“How can I get something useful ? ” in other words ‘1 that which
will bring ine wealth. ” The question cui bono ? had been asked
regarding every great discovery that the world had seen, and
with just as much reason as the question was now put respect¬
ing Spiritualism. What was the use of geology ? men enquired,
when that glorious science was first made known. What said
they now ? What was the use of dissecting butterflies, and
arranging beetles ? What was the use of transcendental
anatomy ?—the greatest discovery that had ever been made,
gravitation alone excepted. When Thales rubbed a piece of
amber and found that afterwards it attracted light bodies,
such as feathers, towards it, people asked, “ What’s the use of
it ? ” When at a later period in the history of the same
science, Franklin made experiments with an electric kite,
folks laughed and said, “What nonsense to be sure. What
good will come of it?” Look now at what came of these
trivial puerilities, namely, the almost instantaneous communi¬
cation with friends thousands of miles distant. The speaker
then proceeded to point out the influence of Spiritualism upon
the present age, and in the discussion of this, he divided the
subject under two heads :—1, Speculative ; 2, practical. The
speculative effects of Spiritualism were : 1st. The teaching
that the one absolute existence was spirit, and that matter
was one of its conditions—a philosophy in direct opposition
to the atheistic materialism of the age. Out of this
arose the great question of the existence of God, a fact which
was now placed upon a new basis in human thought. 2nd.
The immortality of man—the most important problem that
man had ever had to deal with. This presented itself, in two
aspects—namely, personal immortality, and the eternity of
affection between one human soul and another. 3rd. Spiri¬
tual communion. The practical effects of Spiritualism were
dealt with at great length, and comprised 1st. The influence
of a belief in Spiritualism on men’s minds, with regard 'to
man’s eternal future, and in reference to spirit surroundings,
also in the moral tone of mind arising out of the belief.
2. The direct influence of the spirits themselves in supra
mundane affairs, in alleviating physical suffering, in prevent¬
ing physical ills, and in aiding men in doing right. The
lecturer here read some most interesting extracts from his
diary regarding the power of healing, which the spirits had
promised him, and which he had often exercised, but was
always very reluctant to speak of, because he shrunk from
anything that appeared to savour of egotism. He also devoted
considerable time to a discussion of the question of the in¬
fluence of Spiritualism on society, in elevating mankind, and
aiding in great reforms. He expatiated on the great doctrine
of human brotherhood as laid down in the New Testament,
and so clearly taught by the higher class of spirits ; he
pointed out the evils of everything like sectarianism and
dogmatism, and concluded an eloquent peroration with the
following lines:—
“But should the bold usurping spirit dare
Still higher climb and sit in Moses’'chair,
Power o’er my faith and conscience to maintain,
Shall 1 submit and suffer it to reign ?
Call it the church, and darkness put for light?
Falsehood with truth confound, and wrong with right ?
No, I dispute the spirit’s haughty claim—
The spirit of the world be still its name,
“Whatever called by man, ’tis purely evil,
’Tis Babel, anti-Christ, ’tis Pope and Devil.
Next "Wednesday evening Mr. C. P. B. Alsop will lecture
on .Spiritualism at 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile End-road. Ad¬
mission free.
Dr. George Sexton will deliver lectures in the
Worcester and Birmingham district during the week com¬
mencing July 21st. Spiritual societies desirous of his aid
should communicate with him at once at 17, Trafalgar-road,
Old Kent-road, London, S.E.
July 15,1873.
SPIRITUAL EYIDENCE.
On the first of September next a handsomely printed
number of The Spiritualist will be issued, suitable for pre¬
sentation to enquirers, full of evidence from beginning to
end, that Spiritualism is true.
Subscribers who desire to disseminate copies of this special
number, will be supplied with them at ten shillings per hun¬
dred, or six shillings for fifty, on the understanding that the
number is supplied at this rate for distribution and not for
sale, and that the orders for copies shall reach Mr. Allen-, our
publisher, at least a week before the paper is printed. Smaller
quantities than fifty cannot be supplied at the reduced
rate.
Thus a mass of evidence in favour of Spiritualism may be
obtained, well printed on good paper, at a little over a penny
per copy. Great care will be taken in the selection of the
contents of the number, to interest the outside public in the
subject, without raising prejudices. Friends would oblige by
sending in their orders without delay to Mr. E. W. Allen, 11,
Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, London, E.C.
A Spiritual Society is in course of formation at Pim¬
lico. It will meet at 47, Charlwood-street, Belgrave-road,
S.W.
Mr. Newton Crosland’s book on Apparitions, pub¬
lished by Messrs. Triibner and Co., contains narratives of
some psychological experiences of relatives of the present
Prime Minister.
It was, perhaps, scarcely wise on the part of the Dalston
Association to decide by a majority of one last night, that the
payment for life membership should be reduced to £2 2s. It
will give residents in the neighbourhood the use of the many
privileges of membership at too cheap a rate.
Spiritualism in Oxford.—A debate on Spiritualism
recently took place at a meeting of the Oxford Union Society,
in Cornmarket-street, Oxford. This society is a kind of
debating club for the undergraduates, who probably do not
please the University authorities by taking up the heterodox
and unpopular subject of Spiritualism, although the powers
that be cannot very well interfere. The speakers at the meet¬
ings address each other as “ the honourable gentleman oppo¬
site,” and make frequent remarks about “ the decisions of this
house,” consequently the debates are conducted with due
parliamentary dignity. The proceedings are rarely reported
by the Oxford newspapers, which is much to be regretted, since
many speeches of considerable ability, by rising men, who may
possibly make their mark in the future as great statesmen or
philosophers, are thus lost for ever. Such speeches would be
of more permanent literary interest than local police reports,
or the dreary records of the utterances at country Quarter-
Sessions and local Town Councils, which now occupy so much
of the space of the Oxford Times, the Chronicle, and other
journals. Mr. Gould introduced the subject of Spiritualism,
and he was well supported by Mr. St. George Stock, and others.
After a warm debate, it was decided, by a large majority, that
Spiritualism deserves scientific investigation.
A Trance Lecture.—Last Sunday night, a .public
trance address was givep. through Mr." Cogman’s medium-
ship, at the Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end-road, E.
The communicating spirit chose as the subject of his dis¬
course—“ Who shall roll away the stone from the sepulchre
of doubt?” He said that a stone is now lying before the
door of the sepulchre, and it is sealed by the priesthood,
whereby men’s minds have not freedom of access to spiritual
truths. Man’s spiritual nature demands at times spiritual
sustenance, but it is not always hungry, and the spiritual
nature may be covered over and lulled to sleep, until freed by
inspiration reaching it from within or from without. Com¬
municating spirits did not wish to pain listeners by injuring
their doctrinal opinions, still it was their duty to come and teach
men what they had learnt about spirit life since they left the
earth; it was their bounden duty to roll away the stone from
the sepulchre. After speaking at some length against priestly
authority, especially over helpless children, the spirit said,—
“ When you sit down to dinner, you do not ask a priest to
attend and order what you shall eat or drink, why, then,
should you let him dictate to you or to children what spi¬
ritual food shall be taken? Clothe yourselves rather with
knowledge of your own weaving, and help to bring about a
new heaven and a new earth, when men shall dwell together
in unity and peace.”
July 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
265
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
The sixth half-yearly general meeting of this associa¬
tion took place last night, .the 14th instant, at the rooms,
74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, Mr. Thomas Wilks,
President, in the chair. The minutes of the last half-yearly
general meeting having been read and confirmed, the Presi¬
dent called upon the Secretary to read the report of the
Council, with the balance-sheet, for the half-year ending
30th June last. The report, which was an extensive one,
stated “ that the Association had been exceedingly pros¬
perous, and had received most encouraging support from
various quarters. The accounts had been carefully audited by
the auditors, Messrs. Q-. R. Tapp and R. Pomeroy Tredwen, from
which it appeared that the receipts during the past half-year
amounted to £23 13s. 7d., as against £18 2s. lOd. during the
preceding half-year ; while the expenditure was £21 9s. 4£d.
up to 30th June, as against £11 19s. 3d., on 31st December,
1872. The stock account has been more than double during
the past half-year, the balance on this account being
£14 2s. 9d., as against £6 lls. Id. on 31st December last.
Ample explanations of the increased expenditure under
the various heads were made, the principal being on the
library stock account, from which the members derive
considerable benefit. Of fourteen applications for mem¬
bership, Mr. J. C. Luxmore has been elected a ‘ life
member,’ Mr. Henry D. Jencken, M.R.I., as an ‘ honorary
member,’ and the rest as ‘ ordinary members.’ Eight
notices of resignation have been accepted. The total
number of members on 30th June last was 41, as against 35,
28, and 27, for the three preceding half-years. The average
attendance at the seances was 14, the same as during the pre¬
vious half-year. Five special seances have been held—one
with Miss Hudson, and four with Mrs. 0. E. Bassett, which
were very numerously and influentially attended by members.
The ordinary seances have been fairly successful, several
members of both sexes having shown mediumistic qualities.
Mr. G. R. Tapp read a paper on.the “ Philosophy of Spirit
Manifestations,” on 27th February last. The third annual
public lecture was delivered by Mr. George Sexton, M.A.,
M.D., &c., on 27th March, and Mr. Hugh McLeod, M.D., read
a paper on the “ Science of Spiritualism,” on 26th June, each
of which was reported in the Spiritualist newspaper. An
expression of indebtedness is due to the Hackney and Kings-
land Gazette and Eastern Post for the liberal notices of the
association in their columns during the past half-year. Most
valuable presentations to the library have been received
from Dr. Nichols, M.D. ,Mr.E. W. Cox, S.L., F.R.G.S., Mr. W.
Crookes, “ Fritz,” Mr. Newton Crosland, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tred¬
wen, and Mr. George Blyton. Several works are daily expected
from America, which will form a valuable acquisition to the
library stock. The report and balance sheet were then
formally adopted. In a short speech Mr. Wilks intimated
with regret that he was compelled to resign the presidentship,
but was willing to act on the council.
Several valuable works had been presented to the library,
which is now well supplied. The report and balance-sheet
were adopted. It was proposed that a representative from
this association should go to the Annual Conference arranged
by the Liverpool Society. It was proposed and carried that
Mr. Harrison should be asked to represent the Dalston Asso¬
ciation at that Conference. It was proposed and carried that
the subscription for life membership be reduced from £3 3s.
to £2 2s. The following officers were elected Mr. Alfred
E. Lovell as president, in place of Mr. Wilks who resigned.
Mr. George Blyton, Mr. Joseph Stephens, Mrs. Amelia Corner,
Mr. Thomas Wilks, and Mr. E. J. Wilson, as the council, and
Mr. Thomas Blyton as secretary and treasurer. The meeting
separated after a vote of thanks to the retiring president was
carried unanimously.
The Sfc. John’s Association of Spiritualists, Clerkenwell,
has suspended operations during the summer months.
Me. J. J. Moese, the trance medium, is still full of
engagements to deliver public lectures and give private seances
at various towns in the North of England.
We desire to call special attention to a notice in our
advertising columns of an important meeting to be held next
Thursday evening at the Cavendish Rooms on the Lunacy
Laws; the bearing of these laws upon certain descriptions of
mediumship will incidentally come under consideration.
Last night a reporter from the Standard newspaper
attended the meeting of the Dalston Association.
Yeey good physical manifestations are usually .obtained
at Mr. C. E. Williams’s Saturday evening seances.
Me. Kimptoh, medical bookseller, of High Holborn, has
some copies of Townshend’s standard work on Mesmerism for
sale, as well as many other rare pyschological and anthro¬
pological books.
Spiettualism ih East London.—A new society has
just been started at Mile-end, with the excellent title of the
Spiritual Evidence Association. President, Mr. G. F. Snell-
ing; council, Mr. John Norris, Mr. W. Gummer, Mr. James
Young, and Mr. George Parsons ; secretary and treasurer, Mr.
Charles Wadsworth ; librarian, Mr. Cogman. The prospectus
says :—“ In view of the many objections that' have recently
been urged against modern Spiritualism as presented by pro¬
fessional or paid media, and the difficulties necessarily incurred
in gaining sufficient experience to enable persons to judge cor¬
rectly of the reality of the various phenomena that occur, it
has been thought advisable by a few earnest inquirers, that
an Association should be formed for the purpose; of collecting
the most reliable evidence on the subject within their^ power,
either at private seances or otherwise. Accordingly a preli¬
minary meeting was held on Wednesday, the 18th June, and
it was decided to establish an Association in this district,
which shall have for its object :—I. The formation of a
library of works on Spiritualism, to be circulated amongst the
members only. 2. To obtain the best evidence possible of the
truth of Spiribualism amongst the members and their friends
only, eschewing at all times the services of professional or
paid media.” The seances of the association will be held at
15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end, London, E.
Oeganisation.—The chief immediate value of organisa¬
tion among London Spiritualists would, perhaps, be the
formation of a fund to establish regular lectures on
Spiritualism in the metropolis and elsewhere. Local efforts
might be encouraged by the central society guaranteeing a few
pounds towards the defraying of possible loss over any
lecture given by a speaker recognised by the association.
Lecturers are regularly paid in Liverpool, but not in London.
The society also might start a building fund, so that in time
Spiritualists would have a public building, with its lecture
theatre, in London. An organisation need not undertake
publishing business, or anything that might interfere with
existing or non-existing private effort; publishing in con¬
nection with Spiritualism would probably be profitable now
and clear its own expenses, or if not, many a person who has an
established bookselling business would willingly publish more
books on commission. There are friends of Spiritualism who
desire to subscribe to aid in lecturing and other public work,
but who do not do so because there is no organisation in
London to manage the work or to control expenditure, as in
Edinburgh, Liverpool, and some other large provincial towns.
A Peoeosed Exchesion.—Last night, at a meeting of
the Marylebone Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism, at
90, Church-street, Paddington, Mr. James Burns was voted
into the chair. A committee was appointed -to consider the
practicability of getting up an excursion or picnic near
London in connection with Spiritualism, the members of the
committee being Mr. Maynard, Mr. White, Mrs. Maltby, Mr.
Boting, Mr. Cowper, Mrs. Claxton, and Mr. Harpur. The
first meeting of the committee will be held next Friday
evening at eight o’clbck, at the house of the secretary, Mr.
Charles White, 4, Gray-street, Manchester-square, Baker-
street. An excursion down the Thames in a steamer was
suggested. A steamboat to accommodate 300 persons could
be had for the day, it was stated, for £13. An excursion by
rail to Cassiobury Park, Watford, or to Knowle Park, Seven-
oaks, was also suggested, but nothing was decided, except that
the committee would communicate with other Spiritual
societies in London, and ask them to take part in the under¬
taking. Last night, Mr. Burns suggested that the Marylebone
Society should engage Dr. Sexton to lecture on the tricks of
Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke. The method of construction
of the cabinet of these conjurors, as already published with
illustrations in The Spiritualist, was explained to the meeting.
Mr. Rhodes, Mr. Hocker, Mr. Freehold, and most of the
members of the Excursion Committee addressed the meeting
in the course of the evening, and Mr. Harpur said that Dr.
Lynn, the conjuror, was now attending seances regularly. He
had been at one with him last Sunday night.
266
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 15, 1873.
PROFESSOR AGASSIZ UNDER MESMERIC
INFLUENCE.
The scientific world is not generally aware tliat one
of its highest authorities—Professor Louis Agassiz—
was thrown into the mesmeric sleep when in the prime
of life, in the fulness of health and strength, and that
he wrote an account of his sensations at the time, which
account was published with his sanction.
Agassiz was born at Mottier, near the lake of Neuf-
chatel, in 1807, and was for many years professor of
natural history at Neufchatel. In 1846 he went to
America, exiling himself for the purpose of gaining
greater facilities to pursue his favourite studies, and in
1852 he was appointed professor of comparative ana¬
tomy in the Medical College at Charleston. . Very
recently, at the death of the late Professor Edward
Forbes, he was offered the chair of natural history in
Edinburgh, but declined it. His great scientific re¬
searches in relation to fossil fishes, the structure of
animal bodies, the red snow of the Alps, and the
motions of glaciers, would occupy too much space to
summarise at present, but only a few months ago we
heard Professor Tyndall, at the Royal Institution, re¬
spectfully quoting Agassiz as a scientific authority in
the matter of the motions of glaciers.
Agassiz is still living in the United States. On his
fiftieth birthday, May 28th, 1857, Longfellow described
him as—
He who wandered away and away,
With Nature, the dear old nurse,
Who sang to him by night and by day
The rhymes of the universe.
But in leaving home and friends for the sake of
science, he is not without his reward—
For whenever the way seems long,
Or his heart begins to fail,
Nature sings a more wonderful song,
Or tells a more marvellous tale.
On February 21st, 1839, Agassiz, who then was
thirty-two years of age, was mesmerised at Neufchatel
by the Rev. Chauncy Hare Townshend, A.M., of Trinity
Hall, Cambridge, and the description of his sensations,
written by Agassiz, was published in Townshend’s
Facts in Mesmerism (London : Bailliere, 1844), as
follows :—
“ 22nd February, 1839.
“ Desirous to know what to think of mesmerism, I
for a long time sought for an opportunity of making
some experiments in regard to it upon myself, so as to
avoid the doubts which might arise on the nature
of the sensations which we have heard described by
mesmerised persons. M. Desor, yesterday, in a visit
which he made to Berne, invited Mr. Townshend, who
had previously mesmerised him, to accompany him to
Neufchatel and try to mesmerise me. These'gentlemen
arrived here with the evening courier, and informed me
of their arrival. At eight o’clock I went to them. We
continued at supper till half-past nine o’clock, and about
ten Mr. Townshend commenced operating on me. While
we sat opposite to one another, he, in the first place,
only topk hold of my hands and looked at me fixedly.
I was firmly resolved to arrive at a knowledge of the
truth, whatever it might be; and, therefore, the moment
I saw him endeavouring to exert an action upon me, I
silently addressed the Author of all things, beseeching
him to give me power to resist the influence, and to be
conscientious in regard to myself as well as in regard
to the facts. I then fixed my eyes upon Mr. Towns¬
hend, attentive te whatever passed. I was in very
suitable circumstances ; the hour being early, and one
at which I was in the habit of studying, was far from
disposing me to .sleep. I, was sufficiently master of
myself to experience no emotion, and to repress all flights
of imagination, even if I had been less calm; aCcprd-
ingly it was a long time before I felt any effect from the
presence of Mr. Townshend opposite me. However,
after at least a quarter of an hour, I felt a sensation of
a current through all my limbs, and from that moment
my eyelids grew heavy. I then saw Mr. Townshend
extend his hands before my eyes, as if he were about to
plunge his fingers into them; and then make different
circular movements around my eyes, which caused my
eyelids to become still heavier. I had the idea that he
was endeavouring to make me close my eyes: and yet
it was not as if some one had threatened my eyes, and,
in the waking state, I had closed them to prevent him;
it was an irresistible heaviness of the lids which com¬
pelled me to shut them ; and, by degrees, I found that
I had no longer the power of keeping them open, but
did (hot the less retain my consciousness of what was
going on around me; so that I heard M. Desor speak to
Mr. Townshend, understood what they said, and heard
what questions they asked me, just as if I had been
awake, but I had not the power of answering. I en¬
deavoured in vain several times to do so, and, when I
succeeded, I perceived that I was passing out of the
state of torpor in which I had been, and which was
rather agreeable than painful.
In this state I heard the watchman cry ten o’clock;
then I heard it strike a quarter past; but, afterwards, I
fell into a deeper sleep, although I never entirely lost
my consciousness. It appeared to me, that Mr. Towns¬
hend was endeavouring to put me into a sound sleep;
my movements seemed under his control, for I wished
several times to change the position of my arms, but
had not sufficient power to do it, or even really to will
it; while I felt my head carried to the right or left
shoulder, and backwards or forwards, without wishing
it, and, indeed, in spite of the resistance which I
endeavoured to oppose :• and this happened several
times.
“ I experienced at the same time a feeling of great
pleasure in giving way to the attraction which dragged
me sometimes to one side, sometimes to the other, then
a kind of surprise on feeling my head fall into Mr.
Townshend’s hand, who appeared to me from that time
to be the cause of the attraction. To his inquiry if I
were well, and what I felt, I found I could not answer,
but I smiled; I found that my features expanded in
spite of my resistance; I was inwardly confused at ex¬
periencing pleasure from an influence which was mys¬
terious to me. From this moment I wished to wake,
and Was less at my ease ; and yet on Mr. Townshend
asking me whether I wished to be awakened, I made a
hesitating movement with my shoulders. Mr. Towns¬
hend then repeated some frictions, which increased my
sleep; yet I was always conscious of what was passing
around me. He then asked me if I wished to become
lucid, at the same time continuing, as I felt, the frictions
from the face to the arms. I then experienced an in"-
describable sensation of delight, and for an instant saw
before me rays of dazzling light which instantly disap¬
peared. I was then inwardly sorrowful at this state
being prolonged; it appeared to me that enough had
been done with me; I wished to awake, but could not.
Yet when Mr. Townshend and M. Desor spoke I heard
July 15, 1873.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
267
them. I also heard the clock, and the watchman cry,
but I did not know whg,t hour he cried. Mr. Townshend
then presented his watch to me, and asked if I could see
the time, and if I saw him; but I could distinguish
nothing : I heard the clock strike the quarter, but could
not get out of my sleepy state. Mr. Townshend then
woke me with some rapid transverse movements from
the middle of the face outwards, which iristantly caused
my eyes to open, and at the same time I got up, saying
to him, “ I thank you.” It was a quarter past eleven.
He then told me, and M. Desor repeated the same thing,
that the only fact which had satisfied them that I was
in a state of mesmeric sleep, was the facility with which
my head followed all the movements of his hand,
although he did not touch me, and the pleasure which
I appeared to feel at the moment when, after several
repetitions of friction, he thus moved my head at plea¬
sure in all directions. Agassiz.”
MEDIUMSHIP OF AH ARCHBISHOP OF
CANTERBURY.
Sx. Dgnstan, the famous Abbot bf Glastonbury, and
Archbishop of Canterbury, was a man respecting whom
two very opposite opinions prevail. By some autho¬
rities he is considered as an unscrupulous, plotting
charlatan, and by his admirers he is regarded as a
special Ambassador of the Most High. He was pro¬
bably one of the greatest men of genius and action that
have ever been created to mark an era in the world.
He flourished during the reigns of seven Anglo-Saxon
kings, from Athelstan to Ethelred II. To his other
rare and surprising endowments he added the advantage
of being what we should now call a medium. His
mental accomplishments rendered him, at the com¬
mencement of his career, a favourite at the court of
Athelstan.
One day, after treating the courtiers to a specimen
of his great musical powers, he hung his harp on the
wall; no human finger was near the instrument, when
it was suddenly played with skill by some unseen power,
to the astonishment of all the persons assembled. Modern
wiseacreism, of course, prates about secret machinery,
as if such clumsy trickery would have long remained a
mystery to the knowing investigators of the tenth
century, and the very witnesses of the performance.
Impounding the harp would have soon revealed the
juggle, if any had been perpetrated; there was the
miracle, and it did not admit of a mechanical explana¬
tion. Good society behaved then, as good society be¬
haves now, when it meets with supernatural circum¬
stances ; it coolly sought a solution of its difficulties by
denouncing St. Duns tan as an ally of the devil. The
Saint was stigmatised as a wizard, and compelled for a
time to abandon his sovereign’s court. Truth and
nature would not submit to he thus despised and per¬
secuted, and the unfortunate object of the world’s
slanders and suspicions subsequently acquired, as we
well know, a great reputation for sanctity, and became
the intellectual and ecclesiastical ruler of England,—
From “ Apparitions,” by Newton Crosland.
The Rev. J. Mtjkbay Speak.—Mrs. Tebb, of 20,
Rochester-road, Oamden-road, London, N.W., has now re¬
ceived altogether about £35 for the benefit of Mr. Spear, and
wishes the former friends of that gentleman to make up the
sum to £50, before she remits it to him at Philadelphia. Mr.
Spear’s kindly ways, and his desire to benefit Spiritualism,
gained him many friends in England, who, we hope, will not
forget him now that he needs help.
THE “ SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER.
As the public subscription list for the defrayment of
a portion of the expenses incidental to the fortnightly
(instead of monthly) publication of The Spiritualist is
about to be closed, a very brief review of the past may
be of interest. In the first number of The Spiritualist,
issued November 19th, 1869, the foil owing statements
were made in the opening address to our readers
Spiritualism in England has long been represented by three periodicals,
all published monthly, namely, The Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, and
Daybreak. The Spiritual Magazine was first published in January, i860;
Human Nature in April, 1867 i aild Daybreak ja June, 1868. The Spiritualist,
issued for the first time this day, is not started for the purpose of competing
with the three journals just mentioned, hut is intended to occupy new
ground^ and to meet a want as yet unsupplied. At the Gower-street Con¬
ferences last winter, several of the speakers mentioned the want of reports
and records of public meetings connected with Spiritualism, and one chief
object of this new journal is to chronicle the proceedings of such assemblies.
Another feature of The Spiritualist will be its scientific character.
The Spiritualist was the first of the existing news¬
papers connected with the movement. When it was
first started all the other periodicals were published
monthly, and devoted to articles of a magazine character;
shorthand reports of meetings, or regular reports of cur¬
rent events, were not published before its advent.
Our opening address went on to say :—
At first this journal will be published fortnightly, to “feel the ground,”
before its transformation into a weekly paper—a step which, together with
other improvements, is likely to be made before long, should all go well.
Much care will be taken to make The Spiritualist useful to the pioneers of
the greatest movement of modem times, so it is hoped that it will meet
with a friendly reception from all engaged in the noble work of strengthen¬
ing the chain of communication between this world and the spirit-land,
and of clearing away the mystery which ignorance throws over the life
beyond the grave.
It was soon found that tbe field of operations was
not large enough for a fortnightly journal, so after a
short trial The Spiritualist came out monthly instead of
fortnightly. Shortly after this Daybreak was changed
into a newspaper, its size was changed, and its name
was altered to The Medium, published weekly, price
one penny. Of course the expenses of such a step were
enormous, and continue at the present day', the editor
recently published in a leading article that at present
every number which sells for a penny costs three half¬
pence. The consequent expenses were met by the
introduction of the subscription system into spiritual
literature. The incessant demand on the part of The
Medium for heavy subscriptions has been all along, and
is now, generously met by Spiritualists, whereby the
richer people connected with the movement confer the
boon upon poor Spiritualists of a weekly paper at much
less than cost price. When, communities gain, indi¬
viduals should be content to suffer, so we have been
tolerably contented while watching the underselling of
this journal going on in consequence of the public sub¬
sidies, knowing that the poorer Spiritualists were gain¬
ing thereby. London lecturers, however, have been
losers by the system. Liverpool and Manchester
Spiritualists are able to pay weekly lecturers, all their
funds not being demanded for one special purpose.
The last periodical introduced into Spiritualism is
The Christian Spiritualist, published monthly, price
twopence.
The Spiritualist set its face to its own disadvantage
against the subscription system for more than two
years, but it being evident that the subscription and the
self-supporting systems could not fairly be worked side
by side, a temporary subscription list was opened, which
tended to produce the permanent result of the present
fortnightly publication of this journal. Notwithstand-
the existing permanent heavy demand for subscriptions,
the appeal was responded to most generously, all we
asked for being subscribe^, as the following list shows :■—
268
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 15, 1873.
£ b. d.
Charles Blackburn, Esq  20 0 0
A Friend   ;     15 0 0
“A Friend at a Distance...    10 0 0
A. L. Elder, Esq., per Benjamin Coleman, Esq  5 5 0
“A Friend." , .’  5 5 0
M. Alexandre Aksakof (St. Petersburg)   5 5 0
W. Tebb, Esq    5 0 0
Enmore Jones, Esq  5 0 0
O. F. Yarley, Esq., F.B.S   5 0 0
Mrs. E. M. Cox        5 0 0
“Truthseeker" (Liverpool)      5 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart    ... .5 0 0
Thomas Grant, Esq  5 0 0
J. O. Luxmoore, Esq (  5 0 0
Justice ‘ '  5 0 0
F. S. A ■    5 0 0
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D., per Benjamin Coleman, Esq  5 0 0
Friends at Brixton:— £ s. d.
Miss Ponder     10 0
Miss E. Ponder     1 0 0
Mrs. Rudd  .10 0
“Longfellow"   1 0 0
Mr. Withall       10 0
Mr. E. Bird  10 0
Mr. George Dawson ...    10 0
Mr. Dawson Rogers      ... 10 0
Mr. Rogers     10 0
Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald ...    10 0
Mrs. Gun^on       10 0
  8 0 0
“Bitterness”...   '  4 4 0
“A Friend ” (Temple)  3 3 0
N. F. Daw, Esq       3 3 0
Richard Beamish, Esq., F.R.S  3 3 0
James Wason, Esq.    3 3 0
Stanhope T. Speer, Esq., M.D  3 3 0
Algernon Joy, Esq.', per Benjamin Coleman, Esq  2 10 0
The Countess of Caithness     2 2 0
Mr. and Mrs. Edmiston   2 2 0
G. Nelson Strawbridge, Esq  ...   2 2 0
Henry G. Atkinson, Esq., F.S.A., per Benjamin Coleman, Esq. ... 2 2 0
John Beattie, Esq    2 0 0
“A Friend" (Bloomsbury)  2 2 0
Mrs. Hennings     2 0 0
“A Friend "(Manchester)    110
Benjamin Coleman, Esq  ...    110
E. Musgrave, Esq  1 1 0
“V.”     ... 110
A Clergyman of the Church of England, per Benjamin Coleman,
Esq  110
B. W. Pycock, Esq  1 1 0
Arthur Maltby, Esq    1 1 0
■William L. Shearwood, Esq. ...   1 1 0
G. Thomson, Esq.. M.D     1 0 0
Mrs. Robert. Campbell, per Benjamin Coleman, Esq  1 0 0
Oscar von Hoffmann (Leipzig), per Benjamin Coleman, Esq. ... 10 0
“ A Friend,” F.R.S    '. 1 0 0
Miss Kislingbury      1 0 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory  1 0 0
Miss J. H. Douglas, per Benjamin Coleman, Esq  loo
“AFriend”*       1 0 0
John E.Purdon, Esq., M.B  ... 1 0 0
J. Craig, Esq. ...        0 10 6
G. D. (Hackney), Balance in excess of publishing account   0 8 0
* This amount has not been received, and the name of the donor has been
mislaid.
The subscription list will be closed in fourteen days’
time, so any well-wishers who desire to add their con¬
tributions are requested to do so at once. ■ The list, as
it stands, amounts practically to a strong vote of confi¬
dence, nearly if not quite all, the chief literary and
scientific ladies and gentlemen connected with Spiritual¬
ism being included, though some of them anonymously,
and we very sincerely thank one and all for their
support.
The gentlemen who have subscribed exceptionally
large sums since this journal first started, to aid it in
its work, are—Mr. C. F. Yarley, F.R.S. (who also first
introduced the editor to Spiritualism and its pheno¬
mena) ; Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Manchester; Lord
Lindsay, who bought and circulated many thousands of
copies; Mr. Benjamin Coleman, who introduced a large
number of new subscribers ; Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr.En-
more Jones, who not only subscribed, but went to the
expense of advertising the Spiritualist at all the stations
on the Metropolitan Railway ; Dr. Gully and Mr. "Wil¬
liam White, who have aided it by contributing much
valuable literary work; and Mr. Thomas Blyton, who
has given not a little hard work connected with
the business of the office. Some persons have
offered heavy subscriptions if the journal would
take some particular line of action, but such attempts
to interfere with its freedom have been made in vain.
Spiritual journalism, of course, involves heavy money
losses ; and although the Spiritualist has kept itself in
the background in the matter of asking for subscrip¬
tions—indeed, stood out for years against the subscrip¬
tion system—it will be seen that it has not been with¬
out friends and supporters. Moreover, it has been
steadily, though slowly, increasing in circulation ever
since the first number was issued, and has now also an
intelligent body of readers in foreign countries.
Yery shortly The Spiritualist will be published
weekly, in accordance with the original programme.
The spread of Spiritualism can be very efficiently
accelerated by the printing press, so those who desire
to aid the movement by subscriptions, may, perhaps, as
well expend it over printing as over lecturing; still, as
we have often Said, Spiritualists should organise, and
elect officers, so that all financial matters may be con¬
sidered and controlled by representatives appointed by
the subscribers themselves. This would secure judi¬
cious expenditure, and be a guarantee that the results
of the expenditure should be useful and permanent.
Any further subscriptions should be remitted to
“ IST. F. Dawe, Esq., Portman Chambers, Portman
Square, W.,” and we have to thank him very much for
the time and work he has given to this matter.
STEREOSCOPIC SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHY.
In another column Mr. Beattie has described some photo¬
graphic experiments of an extraordinary nature which have
been conducted in his presence, and has hinted at others which
have been conducted by himself under other circumstances.
Everyone who knows Mr. Beattie will give him ample credit
for being a thoughtful, skilful, and intelligent photographer,
one of the last men in the world to be easily deceived, at
least in matters relating to photography, and one quite in¬
capable of deceiving others; and yet Mr. Beattie comes
forward with a statement resulting from experiments per¬
formed by himself or in his presence, which, if it mean
anything at all, means that there is, after all, really some¬
thing in spirit photography—at any rate, that figures and
forms which were not visible to those in the studio, and which
were not produced by the operator, have been developed upon
the plate with quite as much, and in some instances more,
vigour than the visible sitter. The main facts once admitted,
the question arises—By what means are these figures formed
upon the collodion film? The first impulse is to attribute it
to a double exposure on the part of Mr. Hudson, the photo¬
grapher. But here a difficulty interposes—Mr. Hudson need
not be present at all; indeed it is but an act of justice to that
gentleman to say that, when we were trying experiments in
his studio to determine the truth of the so-called “ spirit ”
photography, we obtained entire possession of his dark room,
employed our own collodion and plates, and at no time during
the preparation, exposure, or development of the pictures was
Mr. Hudson within ten feet of the camera or dark room. Ap¬
pearances of an abnormal kind did certainly appear on several
plates, but by whatever means they were caused—and on this
we do not intend at present to speak—the photographer had
nothing whatever to do with their production. Neither will
the “ previously-used-plate ” theory apply in this case, for the
plates were quite new, and were obtained from Messrs. Rouch
and Co. a few hours before they were used ; and, apart from
the fact of their never having been out of our possession, the
package was only undone just before the operations were
commenced. A step, and a very sensible one, towards
endeavouring to elucidate the mystery has, during the present
week, been taken by Sir Charles Isham, a gentleman who
takes a very strong interest in this subject. He has provided
a binocula* camera for the purpose of carrying on the experi¬
ments; so that if any “ appearances ” are visible on the plates
in future, their exact relationship to the sitter will be more
readily apparent than heretofore. We shall report the results
of the experiments with Sir Charles’s camera,—British Journal
of Photography, July 11th, 1873,
July 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
269
(Emespontience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
SUBSTANTIAL AND POTENTIAL NATUBE.
Sib,—What Dr. Gully says about the worship of force is all
very right, but does not the same apply to matter and spirit ?
For are not the terms interchangeable ? If matter is force,
then force is matter; but force must be force of something—
call it matter or spirit, and cannot be properly used to desig¬
nate the thing of which it is the force. Again, thought implies
a thinker, and you cannot say with Hegel that the thinker is
thought. Then, again, a thought must be a thought of some¬
thing, or of some quality of something, though the idealist
denies that there are any such things to think about, for with
him a thought is a thing; whilst Professor Huxley asserts
that the terms “ matter ” and “ spirit ’’ and “ force ” refer to
an imaginary substratum that is unknowable. But how then
does he know that there is such a substratum ? This he does
not inform us. Then we have Professor Tyndall defining
matter or the substratum thus:—“ If these statements startle,
it is because matter has been defined and maligned by philo¬
sophers and theologians who were equally unaware that it is,
at bottom, essentially mystical and transcendental.” And if
we refer back to Bacon, we find him declaring most positively
that whatever matter may be, we find it to be the source of all
the phenomena observed; and again, that the subtle nature of
matter is beyond the power of the senses or of the understand¬
ing to grasp—in a word, incomprehensible in itself, “ except
that the nature of anything is known in what it does.” Then
it is clear that if psychology is to advance and be anything
more than a bigoted adherence to unreasonable opinions con¬
cerning the terms matter, or spirit, or force, we must first and
before all endeavour to clear the ground from the despotism of
words, and let the terms used be clearly defined. “ Conjure
with them—the name of Brutus will start a spirit as soon as
Caesar.” And I do not think the spirit would be greatly offended
if we were to affirm that the subtlety of the substance we term
“ matter,” was as inconceivably refined as what we can con¬
ceive of what we term “ spirit,” so that there can be no intel¬
ligible reason for the distinction, each condition having its
essential nature or law, as air differs from earth. Thus Dr.
Gully is quite right about the foolish notion that the term
” force” explains anything, and is, in fact, everything ; for, as
I have said, if matter is force, then force is matter, and it is
a mere question of terms, except that you bring in a confusion
by improperly using the term, designating the property for the
thing itself. Then again, as to the supposed something referred
to by Dr. Gully, regarded by some as a guiding intelligence, by
others as a formative law, the source even of intelligence, it
must be the intelligence or law of something, even of that very
“ mystical” substance which we must honour and respect for
what it does, without foolishly imagining the what or the why
of its ultimate nature. Henry G. Atkinson.
18, Quai de la Douane, Boulogne-sur-mer.
PSYCHOLOGICAL EXPEDIENCES.
Sir,—Will you, or some of your readers, kindly inform me
to what cause, or causes, the following events are to be attri¬
buted ? I will endeavour to be as brief as possible, and com¬
mence by stating that when in town I went to a public dark
seance, and the night after, just before going to sleep, I
distinctly saw through the dim light of the room what
appeared to me a dense black cloud, coming quickly towards
me from the extreme end of the ceiling. My first impulse,
which I acted on, though I am not a Roman Catholic, was to
start up and make the sign of the Cross in the air; afterwards
I saw nothing more.
When next in town I went to another seance. Two nights
afterwards, on awaking, I saw a bright oval-shaped light near
the ceiling ; it remained a few seconds, then something
lightly touched my feet, and passed along to the throat, when
my whole face, for a short time, was fanned with a strong,
very cold wind, as if a great bird were flapping its wings over
me. At the moment I likened it to that in my own mind.
Having now returned home, I persuaded my husband and a
lady who was staying with us to try and get a small table to
turn. Patiently enough we sat for some nights in a half-
darkened room, yet not the slightest manifestation took
place. Shortly afterwards, one morning at breakfast, my
husband said to me, “ I ^saw one of the most astonishing
things last night I ever saw in my life. The room was pitch
dark, yet there was such a bright light shining all Over your
face. I could distinctly see every feature, and that you were
sound asleep. It remained some little time, and then passed
away.” It struck me as being the more strange, as that very
night I had been dreaming of my dear father, and that he
was speaking to me as he might have done in the old days of
his earth life.
Another day, in driving home, we saw a figufe in the
distance coming towards us up the street. My friend and I
exclaimed in astonishment, “ Is not that C ? ” for we
believed him to have been many thousands of miles away.
He deliberately stopped when near us, looking at us with a
fixed earnest countenance as the carriage passed. Our
astonishment was unbounded, especially as the figure was still
standing looking after us. ” Look ! Look 1 You must look
back,” my friend said, excitedly, r it is either he or his
fetch.” I turned. Still the figure was there. I looked
again—it was no longer to be seen. A short time afterwards
we heard he had died abroad, and about that time; till the
exact date is known, we cannot tell whether on that particular
day or not.
The last occurrence, I will now relate, happened since then.
Onenight, in looking for a particular paper, I came across one
written by him. My thoughts were sad. I remembered how
far from all his own people he had passed away ; a strange
nervous feeling came over me, “ Surely I have seen him since
then,” I thought; and in the broad daylight, two distinct
knocks were heard. The paper fell from my hand. ” Did you
not hear them?” I inquired of my husband. “Yes,” he
answered, “ two knocks near the window ; the wind, I sup¬
pose.” To me they seemed to come from the opposite side of
the room. I summoned courage, and said, “ If there is a
spirit in the room, I hope it will knock three times, or twice,
if preferred.” Again came two knocks. “ I am not .con¬
vinced,” I said, “ knock again.” I waited a few minutes,
but no answer ; another moment, and two distinct knocks
were heard. Speaking of the wind had put doubts into my
mind, so again I said, “ Knock once more.” A few seconds
after, as- our room was darkened for the night, for the fourth
and last time, two knocks came, and on each occasion heard
by both of us. I would have continued speaking, but my
husband no longer believing it was the wind, objected to my
doing so. The night was perfectly calm, not a leaf stirred,
but had it been otherwise the “ fickle wind ” was scarcely
likely to have made the four distinct sets of knocks, when
requested to do so, and only then.
Now, how is it that these things, with others I dare not take
up your space by mentioning, have happened? Also that my
dreams, chiefly of those who have passed away, are so mar¬
vellous, yet I lack the medial power to turn a small table, or
obtain a stroke of spirit writing, after having sat many times,
pencil in hand? My friends take no interest in Spiritualism,
yet show their profound wisdom by laughing at what they do
not even try to understand, therefore my investigations must
be carried on alone. Can that be accomplished? I must
either believe in, and welcome Spiritualism as a mighty
truth, or put it away from me for ever as a cowardly un¬
truth, because those dear dead ones it professes to bring back
have no power to proclaim their immortality. I cannot
believe it to be this, because even bad men and women have
a certain respect for the dead ; and why should spiritualists
be morse than such? Are there not men of learning and
honour to be found among Spiritualists ? Likewise, men
devoid of both, as in all classes of society; although these
latter also exist, I do not say it is all “ humbug.” Because
ignorant, dishonest quacks are in the world, would it be
sensible to say medicine is all “ humbug ;” they are all alike,
there is not a wise and honourable physician to be found 1 I
want one convincing proof of the truth of Spiritualism. . Only
tell me how that can be gained, and I shall be most thankful.
I enclose my card, but do not wish my name or address to
appear in print. Enneseallan.
July 11th, 1873.
The distribution of the spiritual leaflets containing the
chief results of the investigation of the Dialectical Committee
is still going on. **The Marylebone Society of Enquirers into
Spiritualism desires to thank Mr. N. F. Dawe for his present
to the society of four thousand leaflets and one sovereign.
Some of the leaflets should be put in circulation in fashionable
watering places, which are now beginning to be thronged
with visitors who have nothing to do, and might be glad to
have their attention drawn to Spiritualism.
270
THE SPIRITUALIST.
JtrtiY 15, 1873.
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
The following letter requires a few words of explanation
to make Its object plain. Most physical mediums have one
spirit almost constantly with them. This spirit also is the
most powerful in producing the voice and other manifesta¬
tions. Those who have had opportunities of studying
mediums know that the likings and dislikings, the aims,
interests, objects, and thoughts of the medium, and of this chief
working spirit are so bound up together, that it is difficult to
detect their separate mental individuality. That the spirit does
physically what the medium cannot do, may be seen at every
seance. Mr. Everitt has noticed the mental similarity, for
recently, in a letter to this journal, he narrated as an interest¬
ing circumstance that John Watt had proved his individuality
as quite distinct from that of Mrs. Everitt’s, and we asked Mr.
Evefitt how he proved it? Distinct mental individuality of
spirits is sometimes proved through mediums, but with all
our practical experience we have never seen it proved by the
chief working spirits, the Johns and Katies, who seem to live
continually with the mediums, and to know nothing not
known to the medium, or which they might not ascertain by
clairvoyance. Here is the letter :—
To the Editor of the “ Spiritualist.”
Sir,—Being present on a visit at the residence of Mr.
Thomas Everitt, Hendon, last Monday week, when a letter of
yours arrived, asking his evidence, or proof, of the distinct
identity and individuality of spirits who communicate by the
audible voice, and who manifest independently of the will or
power of the medium :—As I was one of a circle which was
held in the dining-room of Mr. Everitt’s house the previous
evening, where we had good evidences of this, I proposed in
addition to anything that Mr. Everitt might send you, to re¬
late briefly some points which arrested my attention in the
manifestation of the spirits that evidenced an individuality
other than that of Mrs. Everitt, who was the medium on the
occasion. During the whole seance Mrs. Everitt was in a
wakeful, conscious state, which, as I understand, is very un¬
usual and, I observed, she joined, in the conversation carried
on with our immortal friend, “ John Watt,” who sustained
his part very agreeably in the audible voice ; I also noticed very
closely that at one time the conversation was carried on solely
by John and Mrs. Everitt, who asked for some information
from him touching private matters, he replying more than
once to her interrogations before the questions had entirely
escaped her lips. His replies were given in a most natural
manner, the sound of his voice sometimes apparently coming
from near the ceiling, at others close to our ears.
I observed on that, as on other occasions, John Watt used
language beautifully expressive of the ideas he wished to con¬
vey—so forcible, lucid, and flowing were his remarks, that it
was palpable to the most superficial observer present that in
language and expression at least he possessed intelligence far
exceeding not only the medium, but any person present in the
flesh.*
I had, before our meeting commenced, expressed a strong
wish to get a piece of direct writing, executed solely by John
Watt, or some other spirit friend. And to take you back again
to the Commencement of the seance, we had sat sometime with¬
out any evidence of John’s presence, but “ Nippy ” (a boy whose
individuality on the earth plane was commenced in one of the
South Sea Islands, but now an active and useful spirit at
Mrs. Everitt’s circle), who was then entertaining us by his
interesting manifestations of spirit powerj was requested to
go, if he could, and make our wish known to John, which he
promised to do. After a brief interval, we were regaled by
exquisite perfumes and brilliant spirit lights, the latter were
seen in all directions ; perhaps the most beautiful rising out
of tne very centre of the table we were setting round. Next
a cardboard-tube was caught up into the air, and from it pro¬
ceeded John’s voice, who addressed me thus:—“ Well, Brother
Hinde, you desire a letter in- direct spirit writing, and you
shall have it.”
On the table were some blank squares of paper and a
pencil. One of those squares we heard taken up high above
our heads, and for a period of about ten seconds, or till you
* This is the natural “opinion” of an observer, while surrounded with all
the marvels and novelties of a good seance.
count to ten, we heard the tracing sound of the pencil upon
the paper apparently held round the tube. I then felt the
paper placed lightly upon my hands, heard the tube thrown
down and the pencil put solidly upon the table as though
accompanied by the weight of a hand and arm, one end of
the pencil coming into contact with the table before the rest
of it. On getting a light, we found the following writing
traced upon the paper.
Dear Friend and Fellow-Worker in our glorious cause,—You have ex¬
pressed a wish for a piece of direct writing. We most gladly comply with
your (request, and may the eternal bond of friendship nOw established be
more and more firmly rooted and grounded in one—the eternal source of
all happiness—our Father God. We, a band of loving brothers and sisters,
bid you God speed, and will help and strengthen you in your labour of love.
Go on, my brother, do your duty as you see it laid out before you, and
happiness in the future will be your reward. May our Father bless you
and yours with every temporal and spiritual blessing.—Fraternally thine,
John Watt.
I need not here express the feelings which the perusal of
the above kindled within the inmost recesses of my soul, for,
apart from its importance as an evidence of direct spirit-
power, to me, at least, it was significant as an encouragement
coming ijrom that world where we know our most secret
thoughts are known and read, and our unfulfilled intentions
a cognizable reality patent to its ethereal inhabitants.
Gl. R. Hinde.
Eastbourne, Darlington, July 3rd, 1873.
There is nothing in John Watt’s letter above Mrs. Everitt’s
capacity. The conversation between the medium and thfe
spirit bears only upon the admitted fact of separate physical
individuality, which nobody questions. An occasional visitor
to a powerful spirit circle cannot deal with the question we
have raised, which presents far more perplexities to-Mr.
Everitt, and to experienced observers, than it does to Mr.
Hinde. Has Mr. Everitt ever been able to prove one of
John Watt’s statements about his earth life ? An observer
must know the thoughts, aspirations, and particular circum¬
stances of a medium at the particular time, to be able to see
what influence they have over the utterances of that particular
spirit who is almost constantly with the medium. When this
chief working spirit gets power to make himself visible, he is
obliged to take on some of the features of the medium, so as
to look partly like the medium and partly like somebody else,
so that even his physical individuality is not absolute while
manifesting.
The following extract from Swedenborg’s Spiritual Diary
probably has some bearing upon the true solution of the
problem, for Swedenborg says that spirits and mortals who
have strong affinity for each other, think together, but believe
that they are thinking independently,—a kind of unconscious
sy'nchroniety of thought:—
After I had been for some time in that state in which there
were apparently no spirits around me, suddenly the state was
changed and the spirits began to address me, and they
described to me the state in which they were, when 1 was, as
it were, by myself in thought. They said that they knew no
otherwise than that they were the persons who thought, and
who thus meditated, and, as it were, spoke with themselves.
Those who were nearest [in spiritual state] believed them¬
selves to be the very individuals who thought, but those who
were more remote believed this less, and those still more
remote believed it still less.
Me. Cogman’s Work.—Mr. Cogman, as is well known,
has worked steadily for ten or fifteen years to disseminate a
knowledge of Spiritualism in East London, and at the present
time has thrown the two ground floor rooms of a house in a
respectable street into one, and neatly furnished and carpeted
the rooms, in which he and others deliver lectures on Spirit¬
ualism twice a week, admission free. Stances are held in the
same house. The district is a poor one, and as Mr. Cogman
depends wholly on ’voluntary contributions to carry on the
work, we do not know a case in London more deserving of
support, or more needing it at the present time. Yery often
the rooms are filled with listeners, and Mr. Cogman’s trahCe
addresses are of better quality than average sermons. His
address is 21, St. Peter’s-road, Mile End-road.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
271
July 15, 1873.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER. Clairvoyant Examination and complete Diagnosis,
One Guinea. Mesmerising or Rubbing, One Guinea per week, and travelling
expenses.
Miss Godfrey may be seen, by appointment, at 161, Hampstead-road, N.W.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seandes at 61, Lamb’s
Conduit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings,
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above;
Mr. j. j. morse, trance-medium, is open to
receive engagements in London or the provinces, to attend Seances,
or address public meetings. Mr. Morse holds a Seance every Friday even¬
ing at 8 o’clock, at 15, Southampton-row, W.C., when he is in London,
where letters, &c., may be addressed, or to his private residence, Warwick
Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
MISS HUDSON, Normal Clairvoyant and Prophetic
Medium, is at Home daily (Sundays excepted) between Twelve
and Six o’clock, to hold Private Seances. Terms—Five Shillings each
visitor. 46, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury (directly opposite the British
Museum).
' MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—19, Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy-
square.
Price 6d. Glbth, 9d. Post free.
HEAVEN OPENED.—Part II. being futther descrip¬
tions of, and advanced teachings from, the Spirit Land. Given
through the mediumship of F. J. T. With an Appendix containing the
Scripture proofs of Spiritualism.
J. Bums, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.; E. W. Allen, ll, Ave-Maria lane, E.C.
Also Part L, price 6d. Cloth, 9d.
WANTED.—The First Number of the First Volume of
the Spiritual Magazine, to complete six volumes for binding.
Address—Secretary of thejjDalston Association of Inquirers into Spiri¬
tualism, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
WANTED TO PURCHASE a complete set of the
Spiritual Magazine. State condition of volumes and price to A. &.,
care of the publisher of the Spiritualist, 11, Ave Maria-lahe, London, E.C.
Now Ready, Price Sixpence.
OD AND IMMORTALITY, viewed in relation to
Modern Spiritualism. A discourse delivered in the City Hall Saloon,
Glasgow, on Sunday evening, February 23rd, 1873, by George Sexton, M.A.,
M.D., LL.D., D.Sc., Honorary Member of L’Accademia Dei Quiriti, at Rome,
&c., &c., &c.
London: J. Bums, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.
FACTS IN MESMERISM, with Reasons for a Dis-
passio nate Inquiry into it, by the Rev. Ch. H. Townshend. Third
edition, with a new preface, and enlarged, 8vo, 3s. 6d. (published 9s.). The
most philosophical work on the subject.
H. B. Kimpton, Medical Bookseller, 82, High Holbom, W.C.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS. — Handsomely-printed Blue
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion, may be obtained in packets, each containing 400, price 2s. 6d. per
packet. They are especially useful for distribution at public meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, 'reading-rooms, clubs, and places “"of
public resort.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, London, E.C. .
Lately published,
"HAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Mental
Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. I. The MECHANISM of MAN.
By EDWARD W. COX, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s. 6d.
Contents.
chap.
§)1. Introduction.
2 2. What am I?
3. The Man.
4. How we Grow.
5. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the WiU.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
31. Soul—Spirit—Anima;
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. The Natural and the Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place Of the SoUl.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death;
40. The Outlook Of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul;
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery.
45. Conclusions;
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and charming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and not
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Herald.
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “ What am I ? ”—Leicester MercUry.
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much mgenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflective readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest.—South Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern. Daily Press.
This book is rightly termed popular; a hook, which for clearness Of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
London: Longman and Co., Paternoster-row.
SPIK ITU ALISM,
A WARNING TO SINNERS, TO THE CHRISTIAN CHURCHES;
AND TO THOSE WHO ARE SEEKING TO COMMUNICATE
WITH
THE.SPIRITS
RUSSELL, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, &c.,
© 238, STAFFORD-STREET, WALSALL. The Spiritualist^ and
other Spiritual Publications kept on sale. Bookbinding in all its branches
at London Prices. Machine Ruling with accuracy and despatch. Sta¬
tionery—Superfine Note, 6d. per quarter ream; ditto Envelopes, l£d. per
packet, 4s. 6d. per 1,000. Albums, scraps, ladies’ satchels, &c., in great
variety. Printing.—W. R. having entered into partnership with Mr.
Cooper in the printing department, is prepared to execute orders at a few
hours’ notice. Taste and Style guaranteed. Fifty Visiting cards (without
expense of plate) 2s.; per post 2s. 2d. Country Orders promptly attended to.
Aaron franklin, preserver of birds and
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE, Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’ heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. Aaron Franklin, 100, Suffolk-
street, Birmingham.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. .ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
• SELLER, STATIONER, AND POBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 89, Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, Supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms; with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
THAT SURROUND US.
BY HENRY MEESON.
Manchester: J. H. Jones, 16, Stretford-road; John Hevwood, Deans-
gate, and all Booksellers.
PRICE ONE PENNY.
“ The proper study of mankind is man.”—Pope.
“There is a natural body, and there is a spiritual body.”—Paul.
WHAT IS SPIRIT ?
Being an Essay on the Origin, Development, Attributes, and Destiny of
the Human Spirit.
By CLEMENT PINE, Bridgwater.
Th e Banner of Light remarks, “He writes from a clear head and a spiritual
nature. The several topics he handles are of decided interest, current and
permanent, and will well repay perusal.”
The destiny of the human spirit is of paramount importance to every
human being.
The pamphlet is in stiff enamelled paper covers.
London; James Burns, 15, Southampton-row, and E. W. Allen, 11, Ave
Maria-lane.
Bridgwater: for sale by theauthor, and to be had of all booksellers. 1873.
Price TWOPENCE, or Is. 6d, per dozen, post free.
272
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 15, 1873,
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H. Gt. Atkinson, Esq., F.Q-.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S.Bergheim.
Esq., O.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; Or. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. O. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; C. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken,Esq., Barrister-at-law; J.H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con-
ri vance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
‘ ‘Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’  
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings ‘or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,”- and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in'the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are born of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
B
RITISH IMPERIAL INSURANCE CORPORATION
LIMITED.
)
Incorporated pursuant to Act of Parliament.
Capital—£200,000 in 200,000 Shares op £l Each.
Head Offices: BEOWN STEEET AND MAESDEN STBEET, MANCHESTEB
Chief London Offices: 20, KING WILLIAM STEEET, E.O.
Central Trustees:
Augustus Frederick BAvford, LL.D., Senior Eegistrar, Court of Probate,
Doctors’ Commons, London; and Chancellor of the Diocese of Man
Chester.
William Gimber Goodliffe, Accountant General, India Office, Westminste
London.
Charles Oppenheim (S. Oppenheim & Sons), Director of the Union Bank
of London, Austin Friars, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Christopher Weguelin (Thomson, Bonar & Co.), Director of the Bank of
England, 57£, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Auditor: Dr. William Farr, F.B.S., &c., &c., London, and Southlands,
Bromley, Kent.
The system of Insurance carried out by the “British Imperial”
(originally devised by Dr. Farr, F.B.S., &c., &c., of Somerset House, and
adopted with some modifications by her Majesty’s Government), is perfect
in Security, Equity, and Convenience.
In Security,’ because every With Profit, and Self-Insurance Policy, is
issued upon English Government Securities, held in Trust, away from the
control of the Directors, for the sole purpose of meeting policy claims, the
amount invested (80 per cent, of the whole premium) being shown by the
National English Life Table, compiled by the’ Begistrar-General for the
Government to be more than sufficient to provide the sum insured under
the policy.
In Equity, because in the event of an Insurant failing to continue the
payment of his premiums, only sufficient thereof is retained by the Corpora¬
tion to profitably cover the risk incurred upon the life during the time it
was covered by the insurance; the remainder being returned to the Insurant.
The amount returned varies according to the Table under which the
Insurance is effected, between nearly one-half and three-quarters of all the
premiums.
In Conyenienoe, because the “ Surrender Value ” is endorsed on every
Policy, and is made payable at three days’ sight. It can also be used to its
full amount, by payment of 5 per cent, per annum interest on the sum with¬
drawn, without invalidating the Policy.
JOHN A. FEIGAN, General Manager.
WILLIAM DAVIES, Secretary.
British imperial life, and British
NATIONAL (FIBE AND GUAEANTEE) INSUBANCE COB-
POBATIONS.
Applications for Agencies to either of the above Corporations can be
made to C. W. Pearce, at the Chief London Offices, 20, King William-street,
E.C., from whom Prospectuses, Proposal Forms, and all other information,
can be obtained.
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STEBLING.
Head Q^cei.-BEOWN STBEET'AND MABSDEN STBEET, MANCHESTEB
FIBE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates.
Bonus Beturns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Benewed Premiums.
FIDELITY GUABANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STBEET, LONDON, E.O.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AftD HABIT MAZER,
8, HANOVEE PLACE, PABK BO AD, BEGENT’S PABK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBEABY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
BEVERIDGE & FRASER, Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-BENTS, HOLBOEN, W.O.,
Bespectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Fraser, at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Aye Maria-lane, London, E.O.
