A RECORD OF THE PROQI\E£j3 OF THE ^CIEJ^CE AND ETHIC3 Of gPIF^ITUAEI^M,
[REQ-ISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. .59.—(Yol. III.—No. 20.)
LONDON: SEPTEMBER 1, 1873.
Published on the 1st and 15th of every
Month: Price Fourpence.
©ontents.
Spiritualism  .*     ... 306
Testimony of—The Dialectical Committee; Mr. C. F. Varley; Mr. A.
R. Wallace      307
Testimony of—Lord Brougham; Lord Lindsay; Lord Bor th wick; Mr.
William Crookes ... '     308
Testimony of—Mr. Serjeant Cox; Dr. W. Huggins; Mr. Edwin Ar¬
nold ; Professor de Morgan; Captain R. F. Burton  309
Testimony of—Dr. Lockhart Robertson; Mr. S. C. Hall; Mr. E. L.
Blanchard; Mrs. Honywood   310
Testimony of—Lady Caithness; Dr. Robert Chambers; Miss Doug¬
las; Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; Lady Paulett; Mr. J. C. Lux-
moore; Dr. Gully; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. Benjamin Cole¬
man ; Mr. Gerald Massey; Mr. Enmore Jones ...__.... ,...; 1.. ... 311
Testimony of—Mr. T. Everitt; Mr. William ^o^ittl-Dr.■Hjtchman;
1 M. Alexandre Aksakof; Mr. H. D. Jencken; Mr.^Dunphy” Dr.”
' Speer; Mr. D. D. Home   ..1 ..'V ...;■ .f. 312
Faraday and Tyndall on Spiritualism   -Y.. ... 313
Testimony of “ The Times ” and “ Daily Telegraph ” Newspapers ... 313
Testimony ofSir Charles Isham   ;.. 314
Manifestations witnessed by—Napoleon III.; the Emperor of Russia;
' the'Emperor of Germany ...     ... ... ‘...   314
Signor Damiani’s Challenge   ... •   ... • ...    814
Dr. Johnson,'Lord Byron, and Tennyson, on Spirit Communion 1 ... 315
Poetry^TheJPoetry.of Science  j J ... • ... »L.. <•... 315
CorrespoiidenceDisturbances in a Vault in the Island of Barba-
doeajlHaviptgdlFurniture ; A Spirit Hand ; A Prophetic Vision... 316
P aragraphsi—Cpntradictory Spirit Messages; A Spiritualist’s Picnic 319
rjYflE CHRISTIAN
SPIRITUALIST,
1873.
September,
“ If Dr. William Hitchman, of Liverpool, has not borne away the palm
from all living competitors, he has at least delivered orations in London
and elsewhere which, for intellectual force, rhetorical brilliancy, and
spiritual truth, are of the very highest class of pulpit and platform elo¬
quence.”—2'ransactions of the Association of Naturalists and Physicians, 1873.
London: F. Arnold, 86, Fleet-street, E.C.
“ The first Work ever written, in any language, on the subject of which it
treats.”
CONSUMPTION;
ITS NATURE, PREVENTION, AND HOM(EOPATHIC TREATMENT,
With Illustrations of Homoeopathic Practice.
By Dr. WILLIAM HITCHMAN, F.R.S. (Arezzo),
Author of “ Lectures on the Spiritual Constitution of Human Nature,” de¬
livered in the Theatre of Anthropology, Liverpool, &c., &c,
London: Turner & Co., 74, New Bond-street, W.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
PUBLIC CIRCULATION OF THIS SPECIAL NUMBER
OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST.”
LARUE quantities of this special number (September Jst)
of The Spiritualist have been ordered for private distribution, but,
as the contents are so eminently calculated to give valuable information
about Spiritualism to the public, united efforts should be made by Spi¬
ritualists to distribute copies broadcast over the country.
The number will therefore be kept in type for a week, and we will go to
press with it again, on Monday morning, September 8th.
Large subscriptions are invited in the meantime from Spiritualists, to
send a copy to every newspaper and periodical in the United Kingdom
(about 2,000 in all), also to members of the British Association, the Royal
Society, the Anthropological Institute, and other learned bodies; likewise
to all the members of the Lords and Commons.
Ten shillings per hundred will be charged for copies used for this pur¬
pose, postage, wrappers, folding, &c., 5s. per hundred, total I5s. for every
100 posted from the office.
A list of the subscribers and the amounts sent will be published in our
next, also a statement setting forth how the sum total has been expended.
All subscriptions should be sent immediately to our publisher, Mr. E. W.
Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O., to reach him not later than Satur¬
day next. A vigorous and united effort in this matter will not only do
good to this journal, but result in a vast amount of benefit to Spiritualism.
Lately published,
HAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Mental
Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. L The MECHANISM of MAN.
By EDWARD W. COX, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s. 6d.
Contents.
chap.
1. Introduction.
2. What am I?
3. The Man.
4. How we Grow.
5. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How; we are Moved.
11. The’Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the Will.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
31. Soul—Spirit—Anima.
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. TheNaturalandthe Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery.
45. Conclusions.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and charming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and not
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Herald.
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I ?”—Leicester Mercury.
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflective readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish.
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest.—South Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
London: LONGMAN and Co., Paternoster-row.
B
IRKBECK BANK. Established. 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks,
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION. OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. {Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary. 3s. quarterly ; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
THOMAS BLYTON, Secretary and Treasure)’.
306
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 1, 1873.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS -.—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Oorrespondkncii.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes. |
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, AVe Maria Lane, London, E.O. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor,
Subscriptions!—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 4s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Any delay or irregulanty in the supply of “ The Spintualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher^ Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lame,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and m’egulari-
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES,
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—"Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W". Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny;
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 12s. 6d., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
SPIRITUALISM.
This number of The Spiritualist is a special one, in¬
tended for circulation among the general public, and
persons altogether unacquainted with Spiritualism.
Therefore it1 was our desire to preface the large array
of well-attested phenomenal facts contained herein with
a little general information about the philosophy and
the religious teachings connected with the subject, but
find the pressure upon space to be so great, that the
facts must be left to speak for themselves, and inquirers
who wish to learn more may peruse preceding numbers
of this journal, and test Spiritualism for themselves in
their own homes, 'among members of their own families,
with no stranger present.
In a few words it may be stated that the general ten¬
dency of Spiritualism is to once more reconcile religion
and science, for Spiritualists see no reason why anything
whatever should be believed which cannot be clearly de¬
monstrated to the satisfaction of the inquirers, and claim
that the reality of a life beyond the grave can, by patient
experimental psychological research be as absolutely
proved as any fact in mathematics. Spiritualism throws
light upon many difficult religious problems, including
that of the “ origin of evil,” which some of
the professors of moral philosophy in our univer¬
sities consider to be at present inexplicable.
Spiritualism proves that the supposed “ dead j still
live, and can communicate with us under scientific
law; it also proves that those whom we loved on
earth are separated from us but for a time, and in
many cases think about us and watch over us still. It
proves that the horrible doctrine of eternal punish¬
ment is not true, and it demonstrates that “ death” is
a natural and benevolent process, and is but the gate¬
way to the flower-laden land of the hereafter. Expe¬
rienced Spiritualists have altogether lost the unreason¬
ing dread of bodily dissolution ; the approach of death
causes about tha same amount of trouble to a Spiri¬
tualist as the approaching extraction of a tooth; it
may give temporary physical pain, to be followed by
greater happiness, supposing the life of the individual
to have been at all a good one, for Spiritualism teaches
that the better lives men lead here, the happier they
will be hereafter.
The phenomena of Spiritualism will form the founda¬
tion of a whole realm of new sciences, and just at the
time when science, by means of the thermo-pile and
other delicate instruments, is pushing research into
regions beyond the pale of the senses, Spiritualism
steps in to give glimpses of the evolution of new
senses, and of other psychological and' mental
powers as yet unstudied and almost unknown. It
tends also to bring back the poetry to life. In
England there is now one ceaseless strenuous rush
for material wealth,—a great moral evil which is a sure
sign of national decay—and while a few landowners,
lawyers, and great capitalists have by law brought nearly
all the means of subsistence into their private possession,
leaving the bulk of the people to scramble for the mere
necessaries of life, the body and soul-destroying effects
of the system may be seen stamped upon nearly every
human face in the land. Let an observer stand for an
hour in one of the streets of the great City of London,
and out of the thousands who will pass, probably not
more than one face in every hundred will bear the impress
of happiness. The Anthropological Institute has pub¬
lished statistical evidence proving the gradual decline
in stature and physical vigour of the English race, due
to the gradual decline of the rural population, and the
overcrowding of young and old in the streets and
alleys of great cities—effects flowing from the action
of the land laws. These evils, due to the intense sel¬
fishness both of the rulers and of the people ruled—
a selfishness which foreigners recognise in us as a
national characteristic—arises principally from errone¬
ous religious teaching. Dogma, conventionality, and
thirst for material wealth and political power have
driven true spirituality and true intellect outside the
pale of the churches, with whose teachings minds of a
logical and scientific order feel little sympathy, although
not naturally averse to things spiritual. The proofs of
the power really possessed by the churches before they
became corrupt are now to be found in those pheno¬
mena whereby Spiritualism gives sign and token to
humanity, which powers before long may perhaps, by
friendly alliance, be again seen inside instead of out¬
side the churches. Spiritualism tends to bring back
poetry to daily life and angel visitants to the home fire¬
side, as in the times when, by the pale moonlight, fairies
were supposed to disport themselves in the forest glades
of “ merrie England,” and mischievous imps and tiny
elves swung upon the aspen sprays. To the poet, the
religionist, and the philosopher, Spiritualism opens
grand fields for research—fields so large that they can
be explored only in the course of ages, and perhaps
eternity itself will not see the task completed.
It is probable that the Dalston Association will com¬
memorate its third anniversary on Monday evening, Sept. 15th.
Sept. 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
307
TESTIMONY OF THE DIALECTICAL COMMITTEE.
The Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, Lon¬
don, under the presidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart.,
M.P., appointed a committee, in January, 1869, to
investigate Spiritual phenomena. The committee con¬
sisted of medical gentlemen, lawyers, literary men,
engineers, and other persons of professional ability.
Their names are printed on page 319 of this number of
the Spiritualist. After investigating for more than two
years, the committee reported :—
1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently pro¬
ceeding from articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the
room—the vibrations accompanying which sounds are often
distinctly perceptible to the touch—occur, without being pro¬
duced by muscular action or mechanical contrivance.
2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without
mechanical contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of
muscular force by those present, and frequently without con¬
tact or connection with any person.
3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the
time and in the manner asked for by persons present, and, by
means of a simple code of signals, answer questions and spell
out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees reported:—
After a committee of eleven persons had been sitting round
the dining table above described for forty minutes, and
various motions and sounds had occurred, the chairs were
turned with their backs to the table, at about nine inches from
it. All present then knelt upon their chairs, placing their
arms upon the backs of the chairs. In this position, the feet
were of course turned away from the table, and by no possi¬
bility could be placed under it or touch the floor. The hands
were extended over the table at about four inches from the
surface.
In this position, contact with any part of the table was
physically impossible.
In less than a minute the table, untouched, moved four
times ; at first about inches to one side, then about twelve
inches to the opposite side, then about four inches, and then
about six inches.
The hands were next placed on the backs of the chairs and
about a foot from the table. In this position, the table again
moved jdra?’ times, over spaces varying from four to six inches.
Then all the chairs were removed twelve inches from the
table. All knelt as before. Each person folded his hands
behind his back, his body being about eighteen inches from
the table, and having the back of the chair between himself
and the table. In this position the table again moved four
times, in like manner as before. In the course of this conclu¬
sive experiment, and in less than half-an-hour, the table moved,
without contact or possibility of contact with any person pre¬
sent, twelve times, the movements being in different direc¬
tions, and some according to the request of different persons
present..
The table was then carefully examined, turned upside down,
and taken to pieces, but nothing was discovered. The experi¬
ment was conducted throughout in the full light of gas above
the table.
Altogether, your committee have witnessed upwards of fifty
similar motions without contact on eight different evenings,
in the houses of different members of your Committee, and
with the application of the most careful tests their collective
intelligence could devise.
TESTIMONY OF MR. C. F. YARLEY.
Mb. C. F. Tablet, F.R.S., C.E., M.R.I., is well-
known as a prominent scientific advocate of Spiritualism,
even in the days of its greatest unpopularity. In the
case of Lyon v. Home, he made oath in Court as fol¬
lows :—
I have been a student of electricity, chemistry, and natural
philosophy for twenty-six years, and a telegraphic engineer by
profession for twenty-one years, and I am the consulting elec¬
trician of the Atlantic Telegraph Company, and of the Elec¬
tric and International Company.
About eight years ago I called on Mr. Home, the defendant
in this suit, and stated that I had not yet witnessed any of
the physical phenomena, but that I was a scientific man and
wished to investigate them carefully.
He immediately gave me every facility for the purpose,
and desired me to satisfy myself in every possible way, and I
have been with him on divers occasions when the phenomena
have occurred. I have examined and tested them with him and
with others, under conditions of my own choice, under a bright
light, and have made the most jealous and searching scrutiny.
I have been, since then, for seven months in America, where
the subject attracts great attention and study, and where it is
cultivated by some of the ablest men, and having experi¬
mented with and compared the forces with electricity and
magnetism, and after having applied mechanical and mental
tests, I entertain no doubt whatever that the manifestations
which I have myself examined were not due to the operation
of any of the recognised physical laws of nature, and that
there has been present on the occasions above-mentioned
some intelligence other than that of the medium and ob¬
servers.
TESTIMONY OF MR. A. R. WALLACE.
Mb. Alebed Russell Wallace, the naturalist and
traveller, the predecessor of Darwin in the publication,
of several new popular theories relating to the doctrine
of evolution, makes the following statements in a letter
printed in The Times of January 4th, 1873 :—
A lady who had seen nothing of the phenomena askedme and
my sister to accompany her to a well-known public medium.
We went, and had a sitting alone in the bright light of a
summer’s day. After a number of the usual raps and move¬
ments, our lady friend asked if the name of the deceased
person she was desirous of communicating with could be
spelt out. On receiving an answer in the affirmative, the
lady pointed successively to the letters of a printed alphabet,
while I wrote down those at which three affirmative raps
occurred. Neither I nor my sister knew the name the lady
wished for, nor even the names of any of her deceased rela¬
tives. Her own name had not been mentioned, and she had
never been near the medium before. The following is exactly
what happened, except that I. alter the surname, which was
a very unusual one, having no authority to publish it. The
letters I wrote down were of the following kind:—yrnehno
spmoht.' After the first three—yrn—had been taken down,
my friend said,—“ This is nonsense ; we had better begin
again.” Just then her pencil was at“e,” and raps came,
when a thought struck me (having read of, but never
witnessed a similar occurrence), and I said, “ Please go on ; I
think I see what is meant.”- When the spelling was finished
I handed the paper to her, but she could see no meaning in it
till I divided it at the first h, and asked her to read each por¬
tion backwards, when to her intense astonishment the name
“ Henry Thompson ” came out, that of a deceased son of
whom she had wished to hear,' correct in every letter. Just
about that time I had been hearing ad nauseam of the super¬
human acuteness of mediums who detect the letters of the
name the deluded visitors expect, notwithstanding all their
care to pass the pencil over the letters with perfect regularity.
This experience, however (for the substantial accuracy of which,
as above narrated, I;vouch), was and is, to my mind, a complete,
disproof of every explanation yet given of the means by which
the names of deceased persons are rapped out. Of course, I
do not expect any sceptic, whether scientific or unscientific, to
accept such facts, of which I could give many, on my testi¬
mony, but neither must they expect me, nor the thousands
of intelligent men to whom equally conclusive-tests have oc¬
curred, to accept their short and easy methods of explaining
them.
In conclusion, I may say that although I have heard a great
many accusations of imposture, I have never detected it
myself; and, although a large proportion of the more extra¬
ordinary phenomena are such that, if impostures, they could
only be performed by means of ingenious apparatus or
machinery, none has ever been discovered. I consider it no
exaggeration to say that the main facts are now as well
established and as easily verifiable as any of the more excep¬
tional phenomena of nature which are hot yet reduced to law.
They have a most important bearing on the interpretation of
history, which is full of narratives of similar facts, and on
the nature of life and intellect, on which physical science
throws a very feeble and uncertain light; and it is my firm
and deliberate belief that every branch of philosophy must
308
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 1, 1873.
suffer till they are honestly and seriously investigated, and
deait with as constituting an essential portion of the pheno¬
mena of human nature.—I am, sir, yours obediently,
Alfred R. Wallace.
TESTIMONY OF LORD BROUGHAM.
A work: entitled The Boole of Nature, by C. 0.
Groom Napier, F.C.S. (London, John Camden Rotten,
1870), has a preface by the late Lord Brougham, in
which that eminent statesman says :—
There is but one question I would ask the author, is the
Spiritualism of this work foreign to our materialistic, manu¬
facturing age ?—No; for amidst the varieties of mind which
divers circumstances produce are found those who cultivate
man’s highest faculties; to these the author addresses himself.
But even in the most cloudless skies of scepticism I see a rain-
cloud, if it be no bigger than a man’s hand; it is modern
Spiritualism.
The late Lord Brougham sometimes attended seances,
so had a personal knowledge of the nature of the
phenomena.
TESTIMONY OF LORD LINDSAY.
Lord Lindsay, one of our leading scientific noblemen,
went to Spain a few years ago, and was successful in
the very difficult work of taking several good photo¬
graphs of a total eclipse of the sun. He also has the
largest electro-magnet in the world, and is making an
extensive series of experiments in magnetism and dia¬
magnetism. He gave evidence to the Dialectical
Society demonstrating the reality of Spiritual pheno¬
mena, and in the course of an article written by him for
the Spiritualist newspaper, and published herein on
the 15th July, 1871,he said:—
I may mention that on another occasion I was sitting with
Mr. Home and Lord Adare, and a cousin of his. During the
sitting Mr. Home went into a trance, and in that state was
carried out of the window in the room next to where we were
and was brought in at our window. The distance between
the windows was about 7ft. 6in., and there was not the
slightest foothold between them, nor was there more than a
12-inch projection to each window, which served as a ledge
to put flowers on.
We heard the window in the next room lifted up, and almost
immediately after we saw Home floating in the air outside
our window.
The moon was shining full into the room; my back was
to the light, and I saw the shadow on the wall of the window¬
sill, and Home’s feet about six inches above it. He remained
in this position for a few seconds, then raised the window
and glided into the room, feet foremost, and sat down.
Lord Adare then went into the next room to look at the
window from which he had been carried. It was raised about
eighteen inches, and he expressed his wonder how Mr. Home
had been taken through so narrow an aperture.
Home said (still in trance), “I will show you ; ” and then,
with his back to the window, he leaned back, and was shot
out of the aperture head first, with the body rigid, and then
returned quite quietly.
The window is about seventy feet from the ground. I very
much doubt whether any skilful tight-rope dancer would like
to attempt a feat of this description, where the only means
of crossing would be by a perilous leap, or being borne
across in such a manner as I have described, placing the
question of the light aside. Lindsay.
July 14, 1871.
thirteen people present. A table was placed in the middle of
the room, and we sat around it; a shawl was drawn around it
and tied; the paper was put into form by Professor L. and
handed to me, and I marked it. I was then asked to place the
paper under the table ; on this being done, we heard sounds
like the scribbling of a pencil or brush upon paper ; a stop¬
watch, in the possession of some one present, indicated that
about seven or nine seconds elapsed from the time when it was
placed under the table until it was brought out, wet with the
paint upon it, and handed to me. Mr. Coleman retained some
of the papers. I have no opinion myself as to how they were
done.
TESTIMONY OF MR.. WILLIAM CROOKES.
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., discoverer of the
new metal thallium, editor of the Chemical News and
of the Quarterly Journal of Science, published in the
latter journal some experiments of his own, proving
the reality of the physical phenomena. He also wrote
the following letter to Mr. C. F. Yarley:—
20, Mornington-road, London, N. W.
July 13th, 1870.
Dear Mr. Varley,—I was very pleased to receive your
letter of the 9th inst., in which you discuss some points
alluded to in my paper on ‘ ‘ Spiritualism viewed by the Light
of Modern Science.”
You have been working at the subject for more years than
I have months, and knowing, as you do, the enormous diffi¬
culties in the way of accurate investigation—difficulties for
the most part interposed by Spiritualists themselves—you will
not be surprised to find that I only feel the ground firm under
me for a very short distance along the road which you have
travelled so far.
I was deeply interested in reading of j'our experiments, the
more so as I have been working in a similar direction
myself, but as yet with scarcely a tangible result.
You notice that I admit freely and fully the physical
phenomena. Let this openness be a guarantee that I shall
not hesitate for a moment in recording with equal fearlessness
for the consequences, whatever convictions my investigation
leads me to—whether it points to a mere physical force, or
makes me, as you predict, a convert to the spiritual hypothe¬
sis—but I must let my convictions come in my own way, and
if I hold somewhat stubbornly to the laws of conservation of
force and impenetrability of matter, it should not be con¬
sidered as a crime on my part, but rather as a peculiarity in
my scientific education.
I have already had many letters, both from Spiritualists
and from leading men of science, saying that they are glad
I have taken up the subject, and urging me to continue the
investigation. In fact, I have been agreeably surprised to
find encouragement from so many scientific men, as well as
sympathy from the good friends I possess among the
Spiritualists.—Believe me, my dear sir, very truly yours,
William Crookes.
People who knew nothing of Spiritualism, sometimes
assume that the persons at seances are under mesmeric
influence, and imagine that they see marvels, which do
not take place in reality. If a table floats in the air,
and comes down with such violence as to break its leg,
the leg remains broken, and the cabinet-maker’s hill has
to be paid for mending it, which is tolerably clear proof
that the leg was not broken merely in the imaginations
of the observers. Moreover, Mr. Crookes has made the
vibrations of wood caused by spirit raps, to write their
own reality, by means of an automatic self-recording
instrument, as follows :—
TESTIMONY OF LORD BORTHWICK.
Lord Borthwick, who is a philosopher of consider¬
able literary ability, and a member of several of the
learned societies of London, is stated in the official re¬
port of the Dialectical Committee, to have made the
following remarks :—
I was present when-these drawings were produced. I did not
hear any explanation of them. There were about twelve or
N N
W
vmmmmmmmmM
In this cut D K, is a table, on which is placed the tam¬
bourine, D E. The lever Y H P N, is heaviest at the end V,
and rests upon the point F, which presses upon the parch¬
ment. The fulcrum of the lever is at H. A plate of smoked
glass, A B R W, is slowly drawn by clockwork in the direc¬
tion indicated by the arrow, A fine point at the end of the
Sept. 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
309
lever presses against the glass, and scratches away the lamp¬
black when the lever moves. Thus, if the lever were still, a
straight line would be scratched upon the glass, but if it
moved, there would be a zig-zag line, as at N N. The medium
placed her hands on the table, but was not allowed to touch
the apparatus. Eaps then came upon the parchment, the
vibrating parchment moved the lever, so that the raps drew a
zig-zag line on the glass-plate. As a self-recording instru¬
ment cannot be “biologised,” this experiment answers Dr.
Balfour Stewart’s objection that the observers at circles may
possibly be in such an abnormal state of mind, as to imagine
that they see things which do not take place.
TESTIMONY OF MR. SERJEANT COX.
Me. Seejeaitt Cox was present at Mr. Crookes’s ex¬
periments proving the reality of the physical phenomena
of Spiritualism, and in the course of a letter to him,
dated June 8th, 1871, said:—
Having been present, for the purpose of scrutiny, at the
trial of the experiments reported in this paper, I readily bear
my testimony to the perfect accuracy of your description of
them, and to the care and caution with which the various
crucial tests were applied.
The results appear to me conclusively to establish the im¬
portant fact, that there is a force proceeding from the nerve-
system capable of imparting motion and weight to solid bodies
within the sphere of its influence.
TESTIMONY OF DR. W. HUGGINS.
De. William Huggins, F.R.S., was present at some
of the experiments demonstrating the reality of the
physical phenomena of Spiritualism, and published by
Mr. Crookes in The Quarterly Journal of Science. Dr.
Huggins wrote the following timid statement about the
experiments:—
Upper Tulse Hill, S.W.,
June 9,1871.
DeAE Me. Ceookes,—Your proof appears to me to contain
a correct statement of what took place in my presence in your
house. My position at the table did not permit me to be a
witness of the withdrawal of Mr. Home’s hand from the ac¬
cordion, but such was stated to be the case at the time by
yourself and. by the person sitting on the other side of Mr.
Home.
The experiments appear to me to show the importance of
further investigation, but I wish it to be understood that I ex¬
press no opinion as to the cause of the phenomena which took
place.—Yours very truly, William Huggins.
Wm. Crookes, Esq., F.RS.
TESTIMONY OF MR. EDWIN ARNOLD.
In a letter to the Dialectical Committee, dated July
10th, 1869, Mr, Edwin Arnold, of the Daily Telegraph,
said:—
I desire to say, and all I can say (without reservation and
explanations impossible in so limited a space) is this : that I
regard many of the “ manifestations.” as genuine, undeniable,
and inexplicable by any known law, or any collusion,
arrangement, or deception of the senses ; and that I conceive
it to be the duty and the interest of men of science and sense
to examine and prosecute the inquiry, as one which has fairly
passed from the region of ridicule. I am not inclined to con¬
sider what I hold the veritable phenomena as being in any way
supernatural, but rather as initiatory demonstrations of
mental and vital power not yet comprehended nor regularly
exercised. With reference to the supposed interpositions and
actions of departed spirits, I can see nothing against the
analogy of nature in this, but it is not a proved fact for me by
what I have myself witnessed.
TESTIMONY OF PROFESSOR DE MORGAN.
Mes. De Moegan bas written a book, entitled From
Matter to Spirit (Longmans), where she gives many in¬
teresting particulars, the result of ten years’ experience
in Spiritualism. The late Professor De Morgan, Presi¬
dent of the Mathematical Society of London, in his pre¬
face to the book, says
I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and heard,
in a manner which should make unbelief impossible, things
called spiritual, which cannot be taken by a rational being
to be capable of explanation by imposture, coincidence, or
mistake. So far I feel the ground firm under me.
TESTIMONY OF CAPTAIN R. F. BURTON.
Captain Bueton, the African traveller, and ex-
President of the Anthropological Society, thoroughly
tested the mediumship of the Davenport Brothers, and
wrote the following letter on the subject to Dr. J. B.
Ferguson :—
As you are aware, I have now witnessed, under advanta¬
geous circumstances, four of the so-called “dark seances."
These were all in private houses, one of them in my own
lodgings. We sedulously rejected all believers, and chose
the most sceptical and hard-headed of our friends and
acquaintances, some of whom had prepared the severest tests.
We provided carefully against all possibility of “confede¬
rates,” bolting the doors, &c., and brought our own cords,
sealing-wax, tape, diachylon, musical instruments (barmoni¬
con, bird-whistle, tambourine, bells), &c.
The results of the seances were almost invariably the same.
After the two strongest “ mediums” had been tied up, hands
and feet, by us, you suddenly extinguished the light ; we
then, the darkness being complete, sat in a semicircle, front¬
ing the mediums, each holding his neighbour’s arm or hand,
and each warned not to break the chain. On one occasion,
I placed my feet on one of the medium’s, while Mr. B., the
master of the house, did the same to the other; and we
measured their distance from the semicircle—ten feet.
Within two seconds (I speak advisedly) after the candle
was put out, the musical instruments, placed on the table
between the two mediums, began to shudder and tremble.
Presently, the guitar-strings commenced twanging, as if badly
played with a single finger, and the instrument went round
the semicircle with the velocity of a bird, fanning our cheeks
as it passed. The prettiest effect was to hear it buzzing in
the distance, as a humming-bee would sound when flying
away. If the guitar happened to be in a good humour, the
instrument patted our heads softly, or lay on our laps, or
thrust itself into our hands. If the “ spirits ” were dis¬
pleased, the manifestations were decidedly rough. I received
once a rather severe contusion with the tip of the guitar, when
the heavy bells and the tambourine struck the ground and the
table with a noise and force that suggested the kick of a horse
on a splashboard. Presently the sounds cease, the candle is
re-lit, we run up to the mediums, we find them in our own
cords, taped with our own tape, sealed with our own seals, and
perhaps plastered with diachylon strip. Every one inquires
how it was done, and no one answers; and not a few are
clearly and palpably frightened. The honest declare them¬
selves puzzled.
The most remarkable manifestations that occurred in my
presence were the following :—A tumbler of water, placed on
the table, with a bird-whistle in it, was thrown on the carpet
at my feet, without noise or breakage; a dry, hot, and rough
hand, on one occasion, felt my hands, fell on my face, and
then pulled my moustaches, and, finally, thrust between my
lips a cigar, taken from the mantel-piece ; my legs have also
been twitched, and my head patted. My neighbour, in the
same seance, felt a cold, clammy, and feminine hand, screwed
up at times like a bird’s claw, running over her face, and
evidently with a large portion of the arm resting on her head.
Sparks of red and pale fire have fallen from the ceiling,
sometimes perpendicularly, at other times crossing the room,
and coming from a point apparently higher than the ceiling.
The medium’s coat was removed, whilst he was securely
fastened hand and foot, and a lucifer match was struck at the
same instant, showing us the two gentlemen, fast bound, and
the coat in the air, on its way to the other side of the room.
Under precisely similar circumstances, the coat of another
gentleman present was placed upon him. A gruff voice
repeatedly addressed me and others. There are many others,
for which you have not space, of my own “ experiences.”
A lady, whose veracity I have no reason to doubt, and who
is supposed to have strong mesmeric powers, assured me that
she perceived the musical instruments floating high in the
310
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 1, 1873.
air, or wriggling along the floor. Being able to see them in
a dark room, she imagined that we had applied to them
phosphorised oil, which we had not. On the same occasion,
she distinguished the outline of a figure, which stooped
slightly, and was not, as she thought, that of any one in
the room.
I have spent a great part of my life in Oriental lands, and
have seen there many magicians. Lately, I have been per¬
mitted to see and be present at the performances of Messrs.
Anderson and Tolmaque. The latter showed, as they profess,
clever conjuring, but they do not even attempt what the
Messrs. Davenport succeed in doing ; for instance, the beauti¬
ful management of the musical instruments. Finally, I have
read and listened to every explanation of the Davenport
“tricks,” hitherto placed before the English public, and,
believe me, if anything would make me take the tremendous
j ump “ from matter to spirit,” it is the utter and complete
unreason of the reasons with which the “ manifestations ” are
explained.—Believe me, ever yours truly, &c.,
Bichard F. Burton.
TESTIMONY OF DR. LOCKHART ROBERTSON.
The appendix to the Dialectical report contains a
letter from Dr. Lockhart Robertson, one of the Com¬
missioners in Lunacy, and a gentleman eminent in the
medical profession. In the course of the letter he ad¬
mits some of the physical and other facts of Spiritualism,
and says:—
I am simply a student of science, and I am neither a parti¬
san of Spiritualism nor, I thank the Church of my baptism,
are my theological tenets or inner Spiritual life in any way
dependent on, or to be influenced by what the unseen agents,
he they demons, as I believe, or spirits of the departed, as Mr.
Squire holds, may choose to communicate. In the written
Word of God, and in the living teaching of the Church of
England, I have the only guides, which I either desire or
should choose to accept in all that relates to the unseen
mysteries of God. I neither expect nor desire any further
Revelation or new light, and utterly hold in ridicule as the-
productions of a mystic the pretended Revelations of the spirit-
world, by the late Emanuel Swedenborg. The old paths of
the Church of England in which my fathers trod suffice for all
my spiritual desires and requirements, and it is simply as a
problem in physical science that I consent to examine or dis¬
cuss the phenomena of Spiritualism.
TESTIMONY OF MR. S. 0. HALL.
Mr. S. C. Hail, F.S.A., editor of the Art Journal,
is a thorough Spiritualist. In one of his letters to
Judge Edmonds, of New York, he said :—
A few days ago, sitting with Daniel Home and seven other
friends, my venerable and truly Christian sister, who passed
from earth about eight months ago, was enabled to be visible
to me and those who were with me. She was not only not a
Spiritualist, but strongly and sternly objected to the principle,
as anti-Christian or demoniacal. She had never been present
at any manifestation, never would be. But not long before
her departure, I said to her, “ I am sure God will permit you
to visit me after you leave earth. You will be permitted to do
.so for my comfort, and as a helper on my way to Christ.
I wish you to promise that you will do so, if God gives you
power.” She did not absolutely make me the promise ; but
she did say, “ My dear brother, if it be for your good, and
God permits it—and He may do so—I will be with you when
He has called me from earth.” When she appeared to us in'
my drawing-room, her face was so healthy—so full of the red
and white that exhibit health—that at the moment I did not
recognise her; for she had been two years confined to bed,
“died” of cancer, was a great sufferer, and was naturally
reduced to a skeleton, so to speak. Suddenly I said,'with an
exclamation, “ It is my sister ! ” Three blows were struck on
the table. The eyes were closed—she had been blind during
the last ten years of her earth-life—possibly but for that
I should not have recognised her ; there was so marvellous a
contrast between the face, as I saw it on her “ death ” bed,
and the face as I saw it then ; So healthful, so beautiful, so
happy, smiling ; but the likeness was exact, for I recognised
every feature after my exclamation; the hair exactly as she
wore it, or plaited back, and the cap exactly as she wore it
also, which the Master of Lindsay, the Hon. Mr. Lindsay,
called a “ mutch,”—i.e., the cap of the old Scottish model.
She remained before us thus palpably for about two minutes
—certainly more than one—long enough for any photographer
to have made a photograph of her ; and I am very sure there
would have been no difficulty whatsoever in taking such a
photograph if the apparatus had been ready; that it would
have been at once recognised by any person who knew her
during her “ life ” here, and that it would have been as dis¬
tinct and palpable as any photograph of any (so-called) living
persons. I have no doubt that each of the eight persons
present would make exactly the statement I have made.
Only a few months ago, Mr. W. H. Harrison, photo¬
graphed one of these materialised spirits, by momen¬
tarily illuminating it for the purpose by the magnesium
light. Mr. J. G. Luxmoore, of 16, Gloucester-square,
Hyde-park, W., one of the Justices of the Peace for the
County of Devon, was an attesting witness on the occa¬
sion.
TESTIMONY OF MR. E. L. BLANCHARD.
Mr. E. L. Blanchard, the author, deposed to the
Dialectical Committee, that he had investigated Spiri¬
tualism for thirty years. Writing of himself in the
third person he said that:—
Amongst other places, he pursued his inquiries at the rooms
of Mrs. Marshall, and that on these occasions he has seen
tables rise from the ground without the slightest possibility of
human agency; that he has heard guitars played and bells
rung without the least chance of feet, fingers, machinery or
electricity being employed to produce the effect. That he has
repeatedly seen “ the spirit hand ” under circumstances which
rendered deception impossible, and that he has frequently
received at those “circles” written communications which
could not have been given by any person present in the flesh.
Some of these communications bear the signature of a departed
friend, and these signatures, when compared with the auto¬
graph of that individual written before his departure from
earth, have been by competent witnesses declared to be singu¬
larly identical. On one occasion the deponent has found him¬
self raised in a chair at least six inches from the ground with¬
out such levitation being due to mechanical forces.
TESTIMONY OF MRS. HONYWOOD.
The following paragraph relating to Mrs. Honywood,
of Warwick-square, S.W., appears in the Dialectical
report:—
Mrs. Honywood, in answer to a request from the chair,
stated that she had witnessed some remarkable phenomena at
the residence of Dr. Gully. While sitting in a circle re¬
cently, the table rose, and the room vibrated to such a
degree that an engineer who was present declared that
nothing but the strongest machinery would have been suffi¬
cient to account for it. An accordion was played in the
air, Mr. Home holding it by one strap, and not touching it
in any other way. The room was fully lighted. Three or
four persons, unknown to Mr. Home, mentally wished for
particular tunes and they were played.
Mrs. Honeywood’s testimony is followed in the
report by the following:—
The Hon. Mrs. gave evidence in the following words:
—“ The most remarkable manifestations I have seen were
those of last Sunday evening at my house. We were seated
in a partially darkened room. We. first heard raps and then
saw a human figure at the window. It entered and several
other figures came trooping in after it. One of them waved
its hands. The atmosphere became fearfully cold. A figure
which I recognised as that of a deceased relative, came
behind my chair, leaned over me, and brushed my hair
lightly with its hand. It seemed about eight feet high. Then
approaching the Master of Lindsay, it passed right through
him, causing him to shiver with cold. But the most extra¬
ordinary thing of all was the laughter. One of us said some¬
thing and all the spirits laughed with joy. The sound was
indescribably strange, and it appeared to us as if it came from
the ground. This was the first time we heard spirit voices.”
Sept. 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
311
TESTIMONY OF LADY CAITHNESS.
The Countess de Pomar, now the Countess of Caith¬
ness, sent in a thoughtful philosophical paper to the
Dialectical Committee, containing the following among
other facts:—
Death was in the house, and the beloved one who had left
us was yet uncoffined. I was sitting in the library with my
son at the tea-table, and we were sitting close together, as the
sorrow of the hour rendered it natural we should do, when Mr.
Home was unexpectedly announced; he had come from a
public reading, dressed as he had been on the platform, and
consequently with no possibility of the machinery about him
which so many unbelievers suppose him to carry concealed.
He was quite unaware of the sad event that had occurred, his
first intention having been merely to make inquiries at the
door., He drew a chair up to the table beside my son, and
affectionately placed an arm round his waist.
Eaps were heard almost immediately on the table, on the
chandeliers, and in various parts of the room; we adopted the
usual course of repeating the alphabet, and the messages spelt
out were “joy, not sorrow,” and “ not gone away.” Directly
after this, as if in confirmation of the statement, the favourite
seat of the departed, a large arm chair, which was standing in
its usual place near the window at the farther end of the
room, moved in a sweep towards the table at which we were
sitting, and came nearly round to my side. Then a sofa
moved across the room in another direction. While this was
occurring we three were still sitting at the table from which
Mr. Home had not moved since he first sat down.
In this case there could be no ocular delusion. No seance
had been proposed ; we were not even sitting with our hands
on the table as is the custom at seances, and the room was
well lighted with gas.
TESTIMONY OF DR. ROBERT CHAMBERS.
The late Dr. Robert Chambers, of Edinburgh, de¬
voted very touch of his time to the study of Spiritualism,
and he wrote the preface to Mr. D. D. Home’s book,
Incidents of my Life, In that preface he says:—
Already Spiritualism, conducted as it usually is, has had a
prodigious effect throughout America, and partly in the Old
World also, in redeeming multitudes from hardened atheism
and materialism, proving to them, by the positive demonstra¬
tion which their cast of mind requires, that there is another
world—that there is a non-material form of humanity—and
that many miraculous things which they had hitherto scoffed
at, are true.
TESTIMONY OF MISS DOUGLAS.
De. Robeet Chambees, in a letter to Mrs. De
Morgan, dated July 30th, 1855, said :—“ There is only
one other person in Scotland to whom I care to com¬
municate these singular phenomena—a Miss Douglas,
niece of the late General Sir Neil Douglas, our com¬
mander-in-chief. With ordinary people I can scarcely
open my mouth on such subjects.”
Miss Douglas gave evidence at the Dialectical Com¬
mittee as to certain remarkable phenomena she had
witnessed in Mr. Home’s presence, and in various ways
she has aided the cause of Spiritualism.
TESTIMONY OF MRS. MAKDOUGALL GREGORY.
Mes." Makdotjgall Geegoey, of 21, Green-street,
Grosvenor-square, takes as deep an interest in psycho¬
logical subjects as her lamented husband, the late Pro¬
fessor William Gregory, of Edinburgh University. Mrs.
Gregory holds a large number of private seances every
year in her own home; she secures the attendance of the
best mediums, and by these seances has gradually made
many converts to Spiritualism from among members of
the more intellectual and educated section of English
society.
TESTIMONY OF LADY PAULETT.
Lady Pahlett, of Hanover-square, sometimes invites
guests to investigate Spiritual phenomena at private
seances, at which she secures the attendance of good
mediums. We recently gave a report of one of these
seances, by permission.
TESTIMONY OF MR. J. C. LUXMOORE.
Mr. J. C. Lcxmooee, of 16, Gloucester-square, Hyde-
park, is one of the Justices of the Peace for the county of
Devon, and he has worked very actively for a long
series of years, in promoting,the cause of Spiritualism,
by presiding over toany of its public meetings, and
helping it in other ways. He advocated the truths of
Mesmerism in the days of their greatest unpopularity,
and he has an excellent knowledge of the conditions
which favour the obtaining of good manifestations at
spirit circles.
TESTIMONY OF DR. GULLY.
De. J. M. Gully, so well known as the principal of
the chief Hydropathic Establishment at Malvern, lost
a considerable portion of a very large medical practice
at Malvern, through bearing public testimony to the
truth of Spiritualism. He now works actively in the
cause, and contributes occasional articles to this journal.
He has a very clear and good conception of the general
religious tendencies of Spiritualism.
TESTIMONY OF MR. CHARLES BLACKBURN.
Me. Chaeles Blackbuen, of Parkfield, Didsbury,
near Manchester, is a gentleman of considerable in¬
fluence in that town, and he has often published his
testimony as to the truth of Spiritualism. He does
much to promote the scientific study of Spiritual
phenomena, and has a good knowledge of the relation
which the revelations of Swedenborg bear to those of
modern Spiritualism; he also has frequently given
much kindly aid to mediums.
TESTIMONY OF MR. BENJAMIN COLEMAN.
Me. Behjamih Coleman, of 1, Bernard-villas, Upper
Norwood, is one of the oldest workers in the cause of
Spiritualism, and he fought some of its hardest battles
in the days of its greatest unpopularity. He visited
America to observe the phenomena there, and pub¬
lished a book on the subject; he also has written an
interesting pamphlet, entitled The Rise and Progress
of Spiritualism in England. He recently presided at
Dr. Sexton’s lectures on Spiritualism at the Crystal
Palace, and he is, in short, one of the most experienced
Spiritualists in this country.
TESTIMONY OF MR. GERALD MASSEY.
Mb. Massey, the poet, is a thorough Spiritualist,
and gives public lectures upon the subject. He has also
written a very superior little shilling pamphlet, entitled
Concerning Spiritualism, published by Mr. J. Burns,
15, Southampton-row, Holborn.
TESTIMONY OF MR. ENMORE JONES.
Me. J. E. Jones, of Enmore Park, South Norwood,
is one of the oldest workers in the cause of Spiritualism
in England. As a private gentleman, he has often left
312
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 1, 1873.
the retirement of his own home to deliver public lec¬
tures on Spiritualism, and to aid the movement in
other ways. He once tried a long series of most re¬
markable experiments on the action of shells and
minerals upon clairvoyant sensitives, and the results
were published in this journal.
TESTIMONY OF MR. T. EYERITT.
Me. T. Everitt, of Hendon, N.W., has by lecturing,
and by the publication of facts transpiring in the pri¬
vacy of Jhis own home, through the mediumship of
Mrs. Everitt, done much to aid Spiritualism.
TESTIMONY OF MR. WILLIAM HOWITT.
Mr. Howitt, the author, has long fearlessly and
vigorously advocated the cause of Spiritualism, which
he, has studied chiefly in its historical aspects and its
bearing upon sectarian ideas. His History of the Super¬
natural is a standard text-book on the subject.
TESTIMONY OF DR. HITCHMAN.
Mr. Wiixiam Hitchmax, M.D., LL.D., president
of the Anthropological Society of Liverpool, recently
announced his belief in Spiritualism, at a public meet¬
ing in that town. He said:—
Spiritualism was one of the leading topics of the day, not
only in Great Britain, but on the Continent, and in America ;
it was a subject of debate in the leading academies of France,
Italy, Spain, Germany, and Holland, and some of the greatest
minds in Europe were at that moment Christian Spiritualists,
in consequence of having investigated the psychic phenomena.
In the Academy of Sciences at Paris, also those of Vienna,
St. Petersburgh, Munich, and Rome, they had investigated
Spiritualism as they would any other branch of science ; the
members had tested the subject in their own homes, and
concluded that nothing but the spiritual theory would explain
the facts. Spiritualism was one of the greatest truths which
God had given to mankind to remove the veil of materialism
which now covers the beautiful face of Britannia—a truth
which would aid to raise up a moral, intelligent people,
advancing step by step like the stars of the firmament, a
happy people, inheritors of the kingdom of heaven.
TESTIMONY OF M. ALEXANDRE AKSAKOF.
M. Alexandre N. Aksaxoe, of St. Petersburg, is a
Russian nobleman who has done more perhaps to
spread a knowledge of Spiritualism on the Continent
than anybody else in Europe. In 1851, at the age of
nineteen, he gave attention to the doctrines of Sweden¬
borg, and in 1855 began to study Spiritualism, not¬
withstanding the impediments caused by the Russian
press censorship, which made the obtaining of American
books on the subject a matter of much difficulty. Since
then M. Aksakof has translated eight or nine of the
chief American and English works on Spiritualism into
German, and they are published by Mr. Wagner, of
Leipzig. M. Aksakof has an estate near Bougoulma,
Government of Samara, where he ordinarily spends his
summers; but this year he is travelling in Western
Europe. He is now at Zurich, in Switzerland, and will
be in England in a few weeks, perhaps in time to be
present at the meeting of the British Association at
Bradford. We hope that English Spiritualists will give
him a warm reception soon after he arrives in London,
for nobody connected with the cause in Europe de¬
serves it better.
TESTIMONY OF MR. H. D. JENCKEN.
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law,
Temple, has fearlessly published for many years cer¬
tain remarkable phenomena which he has witnessed in
the presence of Mr. Home and other mediums. He
published these facts in days when it required much
moral courage to do so, because of the former intense
state of public prejudice. Recently he was married to Miss
Kate Fox, the medium through whom the modern
spiritual manifestations first began in America.
TESTIMONY OF MR. DUNPHY.
Mr. Henry M. Dttnphy, Barrister-at-Law, of 3,
Essex-court, Temple, a gentleman of considerable
literary eminence and professional ability, has frequently
borne testimony in these pages to the reality of certain
of the more remarkable phenomena of Spiritualisro,
which he has both witnessed and tested.
TESTIMONY OF DR. SPEER.
Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D., (Edin.),
of Douglas House, Alexandra-road, St. John’s Wood,
N.W., has frequently borne public testimony to the
truth of Spiritualism, and particulars of some most
remarkable seances held in his house were published in
the last number of The Spiritualist.
TESTIMONY OF MR. D. D. HOME.
In the Chancery suit of “ Lyon v. Home, Mr. Home
made an affidavit, from which the following is an
extract:—
I, Daniel Dunglass Home, of 22, Sloane-street, in the
County of Middlesex, one of the above-named defendants,
make oath and say as follows :—
I was born in Scotland on the 20th of March, 1833, and
from my childhood have been subject to the occasional
happening of singular physical phenomena in my presence,
which are most certainly not produced by me or by any other
person in connection with me. I have no control over them
whatever: they occur irregularly, and even when I am asleep.
Sometimes I am many months, and once I have been a year
without them. They will not happen when I wish, and my
will has nothing to do with them. I cannot account for them
further than by supposing them to be effected by intelligent
beings or spirits. Similar phenomena occur to many other
persons. . . . These phenomena occurring in my presence
have been witnessed by thousands of intelligent and respect¬
able persons, including men of business, science, and litera¬
ture, under circumstances which would have rendered, even
if I desired it, all trickery impossible. They have been wit¬
nessed repeatedly and in their own private apartments, when
any contrivance of mine must have been detected, by their
Majesties the Emperor and the Empress of the French, their
Majesties the Emperor, Empress, and late Empress Dowager
of Russia, their Imperial Highnesses the Grand Duke and
Duchess Constantine of Russia and the members of their august
family, their Majesties the King of Prussia, the late King of
Bavaria, the present and late King of Wurtemburg, the Queen
of Holland, and the members of the Royal Family of Holland;
and many of those august personages have honoured, and I
believe still honour, me with their esteem and goodwill, as I
have resided in some of their palaces as a gentleman and
their guest, and not as a paid or professional person. They
have had ample opportunities, which they have used, of
investigating these phenomena, and of inquiring into my
character. I am not in the habit of receiving those who are
strangers to me, and I never force the subject of Spiritualism
on anyone’s attention. . . . Some of the phenomena in ques¬
tion are noble and elevated, others appear to be grotesque and
undignified. For this I am not responsible, any more than I
am for the many grotesque and undignified things which are
undoubtedly permitted to exist in the material world. I
solemnly swear that I do not produce the phenomena afore¬
said, or in any way whatever aid in producing them.
Sept. 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
313
FARADAY AND TYNDALL ON SPIRITUALISM.
Sir J. Emerson Tennant once invited Faraday to a
seance at which Mr. Home was to be the medium. Fara¬
day wrote and asked for a programme of the manifesta-
tations, and as nobody knows beforehand what will
take place at a circle any more than the details of an
expected star-shower can be given in advance, it was
not possible to comply with his demand. Faraday also
required an answer to the following questions, among
others, before attending:—
Would he [Mr. Home~\ be glad if their {the manifesta¬
tion's] delusive character were established and exposed, and
would he gladly help to expose it, or would he be annoyed
and personally offended? [The italics in this sentence are
not in the original.]
Does he consider the effects natural or supernatural ? If
natural, what are kthe laws which govern them ? or does he
think that they are not subject to laws? If supernatural,
does he suppose them to be miracles, or the work of spirits ?
If the work of spirits, would an insult to the spirits be con¬
sidered as an insult to himself?
Mr. Home took no notice of the above insults, and
never wrote to Faraday in the first instance or took any
notice of him whatever.
Dr. John Tyndall, F.R.S., in a note dated May 8th,
1868, commenting upon Faraday’s letter just mentioned,
wrote :—
I hold myself in readiness to witness and investigate, in the
spirit of the foregoing letter [of Faraday’s], such phenomena
as Mr. Home may wish to reveal to me during the month of
June.
"Why should Mr. Home wish to reveal anything to
him ?
A few days previously Mr. Home had written to the
Pall Mall Gazette;—
It will give me pleasure to meet Professor Tyndall, and
any two gentleman he shall designate. On my side I shall
have at least two gentlemen whose names and position place
them above the suspicion of aiding or abetting a fraud. I will
meet Professor Tyndall and these gentlemen when and where
they please, and under such circumstances as they may decide
on. I must only crave their patience if nothing should occur
at the first, or even the second seance.
From that day to this Dr. Tyndall has not accepted
the above invitation. These great errors on the part of
Faraday and Tyndall are here put on record with regret,
for men of their stamp deserve high honours at the
hands of a nation ; their intellectual standing is of the
very noblest order; but, from a psychological point of
view, their letters show them to be imperfect. Faraday
is now in a position to know and repent of his errors.
As for Dr. Tyndall, assuming that the dwellers in the
spirit-land wish to and know how to communicate with
men, a glimmering of a great idea may at last get in¬
side his head, namely, that it is just possible that the
hosts of heaven may go on with their work without
asking his consent. However, we believe him to be
very honourable and fearless, and think that when he
knows the facts to be true he will go behind the Royal
Institution table and say so publicly.
A demand for a programme where no programme can
be given, and the writing of supercilious letters in reply
to civil invitations, amounts practically to a refusal to
observe, facts. Dr. Tyndall, and men who act like him,
are recommended to bear in mind the following
words of Galileo :—
Oh, my dear Kepler, how I wish that we could have our
hearty laugh together. Here, at Padua, is the principal pro¬
fessor of philosophy, whom I have repeatedly and urgently
requested to look at the moon and planets through my glass,
which he pertinaciously refuses to do. Why are you not here?
What shouts of laughter we should have at this glorious
folly; to hear the Professor of Philosophy at Pisa, labouring
before the Grand Duke with logical arguments, as if with
magical incantations to charm the planets out of the sky.”
TESTIMONY OF “THE TIMES” NEWSPAPER.
On Friday, December 27, 1872, The Times printed
an article three and a half columns long on Spiritualism,
in which many seances were described by the corre¬
spondent of that journal,, who attended some spirit-
circles to see what the manifestations were like. He
gives the following description of part of a dark seance
with Messrs. Herne and Williams :—
We took hold of one hand of each medium, and at the
same time pressed a foot and knee firmly against the foot and
knee on each side of us. Our friend sat in precisely the same
manner, and thus the “ mediums ” were kept in complete
custody. A box of matches was on the table. We sat as
still as a mouse, listening for the least sound. Presently we
felt something hard pressing gently against the back of our
head. Saying nothing, we leaned our head backwards, when,
the substance seemed to yield and slid softly over our hair.
We made a sudden grasp at it with our left hand, still holding
fast the right hand of the medium, when there was a sound
of something falling heavily on the table. Our friend in¬
stantly struck a match, and lo! one of the cane-bottomed
chairs, which when we sat down were arranged round the
room, was lying on the table. . . . We must confess the
chair in the dark fairly puzzled us, and We came away, very
far, indeed, from being Spiritualists, but wishing we could
spare time and trouble to come again and again till we had
sifted the whole matter to the bottom.
The Times correspondent also describes a light seance,
through the mediumship of Miss Kate Fox and Mr.
D. D. Home, held at 20, Mornington-road, N.W., the
house of a well-known man of science. In the course
of the narrative he says :—
Two spirit-lamps were lit; these gave a fair light. The
raps became louder, and, in the usual method directed us to
take a leaf out of the table. This was done, when the table
appeared to float up about eight inches off the floor, settling
down again in a gentle swaying manner. The thin wooden
lath lying on the cloth was seen by the whole party to be in
motion. It tilted up sideways and endways, and then seemed
to float backwards and forwards. Holding our hand three
inches, as near as we could guess, above the cloth, the lath
rose three times ; the last time it touched our hand, and
directly afterwards the table jumped and shook violently, and
loud raps seemed to come from all parts of it and of the
floor.
TESTIMONY OF THE “DAILY TELEGRAPH.”
The following is a portion of an article on “ Spirit
Forms,” written by a special correspondent of tbe
Daily Telegraph, and published in that journal on the
12th of last month (August) :—
We arranged ourselves in a semicircle around the curtains
which separated the small back drawing-room from the large
front one, joined hands, sang until we were as hoarse as crows,
and kept our eyes steadily fixed on an aperture left between
the curtains for the faces to show themselves.. The room was
in blank darkness, and, feeling rather tired of the incantation,
Hooked over my shoulder into the gloom, and, lo, a shadowy
form stood self-illuminated not far from me. At last I had
seen it—a good orthodox ghost in white, and visible in the
darkness. It" was the form of the redoubtable John King
himself, who was, I believe, a bold buccaneer in the flesh, but
who looked more like an Arab sheikh in the spirit. He sailed
about the room, talked to us, and finally disappeared. Even¬
tually he reappeared behind the curtains, and for a brief space
the portiere was drawn aside, and the spirit form was seen
lighting up the recumbent figure of the medium, who was
stretched on a sofa, apparently in deep trance. It must be
borne in mind that we were forming a cordon round the pas¬
sage from one room to the other during the whole of this time.
A trio of “spirits” generally puts in an appearance at these
314
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 1, 1873.
secmces. In this case there were John King, whom I had now
seen, as well as heard; Katie, the familiar of Miss B.; and a
peculiarly lugubrious gentleman named Peter, who, I fancy,
has not been seen, but who has several times done me the
favour of grasping my hand and hoisting me towards the
ceiling, as though he were going to carry me off bodily .to
spirit-land. I stand some six feet in my boots,, and have
stepped upon my chair, and still felt the hand coming down¬
wards to me—where from I have no idea. But my latest ex¬
periences have still to be told. I was invited a few weeks
ago to a very select seance indeed, where the same medium
was to officiate. This family, who spared no expense in their
investigations, had actually got a large, handsome cabinet
standing in their dining-room as a recognised piece of furni¬
ture. It was only used, however, on this occasion for the
imprisonment of the medium. The evolutions of John King,
who soon appeared, all took place outside the cabinet door.
He was only “ materialized ” to the middle ; and, to our utter
amazement, came up to the table, and apparently through the
table, into the very middle of the circle, where he disported
himself in various ways, keeping up an animated conversation
the whole time, and frequently throwing himself into the atti¬
tude of a person swimming on his back. He also went up¬
wards as high as the gaselier, and altogether did a good
many marvellous things, considering that all this time he pre¬
sented the appearance of only half a man illuminated by his
own light.
On one occasion only have I been seated next to the
medium during the manifestation of any of these forms. At
this seance I held him firmly by one hand, and a slightly
sceptical lady had the other. We never let go for a moment,
but during the whole of the sitting, while John King, Katie,
and Peter were talking, tiny children’s hands were playing
with my arm, hands, and hair. There were, of course, no
children in the room. Peter, the lugubrious, is great at light
porterage. I have known him bring a large collection of
valuable Sevres china, and a timepiece with its glass case, -
from the chimney-piece to the table—no easy task in the light,
much less in blank darkness. He also frequently takes down
the pictures from the walls and puts them on the table.
Katie winds up a large musical box, and wafts it, while play¬
ing, all over the room. Of course, we rub our eyes, and ask
what on earth, if it be on earth, does this mean ? I have not
—to keep up the diction of my subject—the ghost of an idea.
If it’s conjuring, why don’t the mediums say so, and enter the
field openly against Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke and Dr.
Lynn? Even if I had a decided opinion about it, I should
refrain from propounding it here, because, in the first place,
it would be an impertinence, and, in the second, no conclu¬
sion can be arrived at upon testimony alone. People must
see for themselves, and draw their own inferences. In the
meantime the thing, whatever it is, grows and grows up¬
wards. A year ago I had to journey east to find it. Now
I must array myself gorgeously like a Staffordshire miner,
and seek the salons of the West. The great desideratum, it
appears to me, is that some man with a name in science
should examine the matter, honestly resolving to endorse the
facts if true, but to expose them mercilessly if there be a
loophole for suspicion. Omne ignotum pro magnifico habetu/r.
I used to think ghosts big things, but that was before I knew
them. I should think no more of meeting a ghost now than
a donkey on a dark night, and would infinitely sooner tackle
a spirit than a burglar. People’s curiosity is roused, and the
sooner somebody gets at the truth the better. It is a some¬
what irksome task, it is true; but no general principle can be
arrived at except by an induction of particulars. Let us be
Baconian, even to our ghosts. If they are ghosts, they are a
good deal more substantial than I had thought. If they are
not, let somebody, in the name of nineteenth century science,
send them off as with the crow of chanticleer, and let us hear
no more of Spirit Faces or Spirit Forms.
TESTIMONY OF SIR CHARLES ISHAM.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart., of Lamport Hall, North¬
ampton, is an old and tried friend of Spiritualism.
Nearly twenty years ago, when Mrs. Hayden, the
medium, came to England, he published his testimony
as to the reality of the manifestations, also as to the
witnessing a few which occurred when nobody but him¬
self was present. He also has all along borne public
testimony to the reality of the facts of mesmerism.
MANIFESTATIONS WITNESSED BY NAPOLEON III.
Napoleoh III. of France, had many seances with Mr.
Home, the Davenport Brothers, and other mediums.
Mr. Home, in his evidence given before the Dialectical
Committee, said :—
He had seen a pencil lifted by a spirit hand write on paper
in the presence of the Emperor Napoleon. This took place in
a large room, the Salon Louis Quinze. The Empress was also
preseut. The hand, after writing, went to the Emperor, who
kissed it; it then went to the Empress ; she withdrew from
the touch, and the hand followed her. The Emperor said,
‘ ‘ Do not be frightened, kiss it 1 ” She then kissed it, and it
shortly afterwards disappeared. The writing was an auto¬
graph of the Emperor Napoleon I. The Emperor of Russia
had also seen and handled spirit hands, which afterwards
seemed to melt away into thin air.
The Emperor Napoleon having been at a great many
of Mr. Home’s seances, Mr. Home was asked by mem¬
bers of the Dialectical Society to state other things
which had been observed on those occasions. Mr.
Home said that he did not feel at liberty to state any
more than the Emperor was in the habit of telling
himself.
MANIFESTATIONS WITNESSED BY THE EMPEROR
OF RUSSIA.
The Spiritualist of May 15th, 1871, contains an
article by M. Aksakof, of St. Petersburg, Conseiller de
Cour, Attache a la Chancellerie du Conseil d'Etat, and
Chevalier de Tordre de S. Stanilas. In the course of
the article the writer says:—
Mr. Home gave four seances to the Emperor at the Winter
Palace, where everything passed off very satisfactorily, and
the Emperor himself makes not the slightest scruple in testi¬
fying to others that he several times saw a spirit hand. As a
sign of recognition, he presented Mr. Home with a magni¬
ficent sapphire ring, the sapphire being set in diamonds.
MANIFESTATIONS WITNESSED BY THE EMPEROR
OF -GERMANY.
The Daily Telegraph of Oct. 31st, 1870, published
the following statement, made by its special corre¬
spondent, at the seat of war with the Prussian army
in France
A staff officer put his head in at the door, and exclaimed,
“The King! the King!” disappearing as he uttered the
words. We hurried after him, and sure enough there, in the
dining-room, stood the venerable Monarch, who had impro¬
vised a visit to the Chateau during his afternoon drive, sur¬
rounded by the members of his personal staff. I never saw
the King in better health or spirits ; he displayed the greatest
interest in the curious spectacle submitted to his inspection
by the disorganised intenqur, and strode through the suites
of rooms with as firm a tread and debonair a bearing as if the
tale of his years had only reached twenty instead of seventy-
three. Among our party was an American General, with
whom his Majesty conversed for some time. Another was
Mr. Daniel Home, the celebrated Spiritualist, whom the King
promptly recognised, and addressed very kindly—reminding
him of the wonders that he (Mr. Home) had been the means
of imparting to him, and inquiring about “ the spirits ” in by
no means a sceptical tone.” We may add that the King said
to Mr. Home that “ he had told many of his friends of the
wonderful manifestations he had seen in Mr. Home’s pre¬
sence : his friends did not believe him ; but the facts were
true for all that.”
SIGNOR DAMIANPS CHALLENGE.
Sighor Damiani, a Sicilian gentleman, who recently
resided at Clifton, but who is now in Naples, once
wrote a pamphlet pointing out how men of science
neglect their duty to the public, by not giving reliable
information about Spiritualism. After criticising the
Sept. 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
315
sayings of Professor Tyndall and Mr. G. H. Lewes;
he offered the following challenge, which we published
for two years in the advertising columns of this news¬
paper, without anybody having the enterprise to accept
Signor Damiani’s offer:—
I now offer you two challenges.
First, I challenge you, or either of you, or any of the
public who, like you, disbelieve in the genuine character of
Spiritualistic phenomena, to deposit in the hands of any well-
known London banker whom you or they may name, the sum
of five hundred guineas ; and I pledge myself to immediately
deposit in the same bank a like aniount—the ownership of such
sum of one thousand guineas to depend upon my proving by
evidence sufficient to establish any fact in history or in a
criminal or civil court of justice—
First—That intelligent communications and answers to
questions put, proceed from dead and inert matter in a manner
inexplicable by any generally recognised law of nature.
Secondly—That dead and inert matter does move without
the aid of any mechanical or known chemical agency, and in
defiance of all the admitted laws of gravitation.
Thirdly—That voices appertaining to no one in the flesh are
heard to speak and hold rational converse with men.
A jury of twenty-four gentlemen, twelve to be chosen by
each party (such jury to consist exclusively of members of
the learned professions and literary men), to decide whether
or not the facts contained in the above propositions are con¬
clusively proved per testes—i.e., by witnesses of established
character. A majority of the twenty-four to decide. If the
verdict be that these facts have not been established, the
thousand guineas are to belong to the party accepting this
challenge, if the verdict be that these facts are established,
the thousand guineas to be mine.
Secondly—Immediately after the above wager being de¬
cided, either way, I offer a like challenge of five hundred
guineas (to be met on the other.side in like manner as above)
—the ownership of the second sum of one thousand guineas
to depend upon the establishment of the facts contained in
the propositions already given, by experiments conducted in
the actual presence of the twenty-four gentlemen who have
decided the previous wager; the verdict of the majority to
decide in this case likewise.
In either case, stances are to be conducted in any public
or private building which the jury may select, and which may
be available for the purpose.
The result of these challenges (if accepted and decided) to
be advertised by the victorious party, at the expense of the
defeated party, in all the London daily papers.
I hope this is plain English.
Awaiting a reply to this letter, and to the challenge with
which it concludes. I am, gentlemen, your obedient servant,
Clifton, Oct. 1, 1868. Gr. Damiani.
P.S.-—Letters addressed “ Sigr. Damiani, care of Manager
of West of England and South Wales District Bank, Corn-
street, Bristol,” will always reach the writer.
DR. JOHNSON, LORD BYRON, AND TENNYSON,
ON SPIRIT COMMUNION.
Dr. Johnson ‘wrote :—
That the dead are seen no more, I will not undertake to
maintain against the concurrent testimony of all ages and all
nations. There is no people, rude or unlearned, among whom
apparitions of the dead are not related and believed. This
opinion, which prevails as far as human nature is diffused,
could become universal only by its truth ; those that never
heard of one another would not have agreed in a tale which
nothing but experience could make credible. That it is
doubted by single cavillers can very little weaken the general
evidence; and some who deny it with their tongues confess
it with their fears.”
And Lord Byron corroborated this as follows:—
“ I merely mean to say what Johnson said
That in the course of some six thousand years,
All nations have believed that from the dead
A visitant at intervals appears ;
And what is strangest upon this strange head
Is, that whatever bar the reason rears
’Gainst such belief, there’s something stronger still
In its behalf, let those deny who will.”
Alfred Tennyson wrote:—
“ How pure at heart and sound in head,
With what Divine affections bold,
Should be the man whose thoughts would hold
An hour’s communion with the dead 1 ”
DJoetrs.
THE POETRY OF SCIENCE.
T/iese verses, by the Editor o/Thh Spiritualist, have been previously published
in several journals.
O SAT not Science lacketh charms
To woo the poet’s pen,
To swell the pages of romance,
Or thrill the souls of men;
Her’s is a realm of fairy-land,
A scene of endless change,
Where eye and ear are all confused
With wonders passing strange.
She hinds the eternal elements,
She yokes them to the plough,
And iron steeds with, hearts of Are
Speed at her bidding now;
Deep in the Ocean’s solitude
She her bright name engraves,
Unscathed she treads its golden sands
And cleaves its surging waves.
She joins the nations of the earth
With mystic net-work bands,
Binding in common brotherhood
The dwellers in all lands,
Whilst through these wondrous arteries
The lightning pulses thrill,
Bearing glad hews of “Peace on Earth,”
To all mankind, “ .Goodwill”
She bends their orbits, and the stars
Speed on their track of light, ,
Sparkling afar in heaven's dark hall
Like glories in the night;
The planets feel her lion grasp
As their bright paths they run,
And with relentless laws she guides
The Chariot of the Sun.
The trees relate their fairy-tales,
The plants unfold their store
Of wisdom and design, and tell
Truths never dreamt before.
The lightning plays around her feet
And does her bidding well,
The very stones break forth in song,
List to the tales they tell:—
They tell how chaos ruled—how earth
# Lay wrapped in deathlike sleep,
How silence reigned in majesty,
And darkness veiled the deep.
They tell how life uprose on earth,
How forests clothed the land,
And step by step reveal the work
Of HIS Almighty hand.
Calmly in silence and in gloom, '
In caverns of the earth,
They teach vain man the nothingness
Of his ephemeral birth.
Show him dread scenes of former life
Long to destruction hurled,
And on earth’s pillars bid him read
The history of a world.
Behold another votary still—
The light her aid has given,
Light, whose bright beams of purity
Rushed angel-winged from heaven.
Then fair Aurora lit the north,
And shook her streaming bars,
T hen earth awoke, awoke to life—
Then sang the morning stars.
Yet learn, Enchantress, thy domain
A limit still must know,
Thus far, 0 Science, is thine own—J
Further thou canst not go.
- In the Councils of Eternity
HIS wondrous ways were planned;
Ways that elude thy piercing eye,
Defy thine iron hand.
Ages of dim futurity
Shall own thy powerful sway,
Till man with all his noble works
Shall pass from earth for aye.
For ever teach him Nature’s laws,
Unfold his Maker’s will,
Guide him in paths of light and truth,
And lead him upwards still.
Some additional subscriptions have been received by
Mr. Dawe towards The Spiritualist fund, namely, Mr. J. H.
Gledstanes, £1; Miss Edmiston, £1; Mr. S. Chinnery, £1; and
A Friend, £1; for which unexpected additions to the closed
list we have much pleasure in returning thanks.
316
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Se]?t. 1, 1873.
armespontience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
DISTURBANCES IN A VAULT IN THE ISLAND OE BARBADOES.
Sib,—Having read in The Spiritualist of last month an
account of mysterious occurrences that took place in the
vaults of a chapel in the Isle of Oelsen, as related by the
late Baron de Guldenstubbe, it might not, perhaps, be unin¬
teresting to your readers to have a description of a similar
phenomenon in a tomb of St. Michael’s Church, Barbadoes,
in 1820. As I was present there as one of the official wit¬
nesses, I am able to certify the truth of the description in
every particular. Ohas. Boyd, Lieutenant- Colonel.
Formerly Aide-de-Camp to Lord Combermere.
Baden-Baden, August 15th, 1873.
The following mysterious occurrences were witnessed in
connection with a tomb in St. Michael’s churchyard, Island
of Barbadoes, during the period of Lord Combermere’s
Government, 1817—1820, and are extracted from his Memoirs
as published by his widow, Viscountess Combermere, 1866.
(Hurst and Blackett, Great Marlborgugh-street.)
For some time previous to Lord Combermere’s arrival in
Barbadoes, the inhabitants had been at intervals startled by
reports of mysterious occurrences in a family vault at Christ
Church, where it was said some supernatural agency always
upset or displaced the1 coffins deposited there. No Negro
would approach the burying-ground towards nightfall.
Women whispered wonderful stories of apparitions, and
children were threatened with its horrors to insure obedience.
Lord Combermere, hearing of the terror occasioned by these
rumours, and ascertaining that the coffins had actually been
several times displaced, resolved on investigating the matter
personally. The family to whom the vault belonged were
anxious to have it examined ; and as an interment was
immediately to take place, he determined to be present at
the ceremony.
Barbadoes is formed of calcareous rock over which lies a
very inconsiderable depth of earth; but that portion of the
island immediately connected with our story,—namely, Christ
Church, and the adjacent burying-ground, stands upon a
shelf of coral which rises to an eminence of 100 feet above
the level of the sea. The church dedicated to our Saviour is
one of eleven founded two centuries since, when various
members of the district erected family vaults in the burying-
grounds appointed to each church. From the nature of the
foundation, these tombs were found partly above, partly
below the surface,—a circumstance which may have served
to protect them from the fury of the hurricanes that from
time to time have devastated the island. The vault in
question belonged to the family of the Hon. Colonel Chase
It was constructed of masonry composed of the large sand¬
stone of the island, closely resembling our Portland stone,
connected by cement, which, in the course of a few years,
had hardened so completely as to render the walls as solid as
if formed of entire stone. The roof and flooring were con¬
structed in the same way and of the same materials. The
sides inclining inwards towards the top, left the roof smaller
than the base, which was 12 feet long by 6J feet broad. In
the fourth side was formed the doorway, the masonry project¬
ing at the bottom, and gradually decreasing towards the top,
forming an inclined plane against which rested a large slab
of solid stone, forming a door ; immediately inside two or
more steps descended to the basement.
On the occasion of an interment in this vault, August 9th,
1812, those engaged in opening it to receive the body were
astonished to find that two of the large leaden coffins had
been removed from their places. One was thrown over on the
ground, while that of an infant pitched from one side to the
opposite corner.
The black labourers became alarmed, and hastened to the
church officials to relate this singular circumstance; but no
credence was given to their story, and it was imagined that,
actuated by a love of mischief, these men had upon the last
occasion, in order to create a sensation, entered the vault
before closing the door, disturbed the coffins, and left them
in this disorder. Yain were the protestations of innocence ;
and even the known horror which all negroes attach to death
and burial-places was not accepted as a confirmation of their
assertions. They were accordingly severely reprimanded,
and the church officials, fearing lest they should be censured
for neglect, determined to keep strict watch over this par¬
ticular vault for the future, and endeavoured to prevent the
knowledge of what had transpired from circulating beyond
those immediately concerned ; they consequently^ acted with
the greatest caution at the closing of the door after the burial
had taken place, having previously seen the coffins re¬
arranged, and the vault restored to its usual order. They
further satisfied themselves of the impossibility of ingress by
any other than the legitimate means.
Four years and two months had elapsed when Death again
visited the Chase family, and the vault destined to receive
another inmate,—a tiny coffin and its baby tenant. The
officials eagerly repaired to the spot. External examination
proved that the door had not been disturbed since last closed.
All appeared exactly as when they left it. The cement round
the entrance was as solid as the stone it secured. No crack
in any of the walls warranted any suspicion of violence, and
yet, when the door was removed, the vault displayed'much
greater confusion than on the previous occasion.
This was too serious an occurrence to be long overlooked,
and it was felt the family ought to be apprised of it, and the
perpetrators of the trick discovered, if possible, and punished.
After examining the vault, and questioning the masons very
closely, the family now informed of all the circumstances
were disposed to treat the matter lightly. The vault con¬
sequently was re-arranged and closed, after the coffin of the
infant had been deposited there.
Scarcely two months elapsed before the remains of a rela¬
tive were removed from another parish to be laid in this vault.
It was opened and again a mysterious confusion prevailed.
The coffins were replaced and the vault again closed. Two
years and eight months passed away, when death called for
another consignment to this tomb. The door being removed,
the interior for a third time displayed a strange disarrange¬
ment of the coffins. It was now regarded more serious than
hitherto, and the account of the mystery spread so rapidly that
not only all the inhabitants of Bridgetown, but of the whole
Island were interested. Thousands visited the spot, curiosity
was at its height, and the news having reached Government
House, Lord Combermere stated his intention of being present
at the approaching interment. Accordingly, attended by his
two aides-de-camp, Major Finch (brother of Lord Aylesford)
and Captain Charles J3oyd, he visited the vault).- In his pre¬
sence every part of the floor was sounded to ascertain that no
subterranean passage or entrance was concealed. It was found
to be perfectly firm and solid; no crack was even apparent.
The walls when examined proved to be thoroughly secure.
No fracture was visible, and the three sides, together with the
roof and flooring, presented a structure as solid as if formed of
entire slabs of stone. The displaced coffins were again placed
in order, and the new tenant of that dreary abode deposited,
and when the mourners retired with the funeral procession the
floor was carefully sanded with fine white sand in the presence
of his Lordship and the assembled crowd. The door was slid
into its wonted position, and with the utmost care the new
cement was laid on so as to secure it. When the masons had
completed their task, the Governor and his aides-de-camp
made several impressions in the cement with their own seals,
as did many of the assembled officers with private marks.
Satisfied now that no one could gain access to the vault
without betraying his visit, the people departed; but the inte¬
rest in this strange occurrence continued, furnishing a con¬
stant topic of conversation. The greatest curiosity was ex¬
pressed as to the result, and numerous conjectures arose as to
the phenomenon, some suggesting volcanic power, others
expressing a superstitious belief in superhuman agency, while
many still continued to attribute the mischief to the cunning
of the negroes. So great a commotion did the occurrence
make in the island, and so many expressed impatience to test
the possibility of trickery by the reopening of the tomb, that
Lord Combermere, who participated in this general curiosity,
consented to have it examined, and the opening was fixed
for the 18th of April, 1820, just nine months and eleven days
after the period of its close.
Barbadoes has seldom witnessed such a gathering as that
assembled in Christ Church district on that day. The towns
were deserted and thousands hastened to the scene; every
spot, every avenue, every foot of ground was crowded in and
around the churchyard. The scorching rays of the sun blazed
forth in tropical splendour upon that sea of living forms.
Europeans and negroes, all crowded together in their varied
attires, and scarcely less varied complexions upon the brow of
a hill, with the massive stone tombs rising here and there
above them, and the old church standing forth in sombre
relief, as if a connecting link between the living and the dead,
made the scene altogether one which beggared description,
Sept. 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
317
while, perhaps, its peculiar interest was in the deathlike silence
that reigned over it, the silence of mute anxiety and super¬
stitious awe.
Lord Combermere now arrived with his suite, and if his
own interest in the mystery could have failed in inducing him
to seek the reopening of the vault, the assembled masses gave
ample testimony of the universal gratification conferred by his
intervention. The cement was unbroken, and the large im¬
pressions of the governor’s and other seals were as distinct,
sharp, and perfect as when first made, but now hardened into
stone. When each one was satisfied in this regard that his
seal was untouched and unaltered, the masons proceeded to
break the cement and slide off the door. The cement yielded
to their instruments, but when they tried to remove the stone,
it resisted with unwonted weight. Increased force was applied,
but still in spite of crowbars and other appliances it remained
immovable. For a moment all hands were paralysed, and a
look of wonder and dismay passed from each to each ; but it
was only for a moment; the next attempt lent a powerful
energy to their efforts, and the door yielded half-an-inch.
Nothing was distinctly visible in the darkness of its buried
night. Still the light which entered through the narrow
crevice seemed to cut across some black object close to the
portal, so near that the thread-like ray lay brightly visible,
prevented by this massive black from dispersing itself into the
reigning darkness within. Terror a second time palsied the
energy of those engaged in this operation. Suspense deepened
the intensity of interest and awe which transfixed the anxious
spectators. Every breath was hushed lest they should fail to
catch the first whisper of those near the tomb that might offer
a solution to the problem before them. Increased force was
tried to remove the stone, and inch by inch it yielded, till it
was slid sufficiently aside to admit of a person’s entering,
when it was discovered that a huge leaden coffin, which it
required eight men with crowbars to move, was standing upon
its head with the end resting against the middle of the stone
door. It had been thrown from its central place, and the
coffin of the child had been hurled with such force against
the opposite wall, near which it was lying, that a deep inden¬
tation had been made in the stonework by the corners which
struck it. The Chase family immediately ordered the coffins
to be removed and buried in separate graves ; after which the
vault was abandoned and has never since been used.
HAUNTED EUKNITUBE.
. Sir,—I have been requested to publish the particulars of
some incidents that have happened in my family, which have
led us to the conclusion that pieces of furniture may be
haunted although removed from house to house.
Ten years ago, whilst residing in Manchester, I bought from
what appeared to me a gentleman’s residence a handsome
dressing-table ; I was under the impression that the owner had
died, and his or her effects were being sold by auction. After
the table had been brought home and installed in a spare bed¬
room, I was somewhat annoyed to learn from a friend that the
house from which I had purchased it was of questionable re¬
putation, being one of the many establishments kept by a very
wealthy but very dissolute man, whose recent suicide had
created quite a sensation. Although vexed to think I had
bought an article from such a place, I yet decided that there
could be no reasonable objection to it, therefore it was suffered
to remain in the house.
Ten years have elapsed since that purchase, and we have
since removed to Birkenhead. During the whole period I
recall that from time to time I have had complaints from the
various occupiers of the bedroom furnished by that table ;
ladies have complained to me that they were disturbed by
raps, taps, and creakings in the table ; one young lady was so
much disturbed that she refused to sleep alone in the room. I
should here note that these persons were my visitors from a
distance, and each of them was unaware that any other had
had similar experience.
Circumstances then occurred making it necessary that my
husband should occupy the room. He invariably felt ex¬
tremely uncomfortable in it, for it was rarely free of raps, taps,
and creaking proceeding from the table. He affirms that once
he felt a figure stretch itself on the bed beside -him, and a
sensation of horror crept over him which he never can forget.
I treated all complaints made to me with uniform indiffer¬
ence, attributing them entirely to the imagination of the
parties; it never occurred to me as possible that a noise of any
sort could be made without an earthly cause.
About nine months ago, in consequence of being thrown
into the society of a very firm believer in Spiritualism, I
determined to investigate for myself. I therefore formed a
circle at home, and we began almost in jest to sit round a
table, or to join hands in a circle ; very soon we became con¬
vinced of the power ; three mediums sprung up in our family,
the most striking my little daughter, aged ten. Through
this child (Beatrice) I have had some beautiful communica¬
tions both in writing and trance-speaking, and through her,
myself and husband are convinced that there is a power
coming to us from invisible influences, by which mortals are
made to say and do things of which in a normal state they are
incapable. Yet we are not Spiritualists in the full sense of
the word, we call ourselves “ investigators.”
Four months ago I took up my abode for a time in the room
containing the table of which I have spoken, having quite
forgotten all previous complaints of the noises of which
friends had spoken. On my second night there I was seized
about midnight with spasmodic jerkings of the limbs ; I tried
every position, every effort of will-power, but in vain, I could
not keep quiet many moments. My limbs jerked in spite of
me ; at the same time I became sensible of a suffocating op¬
pression in the air of the room, and a general sensation of
unbearable restlessness and misery. After bearing it for what
seemed to me an hour, but turned out to be only about twenty
minutes, I sprang quite frantically 'from my bed, and took
refuge in another room, where, after lying down, I waited for
more misery, hardly daring to hope that what I regarded as
the beginning of some nervous disease of the St. Vitus’s dance
kind, was to pass off with a change of bed. But strange to
say, a refreshing sleep quickly took possession of me; the
nervous system which had appeared strung up to the last
tension of wretchness, grew calm and placid, almost the in¬
stant I changed my room.
Next morning my child, Beatrice, was entranced by a child
spirit, much younger than herself, who told me in the lisping
language of a mere infant, that “ Last night she visited me*to
soothe me to sleep, but found me under the influence of black
spirits, so that she could not approach me.” I inquired,
“ What have I done ; how sinned, to attract such influences to
me ?’’ She answered, ” I know not, but you inquire of
older spirits.” By the end of the day a second control took
place, and then by the lips of my child, Beatrice, I learned
that the room in which I had been sleeping contained a piece
of “ inhabited,” or haunted furniture, namely, the table.
That dark and low spirits to whom it had belonged in their
earth life, now visited it, and took a pleasure in tormenting
any one they could annoy by their mischievous influence;
that I being mediumistic, they had been enabled to produce the
jerkings and troubles of the previous night. The spirit who
visited me had been unable to approach me till I reached
another room, and then she had soothed me to sleep. I can
scarcely describe the strange feelings I had when I recalled
the circumstances connected with the purchase of my table—
circumstances which I had never communicated to a human
being, much less to my little child, only then just born. All
the complaints of other persons were now remembered, and a
different significance attached to them. I pondered hours
over this strange revelation from (to me) the unimpeachable
lips of my truthful and simple child. I debated with my
husband on the future destiny of the table. He was in
favour of selling it, but to this I could not reconcile my¬
self. While we were at issue on this point, I advo¬
cating the destruction of the “ inhabited ” article, he
condemning such a reckless waste of property, another con¬
trol of our little Beatrice occurred; it was that of a man.
With commanding manner and solemnity of voice, he said,
“ I am the brother of the wretched man to whom your table
once belonged; he is a very low spirit indeed; he inhabits the
first sphere, he was a suicide." In a prolonged speech, the
spirit then implored us to destroy the table at once ; and to
the unbounded astonishment of my husband and myself, he
proceeded by the lips of our pure and infant-like Beatrice to
describe to us the relations existing between his suicidal
brother and the dissolute female who lived with him in the
house Of our table. With tears streaming down the cheeks of
the little medium, we were told that this bad spirit works
untold misery in other houses to which other pieces of his
furniture have been conveyed; it was explained that these
things, being charged with his psychological influences, he
could approach them thereby. We were also told that the
woman who had used that table in the earth-life of this man,
was now dead, and that her spirit was generally the one by
which we had been disturbed. She was spoken of by the
control as “ One of his wives.’,
318
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Sept. 1, 1873.
These revelations from lips so pure, so artless as those of
Beatrice, have been accepted by us. Our little girl was an
infant a few months old when that table first came into our
possession, and I can solemnly affirm that we never communi¬
cated its previous history to a single ear; in fact, we had
ourselves ceased to recollect whence we had it.
A little difficulty occurred to us as we contemplated the de¬
struction of so large an article as what we now looked on as our
haunted table. We could hardly ask our servants to assist in
what would doubtless appear to them such an absurdity, and
did not care to make confidants of them; so with some
trouble, and the assistance of hatchets and tools, we demo¬
lished the table between us, and conveyed its fragments to
the coal cellar, which is situated immediately under the
kitchen. I directed my cook to use the wood for firewood.
Two days after this, my maid came to me in consternation
and tribulation ; she had been ironing a dress, and had hung
it at night before the fire to air ; next morning she found the
skirt cut as with a knife in long crossway slits. She
brought me her dress, which, on examination, I found cut as
she described. Greatly puzzled, I held a consultation with
her and the other servants, but without clearing up the
mystery. Suddenly it occurred to me to ask for a minute
description of the state of the kitchen on the night when the
dress was cut. I then found that it hung on a chair close to
the fender, while on the fender was a large bundle of the
wood of the table ready for lighting fires in the morning.
I took possession of the injured dress, and presenting it to
our medium child, I asked her if one of her friends in the
spirit world could give me any light in this strange affair.
Immediately the child became entranced, and after manipu¬
lating the dress, she said, “ The wearer of this dress is a
powerful medium; she is frivolous and silly, and her dress
is charged with her influence ; had it been the dress of any of
your other servants it could not have been injured, but being
Tiers, the spirits of the table have been able to approach it.
They are very much enraged that you have destroyed one of
their favourite articles, and finding this dress so close to some
of the wood which is still charged with their influence, they
got power enough to cut it.”- I asked, “ Did they use a knife
to cut it ? m “ No,” was the answer ; “ such low spirits are
almost material; they have long nails sharp as knives, and
these, I think, they have used to cut this dress.”
You may easily believe 1 now became very anxious for the
perfect annihilation of the table by fire, but as the article
had been a large one, and of very fanciful design, this took
some weeks, for we could not conveniently make a bonfire of
it. One day complaints were made to me that there had
been loud noises in the coal-cellar, as of the chopping of wood,
and that no one had been found on searching the whole base¬
ment floor.
For weeks we continued to use the wood of the table as
fire-wood, and as the weather became warmer some of it re¬
mained in the drawing-room grate unburnt, as the fire was
laid ready to light, but not wanted. I regarded it, I confess,
with some misgivings, and at length directed the servant
having the care of the room to remove it all, and clean the
grate for the summer. While she was doing this, a very
large Chinese vase of great weight and thickness was
shattered into a hundred pieces whilst standing on the floor
by her side ; I heard the crash and rushed at once to the room
where I found the girl on her knees, rubbing the grate, which
is steel, with a leather; the vase, which was in the place it
has occupied for years, was lying in fragments at her side. I
am quite confident that such a vase could never have been
broken by rolling over on the floor ; if it had fallen from a
height, I doubt if it could have been shattered in such a
manner, but my servant assured me that to her knowledge
she had not touched it. I should add that the fender, fire-irons,
and all paraphernalia had been moved into the kitchen to be
cleaned, and no article hard enough to break such a vase
was near; the girl herself seemed to regard the event as
something quite supernatural, and coupling it with the cutting
of her dress, asserted that she was evidently under some evil
luck. ' ■
I consulted Beatrice on this mishap, and got from her this
explanation, “Your maid is a medium, and being very frivo¬
lous she herself is much en rapport with the spirits who
still haunt that wood; they collected enough force from the
girl and the wood which had been in the grate, to strike a
blow which broke one of your favourite ornaments.”
Since then I have changed this servant for another, and we
have burnt every atom of the wood. Without attempting to
draw a single inference from these incidents, I leave the story
in your hands to be published, if you think it likely to be useful,
and pledging myself solemnly that it is faithfully told and en¬
tirely free from exaggeration. I give my real name and
address. E. Louisa S. Nosworthy.
Avon Lea, Claughton, Birkenhead,
August 28th, 1873.
A SPIRIT HAND.
Sir,—When D. D. Home was with me at Tunbridge-Wells
last June, I said to him, “ Let us have a sitting, as I desire
much to thank our ghost friends for the help they so mani¬
festly gave during the critical period of my recent dangerous
illness—thanks as justly due as to nurses and doctors.” The
next morning he stated that during the night they came to
him, and fixed the following Monday for a sitting.
On Monday evening we had the sitting. Present—D. D.
Home, my daughter Emily, Mrs. Arnold, and self. The
large oval table was put close to the window; there was
plenty of light. Mr. Home sat opposite to me. The space
opposite the window was free.
I pass by the usual phenomena of various toned tappings on
the table ; a bell I had placed under the table rang, and was
placed in the hand of one of the sitters, and then occurred an
interesting incident—the incident of the sitting. My left
hand was beside the window away from the sitters, on the
table. I saw the form of a hand come out from under the
table in front of me, but it was to me indistinct; on so
stating, it came round to my left hand and appeared beside it,
but did not touch. It next came on to the table, the palm of
the hand facing mine. It was a full-sized delicate hand, but
withered. It then came up to, and slapped the back of my
hand and fingers with vigour several times, and the sound
produced while so flapping was heard by all the sitters, thus
proving its materiality. J. Enmore JONES.
Enmore-park, Norwood, S.E.
A PROPHETIC VISION.
Sir,—As you ask for facts, I beg to hand you one occurring
in my own experience. A few years ago I retired to bed in
good health, and woke up about half-past seven o’clock, with
a wonderful feeling of pleasure at a dream I had only just come
out of, which I told my wife before we descended to breakfast.
At breakfast I also told it to my sons and daughter, all of
whom laughed at my credulous statement on that Sunday
morning. On the evening of that day I went to a seance some
miles in the country, and there named the same thing. It
was to the following effect:—
I dreamt I was taking a walk alone in the country, and was
admiring a road leading to a house surrounded by a cluster of
large trees ; the foliage was so rich, the sky so blue, and the
fragrance of the exotics so exhilirating, that I never before felt
so delighted. Suddenly there appeared at the foot of the
avenue two magnificent carriages of large size, with silvered
looking-glasses within ; on every side they were all ornamented
with gold mouldings. Each carriage had four black horses,
with very long black tails, but the livery-men were dressed in
green and gold, and were apparently waiting for the company
to come from the house. Whilst I was admiring this, a most
delicious perfume awoke me.
Now, on the Monday morning I passed my brother-in-law’s
house, near to me, on my way to business, and a doctor was
ringing the hell, so I asked, “ What was to do ? ” He replied,
“ Oh, the old bachelor has sent for me, because, I hear, he
has got a sore throat, though he was in the garden all yester¬
day, and ailed nothing.” I proceeded to town, and on my
return at five o’clock I found he' had just died of diphtheria,
in twelve hours, without a will, and with that money of his I
bought Parkfield, and live in it now. It is the very place I
saw in my dream, two years before, excepting carriages and
horses, as mine are only of the ordinary kind.
I merely state these things to show that some link exists
between this world and the next, either by visions or impres¬
sions of some kind, the philosophy of which has yet to be
found out. Charles Blackburn. '
Parkfield, Didsbury, near Manchester.
August 28th, 1873.
Mr. J. J. Morse, trance medium, will deliver two in¬
spirational discourses on Sunday, September 7th, at the
Temperance-hall, Grosvenor-street, Manchester. The services
will begin in the morning at 10.30, and in the evening at
6.30.
Sept. 1, 1878,
THE SPIKITUALIST.
319
The Spiritualist newspaper will be published weekly
early next winter.
Feom want of room in this number of The Spiritualist,
some letters and advertisements are unavoidably kept over.
An important notice about this special number of The
Spiritualist appears in our advertising columns.
The official report of the first Council-meeting of the
National Association of Spiritualists will be published in our
next.
Among the gentlemen who have seen enough of Spirit¬
ualism to be convinced of it's truth, is Mr. George Thompson,
formerly member for the Tower Hamlets, and noted in his
day as a leading English anti-slavery advocate and anti¬
corn law agitator. In consequence of advanced age, he has
long since retired from public life, and it was in the course
of his many visits to America that he investigated Spiritual¬
ism. A letter from his daughter, Mrs. Nosworthy, is published
to-day in our correspondence columns.
Contradictory Spirit Messages.—Spirits out of the
body are wise or foolish, truthful or untruthful, just the same
as spirits in the body. Moreover, they are but individuals,
so do not know everything. The statements of a spirit are
but the assertions of an individual; but by comparing the
statements of many spirits, it may in time be possible to dis¬
cover in what points they agree, and to sift out the unreliable
communications. Many spirits cannot see each other, any more
than we can see them, and as some of them are thus in diffe¬
rent states of life, it does not follow that contradictory
messages are therefore untruthful. Spirits are of different
religions, consequently their teachings do not altogether agree;
there is no more uniformity in the next world than in this
one, It is the business of this journal to report facts, so we
are in no way responsible for the religions, scientific, or any
other teachings given by individual spirits.
A Spiritualists’ Picnic. — Last Wednesday week
there was a picnic at the People’s Garden, Old Oak Common,
Willesden,inaugurated by the Marylebone Society of Spiritual¬
ists. Six hundred persons were present, of whom five hundred
were Spiritualists—a very good attendance now that so many
persons are out of town. The Royal Osborne Hand-bell
Ringers performed very beautifully several times during the
day, and the Garden Club Band, conducted by Mr. Witcomb,
gave some excellent music. Dr. Sexton exposed the tricks of
Maskelyne and Cooke, Dr. Lynn, and Herr Dobler, and the
Rev. Mr. Monck, Baptist minister, late of Bristol, made a
speech, announcing himself to be a Christian Spiritualist, and
stating that he was about to help “ to raise Spiritualism out of
the slime with which it has hitherto been covered.” Mr.
Monck, who has been a Spiritualist a few months, will find in
this issue of The Spiritualist the names and testimony of
some of his slimy predecessors, and we recommend him to
begin by publicly cleansing Mr. C. F. Yarley, who will return from
Germany in a few days, and, we believe, will not at all object
to be publicly converted by any preacher who will undertake
the task. The refreshment department was badly managed;
there was a tedious red-tape process of issuing orders for
refreshments, which were more or less inferior as regards
quality and cleanliness, dirty glasses being used freely.
Altogether, however, the gathering was a tolerable success, and
the experience gained will be useful on future occasions.
SIBYL, Seeress, Clairvoyante, and Test Medium, 53,
Great Ooram-street, Russell-square, W.O. Hours—12 till 6. Terms
—5s. each person.
DR. HUGH MCLEOD acts in conjunction with SIBYL for the Treat¬
ment and Cure of Disease, at the above address. Terms, for consultation, 5s.
Visits, to any part of London, 10s.
LUNACY LAW REFORM.
LL PERSONS cognisant of cases of INCARCERATION,
under a false plea of Insanity, or of MALTREATMENT OF
LUNATICS, or who are ready to co-operate in obtaining AMENDMENT
OF THE LUNACY LAWS, are earnestly requested to communicate with
MRS. LOUISA LOWE,
-97, BURTON ROAD, B R I X T 0 N.
The following Extract from the “ Aox to Amend the Law relating to Luna¬
tics ” is a fair specimen of Lunacy Legislations:—
“ It shall be lawful for the Proprietor or Superintendent of any licensed
house with the previous assent in writing of two or more of the Commis¬
sioners, or in the Case of a House licensed by Justices, of two or more of
the Visitors to entertain and keep in such house as a Boarder for such time as
may be specified in the assent, any person who may have been within Five
Years immediately preceding the giving of such assent, a Patient in any
asylum, hospital, or licensed house, or under care as a Single Patient.”—25
& 26 Viet., ch. iii., sec. 18.
EYIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERYES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes'and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. R. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“ Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con-
rivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
‘‘Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’  
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually Of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or- raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? " Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
320
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 1, 1873.
The Best Book for Enquirers.
HERE ARE THE DEAD P or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modern spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits ; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fbitz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
CONTENTS.
Chapter L—The Uncertainty- regarding the Future State—The Unrea¬
sonable Fear of Death—The Materialistic Tendencies of the Age—Dr.
Strauss’s Conclusions regarding God and Immortality—Mr. W. R. Greg’s
Conclusions in Enigmas of Life—The Orthodox Belief regarding Heaven
and Hell, and its Inconsistencies—The Value of Spiritualism in throwing'
Light on the Future State of Mankind.
Chapter II.—Erroneous Notions regarding Spiritualism, and the Nature
and Condition of the Dead—Character after Death must remain Unaltered
—Communicating with Spirits not new—Examples of Bible Spiritualism
similar to Modern Instances—Mediumship commended by St. Paul—Un¬
reasonable Prejudice against Modem Spiritualism—Medieval Spiritualism
■—Addison and Johnson’s Opinions regarding Apparitions—Spiritualism in
the Seventeenth and Eighteenth Centuries—St. Paul and the Spiritual Body
—Dr. Nichol’s Opinion regarding Spirits—Is it Lawful ?
Chapter III.—Origin of Modern Spirit Rapping in America—A Haunted
House—The Spirit of a Murdered Man communicates by Raps—Discovery
of Mediumship—Who are Mediums and what is Mediumship—Dr. Ander¬
son on “ Nerve Aura ”—The Facts of Mesmerism—The Connecting Link
between Mind and Matter—How Spirits can use the Nerve Aura of the
Medium—Personal Atmosphere—Mutual Likes and Dislikes—Love—Spirit
Rapping Explained—How Furniture is Moved by Spirits—Instance of a
Mesmeric Experiment—Trance Mediumship compared with Mesmerism.
Chapter IV.—Progress of Spiritualism in England—A List of Names of
Believers of Repute—The Dialectical Society’s Investigation and Report—
Uhe Times on Spiritualism, and the Opposition of Scientific Men—The
Various Manifestations—The Dialectical Society’s Experiment—Movement
of a Table without Contact—The “ Psychic Force ” Explanation—Example
of a Spirit Communication about Affairs Unknown to all Persons present,
and its bearing upon “ Unconscious Cerebration ”—Evidence of Mr. Varley,
C.E., F.R.S., before the Dialectical Society—His Reasons for Believing in
Spiritualism.
Chapter V.—Mediumship requires Developing—Patience in Sitting—
The Different Phases of the Manifestations hitherto Witnessed—Example
of an Extraordinary Dark Harare, Spirit Voices, Furniture Movements, &c.,
under Test Conditions—Account of Mrs. Guppy’s Transportation—A Lady
Carried Three Miles by Spirits—Who the Spirits “John King” and “Katey”
are—Remarks on the Trivial Nature of the Manifestations—Their Utility
and their Cause Explained—The kind of Evidence demanded by Sceptics—
Gerald Massey’s Opinions thereon—The Editor of The Times' Experiences
at a Dark Seance—A Dark Seance at Mrs. Bassett’s Described by a Barrister—
A Dark Seance at Mrs. Holmes’s'—Spirits Materialise their Faces and Chow
themselves in the Light—Recognition of Spirits’ Faces by Relatives present
—A Seance described by the Daily Telegraph's Commissioners—Faces Seen
and Touched in the Light—A Seance at Herne and Williams’s Rooms—
Spirit Arms and Hands seen in the Light—A Seance at Miss Cook’s De¬
scribed in the Social Review—Faces Shown in the Light—Another Seance at
Miss Cook’s Described by a Barrister—Faces Seen in the Light—Writing
by the Spirit Hands—Another Seance at Herne and Williams's Described by
a Minister—Astounding Phenomena—Another Startling Seance with Herne
and Williams—The Deceased Wife of a Gentleman appears and Converses
for twenty minutes—The probable Future Development of the foregoing -
Phenomena—How are the Faces produced by the Spirits—The Philosophy
of the subject Discussed.
Chapter VI.—Specimen of Direct Spirit Writing—A Communication
from Newton, Locke, and Boyle upon the Spiritual and Natural Worlds—
Spirit Photographs—An Account of their Origin—The First Taken in
England—Excitement and Suspicion—Tests that have been Tried to Detect
Imposture—Letter from a Gentleman who obtained a Photograph of the
Spirit of his Deceased Wife—Mr. William Howitt’s Testimony—The Spirits
of his Deceased Sons Photographed—List of Forty Persons who have ob¬
tained Spirit Photographs of Deceased Relatives—Experiments by other
Photographers—Mr. Shaw—Mr. Beattie—His Letter to the British Journal
of Photography.
Chapter VII.—Trance Mediumship explained—Mr. Morse—The value of
Trance Speaking—Mr. Morse’s Spirit Guide “ Tien-sien-ti ”—A Chinese
Philosopher—Discourses by “Tien-sien-ti” on the Locality of the Spirit
World—On Popular Theology—On the Religion of Spirits—What is Spirit
—Clothing of Spirits, Climate, &e.—Day and Night in the Spheres—Prin¬
ciple of Future Rewards—Self-improvement—Creeds in Spirit Life—War
—Parentage—Health—Future State in reference to Premature Death and
Suicide, and to Idiots—The advantage of Long Life—Deformed Bodies as
Spirits—The Senses of Spirits—The Philosophy of Marriage—Mesmerism
and Mediumship—Passing Solid Substances through each other—Chance
and Luck—Communicating Spirits—Earthly Spirits—Their Locality—Pro¬
phesying—Spirits in Animal Forms—Luck and 111 luck—The Spiritual and
the Natural Body—How far Spirits are Trustworthy—Body, Soul, and
Spirit—Struggles in Spirit Life—The Art of Materialising—Inspiration Ex¬
plained—Who Answers Prayers ?—The Cause of House Hauntings.
Chapter VIII.—An Extraordinary Book—A Philosophy of the Universe
dictated by an Uneducated Cobbler’s Apprentice whilst Entranced by
Spirits—Andrew Jackson Davis—Professor Bush’s (of New York) Opinion
on the Work—An Outline of the Work—The Bible Reviewed and the Mys¬
teries Explained—Adam and Eve—Origin of Evil—The Flood—The Power
of Prophecy—The Prophets of the Bible—Past Revelations—What is Man
Spiritually and Materially—The Elements of the. Soul—The Destiny of Man
—Death Described—First Entrance of the Spirit into the Next World—The
Association of Spirits—The Future Life, Scenery, and Occupations De¬
scribed—The Seven Spheres round the Earth—Future State of Eternal
Progression—The Three Societies of Spirits in each Sphere—The Future of
Infants and Imbeciles—Hell and the Devil Impossibilities—“A Voice to
Mankind”—The Defective State of Modern Society—The Prevalence of
Sectarianism—Action not Prayer Required—The Remedy Required—Prac¬
tical Suggestions, Co-operation.
Chapter IX.—Mr. Wallace’s Trance Mediumship—Questions Discussed
by his Spirit Guides—The Future State of a Drunkard—Animals in Spirit
Life—Future of Electricity—Origin of Knowledge—Influence of Evil Spirits
—A Message through a Writing Medium from the Spirit of a Young Minister
—Specimens of Interesting Messages from Spirits on various topics con¬
nected with Spirits and their State, Surroundings, and Occupations, from
“ Glimpses of a Brighter Land,” viz.: The Spirit World; Prayer, &c.; Evil
Spirits; The Knowledge of Spirits; Golden Advice to Women; Future
Value of Knowledge; The Nature of God; Inspiration Explained; Cause of
Untruthful Messages; The Travels of Spirits—Extract from “Heaven
Opened,” another Message through a Writing Medium—Harris’s “Lyric of
a Golden Age”—A Grand Poem Dictated by Spirits through a Trance
Medium, with Extracts upon Poets and Prophets, Redemption from Sin,
and the Thirst for Knowledge—Prophecy of England’s Downfall by the
Spirits of Byron and Pollok, &c.—Other Books—A Poem by the Spirit of
Robert Bums upon Theology and Creeds.
Chapter X.—Mediums used for Painting by the Spirits of Deceased
Artists—Account of David Duguid, of Glasgow—A Contemporary of Christ
furnishes an Extraordinary Narrative of an Unrecorded Incident in Christ’s
Life through Mr. Duguid’s Mediumship—Another Painting Medium—Charles
Swan, of Aylesbury—Paintings by the Spirits of Turner, Eastlake, and
others.
Chapter XI.—Mrs. Olive, Trance Medium—The Spirits of “ Marie
Stuart,” “ Sir John Forbes,” “Dr. Mesmer ”—A Letter from a Lieutenant in
the Royal Artillery Describing a Sitting with Mrs. Olive—^Addresses from
the Spirits of “John Knox,” “Joan of Arc,” “Dr. Forbes," “Queen Eliza¬
beth,” and others—A London Spirit Visits a Patient in Australia—Miss
Hudson’s Clairvoyance—^Letters from Investigators—Miss Fowler’s Clair¬
voyance—Letters from Investigators—Clairaudience—Hearing Spirit Voices
—A Medium Confined as a Lunatic—Mrs. Dickenson’s Mediumship.
Chapter XII.—Remarks on Spiritualism and Objections Answered—Is
it Lawful?—Clerical Opposition—The Rev. H. R. Haweis on Spiritualism—
The Rock's Opinions—The Rev. John Jones’s Pamphlet: “Spiritualism the
Work of Demons ”—His Conclusions Refuted—The late Dr. Elliotson Con¬
verted from Materialism by Spiritualism—Other Converts—Dr. Sexton’s
Letter—The Liberal Christian's Opinion on Spiritualists—Is it Wrong ?—
Gerald Massey’s Testimony to its Value.
Chapter XIII.—Another Clerical Objection—Uncertainty of the Com¬
munications and the Means of Testing their Truthfulness—The Danger of
too much Credulity—Mr. Coleman’s Opinion on Believing Spirits—The
Cause of Frivolous Communications—Specimen of a Lying Message—Con¬
tradictory Messages through various Mediums from the Spirit of Edward
N. Dennys, the author of “ Alpha ”—The Cause of these Contradictions
Explained—Creeds in Spirit Life—The Theological Aspect of Spiritualism
—Reincarnation—Valuable Remarks and Advice upon Mediums and Me •
diumship, by the Editor of The Spiritualist—Mr. Varley, C.E., F.R.S., on the
Conditions of Spirit Manifestations.
Chapter XIV.—The Principles of Modern Spiritualism—Rules for
Forming a Spirit Circle—Gerald Massey on Modem Scientific Theories,
and the Necessity for a New Revelation—The Daily Telegraph on the Reli¬
gious Wants of the Age—A Criticism by the Illustrated London News, with
a Reply thereto by Professor Mapes—On the Utility of Spiritualism—The
Answer to those who cry “ Humbug ”—The Periodical Literature of Spirit¬
ualism—Addresses of Mediums—Spirit Photographers, and a List of
Standard Works on Spiritualism.
London: Smpkin, Marshall & Co.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—19, Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy-
square.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s
Conduit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings,
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
* RUSSELL, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, &c.,
• 238, STAFFORD-STREET, WALSALL. The Spiritualist and
other Spiritual Publications kept on sale. Bookbinding in all its branches
at London Prices. Machine Ruling with accuracy and despatch. Sta¬
tionery—Superfine Note, 6d, per quarter ream; ditto Envelopes, l£d. per
packet, 4s. 6d. per 1,000. Albums, scraps, ladies’ satchels, &c., in great
variety. Printing.—W. R. having entered into partnership with Mr.
Cooper in the printing department, is prepared to execute orders at a few
hours’ notice. Taste and Style guaranteed. Fifty Visiting cards (without
expense of plate) 2s.; per post 2s. 2d. Country Orders promptly attended to.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS. —Handsomely-printed Blue
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion, may be obtained in packets, each containing 400, price 2s. 6d. per
packet. They are especially useful for distribution at public meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, .reading-rooms, clubs, and places of
public resort.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,‘St. Paul's-churchyard, London, E.C.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
