AND JOURNAL
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
.No. 101.—(Yol. Y.—No. 5.) LONDON: JULY 31j 1874. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
(Eantentg.
Review.—Mohammed and Mohammedanism—The Influence of Sacred
Books—Psychology and Religious Criticism—The Development of
Mohammed’s Mediumship—The Inspiration of the Koran   49
Prevision.—A Vision of Joseph Hoag     52
Professor William Denton Arrested   53
Mr. A. R. Wallace on Spiritualism  53
The 1874 Conference of Spiritualists  ... 55
The Development of Spiritual Manifestations    55
National Organisation '  57
A Somersetshire Medium in America   57
Correspondence.—The National Association, 59; The Analogy of
Knowledge, 59; Materialised Spirit Forms  60
Answers to Correspondents     60
Paragraphs..—Conference of Spiritualists, 53; Mrs. Tappan in New-
* castle, 56; Royal Normal College for the Blind  60
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experien6es of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
■ London : Simpkin, Marshall & Co.  
MRS. TAPPAN’S ENGAGEMENTS.
GRIMSBOROUGH, Priory Hall, July 30 and 31.
LEEDS, Music Hall, Albion-street, Aug 4, 5, and 6.
Letters for Mrs. Tappan may be addressed to her, to the care of Messrs.
Hinde Brothers, Eastbourne, Darlington, Yorkshire.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildin&s, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
INSPIRATIONAL LECTURES~BY~MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance Medium).
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Mr. Morse will sail for the United States on Thursday, October lSth, 1874.
He has a few vacant dates for September next; early application is
necessary.
Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming-
ham Daily Mail.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.'1—Spiritualist.
“ The address quite riveted the attention of the audience.”—Eastbourne
Chronicle.
“ He spoke for nearly an hour-and-a-half. Not a hitch occurred. The
address was more or less argumentative throughout, in parts it was really
eloquent.”—Brighton Guardian.  
MR. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open.to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
All letters should be addressed to his private residence, Warwick Cottage,
Old Ford, Bow, E.
riio THE READERS OE “THE MEDIUM.” Answer
JL to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
op Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.") Published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE 1874 CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS
Will be held in London (Lawson’s Rooms, 145, Gower-street), from the
4th to the 7th of August.
GENERAL PROGRAMME.
Tuesday, August 4th.—Opening Soiree, to be held at Beethoven Rooms,
27, Harley-street, Cavendish-square. Tea at 6 o’clock. Chairman’s address
at 8 o’clock, on detailed arrangements of conference.
Wednesday, August 5th.—First session of conference, 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Second session 3 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. Subjects for consideration: “ Organi¬
sation and the Physical Phenomena.”
Thursday, August Gtji.—Third and fourth sessions at same hours. Sub¬
jects: Direct Voice, Writing, and Painting; Inspirational and Trance
Speaking; Spirit Photography; the Influence of Spiritualism on Humanity
—Past, Present, and Future.
Friday, August 1th.—Public Meetings at 3 and 6'30 at some place to be
announced hereafter.
Mr. C. E. Williams will receive members and persons visiting the Con¬
ference for seances on Tuesday, the 4th August, between the hours of 12 noon
and 5 p.m., at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, Holborn, W.C. Terms:—2s. 6d.
each person.
Mrs. Olive will receive sitters on Thursday, the 6th August, between the
hours of 10 a.m. and 6 p.m., at 145, Gower-street, Eus ton-road, N.W.
Private sitting, 5s.; parties not exceeding four persons, 7s. 6d.
Terms of Admission : Soiree—Members’ tickets, Is. each; non-members,
Is. 6d. Conference and Crystal Palace Meetings, members free upon pre¬
sentation of their card ef membership; non-members Is. to each session, or
to each public meeting, or by 2s. 6d. ticket to the entire course. Non-mem¬
bers purchasing two 2s. 6d. tickets will have the privilege of nominating a
person to be a member of the Association until the end of the current year.
The Secretaries will be in attendance at the soiree for the purpose of re¬
cording the applications of persons properly introduced to becomejmembers
of the Association. These, upon payment of the Members’ subscription, will
be entitled to admission to the Conference and Crystal Palace Meetings
free.
Tickets to be had of Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill,
W., and of the Editor of the Pioneer, 4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn.
PERSONS willing to CONTRIBUTE PAPERS on the
following subjects are invited to send their names to A. Joy, Esq., 25,
James-street, Buckingham Gate.
1. The best means to be employed by the Association in promoting the
organisation of Spiritualists.
2. The philosophy and purpose of physical manifestations.
3. The best conditions (mental, physical and social), for evolving physical
manifestations.
4. The “Direct” Voice, Writing, and Painting.
5. Inspirational and trance speaking.
6. On Spirit Photography.
7. The Influence of Spiritualism on Humanity, Past, Present, and
Future.
The papers must be sent to A. Joy, Esq., not later than Friday, the 31st
July. All accepted papers to remain the property of the Association, un¬
less specially agreed otherwise. Non-members contributing accepted
papers will be elected Honorary Members for the remainder of the current
year. No paper to occupy more than 15 minutes in reading.
T. Everitt, Chairman, Conference Committee.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
promote the study of Pneumatology and Psychology; to aid students and
inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal the means of sys¬
tematic investigation into the now recognised facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by
careful scientific research; and to direct attention to the beneficial in¬
fluence which those results are calculated to exercise upon social relation¬
ships and individual conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of
every class, whether members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and
all inquirers into psychological and kindred phenomena.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing to
become affiliated, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. Louis Freeman, York-hill Farm, Lough ton, Essex, of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
u
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 31, 1874.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A MEETING- of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Association are
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as_a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tem., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Richard Fitton, Secretary pro tem.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Wc. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
Y
ERY
into
soon, after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
England the subject attracted attention in Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assocciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
into closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Rooms, 30. Parkfleld-street. Islington.
NEWCASTLE SOCIETY
FOE
PROMOTING ENQUIRY INTO MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
OLD FREEMASON’S HALL
(weir’s court),
NEWGATE STREET, NE WOASTLE-ON-TYNE.
President.—Mr. Armstrong.
Treasurer.—Mr. John Miller. Secretary.—Mr. F. Pickup.
Seances are held for Members and Friends on Sunday'Evenings, doors
open at 6.30, t' commence at 7; and on Tuesday and Thursday evenings,
doors open at 7.30, to commence at 8.
On no account will anvoue be admitted after the time announced for
commencing 'he meet ngs, except onsp-cial occasions, when permission
must be obtain-d from the sitters who form the circle at the time of
application.
Tickets of Admission may be had of the Committee.
D ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.). Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions:—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
A. M. GREENE, lion. Secretary.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6d., First Series.
FAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Aye Maria-lane.
BEYERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist.
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
TRUBNER AND CO.’S PUBLICATIONS.
THE HONEYMOON. Remembrance of a Bridal Tour through Scotland.
By the Count de Medina Pomar. Now ready. In two vols., Crown 8vo
Price 21s.
MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN’S WORKS.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD. With
Narrative Illustrations. An enlarged English Copyright Edition.
Post 8vo., p.p. 412, cloth, 7s. 6d.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS WORLD AND THE
NEXT. With Illustrative Narrations. Crown 8vo., pp. 456, cloth, 9s.
THREADING MY WAY: Twenty-Seven Years of Autobiography. Crown
8vo., pp. 344, cloth, 7s. 6d.
“ A very pleasant little book.”—Saturday Remew.
THE CREED OF CHRISTENDOM its Foundations contrasted with its
Superstructure. By W. R. Greg. Third Edition. With a new Intro¬
duction. Two Vols., crown 8vo, pp. 272 and 290, cloth, 15s.
ENIGMAS OF LIFE. By W. R. Greg. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo., pp. xxi.—
308, cloth, 10s. 6d.
Contents:—Realizable Ideals—Malthus Notwithstanding—Non-Surviva
of the Fittest—Limits and Directions of Human Development—The Sig¬
nificance of Life—De Profundis—Elsewhere—Appendix.
THE DESTINY OF MAN, The Storm King, and other Poems. By
Frederick Griffin. Fcap. 8vo., pp. vi. and 90, cloth, 2s. 6d.
London: Trubner & Co., 67 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
Yratswrer.—Herbert N. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane
Offices.—BERNERS STREET.
Hon. <Sec.—Mrs. Lowe (LouiSA).
HENRY- B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER. LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapersand Periodicals supplied. Agent for TTte/Spw’itMalist Newspaper.
THE “ PIONEER OF PROGRESS ” PRINTING AND
PUBLISHING COMPANY,
4, KINGSGATE STREET, HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
In the Printing Department every arrangement has been made for the
prompt execution of all orders. Printing [of all kinds done cheaply and
well. Estimates given.
In the Publishing Department is kept a complete assortment of
Spiritual, Progressive, Reform and Miscellaneous books at wholesale and
retail prices. London and country agents supplied with all kinds of
Spiritual Literature in one parcel immediately on publication. Terms:
Cash Payments. Catalogues of books, giving prices, &c., may be had upon
application.
TO SPIRITUALISTS AND OTHERS.—All who desire
to read the literature of Spiritualism and other progressive move
ments, should subscribe to
THE “PIONEEROF PROGRESS" LIBRARY,
Which contains a large collection of Spiritual and other Progres¬
sive Works. Additions of new and choice books are being made
daily.
Terms: £1 Is. per annum. 10s. 6d. Half-yearly. 2s. Monthly. Cata¬
logues 3d. each.
EVERY THURSDAY MORNING.
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS,”
A Weekly Record of Spiritualism, Scientiflc and Ethical.
And contains articles by Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton, “Fritz,”
Rev. Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes, Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, and other
general information.
ONE PENNY.
Published at 4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn; Wholesale Agent, F. Pitman,
20, Paternoster-row, London, E.C., and can be ordered of any bookseller.
INVESTIGATORS AND ENQUIRERS into Spiritualism may obtain,
gratis, all informadon concerning the various societies, national and local,
seances, mediums, lecturers, &c.
All communications to be addressed, George Farmer, 4, Kingsgate-street,
Holborn, W.C.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established, 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Libge,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
REVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psyehologiques,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M, Leymarie.
VOjLUJVIE FIVE. JHUJVIBEI\ FIVE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JULY 31st, 1874.
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters .or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Beduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for. advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac-
compapied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of '•'•The Spiritualist" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Alien, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E. C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—0. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Oadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 164, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Bruuswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst.—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr? E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
Presidents.
Mr. F. Cowper. | Mr. C. Hunt.
Treasurer.—Mr. Whitley.
Librarian.—Mr. Maynard, 103, Lisson-grove.
Secretary.
Mr. C. White, 4, Gray-street, Manchester-square, W.
The Membership Subscription is Is. per Quarter, which admits to full
fellowship, including use of books from the Progressive Library. Seances
are held weekly, to afford members an opportunity of becoming acquainted
with the Phenomena. Members are assisted in the formation of new
circles. A public meeting is held every Wednesday evening at the
Hall of Progress, 90, Church-street, Paddington, at 8 o’clock.
Iftebieto.
Mohammed and Mohammedanism. By R. Bosworth
Smith, M.A., Oxford. London: Smith, Elder, and
Co. 1874:.
This book consists of lectures delivered at the Royal
Institution by Mr. Bosworth Smith of Harrow School,
short reports of which lectures were published in this
journal directly after their delivery. Although the
lectures were in no way connected with Spiritualism—
a subject about which the speaker appeared to have no
knowledge—their contents were of great interest to
Spiritualists, because, from beginning to end, they were
full of information about the life and teachings of the
great trance and clairvoyant medium, Mohammed. The
special value of the author’s method of dealrng with
the subject consists in the absence of prejudice, which
is the distinguishing characteristic of his work; he by
no means seems to consider it his duty to revile Ma¬
homet and his teachings, simply because he was the
founder of another religion to that which prevails in
Western Europe. Mr. Bosworth Smith says that he
“believes that there is a unity over and above that
unity of Christendom which, properly understood, all
earnest Christians so much desire ; a unity which rests
upon the belief that children of one Father may wor¬
ship Him under different names; that they may be
influenced by one spirit, even though they know it
not; that they may all have one hope, even if they
have not one faith.” His position in relation to sacred
books and the various religions which influence the
lives of different sections of the human race, is that
which is now generally taken by scientific men, by the
leading thinkers of the age, and by Professor Max
Muller and those other students who are devoting
their attention to the comparative study of religions.
In the following passages Mr. Bosworth Smith not only
expresses his own opinions, but very fairly represents the
position of the philosophical thought of the age in
relation to the leading religions influencing the minds
of men all the world over; he, in short, lays down as
his guiding principle, “for the purposes of scientific
investigation, religions must be regarded as differing
from one another in degree rather than in kind.” In
defining his standpoint more in detail, he says:—
THE INFLUENCE OF SACRED BOOKS.
In religion, as in external nature, the human mind is, as
Bacon says, an unequal mirror to the rays of things, mixing
its own nature indissolubly with theirs. And this relative
element once admitted into religion at all, it follows that to
divide religions by an impassable barrier into true and false,
natural and revealed, is like dividing music into sacred and
secular, and history into sacred and profane. It is a division
convenient enough for those—the majority of the human
race—who are content with an artificial classification, and
who care for no religion but their own; but, for scientific
purposes, it is a cross division, it begs the question at issue,
and is as unphilosophical as it. is misleading.
50
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 31, 1874.
Nor do Sacred Books, whatever be the theory of inspiration
on which they rest, lend to the religion to which they belong
any distinction of kind; they fix the phraseology of a religion,
and we are apt to believe that they also fix the thought.
They do not do so, however. The poetic and literary terms
thrown out, to use Mr. Matthew Arnold’s happy expression,
by the highest minds at the highest objects of thought, as
faint approximations only to the truth respecting them,
become enshrined in the Sacred Canon. They are misunder¬
stood, or half understood, even by those who hear them from
the Psalmist’s or the Prophet’s own lips, and in a few years
the misunderstanding grows till they become fixed and rigid.
Poetic imagery is mistaken for scientific exactness, and dim out¬
lines for exhaustive definitions. A virtue is attached to the words
themselves, and the thought, which is the jewel, is hidden bythe
letter, which is only the casket. If it be true that man never
knows how anthropomorphic he himself is, still less do sacred
writers know the anthropomorphism and the materialism
which will eventually be drawn even from their highest and
most spiritual utterances. How little did the author of the
prayer at the dedication of the temple of Solomon—the
grandest assertion, perhaps, in the Old Testament of the
infinite power and the infinite goodness of God, His nearness
to us and His distance from us—imagine that the time would
ever come when it would be held that in that temple alone,
and by Jews alone, men could worship the Father!
Christians may and must rise from an impartial study of
the religions of the world with their belief vastly deepened
that their Sacred Books stand as a whole on a far higher level
than other Sacred Books, and that the ideal life of Christianity,
while it is capable of including the highest ideals of other
creeds, cannot itself be attained by any one of them. But
the value of this belief will be exactly proportioned to the ex¬
tent to which they have been able, for the purposes of scien¬
tific study, to divest themselves of any arbitrary assumption
in the matter; and they must also acknowledge that, it is
possible and natural for sincere Mohammedans or Buddhists
to arrive at the same conclusions concerning their own faiths.
It is not easy to be thoroughly convinced of this, or to act
upon it; for intolerance is the “ natural weed of the human
bosom,” and there is no religion which does not seem super¬
stitious to those who do not believe in it.
With many interesting points in the book we cannot
now deal; it contains much about the influence of
Mohammedanism upon Pagan nations, how it improves
and elevates them, how it appears to be suited to their
needs in raising them a little higher in the scale of
development, and how it meets the religious wants of
some of these where Christianity fails, just as the
latter meets the wants of other seekers after truth, to
whom Mohammedanism would he comparatively value¬
less. The mental and religious food which is best for
any one individual is not necessarily that which is the
best for any other, any more than' the physical food
which is good for men of one nation and climate is
necessarily the best for another race.
PSYCHOLOGY AND BJELIGIOtTS CRITICISM,
The most interesting parts of the book to readers of
these pages are of course the descriptions by our
tolerably unbiassed author, of the development of the
mediumship of Mohammed, and the circumstances
under which he gave his revelations. And it is most
striking to notice how an intelligent man like Mr.
Bosworth Smith is hampered and unable to fully grasp
all the bearings of his subject, because of his want of
practical knowledge of psychological facts. By argu¬
ments drawn from external sources he proves conclu¬
sively that Mohammed was no impostor, but is quite
unconscious how accurately he is describing the pheno¬
mena of clairvoyance and trance mediumship, so that
any Spiritualist present would know absolutely, and
much better than the lecturer, that Mohammed was no
impostor, even had the speaker advanced no argument
on the subject at all. Just as the modern astronomer
can yerify or reject as unreliable certain eclipses re¬
corded in ancient- Chinese manuscripts, so can the
Spiritualist to a great extent separate the true from the
false in ancient records of spiritualistic manifestations.
The conditions of spiritual existence are so different
from those appertaining to material life, that spirits
have to communicate to a great extent by the aid of
symbolism, as explained in the works of Mrs. Be
Morgan and others; uninformed mediums and listeners
accept literally much that is only symbolical, hence
there is not a little error in many ancient records of
spiritual manifestations, written in all good faith.
When spirits were by powerful mesmeric influence con¬
trolling as well as they were able such sensitives as
Samuel of old, Swedenborg, and Mohammed, so that
they each believed themselves to be under the direct
inspiration of the Almighty, as some mediums have
done in our own day, it is quite as great a mistake to
ascribe such phenomena to “ fits,” which is Mr. Bos¬
worth Smith’s explanation, as it is to ascribe them to
imposture, as do his opponents, or to ascribe them to
the Deity as did the mediums themselves. Some of the
spirits who communicate through modern mediums
prove their identity most satisfactorily, like the de¬
parted relatives of the Countess of Caithness, who re¬
turned and were photographed as described by her in
the last number of The Spiritualist, and a vast number
of similarly good cases of spirit identity have been re¬
corded in these pages; still, in the majority of in¬
stances, spirits have not that complete control of the
medium which would give them' the power to prove
their identity. There are mediums now in London
who believe themselves to be controlled by angels and
archangels, and all kinds of high and mighty person¬
ages, who most frequently talk twaddle, and sometimes
show very bad taste in the mortal instruments they
select for reforming humanity; but putting aside much
that is grotesque, floods of inspired utterances equal to
anything which ever came from the lips of the prophets
or trance speakers of any age or nation, have been
given through the lips of modern trance mediums.
The Prophecy of Vala given through the lips of Miss
Lizzie Doten, taken down in shorthand at the time,
and printed in one of the earlier numbers of The
Spiritualist, was stated to have been inspired by
the spirit of Edgar A. Poe; at all events, it
was a finer poem than he ever wrote upon
earth. Some of the poems given by Mr. T. L.
Harris while’ in the trance state, were equally fine.
Mr. J. J. Morse is a young man who has had scarcely
any education, yet many of his trance lectures are equal
in force of logic and elegance of diction to the average
of Boyal Institution lectures, though some fall below
that standard; we printed a fair average specimen last
week. The inspirational poem by Mrs. Tappan,
beginning, “ Oh, beautiful white mother Death,” Once
published in these pages, was worthy of Shelley.
Inferior utterances often come from the lips of the same
mediums, and the Spectator once reprinted from some
spiritualistic journal some rambling incoherencies of
Mrs. Tappan, which it is to be hoped came from an
incompetent reporter and not from the spirits of the
mighty dead, nevertheless, if the best of the utterances
of these mediums were separated from the rest, as Mr.
Bosworth Smith has brought the best of Mohammed’s
revelations into prominence, a close parallel might be
drawn between the utterances of the best mediums of
old, and the best mediums of to-day. And as Mohammed’s
revelations were written on fragments of wood and
THE SPIRITUALIST.
51
July 31, 1874.
sometimes pieces of mutton-bone, the worst of them
may have been consigned to oblivion by his friends,
just as some good angel in mercy ought a few days ago
to have visited York, and blotted out with his tears some
spiritualistic revelations about the nature of comets.
Here is our author’s description of the beginning of
the psychological|experiences of Mohammed:
THE DEVELOPMENT OF MOHAMMED’S MEDIUMSHIP.
Up to the age of forty there is nothing to show that any
serious scruple had occurred to him individually as to the
worship of idols, and in particular of the Black Stone, of
which his family were the hereditary guardians. The sacred
month of Bamadhan, like other religious Arabs, he observed
with punctilious devotion; and he would often retire to the
caverns of Mount Hira for purposes of sohtude, meditation,
and prayer. He was melancholic in temperament, to begin
with; he was also subject to epileptic fits, upon which
Sprenger has laid great stress, and described most minutely,
and which, whether under the name of the “ sacred disease ”
among the Greeks, or “ possession by the devil” among the
Jews, has in most ages and countries been looked upon as
something specially mysterious or supernatural. It is possible
that his interviews with Nestorian monks, with Zeid, or with
his wife’s cousin Waraka, may have turned his thoughts into
the precise direction they took. Dejection alternated with
excitement; these gave place to ecstasy or dreams ; and in a
dream, or trance, or fit, he saw an angel in human form, but
flooded with celestial light, and displaying a silver roll.
“ Bead!” said the angel. “ I cannot read,” said Mohammed.
The injunction and the answer were twice repeated. “ Bead,”
at last said the angel, “ in the name of the Lord, who created
man out of a clot of blood; read, in the name of the Most
High, who taught man the use of the pen, who sheds on his
soul the ray of knowledge, and teaches him what before he
knew not.” Upon this Mohammed felt the heavenly inspira¬
tion, and read the decrees of God, which he afterwards pro¬
mulgated in the Koran. Then came the announcement, “ 0
Mohammed, of a truth thou art the prophet of God, and I am
his angel Gabriel.”
This was the crisis of Mohammed’s life. It was his call to
renounce idolatry, and to take the office of Prophet. Like
Isaiah, he could not at first believe that so unworthy an instru¬
ment could be chosen for such a purpose. “ Woe is me, for I
am undone, because I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell
in the midst of a people of unclean lips but the live coal
was not immediately taken from the altar and laid upon his,
as upon Isaiah’s lips. Trembling and agitated, Mohammed
tottered to Kadijah, and told her his vision and his agony of
mind. He had always hated and despised soothsayers, and
now, in the irony of destiny, it would appear that he was to
become a soothsayer himself. “ Fear not, for joyful tidings
dost thou bring,” exclaimed Kadijah. “ I will henceforth
regard thee as the prophet of our nation. Bejoice,” she added,
seeing him still cast down ; “ Allah will not suffer thee to fall
to shame. Hast thou not been loving to thy kinsfolk, kind to
thy neighbours, charitable to the poor, faithful to thy word, and
ever a defender of the truth ?” First the life, and then the
theology, in the individual as in the tribe and the nation.
But the assurances of the good Kadijah, and the conversions
of Zeid and Waraka, did not bring the live coal from the
altar. A long period of hesitation, doubt, preparation fol¬
lowed. At one time Mohammed even contemplated suicide,
and he was only restrained by an unseen hand, as he might
well call the bright vision of the future, pictured in one of the
earliest Suras of the Koran, when the help of God should
come and victory, when he “ should see the people crowding
into the one true Faith, and he, the Prophet, should celebrate
the praise of his Lord, and ask pardon of Him, for He is for¬
giving. ” Three years, the period of the Fatrah, saw only fourteen
proselytes attach themselves to him. His teaching seemed
to make no way beyond the very limited circle of his earliest
followers. His rising hopes were crushed. People pointed
the finger of scorn at him as he passed by : “ There goeth the
son of Abdallah, who hath his converse with the heavens 1 ”
They called him a driveller, a star-gazer, a maniac-poet. His
uncles sneered, and the main body of the citizens treated him
with that contemptuous indifference, which must have been
harder to him to bear than active persecution. Well might
he, to take an illustration suggested by Sir W. Muir him¬
self, like Elijah of old, go a day’s journey into the wilderness,
and request for himself that he might die, and say, ” It is
enough, 0 Lord; now take away my life, for I am not better
than my fathers : ” or, again, “ I have been very jealous for
the Lord God of hosts, because the people have forsaken Thy
covenant, thrown down Thine altars, and slain Thy prophets
with the sword ; and I, even I, only am left, and they seek my
life to take it away.” At times his distress was insupportable:
“ And had not his poor heart
Spoken with That, which being everywhere
Lets none, who speaks with Him, seem all alone,
Surely the man had died of solitude.”
But out of weakness came forth strength at last; out of
doubt, certainty; out of humiliation, victory. Another vision
in which he was commanded to preach publicly, followed; and
now he called the Koreishites of the line of Hachim together,
those who had most to lose and least to gain by his reform,
and boldly announced his mission. They tried persuasion,
entreaties, bribes, and threats. “ Should they array against
me the sun on my right hand, and the moon on my left,” said
Mohammed, “ yet while God should command me, I would not
renounce my purpose.” These are not the words, nor this the
course, of an impostor.
Ten more years passed away; his doctrine fought its way
amidst the greatest discouragements and dangers by purely
moral means, by its own inherent strength. Kadijah was dead;
Abu Taleb, his uncle, and protector, died also. Most of
Mohammed’s disciples had taken refuge in Abyssinia, and at
last Mohammed himself was driven to fly for his life with
one companion, his early convert, Abu Bakr. For three days
he lay concealed in a cavern, a league from Mecca. The
Koreishite pursuers scoured the country, thirsting for his
blood. They approached the cavern. “We are only two,”
said his trembling companion. “ There is a third,” said
Mohammed ; “it is God himself.” The Koreishites reached
the cave; a spider, we are told, had woven its web across the
mouth, and a pigeon was sitting on its nest in seemingly undis¬
turbed repose. The Koreishites retreated, for it was evident
the solitude of the place was unviolated ; and, by a sound in¬
stinct, one of the sublimest stories in all history has been
made the era of Mohammedan chronology.
The weakest point of the whole of Mr. Bosworth
Smith’s book is, that he seeks to explain away all the
psychological phenomena miscalled miracles, although
undoubtedly a certain proportion of them are real, and
governed by fixed laws not yet understood. He argues
that most of the alleged miracles of Mohammed were
thrust upon him in the narratives of his followers,.that
they were not admitted to be facts by himself, and did
not really occur. Of miracles in general he says, “ An
age which is capable of producing or receiving a new
religion throws a mystic halo of supernaturalism round
the supreme objects of its reverence. Even if the
founder himself disclaims the power of working miracles,
they will he thrust upon him with the most perfect
good faith by the warm imagination of his disciples.”
Had he given a good account of the few miracles
ascribed to Mahomet by the more intelligent of his
followers, his book would have been of much more
interest to the readers of these pages, who cpuld form a
much more accurate estimate of the value of the records
than Mr. Smith. Eor instance, the latter would pro¬
bably try to explain away as mere tradition the narra¬
tive of the handwriting upon the wall at Belshazzar’s
feast, whereas those who know the production of mate¬
rialised spirit hands to be a very common manifestation
at seances, and who have seen them frequently, would
see no reason for discrediting the account because it
recorded what the unthinking populace believe to be
unreal phenomena.
In closing this brief notice of an interesting and
ably-written book, the following passages about the
poetical beauty of portions of the Koran may be
quoted:—
THE INSPIRATION OF THE KORAN.
The vision of the last day, with whioh the eighty-first
Sura, “ the folding up,” begins:—
52
THE SPIRITUALIST. July 31, 1874.
“ When the sun shall he folded up,
And when the stars shall fall,
And when the mountains shall be set in motion,
And when the she-camels with young shall be neglected,
And when the wild beasts shall be huddled together.
And when the seas shall boil,
And when souls shall be joined again to their bodies,
And when the female child that had been .buried alive shall ask for
• what crime she was put to death,
And when the leaves of the Book shall be unrolled,
And when the Heavens shall be stripped away like a skin,
And when Hell shall be made to blaze,
And when Paradise shall be brought near,
Every soul shall know what it has done.”
Allusions to the monotony of the desert; the sun in its
rising brightness; the moon in its splendour; are varied in
the Koran by much more vivid mental visions of the Great
Day when men shall be like moths scattered abroad, and the
mountains shall become like carded wool of various colours,
driven by the wind. No wonder that Labyd, the greatest poet
of his time, forebore to enter the poetic lists with Mohammed,
when he recited to him the description of the infidel in the
second Sura.
“ They are like one who kindleth a fire, and when it hath
thrown its light on all around him, God taketh away the light
and leaveth him in darkness, and they cannot see.”
“ Deaf, dumb, blind, therefore they shall not retrace their
steps.”
“ They are like those who, when there cometh a storm-cloud
out of heaven big with darkness, thunder and lightning, thrust
their fingers into their ears because of the thunder-clap, for
fear of death. God is round about the infidels.”
“ The lightning almost snatcheth away their eyes: so oft
as it gleameth on them they walk on in it; but when darkness
closeth upon them they stop; and, if God pleased, of their
ears and of their eyes would he surely deprive them; verily
God is almighty.” .
And at the end of the same Sura, which, it is to be remem¬
bered, appeared quite late in the fProphet’s life, at a period
when it might have been expected that the cares of govern¬
ment would dim the brightness of the Prophet’s visions, we
find the sublime description of Him whom it had been the
mission of his life to proclaim, and which is still engraved on
precious stones, and worn by devout Mussulmans.
“ God! there is no God but He, the Living, the Bternal.
Slumber doth not overtake him, neither sleep; to Him
belongeth all that is in heaven and in earth. Who is he that
can intercede with Him but by His own permission ? He
knoweth that which is past and that which is to come unto
them, and they shall not comprehend anything of His know¬
ledge but so far as He pleaseth. His throne is extended over
heaven and earth, and the upholding of both is no burden
unto Him. He is the lofty and the great,”
Almost equally well, too, as a proof of his poetic inspiration,
might have Mohammed quoted that other description of
infidelity also produced late in his life, and pronounced by
Sir William Muir and by Emanuel Deutsch to be one of the
grandest in the whole Koran.
“As to the infidels, their works are like the Serab on the
plain, which the thirsty traveller thinketh to be water, and
then when he cometh thereto, he findeth it to be nothing ;
but he findeth God about him, and he will fully pay him his
account; for swift in taking an account is God;
“ Or as the darkness over a deep sea, billows riding upon
billows below, and clouds above; one darkness on another
darkness: when a man stretcheth forth his hand he is far
from seeing it; he to whom God doth not grant light, no light
at all hath he.”
Some time since, two lectures on Spiritualism were
delivered by Mr. H. Venman, at the Pimlico Booms, Warwick-
street, Eccleston-square, and at the Grosvenor Working-men’s
Club, Buckingham Palace-road. These lectures, in which the
author professes to view Spiritualism from a neutral stand¬
point, have just been published by Mr. Yenman, in pamphlet
form. His address is 20, Pimlico-road, London, S.W.
There is a physical medium at Castlemaine, Australia,
who is known only to the public as “ Mrs. P.,” whose seances
have often created lively interest both in Australia and
England. The last news about her is in the Harbinger of Light,
of May 1st, in which the recorder of one of her dark seances
says:—“ After sitting in silence for some little time, we were
all startled by a loud crash on the table. Mr. P. struck a light,
and there, to the suprise of all, was the iron wheel of a wheel¬
barrow ; the wheel weighed some I64 pounds, and before the
seance it was lying in the yard at the end of the house.”
PREYISION.
Mr. Thomas R. Hazard, of Yaucluse, IJ.S., has sent
us the following narrative :—
Herewith I send you 'a remarkable document, illustrative
of the unusual gift of prophecy, which I have had in my pos¬
session for more than thirty years. As the seer, Joseph Hoag,
was a widely known and greatly respected (not to say revered)
preacher in 'the Society of Friends, there can be no doubt
that the antiquity of the vision may be readily established
by any one curious enough to seek for ancient copies among
members of that religious body. It appeared in several
journals in New England some time before the late cruel war,
although I cannot point with certainty to any one in par¬
ticular except the Providence (R. I.) Herald and Post, in both
the daily and weekly editions of which I know it was published
verbatim and in full, anterior to the year 1860, but how long
before I am unable to say.
“A VISION OP JOSEPH HOAG.
“ About the year 1803, probably in the eighth or ninth
month, I was one day alone in the field, and observed the sun
shone clear, but a mist obscured its brightness. As I reflected
upon the singularity of the event, my mind was brought into
a silence the most solemn I ever remember to have witnessed,
for my faculties were low, and brought into unusually deep
silence. I said to myself, ‘ What can all this mean ? I do not
recollect ever to have been sensible of such feelings; ’ and
I heard a voice from Heaven saying, ‘ This which thou seest
which dims the brightness of the sun is a sign of present and
coming times. I took the forefathers of this country from a
land of oppression; I planted them among the people of the
forest; I sustained them, and while they were humble I blessed
them, and fed them, and they became a numerous people; but
they have become proud and lifted up, and have forgotten one
who nourished and protected them in the wilderness, and are
running into every abomination and evil practice of which the
old countries are guilty; and have taken quietude from the
land, and have suffered a dividing spirit to come amongst
them. Lift up thine eyes and behold.’ And I saw them
dividing in great heat. This division began in the Church on
points of doctrine. It commenced in the Presbyterian Society
and went through the various religious denominations, and in
all its progress and close its effects were nearly the same.
Those who dissented went off with light hearts and taunting
language, and those who kept to their first sentiments appeared
exercised and sorrowful; and when the dividing spirit entered
the Society of Friends it raged in as high degree as any, and,
as before, those who separated went off with a lofty look and
censuring, taunting language, and those who kept their ancient
principles retired by themselves.
“ It next appeared in the lodges of the Freemasons, and
broke out like a volcano until it set the whole country in an
uproar for a length of time.
“ Then it entered politics throughout the United States and
produced a civil war, and abundance of human blood was shed
in the combat. The southern states, lost their power, and
slavery was abolished. Then a monarchical power arose and
took the government of the states, and established a national
religion and made all societies tributary to its support. I
saw men take property from friends to a great amount. I was
amazed at all this, and heard a voice proclaim: ‘ This power
shall not always stand, but with it I will chastise my Church,
until they return to the faithfulness of their forefathers. Thou
seest what is coming on thy native land for its iniquity and
the blood of Africa, the remembrance of which has come up
before me.’
“ This vision is yet for many years, but it became such a
burden that for my own relief I have written it.
“ Joseph Hoag.”
Admitting the authenticity of the entire record (of which
I think there can be no doubt) the foregoing vision of Hoag
probably furnishes as strong testimony in favour of man’s
possessing, under certain conditions, a gift of looking into the
future further than his reasoning faculties have the power to
trace cause and effect as almost any on record, not excepting
Scripture. The details of the vision are set down not only
exactly, and level with the simplest understanding, but so far
have been fulfilled in exact order of time. There are thousands
yet living who well remember when the first division in the
churches “ commenced in the Presbyterian Society,” severing it
in twain. Tens of thousands remember, too, when the Quaker
or Friends’ meeting was subjected to the same ordeal through
July 31, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
53
the preaching of Elias Hicks, the “dividing spirit” raging
with such fury among the peaceable disciples of Fox that in
some instances aged and venerable ministers and elders were
torn from their high seats and hurled with violence upon the
floor by opposing factionists.
Hundreds of thousands are now living who will remember
the occurrence of the memorable event, long foreseen by
Hoag, when, on the abduction of Morgan, the “ dividing spirit
broke out like a volcano and set the whole country in an
uproar” of the wildest kind, arraying the two great political
parties of the nation under the “ Mason ” and “ Anti-Mason ”
banners.
. Millions are now living who will remember when Hoag’s
“ dividing spirit first entered politics throughout the United
States and produced a civil war.”
Tens of millions of mourners for their slaughtered dead
still survive to testify to the truth of the prophet’s prediction,
made more than half a century before the events were accom¬
plished, in regard to the “ abundance of human blood that
was shed in the combat ” through which “ the southern states
lost their power and slavery was abolished.”
All these predictions have now become stereotyped history
to the very letter, and are recorded in exact order of time.
But yet the “ people,” so far from manifesting any signs of
profiting by the severe inflictions, seem to be “ running ” with
accelerated speed into every “ abomination and evil practice ”
conceivable. God grant that Hoag’s predicted woes in the
future may not culminate in that worst of all forms of govern¬
ment, a priest-directed theocracy, towards which, I think,
many signs of the times seem pointing.
Yauoluse, B. L, United States. Thomas B. Hazard.
PROFESSOR WILLIAM DENTON ARRESTED.
We learned recently from a paragraph in the San Francisco
Cal., Common Sense newspaper, that Professor William Denton
had been arrested in Sacramento “ for giving an exhibition,”
and that “ on the following day he was released on bail, and
immediately left for the southern part of the State without pay¬
ing the demand.” The facts in the case—as we learn from a
letter received in this city from a reliable source—are these :—
Mr. Denton gave a course of geological lectures in Sacramento,
charging the usual admittance fee. At the conclusion of the
course, he was called upon to pay a license of 20 dols., which he
declined, and consequently was placed under arrest, for—as
the officer alleged—infringing one of the city ordinances, and
incarcerated in prison. On appearing before a magistrate,
Mr. Denton expressed a wish to see a copy of the city charter,
which he carefully conned over, and then said to the aston¬
ished Judge that he (Denton) had been illegally imprisoned,
as the charter did not contain a single word authorising the
city to pass such an ordinance. Such being the fact, Mr.
Denton was at once set at liberty, and left Sacramento to fill
a lecturing engagement in another city.
Another account of this disgraceful affair, in which bigotry
played a prominent part, is given below, from the Daily
Record:—
“ The imprisonment of Mr. Denton, because he refused to
pay a city license for delivering a course of lectures, assumes
very much the character of an outrage, and though the city
collector, who caused the thing to be done, may shelter him¬
self behind the ordinance, he is not excusable for taking a course
with Mr. Denton which has never before been taken with any
other lecturer, and which ought not to have been taken at all.
That a scientific man who comes to give a course of lectures
on the most important subjects should, after a decidedly unre-
munerative week’s labour be baited by a blundering official,
arrested as though he were a vagrant, and compelled to pass a
night in the station-house, because, as he justly puts it, he
refused to be robbed, is deeply humiliating to all who value
the reputation of the city, and all who respect science and her
exponents. Nor are we at all disposed to admit that the city
collector kept within the line of his duty. We know that
other lecturers—notably ! Canon Kingsley—have spoken here,
and have not been called on for a license. We know of other
cases where a license fee has been refused, and the collector
has concluded that it would not pay to try to collect it. Why,
then, was this dead set made against Mr. Denton ?”—Banner
of Lights July 4th.
Gomtekence oe Spiritualists.—The use of the Crystal
Palace for Friday, August 7th, having been refused, the place
of meeting will be announced on Tuesday at Lawson’s Booms,
and also in the next number of The Spiritualist.
MR. A. R. WALLACE ON SPIRITUALISM.
The following is an extract from one of the inte¬
resting articles on Spiritualism, written by Mr. Alfred
Russell Wallace, and published recently in the Fort¬
nightly Review. It is to the credit of Mr. Morley, the
editor of that Review, that he has given a fair hearing
to both sides of the question :—
Professor Huxley, in a letter to the Committee of the
Dialectical Society, says :—“ But supposing the pheno¬
mena to be genuine, they do not interest me. If any¬
body would endow me with the faculty of listening to
the chatter of old women and curates at the nearest
cathedral town, I should decline the privilege, having
better things to do. And if the folk in the spiritual
world do not talk more wisely and sensibly than their
friends report them to do, I put them in the same
category.” This passage, written with the caustic satire
in which the kind-hearted Professor occasionally in¬
dulges, can hardly mean that if it were proved that
men really continued to live after the death of the body,
that fact would not interest him, merely because some
of them talked twaddle? Many scientific men deny
the spiritual source of the manifestations, on the ground
that real, genuine spirits might reasonably be expected
not to indulge in the commonplace trivialities which
do undoubtedly form the staple of ordinary spiritual
communications. But surely Professor Huxley, as a
naturalist and philosopher, would not admit this to be
a reasonable expectation. Does he not hold the doc¬
trine that there can be no effect, mental or physical,
without an adequate cause? and that mental states, facul¬
ties, and idiosyncrasies, that are the result of gradual
development and lifelong—or even ancestral—habit,
cannot be suddenly changed by any known or imaginable
cause ? And if (as the Professor would probably admit)
a very large majority of those who daily depart this
life are persons addicted to twaddle, persons who spend
much of their time in low or trivial pursuits, persons
whose pleasures are sensual rather than intellectual—
whence is to come the transforming power which is
suddenly, at the mere throwing off of the physical body,
to change these into beings able to appreciate and
delight in high and intellectual pursuits ? The thing
would be a miracle, the greatest of miracles, and surely
Professor Huxley is the last man to contemplate
innumerable miracles as part of the order of nature; and
all for what? Merely to save these 'people from the
necessary consequences of their misspent lives. For the
essential teaching of Spiritualism is, that we are, all of
us, in every act and thought, helping to build up a
“ mental fabric,” which will be and constitute Ourselves
more completely after the death of the body than it does
now. Just as this fabric is well or ill-built, so will our
progress and happiness be aided or retarded. Just in
proportion as we have developed our higher intellectual
and moral nature, or starved it by disuse and by giving
undue prominence to those faculties which secure us
mere physical or selfish enjoyment, shall we be well or
ill fitted for the new life we enter on. The noble
teaching of Herbert Spencer, that men are best educated
by being left to suffer the natural consequences of their
actions, is the teaching of Spiritualism as regards the
transition to another phase of life. There will be no
imposed rewards or punishments; but every one will
suffer the natural and inevitable consequences of a well
or ill-spent life. The well-spent life is that in which
54
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 31, 1874.
those faculties which regard our personal physical well¬
being are subordinated to those which regard our social
and intellectual well-being, and the well-being of
others; and that inherent feeling—which is so universal
and so difficult to account for—that these latter consti¬
tute our higher nature, seems also to point to the con¬
clusion that we are intended for a condition in which
the former will be almost wholly unnecessary, and will
gradually become rudimentary through disuse, while the
latter will receive a corresponding development.
Although, therefore, the twaddle and triviality of so
many of the communications, is not one whit more in¬
teresting to sensible Spiritualists than it is to Professor
Huxley, and is never voluntarily listened to, yet the
fact that such poor stuff is talked (supposing it to come
from spirits) is both a fact that might have been antici¬
pated and a lesson of deep import. We must remem¬
ber, too, the character of the seances at which these
commonplace communications are received. A mis¬
cellaneous assemblance of believers of various grades
and tastes, but mostly in search of an evening’s amuse¬
ment, and of sceptics who look upon all the others as
either fools or knaves, is not likely to attract to itself
the more elevated and refined denizens of the higher
spheres, who may well be supposed to feel too much
interest in their own new and grand intellectual exist¬
ence to waste their energies on either class. If the
fact is proved, that people continue to talk after they
are dead with just as little sense as when alive, but
that, being in a state in which sense, both common and
uncommon, is of far greater importance to happiness
than it is here (where fools pass very comfortable lives),
they suffer the penalty of having neglected to cultivate
their minds ; and being so much out of their element
in a world where all pleasures are mental, they en¬
deavour to recall old times by gossiping with their
former associates whenever they can find the means—
Professor Huxley will not fail to see its vast importance
as an incentive to that. higher education which he is
never weary of advocating. He would assuredly be
interested in anything having a really practical bearing
on the present as well as on the future condition of
men; and it is evident that even these low and de¬
spised phenomena of Spiritualism, “ if true,” have this
bearing, and, combined with its higher teachings, con¬
stitute a great moral agency, which may yet regenerate
the world, i'or the Spiritualist who, by daily experi¬
ence, gets absolute knowledge of these facts regarding
the future state—who knows, that, just in proportion as
he indulges in passion, or selfishness, or the exclusive
pursuit of wealth, and neglects to cultivate the
affections and the varied powers of his mind, so does
he inevitably prepare for himself misery in a world in
which there are no physical wants to be provided
for, no sensual enjoyments except those directly
associated with the affections and sympathies, no
occupations but those having for their object social and
intellectual progress—is impelled toward a pure, a sym¬
pathetic, and an intellectual life by motives far stronger
than any which either religion or philosophy can
supply. He dreads to give way to passion or to false¬
hood, to selfishness or to a life of luxurious physical
enjoyment, because he knows that the natural and
inevitable consequences of such habits are future misery,
necessitating a long and arduous struggle in order to
develop anew the faculties, whose exercise long disuse
has rendered painful to him. He will be deterred from
crime by the knowledge that its unforeseen conse¬
quences may cause him ages of remorse; while the bad
passions which it encourages will be a perpetual tor¬
ment to himself in a state of being in which mental
emotions cannot be laid aside or forgotten amid the
fierce struggles and sensual pleasures of a physical
existence. It must be remembered that these beliefs
(unlike those of theology) will have a living efficacy,
because they depend on facts occurring again and again
in the family circle, constantly reiterating the same
truths as the result of personal knowledge, and thus
bringing home to the mind, even of the most obtuse,
the absolute reality of that future existence in which
our degree of happiness or misery will be directly de¬
pendent on the “ mental fabric ” we construct by our
daily thoughts and words and actions here.
Contrast this system of natural and inevitable
reward and retribution, dependent wholly on the pro¬
portionate development of our higher mental and moral
nature, with the arbitrary system of rewards and
punishments dependent on stated acts and beliefs only,
as set forth by all dogmatic religions, and who can fail
to see that the former is in harmony with the whole
order of Nature—the latter opposed to it? Yet it is
actually said that Spiritualism is altogether either im¬
posture or delusion, and all its teachings but the
product of “ expectant attention ” and “ unconscious
cerebration I *[ If none of the long series of demon¬
strative facts which have been here sketched out,
existed, and its only product were this theory of
a future state, that alone would negative such a
supposition. And when it is considered that mediums
of all grades, whether intelligent of ignorant, and
having communications given through them in various
direct and indirect ways, are absolutely in accord as to
the main features of this theory, what becomes of the
gross misstatement that nothing is given through me¬
diums but what they know and believe themselves?
The mediums have, almost all, been brought up in some
of the usual Orthodox beliefs. How is it, then, that
the usual Orthodox notions of heaven are never con¬
firmed through them?
In the scores of volumes and pamphlets of spiritual
literature I have read, I have found no statement of a
spirit describing “ winged angels,” or “ golden harps,”
or the “ throne of God,” to which the humblest Ortho¬
dox Christian thinks he will be introduced if he goes
to heaven at all. There is no more startling and
radical opposition to be found between the most diverse
religious creeds than that between the beliefs in which
the majority of mediums have been brought up and the
doctrines as to a future life that are delivered through
them ; there is nothing more marvellous in the history
of the human min d than the fact that, whether in the
backwoods of America, or in country towns in England,
ignorant men and women, having almost all been
brought up in the usual sectarian notions of heaven
and hell, should, the moment they become seized by
the strange power of mediumship, give forth teachings
on this subject which are philosophical rather than
religious, and which differ wholly from what had been
so deeply ingrained into their minds. And this state¬
ment is not affected by the fact that communications
purport to come from Catholic or Protestant, Mahometan
or Hindoo spirits. Because, while such communications
maintain special dogmas and doctrines, yet they confirm
the very facts which really constitute the spiritual
theory, and which in themselves contradict the theory
of the sectarian spirits. The Roman Catholic spirit.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 31, 1874.
55
for instance^ does not describe himself as being in either
the orthodox purgatory, heaven, or hell; the Evangelical
Dissenter, who died in the firm conviction that he should
certainly “ go to Jesus,” never describes himself as being
with Christ, or as ever having seen him; and so on
throughout. Nothing is more common than for reli¬
gious people at seances to ask questions about God and
Christ. In reply they never get more than opinions,
or more frequently the statement that they, the spirits,
have no more actual knowledge of those subjects than
they had while on earth. So that the facts are all har¬
monious ; and the very circumstance of there being
sectarian spirits bears witness in two ways to the truth
of the spiritual theory—it shows that the mind, with
its ingrained beliefs, is not suddenly changed at death;
and it shows that the communications are not the re¬
flection of the mind of the medium, who is often of the
same religion as the communicating spirit, and, because
he does not get his own ideas confirmed, is obliged to
call in the aid of “ Satanic influence ” to account for
the anomaly.
THE 1874 CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The second National Annual Conference will be held
next week in London, under the auspices of the British
National Association of Spiritualists, and as announced
last week, the proceedings will commence with a soiree,
to be held next Tuesday evening, at the Beethoven
Rooms, Harley-street, Cavendish-square, W., the scene
of many an interesting gathering of Spiritualists in
years gone by. As one of the chief objects of the
soiree is to make London and provincial Spiritualists
acquainted with each other, there will be little speech¬
making, but there will be some singing and music by
performers of acknowledged ability, who have kindly
volunteered their assistance. Mr. Benjamin Coleman
will preside, and from his large experience of the early
history of Spiritualism, culminating in the formation of
the present powerful and exceedingly useful organisa¬
tion, an interesting address may be expected, should
his health permit; we regret to state that of late Mr.
Coleman has not been so strong as formerly, and at
first he did not accept the invitation to preside, on ac¬
count of the state of his health.
Regrets have been expressed that the Conference
should be held at a time of year when many London
Spiritualists are absent from town. The reason the
Conference Committee selected the present time is, we
are informed, because many provincial Spiritualists
choose this month for visiting the metropolis, and as a
large number of the members of the National Associa¬
tion reside in the country, it was thought but right that
some effort should be made to meet their convenience,
and it is to be hoped that all will avail themselves
largely of the advantages offered.
Probably the committee will discover that it will not
be able to do much in the way of arranging seances
in connection with the Conference. All the leading
non-professional mediums have constantly far more
demand for seances with them than they can meet, and
the more powerful professional mediums are not only
few in number, but have their time fully engaged at
their current rates. Public seances with second-rate
mediums, always disappoint those who attend, and bring
down plenty of newspaper ridicule, as long experience
has invariably proved; Spiritualists in Glasgow, Liver¬
pool, Manchester, and other towns, have found this to
be the case. Mr. Williams, who is a good physical
medium, when in strong health and not tired can get
two or even three good seances in one day, if he takes a
long and complete rest between each sitting; next
Tuesday morning and afternoon he will give seances
at reduced rates to members of the National Association.
In the evening of that day, everybody may look forward
to a most enjoyable meeting at the Beethoven Rooms;
indeed, the last soiree under thejauspices of the National
Association was the best assemblage of Spiritualists
which had met in London for years, and the meeting
having been convened by a disinterested body of leading
workers, bound together by their love for the great
cause, Spiritualists of all grades, and sections, and
varieties of opinion, were glad of the opportunity to
meet together in harmony. If the National Association
could see its way to establish monthly soirees at mode¬
rate rates of admission, say one shilling each, they
would be exceedingly popular, especially if more of a
social than of a business character.
Many of the arrangements for the Conference will be
announced from the platform at the soiree at the
Beethoven Rooms.
THE DEVELOPMENT OF SPIRITUAL
MANIFESTATIONS.
A eew days ago a great capitalist told us that he had
under consideration a project of bringing the Eddy
family to England, if they could be induced to come,
for the purpose of investigating the nature of their
mediumship. But what would be the use of it ? The
alleged phenomena through the two chief mediums in
the family are so astounding that if they proved to be
true the said mediums would be persecuted in every
possible way, and so would the witnesses who told the
truth about them ; if, on the other hand, the manifes¬
tations proved to be false, or the American descriptions
of them exaggerations, the result would be eminently
unsatisfactory. If any truth is brought before the
world before the public mind is in a fit condition to
receive the same, persecution is the inevitable result,
and has been so since the world began; education has
not yet reached the high level of enforcing on its
recipients the duty of examining all new truths, and
welcoming new facts of nature as blessings sent for
man’s benefit by the God who made them. This want
of faith in the Almighty is the distinguishing charac¬
teristic of theological sects in these days, the various
sects, for instance, having attempted to crush the
truths of geology and astronomy in their infancy. The
scientific world perhaps is more ready to observe and
accept the divine truths of nature than other sections
of English society; it has the perfect faith in God and
His works which casteth out all fear, and is not afraid
to follow wherever the truth may lead. Its inferior
men have their creeds and dogmas, which prevent
them from observing and accepting facts, Dr. Car¬
penter being an example in point as regards his deal¬
ings with Spiritualism; still, the shortcomings of
particular individuals do not invalidate the truth of the
principles under which they profess to act, and science
claims to be founded upon indisputable facts and un¬
deniable conclusions deduced from those facts.
The same moral laws are acting inside as well as
outside the Spiritual movement. If manifestations
much in advance of the average are developed before
their time, the medium and the witnesses suffer. Even
56
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 31, 1874.
in America, where the manifestations are so much in
advance of those in England, some Spiritualists are
abusing the Banner of Light for not venturing to print
more about the Eddy manifestations, whilst others, who
have not seen the manifestations, are censuring the
journal for giving any credence to the narratives at all;
hence, the unfortunate editor is between two fires,
through no fault of his own. If this is the case in
America, what would it be in England, where the
general experience of advanced phenomena is less, and
the persecution of mediums more bitter? A deeper
spirit of kindness and charity prevails in general society
in America than in England, perhaps in consequence
of our land and law laws drawing nearly all the means
of subsistence into the hands of a very few people,
leaving the great bulk of the nation in a state of com¬
parative destitution, thereby engendering a fierce spirit
of competition, in which every man’s hand is raised
against his neighbour, and the land filled with an
unhappy moral atmosphere, inflicting injury alike upon
rich and poor. Material wealth is not the greatest
source of individual happiness, as those who have had
opportunities of observing the inner lives of persons
in all sections of society can testify; hut young people,
influenced by the practical examples surrounding them
on all sides, start in life on the unconscious assumption
that the accumulation of wealth is the be-all and end-
all of existence, although nine out of every ten now
on the verge of the grave can bear witness, from expe¬
rience, that the assumption is false. Happiness is much
more evenly divided among all the ranks in the social
scale than is generally supposed, although, in conse¬
quence of unnatural artificial laws having interfered
enormously with the natural distribution of the means
of subsistence which would have taken place under
normal conditions, the whole nation suffers.
The conditions governing the rapid development of
good spiritual manifestations are now well known,
chiefly in consequence of investigations which have
been carried on in connection with this journal. A
good and truthful medium, known to possess great
power* should hold seances regularly with five or six
warm friends, all advanced Spiritualists, who by long
experience understand conditions. Sight-seers and mere
wonder-hunters should not be admitted, neither should
inquirers, who ought to get over their early difficulties
with less advanced mediums, whose time is of less
value. The medium and members of the circle should
be people who are bound together spiritually by the
affections, who know that they do not cheat each other,
and who do not worry the medium by wanting any
physical tests of their own imposing, though an opposite
course may be good with inferior mediums and inferior
circles. Take the common case of the holding of hands
at a dark s'eance, what does the fact mean ? Either
that the medium is an impostor, or that some persons
sitting in the circle suspect an innocent person of im¬
posture ; in either case spiritual impurity is there, and
in such a circle it is utterly impossible that the highest
results can be had. There is another alternative, that
the said test is imposed for the benefit of outsiders not
present; in such case it betrays moral weakness, and
an undue fear of the opinions of Mrs. Grundy. Let
inquirers into Spiritualism work out the truth for
themselves, and let not seances be deteriorated for the
benefit of unknown persons not present; there are
plenty of public mediums who can be tied, and sealed,
and tested to meet the requirements of outsiders.
Manifestations like those in which the departed wife of
Mr. Livermore returned to him in heavenly beauty at
seances week after week, and wrote message after mes¬
sage to him in her own handwriting, and in which
everything degrading and low in connection with
powerful physical manifestations was absent, we hope
for the sake of the religious development of Spiritualists
cannot be had in any circle where the taint of spiritual
rottenness we have described is to be found. A sceptic
may say to the member of the superior circle, “ How
then do you know the medium did not cheat you ? ”
The questioner need not be informed that the manifes¬
tations were far above the power of mortal man to pro¬
duce, and infinitely superior in their physical test
results to those ever obtained in the presence of the
best public test mediums; he might simply be told—
“ Because this circle is wholly composed of persons who
are incapable of deception, and the best results cannot
be obtained under other conditions.” This will give
the inquirer something to think about; whether he
believes it or not will be his own business, and need
not trouble his informant.
These ideas embody what may be called the religious
aspect of physical manifestations, and help to show that
Spiritualism is not a low form of materialism, as some
observers have argued not without some slight show of
reason. The persons who hunger and thirst in their
hearts for nothing but physical tests, can penetrate only
a little way into the spiritual movement. Some such
are utterly destitute of spirituality. If told of the
Transfiguration described in the New Testament, they
would at once think witnesses great fools that they did
not tie the hands of the Medium with their girdles,
mark his face with burnt cork, and throw a bottle of
lavender-water over Moses and Elias to see whether
His dress was perfumed afterwards. Had a witness of
this nature -been present, a high manifestation would
not have taken place, nor shall we ever obtain the
highest manifestations, without the formation of high-
class circles.
The impossibility of reducing spiritual manifestations
to nothing but physics and mechanics, is one of the best
circumstances connected with them; there was a time
when we thought differently, and wished to take Mrs.
Mary Marshall to the Eoyal Institution, to cause
Professor Tyndall’s lanterns, and pans, and magnets to
walk about before the audience whether he liked it or
not. But, from long experience, having seen how the
want of precision and the mental conditions governing
spiritual phenomena lead on inquirers, teach them to
test the spiritual integrity of each other, and pass them
through a practical religious education of a high order,
we are now glad that the revelation is kept only for
those who patiently and arduously work for it, and are
not infinitely superior in judgment to their neighbours
in their own estimation.
Among the papers to be read at the Conference next
week will be one by the Eev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., on
“ Spiritualism and the Church of England.”
Mbs. Tabpan in Newcastle.—On Tuesday evening, last
week, Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan delivered a trance lecture in the
Lecture Eoom, Nelson-street, Newcastle, on the Origin of
Evil. Mr. T. P. Barkas presided. The substance of the
lecture was that most of the moral evils in the world were due
to ignorance, and that not a few physical evils, SjUch as
diseases, were due to want of cleanliness and proper sanitary
arrangements, so were also caused by ignorance. A somewhat
lively discussion followed the delivery of the lecture.
July 31, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
57
NATIONAL ORGANISATION.
Although much in connection with the subject of organisa¬
tion has been well considered in the course of the formation
of the National Association of Spiritualists, there is one fresh
point well worthy of notice. The Spiritual movement is gra¬
dually becoming a very large one, and instead of its phenomena
being confined almost entirely to private families and the
home fireside, Spiritualism is just beginning to present com¬
mercial aspects, so that more temptation is presented to
charlatans and impostors to try to ally themselves with it
than was once the case. Without a central organisation there
is no check whatever on such people; the public look to the
Spiritual journals for information, but it is not the province
of newspapers to investigate their doings, to take action
against them, or to establish a police department on behalf of
Spiritualists.
For example, some time since when we exposed the fact
that sham ghost pictures were being mixed with the real ones
taken at Holloway; that the pictures were printed from nega¬
tives some of which had been elaborately worked upon by
hand with cutting instruments, and which had originally been
taken by a double exposure of the plate in the camera,
persons published letters saying we should also have ex¬
posed all the accomplices who stood as sham ghosts, and
were photographed. Why was it our duty to undertake
all this legal and moral responsibility on behalf of Spi¬
ritualists? Had the National Association been in existence
then, Spiritualists all over the country would have felt it to
have been a great safeguard. As it was, this journal was
abused for printing the truth about the sham ghost pictures.
The editors of the Spiritual Magazine and the Medium “ wrote
up ” the pictures as genuine, although they knew nothing
whatever about photography, had never seen some of the
manufactured pictures, and had never sent any competent or
incompetent person to examine them on their behalf. Both
of the said editors made speeches at public meetings in favour
of their genuineness, and the editor of the Spiritual Magazine
especially gave the photographer his warmest support by pen,
press, and tongue. His argument was that nobody could tell
what appearances spirits might put upon the negatives.
Very trud, but those particular negatives were never taken by
one exposure in any camera, and had been mechanically
worked upon with cutting instruments, so for a man ignorant
of photography, who had not seen them, to print that they
were genuine, was equivalent to a New Zealand savage who
could not read, arguing that a copy of the Daily Telegraph,
which he had never seen, was a specimen of spirit writing,
although any competent person would know at once that it
was printing and not writing. A national organisation would
not only have nipped this discreditably unnecessary photo¬
graphic contention in the bud, by investigating and certifying
the facts, but would probably have exposed most of the
accomplices.
These remarks are not intended to throw any stigma upon
the Spiritual Magazine, which erred in the matter merely from
incompetence, and to this day, the editor, who is a good and
true worker in the cause of Spiritualism, believes he was
right. Did he know the proof of another kind which his
friend, Mr. Slater, holds about the manufacture of sham
ghost pictures, he would print it at once, and not for a moment
knowingly leave his readers in the position of recipients of
false information disseminated through his agency. Another
intimate friend of his recently published in the Medium not
only that the pictures were shams, but that the photo¬
grapher had been tempted to begin their manufacture by a
“ serpent.” This interesting piece of news was not reprinted
in the Spiritual Magazine, which abused us very much in a
paragraph on its cover, for printing only two or three lines,
saying that the accomplices who took part in the imposture
ought to be publicly exposed,—a remark of ours with which
all honest people will agree.
One word more. It has been published that this journal
has been very hard upon the photographer for not keeping
silence about him after having exposed the imposition,
since he was tempted to do wrong whilst in depth of
poverty, surrounded by great family troubles, so that he might
have been allowed to retrace his steps. But it was
the Spiritual Magazine which kept ' the matter alive;
it wrote article after article, bringing against us the foul charge
of traducing the character of an innocent man ; we scarcely-
noticed more than one article out of two, and then usually only
gave a short paragraph, as will be seen on reference to the back
numbers of the two periodicals, so the Spiritual Magazine has
been entirely responsible for the prolonged references to the
subject. Nay more, this journal alone has pointed out how
the public may have a reliable guarantee as to the genuineness
of the pictures produced in future by the mediumship of the
photographer; he was recommended to ally himself with some
respectable man in the same business, who would certify the
genuineness of all the negatives taken. Further, Mr. Gilbert
Tate, a very respectable photographer, of Cheapside, has pub¬
lished, that if any medium can get spirit pictures in his studio,
he will guarantee the absence of trickery in the matter.
Further still, the exposure of the “ serpent ” said to be at the
root of the imposture, coupled with the remembrance of the
unhappy circumstances of the photographer at the time,
would cause a strong revulsion of feeling in favour of the
latter, and bring under public notice the deeds of persons who
have hitherto escaped altogether, leaving him to bear the
whole brunt of the exposure. Unless forced, we are not likely
to refer to this subject again, and it has only been brought
up on the present occasion in consequence of frequent
misrepresentations.
The National Association, composed of disinterested and
independent Spiritualists, will be a great safeguard to the
whole movement and to honest workers, but will be specially
disliked by charlatans and impostors, who will sympathise with
all attempts to retard its present very satisfactory progress.
A SOMERSETSHIRE MEDIUM IN AMERICA.
An article by Mr. F. H. Richards, published in the
Banner of Light of July 11th, gives the following
particulars about the mediumship of Mrs. Clara Y.
Dole:—
The subject of our sketch is the daughter of Samuel
Blasdale and Ann Parr, and the fifth in a family of
eight children, six of whom are now living. She was
born at Chard, Somersetshire, England, Feb. 21st, 1848,
and came with the family to America when about seven
years of age, since which time the family home has
been at Chicopee, Mass. She was married to Joseph
D. Dole, May 22nd, 1862, and lived at Chicopee
most of the time until 1869, when they removed to
New Britain, Conn., where they now reside.
As with most well-developed mediums, spiritual
experiences, though not always recognised as such at
the time, have been common to her from her early
years’; but it is only about two years since she was
first used as a medium, as that word is generally
understood.
When the auspicious moment arrived to commence
work through their chosen instrument, Prof. I. G.
Stearns, the well-known psychologist, was directed by
his guides to visit New Britain, and, without knowing
a person in this vicinity, or wherefore he was to come,
he obeyed their directions, and early in April, 1872,
found himself, by invitation, in a small society of
Spiritualists convened at the residence of one of their
members for conversation and social enjoyment.
Mrs. Dole, though but little interested in the subject
of Spiritualism, as generally understood, requested
Professor Stearns to try to mesmerise her,as he had been
exercising his powers upon others. In a short time
she was completely under his control, but he was soon
alarmed, for the moment, to find he had as completely
lost his control, she still being unconscious. Seeing
her hand move reassured him all was well, and, placing
a pencil therein, a communication was written from
the medium’s mother, who passed to spirit-life some
time before; and before the professor left the place he
assured the friends she would be an excellent medium,
and that, in his long experience, he had never known
one developed so perfectly in so short a time.
From this time (April 14th, 1872), the ability of the
58
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Bpirits to use her hand constantly improved ; but in a
few months they discontinued that method of com¬
munication, and began giving messages orally ; at first
with difficulty, finally with perfect facility. For
nearly a year circles were held regularly two or three
times a week, and occasionally since that time, at
which messages were received from various members
of the spirit-circle and occasionally from a stranger
spirit. Besides the regular members no person
attended these circles except by special permission.
Soon after becoming able to speak freely they began
taking her, in spirit, to various localities; she
described places, persons and events, past, present,
and future, on the earth proper and in the spirit-
world, and, so far as investigated, these descriptions
have always proved correct. Upon many occasions,
names, dates, etc., have been given and afterwards
verified, but no tests have been given merely to satisfy
the curiosity of any person.
When her father reached England, in June, 1873,
the arrival there of the steamer was reported in ad¬
vance of cable dispatches; and when he returned, the
time he would arrive was accurately given two days
before. His journeyings while in England were often
reported the same day, and sometimes his conversa¬
tion with certain persons also given, and verified on
his return. Events transpiring in the houses of friends
in Chicopee, Boston and other places, have been
accurately described at the moment they were taking
place, and verified by personal visits soon after.
Although physical manifestations, generally speak¬
ing, have rarely been given through her mediumship,
the ease with which they can be thus given has been
abundantly demonstrated. The raps, which are
familiar sounds and of certain well-defined kinds,
partake more of the nature of detonations than in ordi¬
nary manifestations.
Her descriptions of spirits, whether given in an un¬
conscious trance, or in a semi-trance scarcely dis¬
tinguishable from her formal state, are particularly
accurate, including all classes and nationalities, ancient
and modern.
Until recently very little opportunity has been given
the public to avail themselves of the benefits of her
mediumship, yet none have been denied if willing to
be tried by the unseen workers and not found wanting.
And, probably, no better opportunity has been afforded
spirits in this earthly tabernacle than through her
mediumship to study profoundly the “ inner mystery ”
of spiritual existence and spirit control.
The learned author of Bible Marvel WorTcers has
discoursed wisely of the means employed by spirits to
use earthly conditions to enable them to properly
develope mediums, and to advance them from one
degree of development to another. In the present
instance, Professor Stearns was used to make earthly
conditions suitable for Mrs. Bole’s development, and
to enable a certain class of spirits to control, among
whom were no Indians or ancient ones. The spirits
who first controlled were mediums for a more advanced
band, and to enable those advanced ones to control
directly, it became necessary to develop the medium
one degree higher. For this purpose she was caused
to visit Boston in September, 1872, and while in the
Banner of Light Circle Boom, in the presence of Mr.
White, was overshadowed by an influence she could
not resist, and on reaching her room fell into an un¬
conscious state lasting several hours, during which
July 31, 1874.
time Mrs. Frank Campbell, 616, Washington-street,
was sent for and used as one of the instruments to
make earthly conditions right for the desired change in
her development. After one day she was controlled by
an Indian chief, soon after by others, who have, by
many practical illustrations, demonstrated their ability
to control at the times and in the manner they deem
good.
At the proper times other conditions have been
obtained, and still further changes have followed in
their turn. The illiterate and the learned have come
to express their thoughts and act their feelings through
her organism; and the child of a few summers comes
close to the august presence of the ancient priest.
At acircle held on Sunday evening, April 12th, 1874,
in Odd Fellows’ Hall, New Britain, Conn., present
about forty persons, Mrs. Dole, medium, being
entranced, a spirit said substantially as follows :—
“I am a stranger to all here, and you may not care to
hear from me, but I wish to say a few words to you.
My name was Temperance Fenner, and I lived in Cold-
Brook, New York. I was a medium when here, but
did not like to be, for I thought they had a hard time.
I now know they get their reward on the other side.
I was sixty-nine years two months and twelve days
old. I died on the 16th, and was buried on the 18th
of July, 1878. My husband’s name is James Gordon
Fenner, and we used to have circles at our house.”
[Here followed remarks of a general nature not taken
down by those present, after which the dates were
given a second time.]
We, the undersigned, hereby certify that we were
present at the time and place above named, and that
the above names and dates were given as stated, and
that we had no previous knowledge of them.
(Signed) Geo. H. Elleky, Henry Bichaeds, Mrs.
Henry Bichards, J. L. Dole, L. H. Burnham, Geo.
E. Jones, William Thornton, A. D. Dufendorf,
Y. J. Stearns, S. H. Stearns, Mrs. E. A. Basoom, Mrs.
Samuel P. Capen, Wm. H. Jarvis, Mrs. Susan Jarvis.
The dates and names being sent to the address
given, in due time the following letter was received :—
“ Cold-Brook, May 3rd, 1874.
“ Mr. Bichards—Dear Siryours of April 23rd
was duly received. You will please forgive my delay
in answering your request. Every item is correct as
to age, dates, &c. She was a medium ever since
December, 1852, and ever active in the cause. She
told me she would communicate among strangers if it
was possible, that we might know it was her. There¬
fore I and my spiritual friends are much pleased to
hear from her, and render many thanks to your
medium and the circle. . . .
“ (Signed) J. G. Fenner.”
Nsxt Sunday evening, and on the three following
Sundays, Dr. George Sexton will lecture on Spiritualism at the
Music Hall, High-street, Marylebone, under the auspices of
the Marylebone Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism.
The Society will be glad of any assistance in the way of a
guarantee fund, and should the lectures be successful they will
be continued.
In a long advertisement upon another page, some parti¬
culars will be found about the energetic action which Spirit¬
ualists at Sowerby Bridge are taking to establish regular
Spiritual meetings there in a building of their own. Mrs.
Tappan has generously given £5 towards the fund for carrying
on the work, and if richer Spiritualists subscribed in like pro¬
portion to their means, good work would be done towards the
promotion of Spiritualism in Yorkshire.
July 31, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
59
arflrregponlience,
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
THE HA.TIONAL ASSOCIATION1.
Sir,—Please kindly publish the enclosed letter, which I
have sent to the Editor of the Medium. A. Jot.
25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, London, S.W.,
July 26th, 1874.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
To the Editor of the 11 Medium."
Sib,—In your Epistolary “ fragments ” this week, you say you “ have
not received a single defence of this party.” The reason is obvious. You
have hitherto always refused to publish, or take any notice of, except by
some abusive remarks of your own, every communication you have
received on our behalf, even as advertisements, and they have been many.
You also say that we have “ repeatedly ” announced that “ a newspaper
is to be established, and Bums left high and dry in a few months.” Of
course I cannot swear that no member of our Council ever used these
words, but I certainly never heard them, nor anything like them, except so
far that gome have vaguely suggested a newspaper, without any reference
to you. The only sentiment I have heard expressed about you has been
one of pity that your vanity and ambition should make you oppose every
effort in the cause of Spiritualism which you think may interfere with
your autocracy. And I think I may safely say that I know the opinions of
most, if not all, of our more active members on this subject.
Mr. Eumore Jones’s opposition is easy to understand. He also wants to
have everything his own way, and therefore naturally criticises and opposes
an association whose platform is equal freedom of thought, speech, and
action for all. A. Jot.
Sir,—Will you please publish the following letters, which I
have sent to the Medium :—
To the Editor of “ The Medium!'
Sir,—I have seen in the Medium the short notice you take
of my letter, and I am much disappointed at the tone you
adopt. Had you printed in full what I wrote, I would not
have objected to your making any remarks you pleased, as the
public would have had an opportunityof judging for themselves
of my conduct in joining the Association, and of working with
those who possibly differ from me somewhat in opinion. Or
had you ignored my letter altogether, I could have had no
cause to complain. But your own sense of right must tell
you that to make a very brief extract, and comment upon it
adversely when it is severed from its context, is not fair to me,
and is not likely to enable your readers to arrive at a truthful
view of facts. You have succeeded, I am sure unintentionally,
in completely obscuring my meaning, and 1 think it would be
only just for you now to publish my letter in extenso, with this
second one as a preface. Geo. King.
Bayswater, 26th July, 1874.
To the Editor of “ The Medium."
Sir,—It is sad that greater harmony does not prevail among
the pioneers of the spiritual movement, and that even the
attempts at union seem only to lead to further and more em¬
bittered divisions. Especially is it sad to see those who have
given so much of their time and strength to the cause, now
throwing obstacles in the way of comrades whose only aim is
to seek the good of all, and hasten by every legitimate means
the advance of truth and righteousness.
These remarks are called forth by the letter of Mr. J.
Enmore Jones, which appeared in your last number, and I
trust you will allow them space in your paper. Your im¬
partiality will doubtless induce you to let both sides of the
question be placed before your readers, and it is with this
confidence in you that, solely on my own responsibility, I pen
these few lines to correct some of the mistakes into which Mr.
Jones has fallen.
He seems to assume that the British National Association
is opposed to, or at any rate is unfriendly towards Christianity,
and he professes himself to be a “ Christian Spiritualist,” in
contrast with what he supposes the creed of those who are or
who will become members of the Association. In this he is in
error. The Association, as I understand it, expresses no
opinion as to the person or mission of Jesus Christ, but leaves
every one free to hold his own views on this point, as well as
on every other; and, so far from those connected with the
Association being of necessity unfriendly to Christianity, I am
.sure that many members of the Council would, in their private
capacity, prove as earnest as even Mr. Jones himself could be, in
claiming with him the appellation of “ Christian Spiritualists.”
But the very fact of our being Christians^ should make us the
more ready to co-operate with all who will help us to good ends,
though perhaps their creeds and ours do not harmonize. We
should in practice acknowledge that those who are not against
us are on our side. It is this feeling that has induced me to
join the Association. There are many points in the ‘‘Decla¬
ration of Principles and Purposes,” among them the clause
on which Mr. Jones comments, to which I would take excep¬
tion did I see that it would tend to useful results to do so;
and in fact, for my own part, I would like to have the whole of
this portion of the prospectus erased. But it is there as a
compromise, and it seems necessary that it be in the mean¬
time retained to enable some brethren to work with us.
Therefore let it remain. It is better to join in valiant work
than to separate in quarrels over words. So much for the
prospectus ; next, and briefly, as to the objects of the Asso¬
ciation.
It seems ridiculous to have to assert that there is no intention
to lord it over any one. Each is at liberty to join and at
liberty to retire, just as it suits his own free-will; and when
such varied elements are brought together, dogmatism is
impossible. Some strange hallucination must be troubling
Mr. Jones. Can he not trust those members, at any rate, of
the Council whom he pointedly refers to in his letter as old
and tried Spiritualists ? Will he not join the Council himself,
and help to keep us in the right path ? We desire all the
assistance we can get. I speak without authority, but I feel
sure I am not wrong in saying that every one would be glad to
welcome him. He would then from personal experience judge
how solicitous we are to do only what is right, and4in every way
to further the cause which he and we have so deeply at heart.
If I understand Mr. Jones aright he thinks that the Asso¬
ciation means to ignore all that others have done and are
doing, and to build up for itself a religion from its own
researches. When expressed in this way the idea is very
absurd, and I can hardly attribute it to Mr. Jones, yet his
letter seems to bear this construction. Fearing, however,
I may be misunderstanding him, I will not attempt to confute
a statement so preposterous.
In conclusion, let me urge Mr. Jones and those who share
his views, if they will not actively co-operate with us, at any
rate not to increase divisions in the world by bitterly fighting
against us. Each can usefully pursue his own way and help
the others, though for a time we may not be walking visibly
together. Mr. Jones is strong in himself, and feels he can go
on alone: we think that we and others are benefited by
mutual assistance and sympathy. This is the whole differ¬
ence between us, and it surely does not necessitate us to
become enemies. Geo. Kino,
One of the Members of the Council.
Bayswater, 19th July, 1874.
[The Association was founded for purely useful business purposes; it
should ignore theological matters altogether, since they will only cause
dissension and waste of time, and it should keep to practical work.—Ed.
of Spiritualist.]
To Mr. Enmore Jones.
Sir,—I will not dwell on the various false statements,
made in ignorance, no doubt, in your letter in last week’s
Medium, nor on the abusive and malicious tone which charac¬
terises it, nor on the singular unfairness of your sending such
a letter to the editor of the Medium, who, you know, will not per¬
mit any answer to appear in his columns, nor on the unsound
reasoning and unwholesome dogmatism you indulge in.
I only write to inform you that “ the absurd persons ” who
inserted the clause you object to as insulting to Christianity,
did so at the instance of the Christian Spiritualists, of whom
there are a large number on our Council.
Algernon Jot, Hon. Sec.
E. Jones, Esq., Enmore-park, July 19th, 1874.
THE ANALOGY OE KNOWLEDGE.
Sir,—There is much-that we can only understand, or trace
out, or illustrate, through the analogy of knowledge; for
instance, the knowledge of the action of sounds by the air,
leading to the knowledge of the action of light by an ethereal
medium throughout space. And may we not find some
analogy of the intermingling of this likeness of the spirit and
the medium, in materialised spirit forms, with the ordinary
double resemblance of the child to its parents? The germ
being as the spirit, and the mother supplying it with the
material when under development, sometimes the resemblance
is more to the mother by some animal magnetic influence, in
other cases a resemblance is to the father, and in other cases a
mingling of a resemblance to both parents. Often, a mere
mental affection with the mother, will be physically impressed
upon the child. Of course, the building up of a child is a
60
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 31, 1874
very slow process, bat with some creatures the process is a very
rapid one indeed, and rapid action must be as easy, so to
speak, to nature as the slower development. See the rapidity
with which frost will complete those beautiful fem-like forms
upon our window panes, and see the rapidity with which a
poison will flood the whole nervous system; and in the
explosion of gunpowder, how instantaneous the motion from
particle to particle through the whole mass. With some
insects the quickness of the change is quite marvellous. The
rapidity of spirit doings need not then surprise us, as coming
under the head of what Bacon terms “ magical instances
anyhow we have our lesson to learn, and not the law to lay
down. We may say what is contrary to the law of the land,
but not what is contrary to the law of nature, living on this
little speck of earth in a corner of the universe, infinitely less
in proportion than a grain of sand to the entire globe. Every
age produces its novelties, its wonders, and seeming impossi¬
bilities, yet men, proclaiming their pure love of truth, are
prejudging at every turn, with an hypothesis ready for all
occasions. Huhbi G. Atkinson, F.G.S.
Boulogne-sur- Mer.
MATERIALISED SPIRIT FORMS.
Sib,—In your last impression Mr. Dawe speaks of the re¬
semblance that John King bears to the medium Mr. Williams.
In the month of January last I saw him (the spirit) twice,
and on the second occasion pretty well; I then thought the
likeness to Mr. Williams very strong, and said at the time
that it was the medium entranced and dressed up. But
within the last few weeks I have had several opportunities of
seeing him at private seances, held at a friend’s house, and on
one evening, when his face was frequently well illuminated
with bis lamp, it bore no resemblance to the medium in
features, and was dark as the face of an Oriental; the eyes
were black, and that which we call the white of the eye was
of a blue shade; his beard full and black. When he lit up
his face, I observed that his eyes were always fixed on me as if
inviting attention from me, and in the apparition before me,
on this occasion, I certainly saw a native of the East, and
not a European. It is now about two years since I first saw
John King, and can see no resemblance in feature in the John
King of that period and the John King of to-day. His com¬
plexion was then lighter, his forehead larger, and general
appearance nobler than it is now. If it is the same spirit that
materialises, he—in my experience—does not present the
same facial aspect always. I have not seen other mate¬
rialisations, and cannot speak of their resemblance to their
mediums. Joseph Swinburne.
July 20th, 1874.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
M. Francois Gimet, Toulouse.—It is impossible to say anything
about your book, without first seeing it.
T.—James Clark is the same youth who left Mr. Guppy's house to
strike lights at the Holmes’s seance; hs returned the same even¬
ing, and delivered his report to Mrs. Guppy. As regards Mrs.
Bassett, James Clark asserted that his deed was not planned;
nevertheless, he had been hard at work previously for a long time
in Mr. Guppy’s house, altering the cabinet, whereby he was
enabled to commit the act; Mrs. Bassett had nothing in her
hands, which were tied together, nor on her face; the things
were found afterwards in another room; there were other per¬
sons in and out of that room. Mr. Volckman has been a guest at
several of Mrs. Guppy’s seances since the outrage at Mr. Cook's,
as well as before. Immediately after the publication of the occur¬
rence in the house of Mr. and Mrs. Guppy, the Dalston Associa¬
tion invited Mrs. Bassett to give seances in their rooms, and passed
a unanimous vote of confidence in her; Mr. Bassett has very
properly, and by invitation, been unanimously elected a member
of the Council of the British National Aasodation of Spirit¬
ualists. Mr. and Mrs. Bassett have worked for years in Spirit¬
ualism without fee or reward. Sometimes the richer Spiritualists
were glad to pay Mrs. Bassett's travelling expenses, but usually
she accepted nothing, and kept open house free for inquirers.
We were present once when she travelled miles to give a seance
to an eminent F.B.S., and steadily refused to take even travelling
expenses, in order to remove all possible obstacles to his accept¬
ance of a new truth which she had been the instrument of
bringing under his notice.
M. Gustave de Veb, Rigi-Kaltbad.—We have sent a letter to your
Parisian address, and you do not mention on what date you
leave Switzerland.
W., Sawbridgeworth, Herts.—The address of Mr. Crookes is 20,
Mornington-road, London, N.W.
The publication of several letters is postponed till next week.
Books by Dr. Simms, Mrs. Fowler, A. Wallbridge, Dr. Ackworth,
and others, received, and will be noticed shortly*
Dr. J. M. Gully will preside at the Conference meetings
on Wednesday next at Lawson’s Booms, Gower-atreet.
M. Gustave de Veh is mountain-climbing in Switzer¬
land, and will shortly visit Dresden. Mr. N. F. Dawe,
treasurer to the National Association of Spiritualists, is at
Lucerne for the benefit of his health. Mr. William Tebb is
on the Continent. Mrs. Makdongall Gregory will leave
England for Germany in a day or two. Mrs. Honywood is at
Marienbad, Bohemia, and Sir Charles Is ham is abont to leave
England for Marienbad. Mr. Charles Blackburn was in
Devonshire last week, and gave a portion of his time to the
observation of manifestations through the mediumship of
Miss Showers. Mr. J. N. T. Martheze is about to visit the
Lake district in Westmoreland. Lady Caithness has left
London for Westmoreland en route tot the North of Scotland.
Prince George de Solms Braunfels is in London, but will return
to the Continent in a day or two.
Royal Normal College for toe Blind.—The Royal
Normal College and Aeademy of Musie for the Blind at Upper
Norwood, was founded in 1872, to afford a thorough general
and musical education to the youthful blind, of both sexes
and of all classes, who possess the requisite talent, so as to
qualify them to become self-supporting, nseful members of
society. Pupils are received from all parts of the kingdom,
and are instructed according to the improved methods, which,
daring late years, have been employed so successfully in
France and America, that large numbers of the blind in those
countries have been enabled to fully maintain themselves by
various pursuits, especially as skilled organists, pianists,
teachers of music, and pianoforte tuners. A few days ago
the pupils visited Windsor Cattle, and had the honour of play¬
ing and singing before the Quo en, Princess Beatrice, Prince
Leopold, and other members of the royal family, in St.
George’s Hall. Sir Rutherford Alcock, Treasurer of the So¬
ciety, acted on behalf of the Duke of Westminster, the Presi¬
dent, who was unavoidably absent, and Major Cavendish
Fitzroy, Mr. C. A. Miner, and Mr. H. Sewell, Honorary Secre¬
taries, were present. The performances were conducted by
Mr. F. J. Campbell, the Principal of the College, who accom¬
panied the pupils on the pianoforte. He also gave an expla¬
nation of the methods by which the blind are taught to read
and write, and are instructed in geography and mathematics;
as well as an exhibition of the practice with dumb bells accu¬
rately timed by music. The following was the programme :—
" Mesaage of Spring*' (Choir), Gade; '* Invitation k la False"
(for eight hands), Weber; exhibition of methods of instruc¬
tion ; “ Angel Trio," Mendelssohn; “ 146th Psalm," Btra-
ehauer (Professor of Composition In the College); Gymnastic
Class (with musical accompaniment); part song, “ Sweet and
Low," Barnby; "National Anthem." After the National
Anthem had been sung, the Queen spoke to several of the
blind, and also expressed her satisfaction with the perform¬
ance in a few words which all the pupils could hear. The
whole party left Windsor at S.30 for Norwood, and the plea¬
sure which the visit gave was abundantly evidenced by the
bright and happy faces of tbepupils. At the meeting which
had been held at the Mansion House previously, it was forcibly
pointed oat by the Duke of Westminster and other loading
supporters of the Normal College, that one of the chief objects
of the institution is not simply to instruct the blind in music,
but to give them so good a general education as to enable
them to earn their own maintenance. The College is situated
in Westow-street, Upper Norwood, near the Crystal Palace
High Level Station, and is open to inspection, on application
to the bon. secretaries or the principal. Donations and annual
subscriptions will be thankfully received by the bankers,
Messrs. Barclay, Be van, and Co., 64, Lombard-street, E.O.,
and Messrs. Ransom, Bouverie, and Co., 1, Pall-mall East,
S.W.; also by the bon. treasurer, or the bon. secretaries, at
the offices, 28, Mount-street, Grosvenor-squaro, London.
Cheques and post-office orders should be crossed, and may
be drawn in favour of the bon. treasurer, Sir Rutherford
Alcock, K.O.B. 
'NSCRUTaBLK are the lows that govern the incidence of
. Homo of tbs graatMt calamiUm.—A RAILWAY AOOIDENT Is, to
any particular parson a (Utoorsttaally) rotnoto contingency, but It may
happen, as a matter of fact, the very next journey undertaken. The rlak,
la a pecuniary aenae.may now be covered FOR LIFE by a alngie small
payment.—Apply for prospectus of tbs
RAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSURANCE COMPANY,
LUflTKD.
TO
THE MANAGER, U, POULTRY, LONDON, E.O.
oa to
MR. THOMAS ELY TON, AGENT, IT, HIGH-STREET, BOW,
LONDON, E.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
July 31, 1874.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vtcc-Prejutenls.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTS, whose reputation Is
well known throughout Europe and America, can be consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Honrs
13 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 31, Princee-
street, Hanover square, two doors from Begent-street.
The Countess of Caithness, Slagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Colder, Alexander, The Elms. I’utnoy-hlil, 8. W.
Coleman. Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas. Upper Norwood.
Evetiu. Thomas, Litian-vitta, Holder's-hUl. Hendon. N. W.
Fltx-Oerald, Mr*., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park. W.
Makdoagall Gregory. Mr*.. 31. Green-street Groivenor-nquare, W
Gully, J. M.. M.D.. Orwell-lodge, Bedford-bill, Balbam, &W.
Honywood. Mr*„ 53. Warwiok-equare, 8.W.
Jeooken, H. D., M.ILI. BarrUtsr-at-Law, Goldsmilh-hnlldings, Temple, E.C,
Bamakv, Mrs., I'l, Bryanston-squsre, W.
Boss Church, Mr*. (Florence Marryst), 31, CoiviUe-road, Ksoslngston-
park, W.
Smith, Martin It, Heath tan da, \V im btedon -commou 8. W.
Speer. 8. T.. M.D., Dougins House, Alexandra-read, Finch ley-road, N.W.
Wsson, J., Wnoon’s-btuldingm, Liverpool.
Cornell.
Ann Be Id. W. N, Eden-vlllo, OolrM-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, w. K., 15, Thornhnm-grove, Stratford, B.
Beattie. John, 3, Biehmaod-blu, CUfton. Bristol.
Bennett, Edward. T- The Holmsa. Betchworth, near Reignte.
Brown, Jamea. 161, Hospital-etrset, Hutebeeon-town, Ghutgow
Chapman. John, in, Dnnkeld-etreet, Liverpool.
Coos, Keologale, B A .. Red-hiit, Burrev.
Croeiand. Newton. Lynton-iodge, Vanbrugh Park-road. Black heath. R.E.
Davtea, Iter. C. Mnurlce, D.D, 44, Nether wood-road. Weet Kensington-
park, W.
Da we, N. F, Port man-chamber*. Portman-square, W.
Daweoa. George IL 1. Earibam-Toad-tenaee, Norwieh.
EverlU. Mrs. M. A, Lilian-villa, Holdcr's-bill, Hendon, Middlesex. N.W.
Pitton. Biebard. 84 Walnut street, Cheetham, Maocbestee.
FUs-Gerald, Deiuoud, Q- M.S. TeL K, d, Loughhurougb-road North,
Brtxton, S.W.
Fltx-Ucrald. Mrs. D. O, t. Lough borough-road North. Brixtoa, S.W.
Freeman. Joseph. York Bill Farm, Lough ton, Broex.
Oiynss, Wohetor, F.LA.S. A Oray’s -inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 5. Soolh-atract, Ftosbury. O.C.
Houghton, Miss, 30, Dslamera erssoeot. weetbourne square, W,
Humphrivs, II. T. 4, Trafalgar sqntra Brampton, S.W.
laham. Sir Charles, Ran., Lamport Hail, Northampton.
Ivimoy. Joseph, 84. Seymour eh set. Hyde-park, W.
Joy. Algernon, M.LC B-, Junior Untied Sendee Qsb, K.W.
Klaliugbury, Mias, M, CWrandon road. Noulng-hlll, W.
King. Ueorgn, WJMl, 40, Bsrk-place, Beyswnisr, W.
Lnmoot, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred K. A Park-road, Plalstow, Eases.
Mawson. W. IL, l. KinfVeqnara Ooswsll-raed. EO.
Mesra, W. D, cars of T. Everltt, Moldera-1 ill, Hendon.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun-J.P., United Unlvsruily Oluh^ S.W.
Psoras, O. W, FAS. 14. Buruley-road. Stoakwsl). S.W.
Rogers, K. Dawson, 39. DalraU-rasd. Stock we II. 8. W.
Sexton. Georgs, M..V, M.D, LLD., An, 17, Trafalgar-ro«id,’Old Kent-rtL, 8.E.
Shepherd. J. 39. Kvenon-erssesnt, LiverpooL
Shower*. Mrs. Frodsrikn. Hasel Down, Teignmouth.
BorUlug. O. F.. Oamdsn villa, Victoria-rood, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annsndale, Osnlral-oill. Upper Norwood.
Sirawbtidgn Mrs. O. N. Annan dale. Cert ral-bitl. Upper Norwood.
8 win toe. A. C. Hiii Hooss, Vnrsslllns rusd Norwood, S.E.
TheobaM. Moral!. HolderVhlU, Usodon. N.W.
Thavbald. Mr* M , Holder’s-hill, Usodon, N.W,
Theobald, R. M., M.D. An. 35, Lee terrace. Lea, B.K.
Tlstkaon B. A, 1A Oakley-equara. N.W.
Wilson. D. H. M.A, LLM^ Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
8. W, one 5, Alien burg-terrace, Clapham Jupotlon. S.W.
Wlesman, Mra, 1, Onus square Bays water, W.
//esoro-g J> estsi n
N. F, Daws, Eeq., Portmeo-e bam beta Poriznan-square, W,
Memarmy BunOarim.
Algernon Joy, Etq.,SA Jsmee stioet, Bucklngbam-gate, S.W. (ffosw Chrrw-
pendrsar)
Miss Kiallngbory, 39, Claranduo-road. Noulng-hil), W. (/brsig* Otrrve-
psnduMu.)
AssMeuf AenrsMep,
Mr. Louis Freeman, York-hili Farm, Loaghtcn, Esaex.
Bom. or Oiriitsondfi p Humbert
Prince Emil t de Seyn Wittgenstein. Lieutenant-General. Aide-de-Oamp
Oeneial de S.i.Jt. rEmperaar de Bnmie. Nieder Wallnf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Psslh.
The Baroness Adelina Von Vay, Qaootuu bei Poisehaeh, Btyria, via Grata,
Austria.
The Huu. Alexandra Aksakof, Bussian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order <«f Si. Stanlalaa. Nevaky Prospect, 8, St, Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Brattling, New York, UJ8. America.
A. J. Illko, Eeq. 71, Molenslraat. the Hague. lloDood.
Mrs. Kmma Uerdlnge Britten, Boston, U.8.
J. M. Peebles, Keq ,11 am men too. New Jersey, C.8.
The Rev. J. Tyermsn, Editor of the Progrtutre Sptritmaiitl, Melbourne,
AnstraUa.
Mrs. Cora L V. Tapnati. New York, U.8., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, IS, Rue Lsuristou, Paris.
Baboo Psaryeband Mlttra, 7, Swallow iaoe, Calcutta.
Jamas Mylns, Eeq, Bsheea, East Indian Hallway, BoogoL
0. Constant, K*q., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
W. H. Terry, Eeq. 96, Bussell strset, Mel bourns, Victoria, Australia.
Gsooral Don Joaquin Basso Is y Maninosa, Madrid.
Samuel Chlunery. K«q., 53, Bus da Route, Faria
W. I Indsssj Richardson. Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Bus do Lille, Paris.
M. Oustava da Vsh, 38, Avenue das Champs Flynns. Paris.
Mms G. ds Vsh. 36, Avenue das Champs-Elyasea Paris,
Or. 0. Wttdg, Eeq., Nurnberger Btrame 85, Lelpsle.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
doily, to give Private Seamem, from 13 to 5 p.m. Private Stamen
attended at the houses of Investigators. Public Stauett at 61, Lamb's Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 3s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5a.; and Saturday evening*, for Spiritualists only, 5a.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
MRS. WOODF0RDE.TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reason this.—Present address, 41,
Bernard-atraet, BasseU-squars. Private Seances attended.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Tears estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives bis Consultations at his
residence dally, from Three till Five o'clock.—10, Berkeiey-gordens,
Lompden-hill, Kensington.
MR. W. 0. SCO RE Y, Medical Mesmerist and
, Bobko, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engogemsma.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Ooldhawk-road, Shepharda’-buah >
W. Biss so write.
"Vf IS8 GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
lYX RUBBER. AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 181, Hompeteed-
raod, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms, on applica¬
tion by lettar.
f V. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
(g . 1 attars, at 861, Sixth Av., Now York. Terms, Five Dollar* and Four
Throe-cent Stamps. BsouTan too Lamia.
OEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
O 39, West 34tb-street. New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Mousy refunded If not answered. Register your letters.
■pIIOTOGRAPHIC COPIES OF THE ILLUMINATED
JL ADDRESS iseeuUy presented by the SpirituaHets of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zorn bra. Crystal Palace, Sydenham Price Large Mae, Is.; small also. Is.
T7T81TORS to LONDON will find Comfortable Bedrooma
v and Good Attendance at Mr*. JACKaox*i Table iBat*. Moderate
Charge*. A Torrtngton street, Torrington-square, London, W.O.
WANTED by a Married Couple (Spiritualists), with a
little girl, for a permanency, a email HOUSE, or part of a bouse
(unfurnished), to eoneist of bedroom, two parlour*, and a kitchen. Must
be in good repair, and healthily situated. Vicinity of Highbury, Daiston,
or Hackney but lions (North London Railway), preferred. Bent, Inclusive
of all taxes, must be moderate. Letter* to be sDdreeeed to “Advertiser,''
ears of The*. Blytoa, 13, Higb-etreel, Bow, London, E.
A GENTLEMAN who is a Spiritualist, and possesses
Xjl. great healing power, residing in a healthy locality amongst the
Derbyshire hills, having undertaken the charge of a gentleman suffering
from sun etroka, desires to meet with another patient somewhat similarly
affected. Terms moderate. For further particular* apply to “H" oare of
Mr. F. A. Btnnsy, Solicitor, 33,8L Anne-aquor’s; Manchester.
Mohammed and Mohammedanism: Lectures
. delivered at the Royal InxihuiUn of Great Britain in February and
March. 1874. By H. BOS WORTH SMITH, M.A. Crown 8»o, 6a.
“ A view of Mohammed’s life and doetriuaa, perhaps mors faithful and
more Jast than any that bos before been published."—deed—y.
** A tea rued, able, and eloquent volume . .. acute Ihmklog, Judioia
raaennlnf and stoqnsm exposition." fkefrsieu.
SPIRITUALISM
FROM A NEUTRAL STASB-POIXT.
A Resume of Evidence—jw*o and con.
BY U. VENMAN.
Post-fNe for 13 Stamps.
Ixout A Co., 30, Pimlico-road, London, 8.W.
Just pobUahsd, price 3s.
CURATIVE MESMERISM,
■Y
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Authob, 10, Bsrkslsy-gardena, Campdon-hlll, or from
Railuekk A Co. King William-street, Strand.
rpHE PROGRESSIVE SPIRITUALIST AND FREE
JL THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J.Tyumax.
Price Threepence. To behad of W, 11. Terry, 86, BuaaeU-strast, Melhoarne,
and all Australian Bookseller*.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
EYIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERYES
INVESTIGATION.
RpT-R.rTTTAr.rSM deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows
“H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., P.G.S., G. "WheatleyBennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., O.E.; H. R. Pox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G-. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.O.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. 'J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.O.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Veomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’'  -
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirees into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
Bitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody Shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch eacn other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
qlways, very considerably delays the manifestations.
r 3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean -writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
he table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly/ will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the,question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
In the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
Bpirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
July 31‘, 1874.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1874.
Prmdcnt.—James Wason, Esq,
Vice-President.—TAx. John Lament.
Secretary.
Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Russell-street, Liverpool.
Treaturer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. G. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. R. Casson.
Mr. D. Gay.
Mr. T. B. Griffin.
Mr. Riece.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Casson.
Mrs, Gay.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. . | Mr. John Lamont.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Mr. Bretherton. I Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion. ,
January 9th, 1874.
AN APPEAL TO SPIRITUALISTS AND FRIENDS.
T
HE Spiritualists of Sowerby Bridge have, up to the
present time, held their meetings in a cottage at Causeway Head.
This has now been found inadequate, and in order to carry out more pro¬
gressive principles, a new Lyceum has been built to seat about 300 persons in
Hollin’s-lane Sowerby-bridge, along with eight dwellings which are
intended to endow the Lyceum at some future time, when they can be
freed from Mortgage. The Building when complete, will cost above £1,300
of which. £1,000 has been obtained on mortgage at the rate of 3 per cent,
per annum, which leaves a debt of over £460. An Appeal to the friends
of Spiritualism is proposed. It is desired that 300 friends will kindly give
£1 each; the remainder will probably be raised at home. Mrs. Cora L.
V. Tappan has kindly consented to open the New Hall, and she heads the
list with a donation of £5. Several friends in the out-district have already
promised £1 each. The Bradford friends are arranging for a benefit of
two Orations to be given by Mr. J. J. Morse, of London, some time in the
month of August.
This is earnestly put before the friends of the movement, as it is impossi¬
ble to borrow money on a School, or Lyceum, owing to the actions of the
School Board. And as this is the first building in the kingdom of Great
Britain, belonging solely to Spiritualism, and as the money will shortly be
due to the various contractors, it is hoped that those who can do something
for the cause will do so. The projectors are all working men, and this is
one of the boldest attempts to carry out the true religion or science of
Spiritualism. It is intended to open the new Lyceum on Sunday,
August 2nd, 1874.
To those who are not in a position to give the amount, smaller sums may
be sent, and to those who cannot give money, tracts, books, spiritual
periodicals, and back numbers of the London Spiritual papers will be thank¬
fully received. As a library is connected with the Institution, those who
can help with books will do good in many ways. The friends are thankful
for the support and encouragement that have already been given, and
kindly solicit further favour and support.
Donations for this great object can be forwarded to the Secretary,
Henby Loud, Union street. Beech,
July 14th. Sowerby-bridge, Yorkshire.
List already promised.
£ s. A
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan 5 0 0
Twelve other friends £1 each... ... 12 0 0
A Friend at Oldham   10 0
A Ditto at Manchester...   10 0
P.S.—The amotmts and other gifts will be acknowledged in the London
Spiritualist periodicals.
£1,000
REWARD.—MASKELYNE & COOKE.
AN EXPOSE
OF THE FALSENESS OF THEIR PRETENSIONS.
By ALGERNON JOY, M.I.O.E. (IOTA).
London: E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane.
Price One Penny.
A GENTLEMAN, formerly Master of a Church Grammar
School, thrown out of occupation through his adoption of
Spiritualism, will be grateful if any brother Spiritualist will put him in
the way, directly or indirectly, of procuring in London, or elsewhere,
employment as PRIVATE SECRETARY, Tutor, Master of School, er
otherwise. Address: Alpha, 18, Atlingworth-street, Brighton.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holbom, in the Parish of Sf. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. G,eorge the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.C.
