A F^ECOF^D Of THE PROQREff Of THE fCIEfCE /ND ETHICg OF fPIF^ITU^LIfM.
No. 21.—Yol. I. LONDON : MONDAY, MAY 15, 1871.
Published on the 15th of every
Month; Price Threepence.
ME,. HOME’S YISIT TO ST. PETEESBUEGH.
BY ABEXAKTCRE N. AKSAKOE.
Conseiller de Cour; AttacM ala Chaneellerie du Cornell d'Etat; Chevalier
de Vordre de S. Stanislas; Juge de Paix honoraire; Menibre de VAcadimie
Litteraire degV Industriosi ” dlmola; Author of “ Etudes sv/r VEvangile
cCapris Swedenborg, "Leipzig, 1864; “Du Rationalieme de Swedenborg," Leipzig,
1870; Traducteur de la “Itagnitothirapie” du Comte de Szapary, S. Petersbourg,
1860; Des “ Recherches experimentales sur le Spiritualisme ” par le Professeur
R. Hare, Leipzig, 1866, ice., &e.
I have with much pleasure received your letter of
the 27th of February, and see that you fully approve
the suggestion I made of the desirability of reprinting
in The Spiritualist, the articles written by Faraday, and
the pamphlet by Mr. Wallace, if not in full, at least in
part. I await this reprinting with much interest.
You desire that I should send you an article on
Spiritualism in Eussia; I respond to the request by
sending you a few particulars respecting Mr. Home’s
recent visit to St. Petersburgh. On receiving Ho. 2 of
The Spiritual News, I was much surprised to learn that
Mr. Home was already here, and as I heard that he
very often resided as a visitor at the house of the Baron
de Mayendorf, I was impressed to go thither in search
of him. As letters of introduction I presented to him
a letter from one of his Moscow friends, which I had
intended to deliver to him in London during a visit I
expected to make last Autumn ; I also presented to him
my article on “ Spiritualism in Russia” printed in Ho.
30 of Human Nature. Since the day of that visit I
have seen Mr. Home very often, and now write to you
with the full knowledge of the important results in aid
of the progress of our noble cause, which his sojourn in
our capital will produce.
During the first two months after his arrival he was in
a good state of health, and as regards his mediumship
he was in “ great power” as the saying is ; he therefore
took advantage of these favourable conditions to give a
great number of seances, which proved highly satis¬
factory to the elite of society here; even the most in¬
credulous were convinced or forced to keep silence,
whilst those already inclined to accept the truths of
Spiritualism had the good fortune to see their faith
placed upon a firm foundation.
Mr. Home gave four seances to the Emperor at the
"Winter Palace, where everything passed off very satis¬
factorily, and the Emperor himself makes not the
slightest scruple in testifying to others that he several
times saw a spirit hand; as a sign of recognition he pre¬
sented Mr. Home with a magnificent sapphire ring, the
sapphire being set in diamonds.
I will give you a minute description of some manifesta¬
tions I have seen at good seances, at which, thanks to
the kindness of Mr. Home, I was present. Their
general character is well known to your readers, so I
will now speak of two kinds of experiments, which, from
their novelty and their objective value, have for you a
particular interest.
It is necessary to tell you that this winter I proposed
to several friends to form a little circle for the study of
Spiritual manifestations, of the reality of which they
wished to make sure from their own knowledge. Since
the month of Hovember last we have met regularly
every week, and we had already obtained a series of
very remarkable phenomena, when we had the good
fortune to see the arrival of Mr. Home. I lost no time
in telling him, very naturally, how happy we should be
to see him in our midst; since then he had the kindness
to come to nearly all our weekly meetings, and the good
which resulted was great, as you will see. By a curious
coincidence, at the same time that your eminent chemist,
Mr. Crookes, began to inquire into the subject of!
Spiritualism, our eminent chemist, Mr. Boutlerow,* began
to inquire into it on our side. During the winter he i
attended our seances regularly; also those we had with
Mr. Home, and the result is that he is fully convinced I
of the reality of the phenomena which form the base of:
the study of Spiritualism. Having witnessed at one of i
the meetings the phenomenon of the table being made
heavy or light at the request of the observers, he con- |
structed for the next seance a dynamometer, and1
attached it to the table. The normal tension, the table !
being raised on one side, was 100 pounds; when the1
manifestations began, the weight diminished to nearly [
thirty pounds, and increased to about 150 pounds, show¬
ing a variation of 120 pounds. If it be objected that
* Professor of Chemistry at the University, and member of the Academy
of Sciences of St. Petersburgh; author of a work on chemistry which has
been translated into German, under the title of Lehrbuch der Organisehen
Chemie, Leipzig, 1868.
the hands upon the table might, even involuntarily,
augment its weight, this explanation will not account
for the diminution of the Weight, for it is plain that in
the latter case the imposition of the hands must be a
hindrance, rather than an assistance. On another occa¬
sion, in order to reverse the physical conditions under
which tfie last experiment was made, when the table
was made heavy, we put the hands underneath, and the
result was equally satisfactory.
The other experiment of which I wish to inform you
is, that the augmentation and diminution of temperature
so common at circles has been made visible in degrees
by means of a thermometer. This phenomenon was also
verified by Professor Boutlerow, at one of Mr. Home’s
seances; the temperature of the thermometer, while
resting on the table, was 19 degrees Reaumur (77
degrees Fahrenheit) ; when it was placed under the
table on the floor, after the lapse of several minutes, the
table by tilting signalled for the alphabet, and it then
spelt out “ Augmente; ” at the same instant the ther
mometer was, by an invisible power, carried under the
table to Mr. Home, and showed decidedly an augmenta¬
tion of temperature of three degrees. The thermometer
was then placed once more upon the floor, with the
request that its temperature should be lowered; it then
fell to nearly 18 degrees Reaumur. The experiment
was repeated, the thermometer in this instance not
being touched by anybody but Professor Boutlerow, and
the total variation of temperature observed was 4
degrees Reaumur. It is scarcely necessary, I think, to
say that during the time the changes of temperature
were going on, all the persons present had their hands
upon the table. It would be well if you would repeat
experiments of this kind, so that the facts may be
further demonstrated under the same test conditions.*
A circumstance of another character, but of great
importance as regards the progress of our cause, was
the lecture which Mr. Home delivered upon Spirit¬
ualism, in the mansion of a distinguished Spiritiste,
before an auditory of more than 200 persons of the best
society in our capital. To understand the full signifi¬
cation of this fact, it is necessary to inform you that,
thanks to Russian censorship, .everything connected
with Spiritualism is here severely opposed—that is to say,
that all foreign literature treating on the subject, with
the exception of several of Kardec’s books, is prohibited,
and that nobody may print anything here in defence or
in free exposition of this question. It is but a year
ago that M. Boltinn, a zealous Spiritiste, intended to
deliver several lectures on Spiritualism. He presented
his petition and his programme to the right authority,
and received, in exchange, a formal interdiction. Thus,
you see, no Russian here is able to uplift his voice to
make known to the public the facts and the doctrines of
Spiritualism. Therefore the lecture which Mr. Home
delivered here on the 24th of February, will remain for
a long time unique in the history of the progress of this
movement in Russia, and it is certain that Mr. Home’s
lecture would never have come off, had he not had the
special protection of the highest authorities in St.
Petersburgh, and, after all that, it was only a private
lecture—no patrons, no announcement, and no pro¬
grammes having been distributed except among friends ;
officially, it was nothing but a reunion. Public lecturing
remains, as you see, an impossibility. Were it otherwise,
an auditory of 1000 persons could be drawn together.
The lecture was an exposition of the historical and
phenomenal aspects of Spiritualism, and some mention
was made of the attitude of the scientific world to¬
wards the subject. The lecture, remarkable in itself,
was rendered all the more remarkable by the following
circumstance which took place during its delivery :—
While Mr. Home was speaking of the phenomenon of
the variation of weight of the table, a very common
manifestation, he remarked that recently, even here, at
one of his seances, it had been observed in the presence
of a St. Petersburgh savant, and had been verified by him
by means of a dynamometer, which indicated a variation
of weight in the table amounting nearly to 120 pounds.
Mr. Home added that the said man of science was then
among the listeners, and that probably, after the lecture,
he would not refuse to give his testimony to those who
desired to hear the same. At these words Professor
* This experiment has been tried in London, Mr. Home being the medium,
and the result was a variation offfour degrees Fahrenheit—rather less than
four degrees Beaumur.—Ed.
Boutlerow rose from his seat, and said, “ Why afterwards?
Here even, and at this instant, I attest it! ” You may
imagine the profound sensation which this made among
the listeners, even among the most incredulous. It was
the word of honour of a man whose scientific reputation
is well known even throughout Europe, of a man of the
noblest personal character. This is the first time that a
man of science in Russia has had the courage to bear
public testimony to the reality of a phenomenon belong¬
ing to the category of spiritual manifestations.
At the close of the lecture the listeners gathered
around the Professor; each wished to hear from his
own mouth further confirmation of the strange fact,
and of many others stranger still; each recounted in
his turn all that he had himself seen, heard, and felt.
Mr. Home, withdrawing himself from the ovations
which greeted him on all sides, went, in the excitement
of the moment, to embrace the man who had not hesi¬
tated to tell the truth in public, to compromise his re¬
putation, and to attach his name to a cause which the
populace, in its ignorance, is delighted to cover with
ridicule and misrepresentation. Thus ends the story of
the lecture by Mr. Home, an event which will be ever
memorable in the history of Spiritualism in Russia.
Another time I will write to you about the undig¬
nified conduct of the press towards Mr. Home about the
seance which he gave at the University, and what fol¬
lowed it. But I love to speak with full knowledge of
the facts. All the necessary documents will soon be in
my hands, and then justice shall be done to him who is
in the right. Alexandre Aksakof.
April 15th, 1871.
Perspective de Hevsky, 6, St. Petersburgh.
OTHER WORLD ORDER.
BY WILLIAM WHITE, AUTHOR OF THE “LIFE OF
SWEDENBORG.”
It is difficult to be a Scot and escape anxiety about
eternity, and the momentous question. What shall I do
to be saved ? Heaven and Hell are among the earliest
conceptions of Scottish childhood—especially Hell.
Grace was unwell, and was taken to bed with her
mother. Suddenly in the night she woke with a shriek
and a clutch at her mother’s arm.
<f What is the matter, Grace ? ”
“ O, mither, I saw God and a big fire. We were
standing in a row, as at school, and God was throwing
one by one into the fire. He had got hold of Jeannie
Morrison by the foot and was heaving her in : it is my
turn next. O, mither! mither ! dinna let him get me!
dinna ! 0, dinna ! ”
Said the mother—woman gentle as ever breathed—
“ Be a good girl, Grace, and God will never throw you
into that fire. If you are bad, he will. Now lie still
and go to sleep.”
My parents were members of the Society of Friends*
and though I attended meetings with unfailing regularity
on Sundays, I received little dogmatic instruction there.
Silence (well nigh two hours of silence in morning and
again in the afternoon) was the habit of the assembly,
and I, a child, was subjected to the dismal regimen
as merciless matter-of-course.
At school I was exempted from the Presbyterian.
Catechism on the score of Quakerism, but my ears were
open to its repetition, and the spirit of Scottish theology
was breathed into me. How could it have been other¬
wise ? Sin and righteousness, death and judgment,
God and Satan, angels and devils, were continually in
my thoughts. A volume of Quarles’s Emblems, thick
with grotesque illustrations, afforded hints and bases for
many an idea of the other world, its inhabitants and
scenery. Heaven was a realm of loveliness and mystery
into which I never could believe I should find entrance.
Of death I had an unspeakable terror, feeling sure that
whenever it occured I should open my eyes in Hell. I
felt like Grace that safety from God lay in Humanity.
Nevertheless there was fascination even in my terror.
Visits to church yards, and descriptions of death-beds
and executions had unquenchable attractions.
One puzzle exercised me greatly. I heard the good
spoken of as in Heaven and the bad as in Hell, and at the
same time of the resurrection of their corpses for judg¬
ment at the end of the world. I could not reconcile the
statements, and could find nobody any abler than myself.
A nurse told me a story of a lady who was thought
162
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 15, 1871.
to be dead, and was buried. The sexton knew that
she had a diamond ring on her finger, and at mid-night
opened her grave, raised the coffin-lid, and was cutting.
olf the ring-finger, when she groaned. The sexton fled,
the lady got out of her coffin, walked home, and knocked
at the door, which was opened by her amazed and
happy husband.
This anecdote introduced to my mind the horrible
possibility of being buried alive, and in dreams by night
and day, I fancied myself waking underground, touch¬
ing the side of my coffin, kicking the lid, and crying
vainly for release whilst slowly suffocating. In the
silence of a Quaker meeting I used to rehearse the
horror, going through imaginary funerals, and pinching
my fingers to assure myself that fantasy was not reality.
Such was my silent worship !
Exercised myself on such themes I was not unwilling
to exercise others. Sitting in the hay-loft with a girl,
my junior, I took occasion to inform her that she would
die some day, that she would then be put in a box and
the lid nailed down, and buried in a deep hole. To my
delight, she began to cry, and I re-asserted the assur¬
ance of her certain fate, whereon she roared. Over¬
hearing the outcry, her mother ascended the stair,
exclaiming, “ What’s the matter, Maggie ? what’s the
matter?”
“ 0, mither, Willie White says I’ll dee, and they’ll put
me in a box and bury me in a hole! ”
Perth with the judicious parent boxed my ears, and
comforted Maggie with—
“Ye’ll never dee, dearie, ye’ll never dee, and they’ll
no put ye in a box and bury ye, that they winna.”
I endured my chastisement with the sense, of a martyr,
for had I not been preaching the very truth to Maggie ?
As I advanced in boyhood I was sent to a Quaker
boarding-school in Cumberland, where I was brought
under pious influences. I tried to qualify for Heaven
by doing my duties faithfully, but I never felt that I
had. the requisite righteousness.
The master by whose spirit I was moved to these
righteous endeavours left the school, and was succeeded
by what is known as an Evangelical. Prom his lips I
first heard, or rather first apprehended, the doctrine of
salvation by faith in the vicarious atonement. With
astonishment I heard him ascribe deliverance from sin
and hell to belief that Christ by crucifixion had ac¬
quitted us of our obligations to God, and that any
merit in us was valueless for redemption, and only to
be regarded as an evidence of gratitude.
I had tried to be good to get to Heaven: I now
discovered that my pains were superfluous. A sense of
emptiness and listlessness came over me. What was the
use of living? I listened to the easy way of salvation,
as prescribed, without resistance, for it was delivered
with an authority which it never entered my young head
to question; but I had no power nor inclination to
realise its benefits personally.
One of the effects of the doctrine was to set me
wondering whether all theology might not be fabulous ?
whether the Bible might not be on a par with Homer ?
whether Christ was what Christians thought Him to be?
and whether God, if indeed there was a God, answered
to our notions of Him ? This scepticism I did not
cherish. On the contrary it was hateful to me, and by
every means 1 tried to make an end of it. Into peace¬
ful and pious moods doubts would intrude, and turn
them to misery. I read Paley and other apologists of
the faith, but they raised more questions than they
settled. Sometimes, in despair, I was tempted to curse
the Holy Ghost; for I reasoned, I shall then never be
forgiven, and that will make an end of the business—if
any such business there be to make an end of.
Youth is full of energy and hope. I did not over¬
come my doubts, but neither did my doubts overcome
me. My passion for moral perfection was discouraged;
my theological opinions were chaotic; and under all
was a horrible sense of uncertainty: but I delighted in
religious emotions, in religious society, and in religious
literature.
Shortly after leaving school and returning to Scot¬
land, I road George Combe’s Constitution of Man, and
it was to me as the opening of a, new world. Surely
never book and reader, teacher and scholar, so perfectly
matched. I was distressed for a day or two with what
I considered the identification of brain and mind. It
seemed to me that if Combe was right, the death of the
one must be the death of the other. Suddenly I found
relief in the conception of the existence of an im¬
ponderable spiritual body within the material body, of
which the material body with all its organs was the
expression and counterpart. Subsequently I had my
conception verified and extended in the most charming
manner by Swedenborg.
But though George Combe introduced me to a larger
and more liberal life, he did not mitigate my appre¬
hensions about futurity, as the following experience
will show.
Bella had a kind heart, but she was neither maid
nor wife. She had entered our household as wet-nurse,
and remained as general servant. Pond of children,
our hearts grew to her insensibly and firmly. She had
many faults, and among them a liking for whisky, occa¬
sionally returning from Kirk on Sunday nights affected
with over indulgence. Discharged repeatedly, and
retained on promise of amendment, she was at last
finally dismissed. Poor Bella failed to obtain another
situation, and left our house for miserable lodgings.
Pitying her sad case, and meditating how to help her,
the news arrived that Bella was dead.
Bella dead! Bella gone to Hell! So the tidings
took shape in my mind.
I was consumed with inward agony—with grief
poignant and hopeless. I knew Bella, knew the condi¬
tions of salvation, and knew that eternal damnation
was her inevitable doom. Hound and round I turned
the case—but hope was nowhere.
By-and-by time exercised its invincible power of
healing, and the certainty of Bella’s misery, unforgotten,
ceased to afflict. Merciful is the action of time, but
occasionally we are tempted to exclaim, “ Cruel time
to heal such wounds—to deaden such divine sorrows!”
I got acquainted with Unitarians—who disbelieved
in the eternity of Hell, and maintained that the whole
human race would ultimately be saved. It was a very
comfortable opinion, and one I should have been glad
to share, but I never could see that it had any credible
basis. The Scriptures lent it little support, and still
i less experience, for evil men do not grow better, but
worse, with increase of years. As Bishop Thirlwall
acutely observes—
“ Some, who choose to be good, come out with the happy ex¬
perience that life has worked well with them, that they have
been growing better and better, riper in judgment, purer in
heart, as long as they lived. But with how many is the
case quite the reverse ! How many are growing worse and
worse, more and more hardened, blinded, and depraved, the
longer they live ! With these (no doubt through their own
fault) God’s schooling has hitherto failed. But then what
prospect is there for such as these in a future progress toward
Universal restoration ? God cannot make them good. All He
can do is to remove them into another school, which may fit
them better. But must He not know which fits everyone
best ? And is their education to begin entirely de novo, and
not to bring into the second school the habits and character
which they have formed in the first ? And if so, with what
hope of a better result ?”
I could see no reason why the formation of character,
presumed to be the purpose of life on earth, should
begin anew hereafter. The Universalist’s creed ap¬
peared to me then, as it appears to me now, an amiable
wish transformed to a dogma.
Sometimes accommodating spirits would suggest that
only after ages of suffering would redemption be
achieved.
Ages of suffering! I often hear the expression and
marvel at the lack of sympathetic imagination it reveals.
Ages of suffering ! Who that has known even a week of
toothache can speak of an age of suffering ? Ho: if
my creed is to be dictated by fancy, commend me to
Thomas Paine’s—
“ My own opinion is, that those whose lives have been
spent in doing good and endeavouring to make their fellow
mortals happy—for this is the only way in which we can serve
God—mill he happy hereafter; and that the very wicked will
meet with some punishment. But those who are neither good
nor bad, or are too insignificant for notice, will be dropt
entirely. This is my opinion. It is consistent with my idea
of God’s justice, and with the reason that God has given me,
and I gratefully know He has given me a large share of that
divine gift.’’
Afflicted by Calvinism, yet refusing relief by mere
good nature, I found an anodyne in Swedenborgianism.
In June, 1848, 1 cbanced to pick up a copy of The
New Jerusalem and its Heavenly Doctrine on a second¬
hand bookstall, and putting it in my desk, read it at odd
moments. Its statements, doctrinal and supernatural,
interested me so much that I procured Heaven and Hell,
and began to frequent the New Jerusalem Temple, as
the Swedenborgian meeting-house was called. By my
friend Isaac Pitman of Bath, I was introduced to the
preacher, 0. Prescott Hiller, an American, and in his
ministry and in acquaintance with the congregation, I
felt as one translated to a new and happier world.
From my hereditary Quakerism, I broke openly in
1851, and in youthful enthusiasm committed sundry
extravagances, which are not pleasant to think of. Yet,
on the whole, these years were nobly spent; for in
them I received an education peculiar and precious, for
which I shall remain perpetually grateful.
In Swedenborgianism I did not get rid of the notion
of eternal damnation, but was taught to refer the
existence of Hell entirely to human perversity. God
desired to take' all to Heaven, but all would not go,
as I find I wrote at the time—
“ True doctrine declares that the Lord never turns away his
face from man, never rejects him, never casts anyone into
Hell, and is never angry. The Lord is continually withdraw¬
ing man from evil and leading him to good, but man’s free¬
dom the Lord never constrains. If men will love evil, and
mill do perversely, the Lord does not prevent. That man
should go to Hell is at variance with the Divine design, but to
infringe men’s freedom would be to destroy his life and with¬
draw from him all that is human, reducing him to the level
of a machine or a brute. Those who are in Hell, cast them¬
selves thither, and keep themselves there.”
I do not pretend to say that by such sooth-saying
my mind was satisfied. I tried to make it satisfy me.
I remember Mr. Hiller comparing God to the sun
which shone always, and as clouds and fogs obscured
the solar radiance, so did our evil passions and mental
illusions veil the Lord. I enjoyed the simile intensely,
until it was destroyed by the reflection, thaf the sun
himself raises the clouds and fogs whereby his radiance
is obscured.
By what process I arrived at my present opinions
concerning life after death, or, as I have styled it,
Other World Order, it would be as difficult for me to
recite as it would be tedious to read. The conclusions
attained were the fruit of prolonged, arduous, and
irregular meditations. What was thus painfully won
I shall try plainly and pleasantly to set forth.
MBS. GUPPY’S SEANCES.
Mr. Benjamin Coleman, tbe president of the winter soirees
in connection with Spiritualism, held at the Beethoven Booms,
Harley-street, Cavendish-square, recently attended some of
Mrs. Guppy’s seances, and as he is well known to be a reliable
and accurate observer, we asked him to favour us with the
three following letters for publication. These letters were
written in a colloquial tone, to private friends, without any
intention at the time of printing them. We were present at
the stance described in the first letter. The room was too full
for the manifestations to occur under test conditions, but on
other occasions we have seen similar manifestations thoroughly
tested. One of the best seances that ever took place under
Mrs. Guppy’s mediumship is published in No. 1 of The
Spiritual Nems (London, E. W. Allen), and the astounding
manifestations then witnessed were recorded and attested by
the signatures of the following witnesses :—N. F. Daw, Port-
man Chambers, Portman-square, W.; Georgiana Houghton,
20, Delamere-crescent, W.; Helen Louisa Chevalier, 21, St.
Ann’s Villa’s, Notting-hill, W.; Heloise C. C. Scott, 76, Tavis-
tock-road, Westbourne-park, W.; Amelia C. Williamson, 76,
Tavistock-road, W.; Emma Shorter, 23, Bussell-road, Hollo¬
way, N.; Thomas Shorter, 23, Bussell-road, Holloway, N.;
Sarah Pearson, 7, Guildford-place, Bussell-square, W.C. ; Mary
Pearson, 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C. ; Grace Emily
Combes, 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C. ; William H.
Combes, 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C. ; Samuel Guppy,
1, Morland-villas, Highbury-hill-park, N.; Alice Ellis, 29,
Devonshire-street, Queen’s-square, W.C. ; Edwin Ellis, 29,
Devonshire-street, Queen’s-square, W.C.Lizzie Neyland, 1,
Morland-villas, Highbury-hill-park, N. ; Elizabeth Guppy, 1,
Morland-villas, Highbury-hill-park, N.; William H. Harrison,
Wilmin-villa, Chaucer-road, S.E.
Upper Norwood, Thursday morning, April 20, 1871.
To the Family at V .
My Dear Friends,—Before I commence my daily occupations
I feel that I must fulfil my promise by giving you an account of
last evening’s seance. The arrangements were not what I ex¬
pected. Twenty or thirty persons were crowded into a room not
suited for more than half the number. Sixteen or eighteen of
these sat round a large dinner table, and the rest outside the
circle in the ! est way they could. Mrs. Guppy asked me to sit
next to her, and on the other side of her Mrs. Berry and the
Eev. Mr. D. sat. They are both mediums. Before the com-
’pany had assembled I said to Mrs. Guppy, “ It has been a long
promise that I am to have one of those peculiar drawings which
you sometimes get,” and at her request I took two sheets of
letter paper—one blue, and the other white—upon which I
put my initials, written with a blue lead pencil, thus : B. C.,
and I kept them in my possession until the lights were ex¬
tinguished, when I put them down before me. In an instant the
sheets were taken, and, judging by the rustling sound of the
paper, they were apparently during the two or three
minutes of total darkness, and then returned to me, Upon
the blue sheet there was a beautifully drawn full-length
figure of an angel ascending, surrounded by rays of glory!
On the other an equally well-drawn bust portrait, purporting
to be a likeness of my wife. It is, however, not a likeness,
though the general contour of the figure is very much like,
and a few touches by an artist to refine the expression of the
features would really make it a very passable resemblance.
Both are most artistically drawn, and the curious fact remains
to be stated, that we cannot decide by what means the draw¬
ings are done ; they are not done in oil or water colours; one
of them, the portrait, seems like delicate chalk of two or
three colours; the other as if no drawing materials were used
at all, but as if the colour of the blue paper had been dis¬
charged by some chemical action. But, by whatever means
these drawings are done, the materials are furnished by the
spirits, as there were no drawing materials of any hind in the
room. It is altogether a most puzzling and extraordinary
exhibition of spirit-power, and very difficult to realise by any
one who was not present. I have, however, given you a
faithful account of thus much of the stance, and as I have
the drawings, and intend to frame them, I shall be able to
show them to you at some future time. I was requested by
the party assembled round the table to conduct the further
proceedings, and in answer to my question put to the in¬
visibles—“What will you now do for us?’’ They replied
through the alphabet—“ Ask for what you want. Anything ?”
I said—“ Yes then I said, “ You gave me once French
plums ; give me the same fruit now.” In an instant I had
eight French plums put into my hand, and they are now
lying on the table before me, so that, like the drawings, they
are not an illusion. It is not a question of biologising—i.e.,
the power of deceiving the senses and causing you to believe
in the presence of something which does not exist. The next
person asked for a bunch of tulips, and about twenty fresh
tulips were placed before him ; others asked for heartsease,
cowslips, wallflowers, which were brought; a portion of these
I also brought away, and have them in water before me.
Then a lady at the other end of the table—the opposite end
to which I was sitting at—said, “ Bring me a live eelthis
was not literally complied with ; it was not brought to her,
but to my intense horror I felt something was wriggling on
my knee, i Feel,” I said to Mrs. Guppy, “ what it is.” She
put her hand down and screamed out, “ Oh, gracious me !
May 15, 1871.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
163
strike a light I strike a light! a snake! a snake ! ” Then com¬
menced a general concert of screams from the ladies, and
upon striking a light there was indeed a veritable live
eel about a foot and a-half long upon my knee. I could not
touch it ; I have an instinctive aversion to living, creeping
things; but it was taken by another, and put into a tub where
I left it “ alive and kicking.” At this time it was suggested
that we should adjourn for refreshment; and having had
more than my share of attention from the invisibles I left for
home, and do not know what further manifestations took
place when the party resumed the sitting, which they intended
to do. It is certainly all very wonderful ; the occurrences of
last evening establishing the conviction in my mind that
practically there is no limit to spirit-power.
Excuse a hurried letter. I am invited to Mrs. Berry’s on
Saturday evening to another seance, limited to eight persons,
and shall no doubt have something curious to tell you next
week. With very kind regards to your family circle, I am,
very truly yours, B. Coleman.'
Upper Norwood, April 22,1871.
To the Family at Y .
My Dear Friends,—I have your welcome letters, and as I
find that you are all so much interested in the account of my
last experiences, you shall certainly have a narrative of all
that may occur this evening at Mrs. Berry’s, when I should not
wonder if the incidents surpass those of Wednesday. One
small matter very interesting to me, which then occurred, I
think I omitted to mention.
The two sheets of paper upon which the drawings were
done were kept in my possession until we took our seats, when
I placed them upon the table before me and called the atten¬
tion of a gentleman who sat next to me to my having put my
initials on each page—that is, I had marked each side of the
two sheets. I had been told by Mrs. Guppy not to let anyone
touch them, but not recollecting this injunction, I complied
with the request of this gentleman, a stranger to me, to allow
him to put Ms initials upon the sheets, and for this purpose he
took them for a moment, and put G. W. P. over B. C. When
the sheets were returned to me with the drawings in the way
I described, G. W. P. was not upon them. “ How is this ?” I
said, and the invisible operators answered—“ We rubbed it
out.” There was not a trace, however, of “ rubbing the
surface of the paper, looked at with a magnifying glass, is
quite smooth, and no clue left as to Aow the letters were erased.
So we have, in this simple fact, another proof of the supe¬
riority of spirit-power.
With the exception of Mr. Livermore’s extraordinary ex¬
periences (part only of which you will find in my American
Spiritualism) and the spirit photographs, we have obtained
quite as curious manifestations in this country, and feeling
sure that we can get the photographs, I am urging upon Mr.
Guppy to let us have a series of trials, which he consents to do.
I need not say with what a thrill of pleasure I should receive
such an evidence of spirit-presence, and if it be true that
spirits can become so tangible as to imprint themselves upon
a sensitive plate, of which I have no earthly doubt, why should
I not receive the proof ? On this subject I have just seen an
account, written by Mr. M. A. Dow, corroborating the fact,
which, as I am sure it will interest you all, I will endeavour to
relate as briefly and as clearly as I can.
Mr. Dow is the proprietor and editor of a literary journal in
Boston, and though he has heard much from the very com¬
mencement of the movement in America, he, from want of
time and inclination, had not sought for evidence until last
year, when he obtained it in the most satisfactory and conclu¬
sive way.
Mr. Dow had befriended a young woman of great literary
talents, named Mabel Warren, who died, to his great sorrow,
last July. He was spending a few weeks with his wife at
Saratoga Springs (one of the principal watering places), in Sep¬
tember, and there he met Mr. Baker, a confirmed Spiritualist,
who induced him to accompany him to see Dr. Slade, a well-
known medium. He is what is called a writing and trance
medium. Among other messages to the different persons
present, it was written—|j I am always with you.”—Mabel.
Several messages of a similar kind from Mabel were given
through two other mediums, and on his return to Boston Mr.
Dow visited Mrs. Hardy, a medium, who, going into the trance
state, at once extended her hands to Mr. Dow, and by her
manner and her words satisfied him that the spirit of Mabel
was present. At a subsequent visit to Mrs. Hardy, Mabel said
—“ I will give you my spirit-likeness some day.” He thought
she meant that it would be given by one of those mediums who
paint spirit portraits ; but at another meeting she explained
that it was a photograph, and that a spirit friend had told her
that Mr. Mumler, of 170, West Springfield-street, could take it.
The spirit, speaking through the medium, Mrs. Hardy, then
said—“ I went there to see if that was the right number, and I
got so near the instrument that I was taken on the glass. They
did not know who I was, and so they rubbed it out. How,
when you leave here, go and make arrangements for us to go
there at one o’clock a week from to-day; call here at twelve
o’clock, then we will go there at once.” Mr. Dow says he went
to Mumler’s at once and made the arrangement, but when
asked for his name, he gave the name Mr. Johnson. On the
day fixed, Mr. Dow went to Mrs. Hardy’s, who became
entranced, and the first thing she (Mabel) said was—“ How do
you do, Mr. Johnson ? I did not know that you were ashamed
of your name. I shall give you my picture. What dress shall
I wear? Shall it be my white robe, or my light-striped dress?’’
Mr. Dow selected the striped dress, as that would distinguish
her from other spirit pictures. She said—“Well, I will wear
my striped dress and a wreath of flowers, and I shall put my
hand upon your shoulder.” Mr. Dow went to Mr. Mumler’s
studio and got the picture, and this is what he writes:—
“ The picture was small, but by the aid of a microscope it
was magnified to the natural size of the human face, and in
that face I saw a perfect likeness of my friend. I was both
surprised and delighted, and I wrote to Mr, Mumler and told
him I was perfectly satisfied, and I gave him my true name.”
The figure had a wreath of flowers round her head, and was
standing so as to overshadow his shoulder, but the dress was
white.
I have no doubt you will agree with me that this is an
interesting corroboration of a most important phase of a most
important subject, and with evidence cropping up in all direc¬
tions, the sceptical world cannot, as the Rev. Dr. Maitland
said of it, put their foot upon it as if it were a spider to crush
it out of existence.
I enclose with this some of the original cards written by
Mr. Livermore’s wife, whose name was Belle, and by the spirit
purporting to be Dr. Franklin. Please take care of them, and
return them to me at your convenience.—With very kind
regards to you all, I am, yours very truly,
B. Coleman.
Upper Norwood, Sunday, April 23,1871.
To the Family at Y .
My Dear Friends,—The seance last evening at Mrs.
Berry’s, though full of incident, was not to me so interesting
as that of Wednesday ; but to the Rev. Mr. D it was, as
he said, by far the best he had ever attended. He, with his
wife, Mr. and Mrs. Guppy, our hostess, and myself, composed
the party. The room, a small one, had in it, a substantially
made dinner table, a dozen chairs, and a harmonium, like a
small square piano, which was closed, and I sat with my back
close to it.
Mrs. Berry brought into the room a small camel-hair paint¬
brush, a pallette with various colours mixed, a sheet of card
board, a paper tube, and a cup of water, all of which she
placed upon the table. It is certain that nothing else—save a
wax candle and chamber candlestick was in the room. As
soon as we were seated Mrs. Berry asked Mr. D. to lock the door,
which he rose to do, and found it already locked, and the key
gone. We searched for it in vain, but as soon as the light
was extinguished the key was placed upon the table. Then
commenced a series of manifestations—nothing of the serious
or sentimental, but of a light humorous character, such as you
might expect from a lot of romping girls and boys.
The communications were made by the spirit speaking in a
perfectly audible and natural tone, and I was very much
interested to recognise in this voice (which is that of Katie,
the Guppys’ attendant spirit, whom they consult on all
matters of everyday life), the same who used to talk to me
at the Marshalls with John King. She (Katie) speaks in a
distinct feminine whisper, using the tube to concentrate the
power to articulate, and has a decided lisp, which in¬
dividualises her as unmistakeably as we distinguish the pecu¬
liarities of voice and speech of our most intimate acquaintance.
John King, too—who was not present last evening—has, as I
described in some of my accounts in the Spiritual Magazine
two or three years ago, a very decided individuality of tone
of voice and accent, and, unlike Katie, speaks in a rough
masculine and sometimes even stentorian voice.
Katie’s attentions were mainly directed last evening to
Mrs. D., who had not sat at a dark seance before. Speaking
close to my ear Katie said, “ She is a very interesting young
lady, isn’t she, Mr. Coleman ?” I said, “ You had better talk
to her.” Turning immediately to the opposite side of the
table, where Mrs. D. sat, Katie said, “ Well, my dear, what
can we do for you ?” “ Oh, thank you, anything you please ;
perhaps you will give me a bunch of flowers.”
Almost immediately we heard and felt a shower of flowers
falling upon the table, and Mrs. D. said she was being covered
with them. When we restored the light, which I did by a
wax-light taken from a metal fusee box I kept in my pocket,
we found that she was literally covered with a great variety
of fresh flowers, and a heap lay upon the table, more than I
had ever seen before, and probably enough to fill a good sized j
basket. When the light was extinguished, I said, “ You have
neglected me. I should like one of those wreaths you some¬
times make,” and presently I felt one of the chairs, taken
from a corner of the room, was being placed very gently and
accurately without touching anyone else, over my head, the
legs coming down over my shoulders, and in my hand was
placed a leaf and stem of rhubarb 17J inches long, a full-
sized hand patted me on the back, and the voice said, “ There,
we have crowned you.” A light was struck, and in this posi¬
tion I was presented, much to the amusement of the com¬
pany. When the light was again extinguished I took from
my pocket a blank card and a photographic likeness of my late
wife, and laying them on the table without saying anything,
I mentally requested that a drawing should be made. Pre¬
sently I felt the camel-hair brush passing over my forehead,
and head, and down my nose. “ What are you doing ?” I
asked. “ Well, you wanted a drawing, and we are painting
the other half,” meaning, I suppose, that my wife was pne
half and I the other. The light being restored I was greeted
with loud laughter at my grotesque appearance. My nose
and forehead were lined all over with dark paint, and the
pallette, which is made of metal to fold up like a book,
was upon my head. In the next dark interval Mrs. D. said,
“ They have taken my earrings outand Mrs. Berry said,
“They are taking down my back-hair,” and we heard the
sounds of sundry hair-pins falling on the table. In two or
three minutes we lighted the candle, and saw that, one of
Mrs. D.’s earrings was stuck on to her husband’s ear, and the
other was hooked into a button-hole of his coat and hung
like “ an order ” on his breast. Mrs. Berry’s hair, which is
very luxuriant, was brought down in long tresses over each
shoulder, and her head was tastefully dressed with a variety
of fresh flowers.
These were the chief incidents, but there were many more.
We were also profusely sprinkled with lavender water. The
harmonium was opened by the invisibles, and the scales run
up and down; no tune was played. I asked for the hand
which had been patting me on the head to be placed in mine,
and this was done. It felt like a human hand, the fingers
and thumb being apparently perfect, then this hand became
rather rough. I was pulled strongly by the sleeve, then
caught fast hold by the collar, as if by a policeman’s grip, and
as they would not yield to my remonstrances, I said I would
strike a light; but feeling for my match-box I found it had
gone (it was not be found afterwards), and whilst Mrs. Berry
was lighting a match from her box, the spirits seemed to
revel in their horse-play, and slapped me several times with
the flat of their hands upon my unprotected head, making a
noise heard by all. From what I have said you will see that
there is really no limit to the power exercised by the in¬
visibles, accompanied by quick intelligence and perfect
accuracy of sight, as exemplified in the incidents of this
evening, and it is difficult to imagine how any honest-minded
person present at such a seance could doubt the reality of the
manifestations. But there are, nevertheless, many who do,
and several who were present on Wednesday thought, I am
told, that it was all confederacy and imposture. Mrs. Guppy,
like most mediums, is quick to discover the scepticism which
surrounds her, and refused to resume the sitting on Wednesday
evening after I left. But Mr. Guppy told me last evening that
whilst he was lying awake on the following morning two more
lire eels were thrown upon his pillow. It is difficult to imagine
what was the object of this, except that the spirits may have
been so considerate as to add these to make a pie, which the
Guppys did make of the three eels.
After supper last evening, Mr. and Mrs. D. having left, I
went into the dark room with the Guppys, and had a long dis¬
cussion with Katie upon the spirit photograph question. It
appears that she had been consulted and advised that a society
composed of thirteen persons, whom she named, including
myself, should be formed, each to wear a dove composed of
some metal, and the president's to be of diamonds. I said I
thought all formality was objectionable. I, for one, would
not wear an insignia of office; the outside world would look
upon us as a body of fanatics. There could be no necessity for
parading such movements. There were none required in
America, why should we want more here ? &c., &c. Katie
combated my remarks, and at length, finding I would not
yield, she said—“ Well, then, I will have nothing more to do
with it,” and flinging down the tube through which she was
speaking, seemed to have bounced out of the room in a pas¬
sion.
I should have told you that, before commencing this conver¬
sation, I said—“Katie, did you bring that eel?” “ Teth, I
did, Mr. Coleman.” ” What a nasty thing to bring.” “ Well,”
she said, “ why did you ask for it?” “ I did not,” I said.
“ Yeth, you did ; you asked for a fish from the sea, and that
came from the sea.” And so far I was bound to admit she was
right, though it was not on that evening; and when I did make
the request, I never thought of anything, so nasty as an eel.
The fact of their ability to bring such a thing through barred
doors and brick walls establishes an astounding power, and
teaches an important lesson, which I will not disregard. I
really would not dare to ask for a wild animal, lest the spirits
should catch one up from the Zoological Gardens and present
it to us in a closed room. Why should they not be able to do
so ? If such things as I have spoken of be true, who can pre¬
scribe the limit of spiritual forces ?
I don’t think 1 shall attend any more of these sittings until
I hear of some newjphase being presen ted.—With kind regards
to you all, I am, yours very truly, B. Coleman.
MATTER AND SPIRIT.
The following answers to questions, put to Mrs. Hardinge
at one of the Harley-street meetings, have been in type for
many months, but were crowded out:—
Mr. Pritchard—“ What is the peculiar connection hetween
spirit and matter which enables the spirit to act upon the
body ? ”
Mrs. Hardinge—Your speaker has passed twenty-two years
in a close, earnest, and unceasing march through Spiritual
phenomena in the endeavour to ascertain Spiritual laws.
If you expect her to detail the results of those twenty-two
years’ observation and experiments in one hour, you expect a
greater marvel than Spiritualism itself. We have spoken of
certain phases of phenomena, only premising that it was our
purposeto do so. The subject upon which you question is, as
we understand, what medium exists between matter and spirit
that enables spirit, as an essence, to act upon or through
matter. We answer you only through what may be derived
by observation ; we do not make assertions, we do not speak
of theology, but of facts, and what we deduce from the
facts. We are led to believe, by a close observation of
the facts of existence, both in the natural and spiritual
world, that man upon this planet is a triune being, con¬
sisting first of an organism composed of matter, next of
an inner man, an imponderable man which permeates every
part of his being, which is something analagous to electricity,
galvanism, attraction, repulsion, and all those various forces
which we vaguely call electrical, or galvanic, but which I
prefer to call by the synonym adopted by spirits, “ the life-
principle.” This life-principle inheres in the form and by the
constant dual action of attraction and repulsion maintains its
integrity, and preserves the atoms together, now in repulsion
throwing off waste matter, and now by attraction building up
the organism. So long as attraction prevails over repulsion,
life exists ; when repulsion prevails over attraction, life ceases,
and then this invisible, imponderable man withdraws and
it becomes the Spiritual body, or clothing of the third
innermost man, the spirit. What the spirit is as an element,
we can no more answer you than we can answer what matter
is, but that spirit requires this second element to act upon
matter through the body we know, because the phenomena
of Spiritualism prove it. Thus : The spirit returns, and now
it requires some medium by which it shall act again upon
matter. This chamber to the eye of the clairvoyant is full of
spirit, full of Spiritual existences, for we have reason to
believe, as we pursue our observations, that the spirit-world
permeates this natural world, as the soul permeates the body.
Why, then, have we no manifestation of the presence of spirit ?
First, because we have not in full exercise the mediumistic
aura. That mediumistic aura is resident in the organisms of
all beings, but it is special, and energetic, and peculiar in the
organisms of some. We realise now, without observation by
the ordinary sense of sight, that there-are mediumistic organ¬
isms present, but the aura they give off is held in abeyance
by the will of the spirit so as not to interrupt the pro-,
ceedings, but when the will of the spirit perceiving this
mediumistic aura is enabled by favourable conditions to
use it, it becomes a medium through which the spirit
acts again upon matter. The spirit measurably possesses
the organism of the medium in trance, and uses this aura
outside of the medium in physical manifestations. But mark,
the condition of the spirit is this, the Spiritual body, as we
have said, or the mediumistic aura, departs with the spirit in
the decomposition of death. Now, the spirit is clothed with
this mediumistic aura, but according to all known electrical
laws no form of electrical element, if there be such, can act
alone ; it requires another development of electricity in order
to manifest itself in matter. And as, unless there are two forms of
electricity,there is no manifestation, so we find the electrical body
of the spirit, and the electrical body of the medium form parts of
a battery which, when combined with favourable conditions in
the atmosphere, operate to produce phenomena. The spirit
acting through the human body uses, then, this medium upon
matter ; the spirit acting, when it is separated from the human
body, uses the same force through the organism of a medium ;
and the whole spirit-world acts in its totality through the
same law. The invisible Spiritual world permeates this
natural world, uses the medium of the vast realm of im¬
ponderable forces which we call “ the life-principle.” The
life-principle as much inheres in this substance, and in
this, as in your body, and the difference between the fabric
which you behold in its integrity, and the dust and atoms
into which it shall be resolved, is simply that the atoms
are now permeated by the life-principle, and that that prin¬
ciple shall eventually pass out of them. It is the existence of
this life principle permeating every atom of matter, and
surging through the atmosphere, and given off in the eternal
unrest of bodies in space encompassing and embracing this
planet, and acting as a medium between the Spiritual and
natural worlds, that enables the entire realm of Spiritual ex¬
istences to exert a continuous influence, psychologically and
magnetically, upon this material world. We shall be happy
still further to elaborate this idea if our questioner will make
further suggestions.
Mr. Pritchard—J/ay there not be a something between spirit
and body partaking partly of the one and partly of the
other 1
164
THE SPIK1TUALIST.
May 15, 1871.
Mrs. Hardinge—WeVould rather have the definition afforded
to your ignorant medium by the spirits. The spirits do not
teach your speaker that the medium of which we speak
partakes either of the nature of matter or of spirit, but insist
that it is a second and distinct element. They use many
illustrations to show that this element is both universal in its
operation and distinct. Let us offer one illustration. The
magnetiser* projects by will an invisible force, as you may call
it, from himself ; we call it an invisible element. When that
element has passed from him it reaches his subject and pro¬
duces certain effects. Now, there must be a moment of time
when the magnetic fluid traversed the space between the
two bodies, and did not exist in either. During that period,
however short, it exists independent of the body. Again, the
spirit causes sounds or detonations—by what ? It projects
from itself by will a something which operates like a sub¬
stance ; that is not will, that is not spirit. Spirit, if you can
define its essence, is will. All that we know of being is only
known through its manifestation, and the manifestation of
spirit is will. The manifestation of this medium force or
life-principle is motion ; and the manifestation of matter is
the three conditions of liquid, solid, and fluid. These threei
elements do exist apart and distinct from each other. Wei
prefer instead of adopting our questioner's suggestion, and
assuming that the life-principle might be born of matter, or
partake of the nature of spirit, rather to assume that it is, as
the spirits themselves constantly insist, a second element, that
it is one and the same in quality, although varying in its
manifestation by passing through different atoms as the
life-prinCiple by which bodies in space are upheld, by which
all the magnificent machinery of creation is conducted, by
which the same machinery of motion in our bodies is evolved.
Mr. Pearson—Is there not a vital as well as a chemical force
in the building up of animal life ?
Mrs. Hardiuge—What is chemical force ? To our thinking,
chemical force is hot. It is all vital force ; and the motions
evolved by vital forces are called chemistry. Thus do we find
in the deposition of metallic veins, in the formation of the
old rocks, in the invariable, unresting changes proceeding
even in that which we call the solid crystal of the hard iron,
changes are eternally progressing. This is not chemical
force, it is that which we vaguely call galvanic force, but
which we prefer to term the life-principle, which, manifested
throughout the silent but inevitable motions, produces those
changes that we call chemistry. So at last we shall resolve
ourselves back to this one universal force, vitality, life, as the
tool of the Creator. Whether we speculate upon the grand
machinery by which the rushing wheels of creation move on,
freighted with worlds, and carrying with them a mighty
squadron of ever-marching armies of suns, satellites, and
systems, all moving to the heart-beat of the Infinite mind,
whose own pulse throbs through them all. Whether we con¬
template creation on this grand and magnificent scale, or
descend to the microcosmic atoms—if there be such a thing
as an atom, the least devisable point to which we can limit
our observation—it is still in motion, and still throbbing, to
the tune of the same eternal march, under the influence of the
galvanic action of life—life everywhere. We are deeply
thankful to science, very grateful to scientists ; we should be
still more grateful if they had done anything for Spiritualism
—anything but abuse it, anything but ignore it. We owe
more to the spirit medium, who has endured scorn, and con¬
tempt, and slander, the blackening of a ribald press and an
insolent ignorant world, than we do to all the world of
science, for the certainty that we live for ever.
THE SEANCE AT ST. PETERSBURGH UNIVERSITY.
M. Aksakof, of St. Petersburgh, has favoured us with copies
of original documents relating to the stance of some scientific
men with Mr. Home at the University of St. Petersburgh.
The seance was a failure. M. Aksakof says :—
“At a lecture given by Mr. Home at St. Petershurgh on the
24th April, 1871, he spoke among other things of the constant
attempts made by Spiritualists to induce the scientific world
to observe and study spiritual phenomena, and he volunteered,
as he had done on many previous occasions, to place himself
in the hands of a scientific committee formed for the purpose.
In consequence of this, a committee, in the formation of
which Professor Boutlerow took the initiative, met for a preli¬
minary conference at the house of the director of the Medical
Department, Dr. Pelikau. The persons composing the con¬
ference were Dr. Pelikau, and some professors in the University
of St. Petersburgh, namely Professor Boutlerow (chemistry),
Professor Ovsiannikow (physiology); these two gentlemen are
also members of the Academy of Sciences. The other gentle¬
men present were Professor Petrouchewsky (physics); Professor
Zion (physiology); and a witness on the side of Mr. Home,
M. Aksakof, who gave a written specification of the conditions
under which Mr. Home placed himself at the disposal of the
committee. These conditions were accepted without any
change by all the members of the committee, with the excep¬
tion of M. Petrouchewsky, who refused to accede to them,
saying that Mr. Home ought to place himself unconditionally
at the disposal of the committee; that the manifestations
should be produced under conditions to be decided on not by
him, but by them; and he considered the presence of witnesses
on the part of Mr. Home entirely out of place.f This gentle¬
man withdrew, and his place was taken by M. Tchebischow,
member of the Academy of Sciences, and professor of mathe¬
matics at the University.
THE CONDITIONS ON WHICH THE SEANCE WAS GIVEN.
“ ‘ Conditions presented on the part of Mr. Home to the
Scientific Committee for the investigation of the phenomena
which occur in his presence.
“ ‘ Mr. Home affirms on his word of honour that the pheno¬
mena present themselves without any conscious and visible co¬
operation on his part and that he serves merely as the passive
instrument for the manifestation of powers till now unknown.
He willingly places himself at the disposal of the scientific
committee for the investigation of these manifestations on the
following conditions:—
‘“1. That the committee shall undertake to be present at
three sittings at least, for, as follows from what has been said
above, Mr. Home can give no guarantee as to what may be at a
given moment the success or the nature of the manifestations,
which are not subject to his will, but depend principally, as he
has learned by experience, on psychical conditions.
‘“2. That after every seance a protocol shall be signed by all
present describing any manifestations which may appear.
“ * 3. That not more than eight persons shall be present, in¬
cluding Mr. Home himself and two witnesses on his side, Baron
Meyendorff and M. Aksakoff.
* Mesmeriser.—Ed.
t By the contents of the documents which follow, it will he seen why a
witness was necessary.—A. Aksakof.
“ ‘4. That Mr. Home’s indisposition shall be accepted as a
sufficient reason for postponing the stance.
“‘5. The external conditions are the following. All persons
present shall quietly sit at the table, and for mutual control
hold their hands upon it, but it is understood that this does
not exclude any movement necessary for observation; the doors
of the room chosen for the seance shall be shut; the attention
of those present shall not be distracted by any disturbance
from without, by being called out of the room, by noises in the
neighbourhood, &c., and the air in the room shall be fresh and
pure, at a temperature of about 14 degrees of Beaumur, with¬
out any smoke or powerful perfume.*
“ 1 The above-named witnesses, on submitting this proposal
of Mr. Home, together with his conditions to the scientific com¬
mittee about to be formed, consider it their duty to testify to
the honesty and sincerity of Mr. Home’s declarations, as well
as to the authenticity of the facts to which he calls attention.
(Signed) “ ‘ Baron Nicolas de Meyendobff.
“ ‘ Alexandre Aksakof.
“ ‘ St. Petersburgh, 13th March, 1871. ’
THE OFFICIAL EEPOET OF THE SEANCE.
“ ‘ Protocol of the first meeting of the Scientific Committee
for the Investigation of the Manifestations produced by Mr.
Home.
“ ‘ Present: the Director of the Medical Department, E. W.
Pelikau. The Members of the Academy of Sciences, P. L.
Tchebischow, P. W. Ovsiannikow, and A. M. Boutlerow. Pro¬
fessor of the University of St. Petersburgh, J. T. Zion. Mr.
Home and his witnesses, M. Aksakof and the Baron de
Meyendorff.
“ ‘ The seance was opened at half-past nine in the evening-of
the 22nd of March, 1871, in one of the rooms of the Physical
Cabinet of the University of St. Petersburgh. The temperature
of the room, in the middle of which stood a table covered with
a green cloth, was 14 degrees to 15 degrees Reaumur. In
answer to a question from Professor Zion as to whether the
construction of the table had any influence on the success of
the manifestations, Mr. Home said it was indifferent to him of
what material it was made. The cloth was removed, and they
all sat down. The table was made of plate-glass, it stood on
four feet, and was 15 feet 10 inches long by 3 feet 6 inches
broad. A white sheet was spread on the floor, so that the light
from two candles placed on the glass surface brilliantly illumi¬
nated all the space beneath, and the feet of those who were
seated could be seen by all present. They sat in the following
order: Mr. Home on one side, between M. Tchebischow and
M. Zion; opposite him M. Ovsiannikow; on the right of the
latter was Dr. Pelikau; and on his left M. Boutlerow. M.
Aksakof was seated at one end and Baron Meyendorff at the
other.
“ ‘ At the request of Mr. Home all the gentlemen placed
their hands upon the table, and during the whole time they
all paid strict attention to his remarks with reference to
placing their hands, to not having their attention diverted
from the object of the meeting by private conversation, &c.
“‘Fifteen or twenty minutes after the beginning of the
seance Mr. Home remarked a visible oscillation of the table,
which affected the flame of the candles standing on it. M.
Zion explained this by the trembling of the hands upon the
table; he himself felt a slight contraction in the muscles of
the middle and little finger. Mr. Home did not accept this
explanation, but took the motion for a precursor of the coming
phenomena. The oscillation of the table soon left off (this
was first pointed out by Mr. Home), and shortly afterwards he
drew attention to the increased rapidity of his pulse. Dr.
Pelikau calculated that the number of Mr. Home’s pulsations
was (nearly) 100 a minute. It appeared, however, that this
was experienced by others present, and arose from a compre¬
hensible cause (the heightened temperature of the room). [The
words between brackets are struck out in the original document
in pencil.] Dr. Pelikau showed that M. Zion’s pulse was also
100, and M. Ovsiannikow’s 95. Thirty or forty minutes after¬
wards, Mr. Home declared that he felt a peculiar current in the
air, having in his opinion a similar signification to that of the
oscillation of the table. Attributing this current to an open
pipe, M. Zion closed it. Mr. Home next declared that he heard
some slight raps on the table, but they were not heard by any¬
body else. An hour had elapsed since the beginning of the
seance, and there had been no manifestations either in the
table or in the room. Mr. Home then proposed that they
should try to change the weight of the table by the influence
of the will of those present. On weighing the table by means
of a dynamometer taken from the physical cabiuet, M. Zion
found that, together with the hands upon it, it weighed about
75 pounds; but in spite of the will of Mr. Home and the
other persons present, this weight was not at all increased. M.
Boutlerow was equally unsuccessful when he tried the experi¬
ment. They all remained sitting round the table till twenty
minutes past eleven without one of those manifestations
appearing which, it is said, are usually produced at sittings of
this kind, and the meeting consequently separated, agreeing
that the committee should again assemble on the 23rd of
March, at eight p.m.
“ ‘ All the preparations for the seance, at the request of the
committee, had been undertaken by M. Zion. The choice of
the place, the preparation of the table, of the instruments, &c.,
had been left to him, and neither Mr. Home nor his witnesses
had any knowledge of them. All the rooms surrounding the
one in which the committee met were at ten o’clock in the
morning locked and sealed by M. Zion, who kept the keys
himself. “ ‘ Pelikau, Doctor; Ovsiannikow, Professor;
Tchebischow, Professor ; Zion, Professor.
“‘To complete the above, I think it right to add that M.
Home, as was well known to most of the members of the com¬
mittee, was unwell on the day of the seance, and had been so
for some days previously. “ ‘ Boutlebow, Professor.’ ”
The preceding documents were published in the St. Peters¬
burgh Gazette, but that journal refused to publish also the
following document:—
m. aksakof’s protest.
“ As a witness on the side of Mr. Home, I consider myself
bound to complete the protocol of the stance by the addition of
some details, to withhold which would, without perverting the
truth* give an incomplete idea of the whole proceeding. At the
preliniinary meeting of the committee, which took place on
the 18th of March in one of the rooms of the medical depart¬
ment, I had the honour to request the committee to name as
early a day as possible for the sittings, as Mr. Home was
anxious to leave St. Petersburgh, and, with the breaking up of
the weather his health was deteriorating, though it was not bad
enough for him to decline the proposed trial. Consequently,
* To this paragraph, on the proposal of Dr. Pelikau, it was added that one
member of the committee had the right to take his hands off the table, and
to go a little distance from it for the convenience of observation.
the day for the first meeting was fixed for the 19th of March.
When on the morning of that day I went to inform him of
this decision, he told me that his state of fever and debility
had so much increased that he could not appear at the ap¬
pointed time; and he earnestly begged that one of the
members of the committee would take the trouble to come
and see him]that he might satisfy himself of his indisposition.
In accordance with this request, on the same evening, he was
visited, at the house of Baron Meyendorff, by the following
members of the committee :—Messrs. Tchebischow, Boutlerow,
and Ovsiannikow, the latter of whom, as a medical man, was
competent to decide that Mr. Home was really unwell. When
he. was a little better he begged me to transmit to the com¬
mittee his desire that the seance should take place on the 22nd.
As soon as he came he was asked by Dr. Pelikau how he felt,
and in reply he said that his fever, though diminished, had
not left him, and Dr. Pelikau authorises me to state that on
feeling his pulse before the beginning of the stance he found
it beating rapidly. Referring to the protocol which was
drawn up by Professor Zion, I may observe that although
Mr. Home said it was indifferent to him of what material
the table was made, on my asking- him whether it had
ever happened to him at any seance, to sit at a glass
table, he answered ‘ Never ; jj and he afterwards said that at all
events the experiment was a new one, as up to the present time
it had never been tried by any one. In making this remark he
was warmly supported by Professor Tchebischow, who said that
the experiment ought to be tried under the same conditions as
those during which the expected manifestations usually appear;
and it was proposed that an ordinary table should be substituted
for the glass one, but this change was postponed till the next
sitting. As to the ‘ visible oscillation of the table which affected
the flame of the candle,’ on the remark of M. Zion that it
proceeded from the trembling of the hands on the table, Mr.
Home asked, ‘ Why, then, is the flame of one candle unsteady
and the other not ? I And, indeed, no one noticed any motion
in the flame of the second candle. As the protocol contains
not merely a simple description of the fact, but an explanation
of it proceeding from M. Zion personally, I may be allowed to
remark that, although, according to M. Zion, the oscillation
of the table was caused by the trembling of the hands, it may
with equal justice be assumed that the trembling of the hands
was caused by the oscillation of the table. At all events, no
one present except M. Zion affirmed that he felt a trembling
of the hands or a contraction of the fingers. If M. Zion
felt the contraction, it may be explained by the fact that,
according to his own words, he pressed his fingers on the
table, while the others held theirs on lightly, and occasionally
changed their position; the explanation of M. Zion therefore
leads to the unreasonable supposition that the weak con
traction in the muscles of two of his fingers produced a
visible oscillation of the table, which weighed about 160
pounds, and stood, we may believe, firmly enough to oppose
any motion caused by Mr. Home and his witnesses. Passing
on to the examination of Mr. Home’s pulse, I may observe that
in this place the wording of the protocol is not correct. Mr.
Home drew attention to his pulse, not to show that it beat
more rapidly, but that it was feverish. Dr. Pelikau, as I stated
above, testified, before the beginning of the seance, to the
rapidity of Mr. Home’s pulse, but now, on examination, he
declared it to be 100; upon which M. Zion remarked that that
was no proof of illness, as his own was always 120, and
stretched out his hand to Dr. Pelikau, who declared that it was
also 100, and called it abnormal, on which Mr. Home remarked,
• How rapidly it has declined.’ From this it may be seen that
during the seance M. Zion attributed the rapidity of Mr. Home’s
pulse not to an increase in the number of pulsations, but to the
normal rapidity of some pulses, otherwise his remark would
have no meaning; further, the following words of the pro¬
tocol—‘ There was an increase in the number of pulsations of
several other gentlemen present,—have no foundation, for no
one had his pulse felt before the beginning of the seance; and
finally, as regards M. Zion personally, his pulse did not go up
to, but fell to 100. From the last circumstance the explana¬
tion of the extreme rapidity of the pulses of those present as
caused by the heightened temperature of the room is out of
place, for it is difficult to allow that the same reason caused in
some" an increased and in others a diminished pulsation. If
we allow that the temperature of the room was heightened so
much as to show a visible action on the pulses of those present,
we must suppose that it was increased by more than one deg.
beyond 15 deg., at which, according to the protocol, the stance
was begun; and in that case such a remarkable increase of
temperature was, like the glass table, a departure from the
conditions agreed to for the stance, which implied an ordinary
table, and a temperature of about 14 deg. Reaumur. In general
I may remark that the oscillations of the table and the flame
of the candle, the fanning on the hands, which, in the proto¬
col, is called a courant d'air, and the raps on the table were so
weak and insignificant that Mr. Home did not consider them
worth mentioning in the protocol. In conclusion, I feel bound
to add that in the heading, ‘ Protocol of the First Meeting of
the Scientific Committee for the Investigation of the Manifes¬
tations Produced by Mr. Home,’ the words ‘produced by Mr.
Home ’ should be altered to ‘ said to occur in the presence of
Mr. Home,’ for to affirm that these phenomena are produced
by Mr. Home would be to prejudge the question.
“ Alexander Aksakof.
“ I confirm the remarks, and agree with the opinion of M.
Aksakof. “Baron Feodor E. Meyendorff.”
Such are the official documents relating to this case. No
further seances were held owing to Mr. Home’s illness, and
some very warm correspondence on the subject of this stance
has been published in the St. Petersburgh Gazette, and the
London Standard. The editor of The St. Petersburgh Gazette,
the correspondent of The Standard, and Professor Zion, have
all taken part in attacking Mr. Home, and on the other side
Mr. Home has been defended by himself, Baron Meyendorff,
M. Aksakof, and Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S. Considering
how Mr. Crookes has been abused in some of the spiritual
periodicals, it is very good of him to stand forth thus pub¬
licly to ward off from Mr. Home some of the effects of popular
ignorance.
We have some information to give to men of science, about
the bad psychological conditions at work at this siance, but
must defer an article on the subject, for want of space.
There is a discrepancy in the preceding documents as to the
weight of the table; perhaps when it was raised on one side
by a dynamometer, seventy five pounds was indicated.
Mbs. Emma. Hardinge.—Mrs. Hardinge, after doing the
good work of sustaining by her oratory the Sunday evening
meetings at the Cleveland Hall, Fitzroy-square, during the
winter, is now lecturing in the provinces. Mr. J. W. Jackson
now lectures in her place on Sunday evenings at the Cleveland
Hall.
May 15, 1871.
165
MONDAY, MAY 15, 1871.
THE ACTION OE LIGHT UPON SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS.
Manx varieties of Spiritual manifestations, sucli as
raps and movements of solid objects, are produced with
ease in bright daylight, but the direct spirit-voices can
only be produced with ease in the dark. "Within the
past few weeks direct spirit voices have now and then,
in the presence of reliable witnesses, made themselves
audible in the light, also in the open air, through the
mediumship of Messrs. Herne and Williams, but the
utterances were not powerful. As regards nearly all
manifestations, observation tends to prove that as the
intensity of the light diminishes, so do the precision
and power of tbe manifestations increase. Subdued
light is favourable even for trance manifestations.
The very valuable paper on Spiritualism read a
few weeks ago to the Wood Green Literary Society by
Mr. John Traill Taylor, editor of The British Journal of
Photography, not only awakened an intense interest in
the subject in the locality wherein it was read, but is
much valued by all the most philosophical people con¬
nected with the movement itself. Mr. Taylor said, as
reported in our last number :—
“ Much has been said concerning the suspicion that must
necessarily attach to dark- seances, and some have unthinkingly
averred that what has been alleged to have been effected or
performed in the dark, could, if it were true, also be done in
the light. Those, however, who make such a statement have
but a very superficial acquaintance with the nature and power
of light. In the meantime and pending the efforts now being
made to discover the law under which spirits can, with the
majority of physical mediums, manifest better in darkness
than in light, let me observe that in such a matter-of-fact
science as chemistry, light is recognised as a powerful agent
in inducing change. For example, if I form iodide of silver
in a room from which light is excluded, it will differ in a most
important degree from that formed in even a feebly-lighted
room; if I mix together chlorine and olefiant gas in a glass
globe or bottle, they will remain together so long as they are
kept in the dark; but the instant that light is allowed to fall
upon the mixture, the gases combine chemically with a loud
explosion like the report of a pistol. If pure chloride of silver
be sealed in a glass tube, and then be exposed to light, it will
acquire a violet colour ; but if it be taken in a dark room, it
will regain its white colour; even the influence of a beam of
sunlight in putting out a fire is recognised by many. Now
seeing that these things are so, how absurd it is for people to
prate, with a volubility in the inverse ratio of their knowledge,
about the conditions under which spiritual force should be
exerted. The superficial wits of fifty years ago indulged in
unrestrained merriment, accepted by some as reason, at the
bare idea of the light radiated from a human figure ever being
able to record the appearance of that figure, and yet photo¬
graphy is now a recognised and’widely practised branch of
science. Some experiments of a scientific nature made by me,
warrant me in asserting that it is by no means impossible that
the presence of a spirit form, either in a dark or a light room,
may yet be rendered visible to the ordinary eye of sense. The
reason for this will be discovered in the following, to which I
invite special attention. Light, as many of you are aware,
possesses a threefold property : that of rendering material
bodies luminous, that of beating, and that of inducing chemical
change. Now it is possible to so separate these properties as
to fill a room with one to the exclusion of the others. For
example, I could flood a chamber with light taken directly
from the sun, which would be quite luminous, permitting us to
see every object as we could outside of the house, and yet
which should have all the chemical power entirely abstracted.
No chemical phenomenon depending upon the agency of light,
such as the taking of a photograph, could possibly take place
in such a light. Then, conversely, I can flood a chamber with
light which to our eyes shall be total darkness. The room may
be so dark as to render it utterly impossible to distinguish
any object whatever, even a white object on a black ground,
and yet that room shall be so luminous in a chemical or actinic
sense as to permit the persons sitting there to be photographed.
To the eye of the camera the room shall be full of light. I
think it very probable that the room in which a dark stance is
held may be lighted by light which to the officiating spirits
may be darkness, but which shall permit us to see all that
transpires, and when I next have leisure to resume my investi¬
gations into the physics of Spiritualism, I purpose trying some
experiments which I expect will prove exhaustive.”
"We have practically tried several of the experiments
•suggested by Mr. Taylor, so we here give the details, as
they may he useful to others who intend to work in the
.•same direction.
About two years ago, the genuine character of the
THE SPIRITUALIST.
audible spirit voices produced through the mediumship
of Mrs. Mary Marshall, the younger, having been
thoroughly tested, the spirits were asked why they
could not speak in the light. The reply was—“ There
is too much motion in light, it burns up the atmos¬
pheres with which we work.” From a material and
mechanical point of view, most of the motion in light
belongs to the red, yellow and green rays, hence it
seemed a reasonable thing to filter these away, and to
give them a faint and pure blue light to work with.
Such light has much less motion in it than white
light.
The experiment was tried in tho presence of a large
private party, consisting of a member of the Institution
of Civil Engineers, two government officials now con¬
nected with the Postal Telegraph service, a lady of
considerable eminence well-known among Spiritualists,
and several other friends. The pure blue rays were
produced by means of an oxy-hydrogen dark lantern,
fitted however with a paraffin lamp for this experiment.
All but the blue rays were filtered away, by passing
the light through a solution of ammonia-sulphate of
copper, so that nothing but the very faintest blue light
escaped into the room. This blue light was thrown
upon one of the walls of the room, leaving the other
part of the room in darkness.
The result was that the voices could not be produced.
The solitary point gained by the experiment was that
those who sat at the dark end of the room, looking to¬
wards the illuminated wall, now and then saw the
guitar flying about, playing tunes, with nothing visible
holding it. Those who sat with their backs to the
light, looking into the darkness, did not see this, but all
heard the instruments flying about like bats, and play¬
ing, as common at that time through Mrs. Marshall’s
mediumship.
Another experiment was tried about a month ago,
at one of Messrs. Herne and Williams’s seances. The
voices, spirit hands, and spirit lights had been especially
active all over the room as usual. One gas jet was
then lighted, and turned down till only a speck of blue
flame was visible, faintly illuminating the glass globe
around it. So low was the light that nothing else was
visible, and the sitters below could not see each other,
or the table they were touching. This stopped the
voices, and seemed to drive all the power to manifest
to the region below the table. The hands, which pre¬
viously had been very busy between the heads of the
sitters and the ceiling, and all over the room, could
then be felt grasping the legs of many of the sitters.
The next experiment was tried at the same circle
about three weeks ago. One of Browning’s large in¬
duction coils was placed in the seance room, and it
was worked with a battery of six cells placed outside
the drawing-room window. By this apparatus flashes
of light could be produced at will, the object being to
give an instantaneous flash of light now and then, in
order to see solid objects or anything else which might
be moving in the air. When strangers break faith and
strike matches at dark seances, as they sometimes do,
the musical instruments or whatever may be flying in
the.air, always fall down, and sometimes strike people
in the fall, the control over them being lost. Bruises
and cuts have often been inflicted in this way, the
striker of the light sees the instrument falling to the
ground and finds out nothing, and the spirits usually
refuse to do anything more during the evening. The
object of the flashing light was to see the instruments
in flight, by a light so instantaneous that the spirits
should not have time to lose control over whatever they
might be carrying.
The result was that nine or ten flashes stopped the
manifestations for a quarter of an hour afterwards, and
a message was given next day, to the effect that the
light was worse for the manifestations than daylight, or
any ordinary mode of illumination.
This raises the question whether the blue and chemi¬
cal rays may not, from a spiritual point of view, though
not from ours, contain more motion than red and orange
light. If a man were made of ammonia-sulphate of
copper, he would say that orange rays were warm, and
blue ones were cool, because the latter would pass
through him without warming him much. If, on the
other hand, a man were made of bichromate of potash,
he would say that the blue rays were warm, and the
orange rays cool. Everything then, depends upon the •
point of view. Therefore, almost the only experiment
left untried which may possibly realise Mr. Taylor’s
hopes, is to give a flashing red or orange light. The
light from the flame of a candle, filtered through a solu¬
tion of bichromate of potash, might answer the purpose.
But as the voices did not come with these subdued
lights, how is it that in rare instances they are pro¬
duced in daylight ? Perhaps because of variations in
the health of the medium. Perhaps because of extra
preparations on the part of the spirits. One of the
spirits was asked last Saturday whether they had to
make many preparations for a physical seance. The
reply was % Yes, and sometimes we begin to be busy as
much as four hours before it begins.”
As to taking photographs in a pitch dark room, full
of invisible phrotographic rays, the expense would be
enormous. About the only rich sources of such rays
are the electric and magnesium lights, and if all the
visible rays, blue and violet included, be abstracted from
such lights, the photographic power of the the invisible
rays left is very small. From the many experiments
we have made with such rays, we think that to get
a portrait in this way in absolute darkness, and suppos¬
ing the sitter to remain motionless before the camera
for a full quarter of an hour, the likeness could only be
obtained at an expense of some hundreds of pounds. If
a trace of blue or violet light might be admitted, the
expense of the experiment would be greatly reduced.
By this plan it is utterly hopeless to attempt to pho¬
tograph anything in motion.
SPIRITUALISM AND EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCH.
Readers of The Spiritualist must have perused with
lively interest the report in its last number of a paper
by the editor of The British Journal of Photography, on
“the positive side of Spiritualism.” Philosophy in
these days demanding some further proofs, more in har¬
mony with her own spirit, of the existence of a life be¬
yond the grave, than those afforded by revelation, some¬
thing also more substantial than that speculation an¬
cient, or modern, on the wing of which it has been
sought to soar to knowledge of the invisible and spiritual,
an attempt to reach those heights by patient footsteps
in the path of experimental research, cannot but be
hailed with joy. Even where no doubt exists as to a
future state, elimination of the supernatural from
modern teaching, causes a feeling of dreariness and
desolation at times to overcome those minds by nature
sensitive to the spiritual, but schooled to disbelief in its
signs and tokens. Passionate utterance has been given
to this feeling by poets of the present age; it is expressed
in the sighs of Schiller over the extinct beliefs of an
earlier world, over the crumbled altars of the gods of
Greece; it has burst from the lips of Wordsworth in the
exclamation
“ Great God, I’d rather be
A pagan suckled in a creed outworn,
So might I, standing on this pleasant lea,
Have glimpses that would make me less forlorn,
Have sight of Proteus rising from the sea,
Or hear old Triton blow his wreathed horn.”
As is well known to the initiated, Mr. Taylor is not
the only man of science now intent on the application of
those delicate processes rendered possible by the latest
discoveries in nature’s laws, to the investigation of
Spiritual phenomena. At a recent dinner at the Insti¬
tute of Civil Engineers, the Chancellor of the Exchequer,
in one of those speeches which breathe all the spirit of
a more advanced period, dwelt on the great things to be
achieved through mastery of the occult influences which
surround us. He spoke of the occult influences of
matter, but within the profession he addressed are
those, of whom some were probably among his audience,
who are aware of influences still more occult, and of
another order, now about to come within the domain of
science, influences which, when generally recognised
and brought to bear upon human life, will doubtless
effect moral changes as great and as beneficial as the
material changes effected, and to be effected, by steam
and electricity, or by other forces yet unknown.
  J. H. D.
Last Wednesday at one of Mr. Home’s seances some good
ponderosity experiments were made witli a spring balance, and
the Russian results, printed on another page, were confirmed.
Spirit Drawings.—On Monday next a public exhibition
of Miss Houghton’s spirit drawings will be opened at the New
British Gallery, 89, Old Bond-street. Without her own volition
her hand is moved to make drawings and paintings, consisting
of lines very curiously interwoven with each other. Mrs. Guppy
has of late had some very elegant and artistic drawings executed
directly by spirits, without the intervention of human hand?.
We have had one complaint that the remarks made in the last
Spiritualist about the unwisdom of mediums giving their time
to the execution of useless drawings, were too hard, and that
the use of some of the drawings produced through the agency
of the mighty spirit power now acting upon man, may be dis¬
covered hereafter. The argument is a fair one, and carries its
due amount of weight. All spirit drawings are very curious;
and not a little perplexing; they should all be carefully pre¬
served, dated, and tabulated.
166
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 15, 1871.
ABCHBISHOP WHATELT.
The following verses are extracted from The Illustrated Boole of Sacred
Poems, published by Messrs. Cassell, Fetter, & Q-alpin, and edited by the
Bev. B. H. Baynes, M.A. The verses which we now quote are part of a
poem written by the Very Bev. William Alexander, M.A., Dean of Emly,
on the subject of the death of Archbishop Whately. Archbishop Whately
was a Spiritualist; he also investigated mesmerism and found it to be true,
so the last of these verses is remarkably appropriate:—
Oh, wondrous lights of Death, the great unveiler,
Lights that come out above the shadowy place,
Jrcst as the night that makes our small world paler,
Shows us the star-sown amplitudes of space.
Oh, strange discovery, land that knows no bounding,
Isles far off hailed, bright seas without a breath,
What time the white sail of the soul is rounding
The misty cape—the promontory Death!
Best then, oh martyr, passed through anguish mortal,
, Best then, oh Saint, sublimely free from doubt,
Best then, oh patient thinker, o’er the portal,
Where there is peace for brave hearts wearied out.
I Oh, long unrecognised thy love too loving,
Too wise thy wisdom, and thy truth too free!
1 As on the teachers after truth are moving,
They may look backward with deep thanks to thee.
^rrespnlintce.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
f . THE ATJTHOB OP “ALPHA’S” MESSAGE.
. Sib,—Regarding the alleged message of Edward N. Dennys,
through the mediumship of Miss E. J. Theobald, which I—
viewing it literally—denounced as spurious and pernicious in
the Spiritualist on the 15th of March last, I now find (partly by
his letter on the subject in your issue of last month, and
partly by verbal information from him this day), that my
rationalistic friend, Mr. C. W. Pearce, believes the message to
be genuine, though somewhat defectively tendered; and that,
being symbolic in its character, its meaning is very different
from what I supposed it to be, and not in conflict with the
“ Alpha” philosophy.
tinder these circumstances, I hopefully defer further com¬
ment till Mr. Pearce has favoured us with an interpretation
of the message, and trust that it may ere long appear in your
columns. A. 0. Swinton.
■ 5, Cambridge-road, Kilburn.
[Quite as muck having been published about this message as its public
interest demands, we do not desire to insert further letters on the sub¬
ject.—Ed.]
ELECTBICITY, MAGNETISM, AND THE HUMAN BODY.
Sib,—I see that Mr. Henry Collen, of St. Albans, has
commented upon an article of mine which appeared in .The
Spiritualist, of March 15th.
It may be interesting to your readers to know that my ex¬
periments upon muscular electricity were repeated at intervals
during four or five years, and it was in consequence of their
number that I observed the diminished effects when westerly
winds were prevalent, and the increased effects when the wind
was from the east. The conclusion, therefore, can scarcely be
termed hasty. On the contrary, I make it a rule never to
speak positively until I see no room for acting otherwise.
Mr. Collen describes electric sparks produced by brushing
the human hair with a hair-brush, and he therefore infers that
there was no friction between dissimilar imperfect conductors.
It may be interesting to him to know that when a piece of
rough glass is rubbed against a piece of polished glass, the one
is found to be electrified negatively and the other positively.
If he will submit the bristles of the brush and the hair of the
head to microscopic examination, he will probably find con¬
siderable differences of structure. In addition to this he will
probably find that the bristles have been stiffened by artificial
heat, making a difference quite sufficient to account for the
results.
Mr. Collen is quite right in attributing the effects produced
by drawing off the silken shirt from the body, to the insulating
property of the silk. When I used the term “ dissimilar imper¬
fect conductors,” I did so. for the sake of accuracy, as it is
doubtful if there' be any solid substance which is in strict lan¬
guage “ an insulator.”
To come to the sensitive lady mounted on india-rubber.—
Your correspondent infers from her uncomfortable sensations
that there was an interruption of the “ natural discharge of
accumulated electricity from the human body,” but he gives no
experimental proof whatever to show that there was any electri¬
city there at all. I myself am very sensitive to thunderstorms,
and am sometimes for hours together scarcely able to keep my
mind on anything while a storm is brewing, and not unfre-
quently I find this disturbance followed by illness. I know
several who suffer in a like manner. These phenomena are pro¬
duced indoors, where one is insulated from the inductive action
of the thunder-cloud, by the walls, roof, and ceiling between
the cloud and the person indoors. Therefore this action
cannot be attributed to electric induction nor to conduction.
It is therefore probably due to some other force, or to some
atmospheric condition brought about by the impending storm.
It is well known that beer turns sour under similar conditions,
milk curdles, and veal often turns green in a remarkably short
period of time, although placed in a safe, or otherwise protected
from electric induction between the earth and the thunder¬
cloud.
Mr. Collen assumes that no chemical action can take place
without the development of electricity. When he mixes a
Seidlitz powder, does he see the sparks flying about, or in what
way has he proved that chemical action has produced elec¬
trical disturbance sufficient to account for the phenomena he
mentions ?
Your correspondent calls attention to Du Bois Raymond’s
beautiful experiments on the so-called muscular electricity.
The galvanometer he used was one whose rate of oscillation
was very slow, compared with the one I used, and with which
I discovered the curious fact that at the moment of relaxing
the muscles and opening the hand, there was a sudden but
almost momentary increase of current.
The water which I used was common spring water. The
chemicals were applied td the hand, and the hand then washed
in water to remove the chemicals from the surface of the skin.
But most of my experiments were made without any chemicals
at all, excepting such as are naturally to be found in the pores
of the skin.
Mr. Collen says that a nerve must be a very bad conductor
of electricity as compared with a copper wire. The difference
in conducting power between the two is as many millions.
to one ; therefore he will at once perceive how impossible it is
to force any considerable current through these nerves without
destroying them.
Mr. Collen asks—“Is there not an electrical condition set up
in a diamagnetic body while in its equatorial position between
the poles of a magnet ?” No such electrical condition is found
to exist in sufficient power to be rendered visible. Let the
body, however, be moved transversely to the magnetic rays,
there will be an electrical disturbance while it is so moving.
Had Mr. Collen consulted any practical electrician, I am cer¬
tain he would never have written the letter he has penned.
Cbomwell E. Yabley.
Eleetwood House, Beckenham, Kent.
May 10th, 1871.
MESSRS. HERNE AND WILLIAMS’S MEDIUMSHIP.
The physical manifestations which take place in the presence
of Messrs. Herne and Williams, the two well-known physical
mediums of 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, Holborn, are so re¬
markable, that it is thought that the following depositions as
to'the development of their mediumship, with which, at our
request, they have kindly furnished us, will be of public
interest:—
me. williams’s mediumship.
Mr. Charles Edward L. Williams states:—“ I am twenty-one
and a half years of age, and first heard of Spiritualism about
four years ago, when I resided in Greenwich. In May, 1870,
some of us formed an experimental circle, and we obtained
raps and table motions; I could not account for them, but did
not believe that they were produced by spirits. An intimate
acquaintance of mine, Joseph Adcock, was a member of the
circle; he, at that time, was very doubtful whether the mani¬
festations were produced by spirits. At this circle the move¬
ments of the table were so violent and boisterous that the mem¬
bers did not like it, and discontinued the sittings. Joseph
Adcock and myself were, however, so greatly interested in what
we had seen, that we began to sit for manifestations by our¬
selves, once and sometimes twice a week. We obtained table
motions, raps, and messages, and at times I was entranced, or
became insensible, and saw spirits; I described to those
present what I saw, but on awakening had no recollection of
what I had said. Before going into a trance the sensations
are very pleasant; they are not quite like those felt before
going into a natural sleep; there is nothing very peculiar about
the feeling, although on some few occasions I have felt very
cold at the time. This cold feeling, I think, depends upon the
nature of the spirit influencing me. As the power increased,
the raps began to be heard by me at times in my bed-room.
“ About the end of May, 1870, Joseph Adcock and myself
sat for manifestations one evening; I was entranced, and the
following message was spelt out by raps—1 My name is James
Achanna; I was born in the reign of James the Second of
Scotland; I became master of the King’s household; my title
was Lord of Glammis.’ He afterwards said that two of the
most prominent men in his time were Crichton and Douglas.
I have never verified these statements, but as I knew that no
such names or thoughts were in my own mind, both my friend
Joseph and myself were then for the first time convinced that
the message came from spirits.
“In the month of September, 1870, Joseph Adcock introduced
me to Mr. Alsop, of 2, Great Turnstile, Holbom, at whose house
we had some sittings, at first in the light, and afterwards in
the dark, in order to obtain the voices. The short paper tubes
provided for the spirits, as usual at voice circles, were carried
about by them during the first three weeks of the dark sittings,
to all parts of the room, and we heard murmurings through
them, or attempts to speak. Shortly afterwards we had the
distinct voices of Nicholas J. Bonnick, James Achanna, and
other spirits. Later still John King came. The voices and
all the best manifestations came at first, while I was entranced I
and insensible, then gradually the entrancements almost
entirely ceased. I felt no pain when I awoke from the en¬
trancements, and sitting in circle was not injurious to me in
any way. I think it depends very much upon the circle a
medium sits with, whether the process of development is
injurious to him or otherwise. From the very beginning of
our dark circles we had the spirit hands and touches. A slight
dizziness comes over me while the spirit lights are produced.
JWhile the spirit voices are going on I often involuntarily sigh
or draw long breaths. Sometimes I am entranced now, but
with the slight exceptions just mentioned, feel in my normal
state while sitting in the circle, but much depends upon the
sitters. When the circle is composed of inharmonious in¬
fluences, I am very much weakened by the manifestations.
“ My mother is a medium, as she has several times seen
some of our departed relatives, but she does not like Spiritual¬
ism. One day, in her bedroom, she saw the spirit of her
brother, Captain G. C. Marsh, of the 28th Regiment Madras
Infantry, who had died out in India, though we then did not
know it, nor had we any reason to suppose he was even unwell.
After seeing the apparition she ran out of the room in terror,
and came downstairs and told us. A week later, quite by
accident, some of us read of the death by cholera of my uncle,
Captain Marsh. We kept the news from my mother, but
shortly afterwards she had a letter, telling how he died at
Kurnool. This was about six or seven years ago. Once my
mother sat in circle with Joseph Adcock and me; we had not
sat above five minutes, before she said that the ‘ table was
sinking from her,’ and she fainted away. She has never sat
at a spirit-circle since.
“At times, during my whole life, I have seen spirits, but
believed it to be all imagination.”
MB. HEBNE’S MEDIUMSHIP.
Mr. Frank Heme states:—“ I am 21 years of age. From my
earliest childhood I could see spirits, and my parents accounted
for it by saying I was too nervous. They tried to force me out
of the belief that I saw them. Yet I saw them constantly,
heard their voices, and answered them, even while walking in
the street, and it was generally thought that I was a youth of
eccentric habits, much addicted to talking to myself. When I
was about seven years old raps began to come in my bedroom,
and three raps always came when I finished saying my prayers;
my parents heard these sometimes, and ascribed them to rats
or the cat.
“ Soon after the death of my sister Jane, I was doing some¬
thing to her grave in the churchyard, when I saw her, as well
as two other spiritswho were almost constantly with me. They
shewed me three lignum vitae trees; one of them was green at
the bottom, and dry all the way up; the second green at the
top and dry at the bottom; the third healthy in all its parts.
A voice said to me—‘ You can be which you please,’ and I chose
the healthy tree. They told me that one tree symbolised a
man who served God in his childhood only; the second tree
symbolised a man who served Him only in bis old age; the
third represented a man who served God all the days of his life.
They added that ‘ all three would reach heaven in time. ’ They
told me ‘ not to be afraid to work for the truth, as I possessed
some power, and would be called upon to do a work.’ During
all this earlier part of my life, I believed what my friends told
me, that I was subject to hallucinations, and I did not think
that the visions and voices came from spirits. The voices were
not heard by others. I was, and am, clairaudient.
“ Shortly after my vision in the churchyard, I came to
London to complete an engagement with my master, a chemist
I had served for three years previously. He was much in¬
terested in Spiritualism, and before he came to London I took
up a number of Human Nature belonging to him, and first read
about the alleged power of communicating with spirits. I
asked my master what it all meant, and he told me to call
over the alphabet when I heard the raps which usually followed
my prayers, to see if the said raps would spell me out a mes¬
sage. I did so, and the name of my grandfather was spelt
out. This made me very unhappy, for I was afraid to tell my
parents, or anyone else, for whenever I told anybody of my
experiences, I always gained the character of being anything
but truthful. When wandering about in the woods, I found
that by touching the trunks of the trees, sometimes raps would
come, giving messages about family and other matters.
“ Soon after coming to London about three years ago I went
with my master to Mr. Cogman’s circle : I went under the im¬
pression that it was all trickery, for I did not believe much
that I had read about Spiritual manifestations, despite my own
experiences. The medium who was expected did not come.
It was suggested that we should have a dark sitting. We did
so, and after a few raps and the table movements I was en¬
tranced for the first time. When I woke they told me what I
had been saying in the trance; it was so opposed to my own
religious feelings that it made me very unhappy, as I thought
I was under some evil influence.
A few days later I was told by the voice of my spirit guide to
sit for manifestations with my master and his wife, in the light,
and to put some water on the table. We did so, and the water
was changed into something like wine ; the spirits also brought
us some hot bread; previously, there was no such bread in the
house. Rumours about my mediumship then began to spread
among Spiritualists. I was often invited out, but received no
fee, and had to pay cab, railway, or other expenses. Medium-
ship not only proved costly in this way, but it interfered with
my work in the shop, for the rapping noises often began upon
the counter and elsewhere, things would sometimes move
when nobody was touching them, and these things caused me
to be much laughed at and annoyed by others on the premises.
My friends recommended me to become a paid medium, so a
notice that I would sit for the public was printed in Human
Nature, and directly after that number of the periodical came
out Mr. Harrison was the first to come over to Shacklewell and
have a seance in the light with me, when he critically examined
the manifestions which took place.
After this I became medium for.the public circles which
were held regularly at 2, Great Coram-street, Bloomsbury, and
which were the means of making many converts to Spirit¬
ualism. But I could not clear my expenses. Spiritualists did
not come forward to help me, in fact some of them scandalised
me, and a friend, Mr. John Ham, whose name I do not know
whether I am at liberty to give, came forward and helped
me out of my difficulties. I then gave up Spiritualism for
about twelve months, and would sit for manifestations for
nobody but my new friend.
About the time the twelve months just mentioned came to a
close, I went out yachting with Mr. John Ham, and on our return
up the Thames the yacht was anchored at Charlton. We returned
to town by steamboat, and when we reached the Tunnel pier, I
suggested that we should get out there and go to Mr. Cogman’s
circle, which I knew would meet that evening, it being Sunday.
When we reached there we found the circle waiting for us, for
the spirits had told them that others were coming. Mrs.
Berry was among those present. Paper tubes were on the
table, and there for the first time I heard an audible spirit
voice speaking through the tubes. After that Mrs. Berry gave
me an invitation to go to her Wednesday evening seances, and
when I went there John King first spoke through my medium-
ship. The voice seemed to me to be close to my breast, and it
was so loud and startling that I was thoroughly unnerved.
Afterwards I called on Mr. Burns, of 15, Southampton-row,
Holborn, and he suggested that circles for physical manifesta¬
tions for the public, should be held in his rooms. Four light
seances were afterwards held in consequence, and they were
failures. Mrs. Berry hearing of this, came one evening when
only two persons were present, and she suggested a sitting in
the dark; the results were very wonderful. From that time
dark seances for the public were held regularly, and now more,
persons apply for entrance than can be admitted, although
there is a circle there twice a week.
“ One night I was at a spirit circle at the house of Mr. Guppy,
1, Morland-villas, Highbury-hill-park, N. Miss Houghton was
there; a part of her head-dress was taken away by the spirits;
we could not find it, and I afterwards heard that the article
had been given to Mr. Williams, a new medium whom I had
never seen. Shortly afterwards I met Mr. Williams for the
first time at the house of Mr. Emerson, at Beckenham. Later
still the spirit John King told me one Thursday to go to the
house of Mr. Alsop, 2, Great Turnstile, Holborn , Mr. Williams
was there; the manifestations were very powerful, and we
finally agreed to live together as professional mediums.
“ While the manifestations are taking place I do not, for the
most part, feel any peculiar sensations, but sometimes while
the spirits are speaking with audible voices I feel as if I cannot
breathe, and there is then a soreness about my chest; When
the spirits are about to float me bodily in the air, I first feel
something like a tight band round my head, and a cool atmos¬
phere down my body, all in less than a second of time. If the
chair floats with me, I seem to be glued to the seat, and cannot
shift my position on it, but can move my shoulders, head, and
arms freely. -When the floating begins I feel as if thrown from
the floor, without knowing what does it, and while moving in
the air I feel just as if floating in water, or some fluid which
resists the motion of my body. When my body is elongated,
as it has been in the presence of Mr. C. W. Pearce, of 6,
Cambridge-road, Kilburn, and many others, including one
member of the Dialectical Society, it makes me feel sick for a
short time afterwards, and I have a pain in my back, but
nothing worth complaining about. Sometimes they elongate
one side of me more than the other, then I feel ill and sick all
the rest of the day and next morning. I have a very bad
temper, but when the fit of passion is over I can be just and
reasonable. My memory is good for everything but what is
connected with Spiritualism; I do not think I have read a
single book on the subject all through, and what I do read
seems to fade from my memory. When the spirits are about
to bring flowers to a circle I cannot bear to be touched except
on the hands ; if anybody at such times passes a hand or a
Mat 15, 1871.
walking stick near my head, shoulders, or body, I feel very bad,
as if something had been done to interfere with the manifesta¬
tion. When I am going to a seance, I cannot ride in an
omnibus, or with any mixed company of strangers, or the seance
afterwards is almost sure to be a failure, but I can ride with or
be in the company of anybody I personally like. I am much
weakened by sitting at an unharmonious circle.
“ My mother is a good seeing medium, and so was my grand¬
mother. Others of my relatives are mediums, but till recently
they knew nothing about'Spiritualism.”
SPIRITUALISM m BIRMINGHAM.
The public meetings conducted by Messrs. Harper and
Franklin have been quite a success in Birmingham. The
Sunday morning meetings have not been so well attended,
but the audiences generally comprise thoughtful, attentive
listeners, who seem to drink in the facts related by the
speakers. Questions are put evincing a desire to investigate.
The evening lectures have been well attended, sometimes
thronged with eager listeners, and a fair sprinkling of cavillers.
Not long ago, the Rev. C. Marson, a minister of the Church
of England, gave a lecture on the “unbeliefs” so rife at
the present time, and in the course of his lecture said
that, among modern unbeliefs were “ Atheism, Deism, and
Spiritualism.” The lecture being reported in the daily papers,
the reverend lecturer was challenged by a sincere believer in
Spiritualism, as follows
Aston Park, March 28, 1871.
Sir,—In reading over the notice of your sermon on
“ Modern Unbeliefs,” I find you classing with Deism and
Atheism the science of Spiritualism. May I ask you the
question, have you ever investigated the subject ? If you have,
your experience of it must be very limited, and its literature
comparatively unknown to you, or you must have found that
there are many eminent men and Christian ministers who
fearlessly proclaim themselves Spiritualists, and still adhere
as closely to their creeds and doctrines as yourself. If you
have not investigated the matter, it is unpardonable presump¬
tion on your part to charge those who have, and who choose
to think and judge for themselves, with endeavouring “ to
overthrow the Christian religion and revelation,” and you must
pardon me when I say that it is totally untrue. The only
universal tenet that Spiritualism promulgates, is communion
with the so-called dead, or in other words, “ communion of
saints.” As to the Christian or non-Christian views they hold
they are as numerous as the acknowledged creeds of the day.
I have no wish to enter into any theological discussion, but I
feel I must protest against such an unwarrantable attack. I
could enter very fully into the subject, but I forbear, and trust
that as a gentleman you will either acknowledge your ignor¬
ance of the subject, or publish this letter with any answer you
may think well. Yours respectfully,
Sophia S. Franklin.
Mr. Marson answered as follows :—
Hagley Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham, 29th March, 1871.
Madam,—What you call Spiritualism, and I designate by
that title in my lecture, are two very different things. You
mean by the term “ communion with the dead,” or in other
words, “ communion of saints.” I employ the term in the
sense which a sect of Deists (chiefly French) use to describe
their unbelief. With the opinion of your sect or party my
lecture had nothing whatever to do, as it addresses itself only
to those who deny revelation. It would have been plain to
you, had you heard the lecture, that such was the case, so
that you have been too hasty in blaming me as “ignorant”
or presumptuous. Yours obediently, Charles Marson.
Besides Mr. Marson, a Mr. David King, who calls him¬
self an “evangelist” has given a lecture, “exposing”
Spiritualism, and consigning all who believe in such to ever¬
lasting torments. Further, a Mr. Thomas Aston, well known
in the district in connection with Murphy in Birmingham,
gave a lecture condemning Spiritualism as imposture; and Mr.
Harper, with his personal experience and facts innumerable,
completely start ’td the assembly, and rather nonplussed the
lecturer. A Church of England gentleman present said that
the listeners “ ought to go on their knees, and offer thanks to
Almighty God that they were not as this poor man (Mr.
Harper), so surrounded with superstition and gross darkness,
and that they should pray that he might be led into the
light.” Lastly, a Mr. Reddalls has occupied two nights at
St. George’s Hall on “ Spiritualism Criticised,” and he treated
the whole subject with much ridicule.
The Birmingham Spiritualists have taken a room, 125,
Suffolk Street, furnished it, and stances are held every night.
There will be physical manifestations for the more sceptical,
or the enquirer, trance communications for the more advanced,
developing circles for mediums, and a circulating library for
the members. As it was found impracticable to obtain the
services of Mrs. Hardinge, the Birmingham Spiritualists
visited Wolverhampton in a body to listen to her, on Sunday,
May 7th. Mr. Simkiss deserves the thanks of all Spiritualists
for his courage and self sacrifice in giving the people of
Wolverhampton the opportunity of listening to the out¬
pourings of the spirits through Mrs. Hardinge, and it is to be
deeply regretted that the hall was not crowded each evening.
The Birmingham News has'given notices of Mrs. Hardinge’s
visit of a favourable character. The Wolverhampton press
has likewise spoken favorably of her lectures.
THE LIFE-WAYES OF GREAT BRITAIN.
What the root is to the flower, such is the material body to
the mind and spirit. A beautiful flower cannot be developed
unless the root be surrounded by favourable conditions for
healthy growth.
When men and women work early and late, in the mere
scramble for an insufficiency of food and clothing to support
the material body, the mind and the spirit are neglected, and
an uneducated and faulty spirit is formed, which at the death
of the body enters the next world, with all its imperfections on
its head. Such spirits often manifest at spirit circles.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Thus pauperism and destitution are potent influences in the
production of ignorant, vicious, and degraded spirits, as well
as in hastening national decline.
Some persons are always growing richer whilst others are
growing poorer, and as the means of subsistence decline in
particular districts, so does the depopulation of those districts
progress. Thus streams of living men and women are ever
ebbing to and fro in all nations.
The object of the present article is to give a clear picture, to
the mental eye, of these streams as they are now flowing in
Great Britain, because if the direction of the streams were
changed by legislative action, a vast amount of poverty could
be abolished, and the bodies and minds of men be brought into
a favourable state for the reception of a higher mental and
spiritual education than they now are able to receive.
Moreover, the work of all the charitable institutions in the
nation is a mere fleabite towards the alleviation of the evils to
which we will now call attention. As Spiritualism progresses,
charitable institutions in connection with the movement are
sure to spring up, but it is well that the supporters of such
institutions should know the potency of the forces acting in an
opposite direction, and thus charitable action will be guided
by the intellect.
Could the slow changes in a Stilton cheese be compressed
into the period of ten minutes, and those changes then be
carefully observed, we should see that the life of the mites in
the cheese would be confined to certain areas, and that as the
means of subsistence diminished in particular places, so did
animal life depart from those localities.
Could we in like manner look down upon the British Islands,
we should see human life concentrating itself more and more
within great cities. We should see purely rural districts in
slow course of depopulation, and the destitute people who
leave these districts, swarming into towns, filling the towns
with pauperism, ignorance, disease, and crime.
The logical conclusion from all this is, that those good
people who work to remove the causes of the depopulation of
rural districts, thereby enabling thousands to live by industry
on the profits of their own labour, do more good in their day
and generation, than those who enable, say one in every twenty
of those thousands, to live idly on charity, and leave the other
nineteen to crime, to premature death by bad living, or to
emigration.
All religious people and sects, no matter whether their ideas
be scientific or whether they be unphilosophical, have a
desire to do good. The philosophical religionist will try to do
the greatest possible amount of good with the smallest possible
expenditure of energy, which energy includes the three terms—
time, money, and work. Hence we Spiritualists, who above
all religionists insist on applying our reasoning powers to all
questions whatever, have an interest in knowing whether
there are removable causes in Great Britain which create
twenty times more pauperism, disease, and crime than the
whole charity of the nation can remove. If so, reason says,
“Let us first remove the nineteen-twentieths of the pauperism,
disease, and crime, and then, if no-other remedy can be found,
apply private charity to the one-twentieth of the suffering left.”
The foregoing line of action is suggested only as a general
principle; of course in practice, good people are sure, where
they are able, to relieve cases of individual distress.
Now for the facts of the case. The following article from a
recent number of The Food Journal, briefly outlines the chief
cause of the vast amount of pauperism in Great Britain:—
“The Census Returns of the United Kingdom tell strange tales about the
changes in the food-produeing population of Great Britain. There was a
time when the importation of foreign com into this country was to a large
extent forbidden by law; but as soon as a corn-trade with foreign countries
became possible, foreign corn began to pom- in, and English capital to pour
out to pay for the same. The rate of increase of the new trade may be seen
in a return ordered to be printed by the House off Commons on the 14th of
June, 1864, which return shows the total quantity of all kinds of grain, corn,
flour and meal imported annually into the United Kingdom for the preceding
twenty-two years. The figures show that the foreign supply about doubles
itself in every ten years, and that in 1860-64 the money sent out to pay for it
averaged about £30,000,000 a year.
“The withdrawal of £30,000,000 ayearfrom our food-producing population
must have had very considerable influence. It raises the question, Do we
grow at home more meat to compensate for the trade lost to our agricultural
districts in corn ? ’
“From the returns issued yearly by the Houses of Parliament, it is shown
that between the years 1848 and 1856, the average annual number of “oxen,
bulls, cows, and calves,” imported into the United Kingdom, was 86,991;
whereas between 1857 and 1864, inclusive, the average was 119,977. The
total average yearly number of sheep and lambs imported between 1848 and
1855 inclusive, was 170,593; whereas between 1856 and 1864 inclusive, it was
290,773. The total value of bacon and hams imported annually between 1854
and 1859 was £8,361,970; whereas between 1860 and 1864 it was £11,982,232.
The population of the United Kingdom increased 61 per cent, in the fifty
years ending 1861, and if it be assumed to be still increasing at the same rate
(which it is not), it follows that the supply of foreign meat, instead of
ceasing, since the growth of corn crops in Britain has been diminishing, has
actually increased about four times faster than the mouths over here which
are to eat it.
“ As so many millions of pounds are now being sent abroad annually,
instead of being spent in this country, the effects upon the agricultural
population ought to be visible in the Census Returns. That Ireland is in
course of depopulation everybody knows, for it once had 8,000,000 inhabi¬
tants, but now has only about 5,000,000. It is not so generally known that
the agricultural districts of England and Wales have long been in course of
depopulation of their agricultural labourers; but the following figures, from
the last Census Returns, reveal a painful story:—
Number of Male and Female Adults engaged in Agriculture in
England and Wales, 1851 and 1861.
Number of persons aged Difference between
Census Divisions 20 and upwards. 1851 and 1861.
1851. 1861. More. Less.,
The Metropolis .;.    15,837 ... 15,687 ... — ... 150
South Eastern Counties  184,601 ... 178,146 — ... 6,455
South Midland Counties  167,627 ... 163,547 — ... 4,080
Eastern Counties ...   160,249 ... 155,818 ... — ... 4,431
South Western Counties ... 227,554 ... 207,173 ... — ... 20,381
West Midland Counties  179,363 ... 179,800 ... 437 ... —
North Midland Counties  142,389 ... 144,710 ... 2,321 ... —
North Western Counties  112,184 ... 119,070 ... 6,886 ... —
Yorkshire ...   137,681 ... 136,909 ... — ... 722
Northern Counties   83,882 ... 78,942 ... — ... 4,980
Welsh Counties ...    164,713 ... 151,488 ... — ... 13,225
1,576,080 1,531,290 9,644 54,474
“ For the last twenty or thirty yearp, then, a vast tide of destitute human
beings has been pouring out of the agricultural districts of England, Wales
and Ireland. This great living stream splits itself into two parts. One
division pours into our great cities, seeking work, but not finding it to the
extent required, since all our large towns have been swarming with paupers
for the last thirty years and more, as Shown by the Government returns.
The other part of the stream pours into foreign countries, chiefly America.
Official returns show that the great bulk of natives of the United Kingdom,
who land at New York, are farmers and agricultural labourers. That the
agricultural labourers remaining in our rural districts are not in flourishing
circumstances, is clear from the condition of Ireland, and the constant dis¬
cussions in the newspapers about plans for ameliorating the condition of the
English farm labourers, for the abolition of the “gang” system, and for the
improvement or abolition of many of the laws relating to the tenure of
land.
“ What is the effect upon our towns of the steady influx of this great tide
of human beings ? It causes the life of the nation to concentrate itself more
and more in the streets and alleys of cities, in homes where the air is less
pure, and in neighbourhoods where vices flourish to a much greater extent
than in rural districts. The result of this is that the race deteriorates, and
that English men and women become more sickly and shorter in stature. A
vast number of facts and statistics about this deterioration will be found in a
paper by Mr. John Beddoe, B.A., H.D., on ‘ The Stature and Bulk of Man in
the British Isles,’ published in Vol. III. of ‘ Memoirs of the Anthropological
Society." How can this hemorrhage from the agricultural districts be
stopped ? If more security could be given to farmers for the expenditure
167
upon the soil of capital in money and labour, it would be one step in the
right direction. England differs from many other countries in the fact that
the men who cultivate the ground are not the men who own it, so that they
often have little inducement to improve it to the utmost, since they know
that they are liable to have the fruits of their industry taken away by a rise
• in rent. I would suggest the abolition of the laws which favour entails and
primogeniture, and the introduction of a simple, cheap, and expeditious
method of buying and selling land, as in other countries, so that a small
piece of land can change hands nearly as rapidly as a pig or sheep, without
the intervention of legal delays or lawyers’ expenses. This will break up
our present artificial and unnatural system of land tenure, and when our
rural population find that they are no longer divorced so completely from
the soil which they cultivate, they will have inducements to remain where
they are, rather than to gravitate towards our great cities.
“In Mr. John Stuart Mill’s ‘Political Economy,’ there is much valuable
evidence as to the condition of those Continental agricultural districts where
there is no artificial system of land tenure. The effects upon agricultural
towns of the concentration of the landed property in few hands, of the
poverty generally diffused in rural districts, and of the migration of agri¬
cultural labourers to the manufacturing districts, is plainly visible to
observers.
“An impoverished and sparse agricultural population can buy none but
the poorest and commonest goods from the manufacturing districts, nor can
a few great landowners, however rich, have requirements which will much
increase the demand for such godds, as for instance, woollen cloth. Agri¬
cultural districts dotted with farms, whose owners receive their own rents,
and who labour night and day at the improvement of the soil, because of
the security of their tenure, would be able to purchase goods to a much
larger extent from the manufacturing districts, Ahan our present agricultural
population can possibly do. The adoption of this plan, and of others which
space will not permit me to detail on this occasion, would, I think, tend to
bring about a greatly needed change for the better.”
"William; H. Harrison.
Tire Food Journal is a monthly magazine of high quality,
and ordinarily does not publish correspondence. However, in
its last number it introduced the new feature of correspondence
columns, and printed the following letter from a county
Member of Parliament, about the foregoing article:—
. “ House of Commons,
“ April 5th, 1871.
“ Sir,—It appears to me that the writer of the article ‘Food Producers of
Great Britain,” in a late number of the Food Journal, has been led into
drawing erroneous conclusions from the statistics which he uses, and that
his article is calculated to make the public think that British agriculture is
in a very bad way indeed. Year after year, says he, the imports of cattle,
grain, com, and meal, have increased—increased, too, at a rate far
exceeding the increase of population, ‘four times faster than the mouths
over here which are to eat it.’ At the same time fewer folk are employed
in agriculture, therefore it is apparent that agriculture is in a declining
state—that, at least, is the inference I draw from the mode in which the
facts are stated,—yet, a glance at the agricultural returns shows that the
number of cattle bred in 1869-70 exceed those bred in Great Britain in the
preceding year by 157,000, while in the year before we find an increase of
152,000, and still larger figures in 1867. We all know that the rent for farms
rises continually; in other words, that fresh capital is pushed into agricul¬
ture year after year; and surely this leads to more comfortable conclusions
than those at which Mr. Harrison has arrived. The number of cattle im¬
ported has increased, not because our own stock has diminished, but because
our people, grown richer and more prosperous, consume and can pay for a
larger amount of animal food than they could in the earlier years quoted in
the Journal.
“ The number of people employed in agricultural pursuits has, it is true,
decreased; wages have risen, and the farmer, in consequence, is gradually
learning to economise labour by the use of machinery; but the agricultural
labourer has happily shared in the general prosperity of the nation, is no
longer wedded to the soil of the parish where he was bom, but takes advan¬
tage of the modem facilities for locomotion, and seeks his fortune in fresh
fields and pastures new.
“I beg, too, that you will not think that this migration to towns, this
scarcity of agricultural labour, is peculiar to England alone; it goes on all
the world over, it is one of the signs of the times, out of the power of man to
control or alter, and is in no way due to our peculiar laws, or to any restric¬
tive influence incidental to the tenure of land in England. If I were not
afraid of intruding unwarrantably on your space, I could say much of the
state of the agricultural labourer in foreign lands, very interesting reports
on which are lying by me at this moment.
“ Simultaneously with the increase of our cattle we have brought nearly
80,000 fresh acres into cultivation during the past twelvemonths—no incon¬
siderable quantity in a land already so fully occupied.
“I cannot agree with your contributor that any considerable number of
our truant agriculturists is to be found in America. I do not know what the
returns on the subject would show, but in my own neighbourhood, half
mining, half agricultural, the tide of emigration flows from the metal-work¬
ing classes, whose fortunes are dependent on the vicissitudes of trade, or
the commercial stability of their employers. I would venture to say, sir, in
answer to your contributor’s question, How can this hemorrhage be stopped ?
that it is not desirable to stop it; agricultural labour is merely following the
natural law of supply and demand, and the surplus population leaves its
home to seek work elsewhere, where wages are higher; as labour becomes
scarcer in the agricultural districts, wages will rise, the tide will turn, and
agricultural labour be drawn in turn from town to country. This is the
result of natural laws, which can be certainly predicated by any political
economist; it has nothing to do with primogeniture, or entail, or convey¬
ance of land, or the security of the farmer’s capital; entail and primogeni¬
ture (whether politically desirable or not, is beside the mark) do not affect
our system of agriculture, as entailed estates can now be improved at the
cost of mortgaging their future revenues, even though those revenues may
belong not to the life owner, but to his successor, while a farmer’s capital is
secured either by lease or by ‘ the custom of the country ’—his improve¬
ments, when tangible, being his own, not his landlord’s. (15 Vie. cap. 25.)
‘ If the tenant, with the consent of his landlord, shall erect any building,
machinery, &c., such building shall be the property of the tenant, and shall
be removable by him,’ first giving the landlord due notice, when he has the
right of pre-emption at a fair valuation. I fear, sir, that this letter has been
spun out till I risk your declining to read it, yet I hope that it says enough
to indicate the true state of agricultural labour and capital—certainly the
security of agricultural capital is a result to be obtained at smaller cost than
that of upsetting the entire land tenure, and with it the social condition of
the United Kingdom. Large farms four favourite system now-a-days)
have been adopted, not because the agricultural population is sparse, but
because large farms pay, while la petite culture does not; the well-being of
agriculture, the amelioration in the condition of the labouring poor, must be
sought in the advance of their own intelligence and education, in the im¬
provement of present methods of cultivation and agricultural science, not
in vast political change, which could not fail to create so extensive a dis¬
turbance in the apportionment of property that it could hardly be effected
without revolution and utter social disruption.—J. R. B.”
The following reply to the foregoing letter might be made:—
1. That the supply of foreign food has for a long series of years been
increasing about four times faster than the mouths here to eat it, is a fact
absolutely demonstrated by the government statistics, and is not merely a
matter of private opinion.—2. The same may be said of the depopulation of
agricultural districts.—3. It is very natural that in the few years which
succeeded the cattle-plague, there should be an increase in the number of
cattle, the more especially because the way in which our farmers are beaten
in our own markets by foreign com-growers, forces them to give more
attention to cattle.—4. That rents of farms are rising is not necessarily a
proof of increased prosperity but often the reverse; The Echo of last Monday
week contained particulars about several farmers and their families, who
had been ruined by eviction and rise in rent. The more a man has to pay
m rent, the less he has to expend on his farm, and to purchase manufactured
goods of shopkeepers in towns 5. That “the agricultural labourer has hap¬
pily shared in the general prosperity of the nation, ” is altogether in advance of
the facts. Mr. J. E. Thorold Rogers, late Professor of Political Economy in
Oxford University, has written a great book, full of unquestionable statistics
and figures, clearly proving that during the last two centuries the Condition
of the British agricultural labourer has been steadily growing worse. His
money wages have risen, but not in proportion to the increase in the price
of the necessaries of life.—6. That the great bulk of the English people who
emigrate to America are agricultural labourers and farmers, is proved by
the official returns connected with the port of New York. It is quite true
that when they leave their English homesteads they usually go to the
mining and iron districts for a few months, to earn enough money to pay
their passage to America.—7. Admitting that large farms pay best under
our present artificial system of divorcing the labourers from the soil by
indh-ect laws, supposing half-a-dozen landlords get a whole county into
their possession, and grow enormously rich over the steady rise in rents,
how can the rest of the population, consisting of steam-engines, and labourers
enjoying say 12s. or 14s. per week, support towns and manufacturers by
buying substantial goods, and what is the real strength and happiness of a
nation which boasts such a population?
The effect upon the few large towns into which the popula¬
tion has been pouring, is that competition in business has
increased enormously, profits have declined, poverty and emi¬
gration increased, the population has deteriorated in health and
vigour, and those who wish to work at educational and religious
improvements have an enormous barrier placed in their path.
160
THE SPIRITUALIST
May 15, 1871
FACTS FOB, NON-SPIBITUALISTS.
The phenomena seen p»t spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
within the ordinary range of human experi¬
ence, that it is quite right not to accept them
on the testimony of others. Each individual
should witness and test them personally, and
believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
is gained that denial is impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SPUHTUAIISM DESEHVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses that the phenomena of Spiritualism are
■actual facts, and not imposture or delusion, has of
late years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Robert
Chambers, Mr. C. F. Varley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
Mrs. S. 0. Hall, and others, all made affidavits
strongly in favour of Mr. Home. The following
was a portion of the affidavit of Mr. 0. F. Yarley,
C.E., F.R.G.S., M.R.I.:—
“ I have been a student of electricity, chemistry, and
natural philosophy for twenty-six years, and a tele¬
graphic engineer by profession for twenty-one years,
and I am the consulting electrician of the Atlantic Tele¬
graph Company, and of the Electric and International
Company.
“About eight years ago, I called on Mr. Home,
the defendant in this suit, and stated that I had
not yet witnessed any of the physical phenomena, but
that I was a scientific man and wished to investigate
them carefully.
“ He immediately gave me every facility for the pur¬
pose, and desired me to satisfy myself in every possible
way, and I have been with him on divers occasions
when the phenomena have occurred. I have examined
and tested them with him and with others, under con¬
ditions of my own choice, under a bright light, and have
made the most jealous and searching scrutiny. I have
been, since then, for seven months in America, where
the subject attracts great attention and study, and where
it is cultivated by some of the ablest men, and having
experimented with and compared the forces with elec¬
tricity and magnetism, and after having applied me¬
chanical and mental tests, I entertain no doubt whatever
that the manifestations which I have myself examined
were not due to the operation of any of the recognised
physical laws of nature, and that there has been present
on the occasions above-mentioned some intelligence
other than that of the medium and observers.” »
It also came out in the evidence given at the
trial, that Mr. Home had been the invited and un¬
paid guest of the Emperor and the Empress of the
French, the Emperor, Empress, and the late Em¬
press Dowager of Russia, the Grand Duke Con¬
stantine, the King of Prussia, the late King of
Bavaria, the late King of Wurtemburg, and the
Queen of Holland. Mr. Home says that all his
life he has never taken a farthing of pay for his
seances. In March, 1869, the Spiritual Magazine
gave the names of the following gentlemen as
those who have long been investigating the sub-
jeofr:—-
‘‘Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., Fleetwood-house, Becken¬
ham; ‘.A|ffed 4t. Wailaee, Esq., Hdily- House, - Bark-
in^Biufessoh'He^MCirgan, Sl^Atlel&ide-rbad, fNtW.; ■
Captain -BraysOn, B.A., "Woolwicli;■'Dr.. J.- M. 'Gully,; j
The Priory,:Great Malvern: fir. l.-JnG. Wilkinson,'4,' J
St. Jbhn’s-wood-villas, N.W.; Dr. Dixon, 8, Great Or-
mond-street, W.C.: S. C. Hall, Esq., 15, Ashley-place,
Victoria-street, S,W.; Newton Crosland, Esq;; William
Howitt, Esq.,vlhe Orchard, Hare-green, Esher,* Surrey;
Kobert Chambers, Esq., St. Andrew’s, Edinburgh; H.
D. Jenokeh, Esq., Kilmorey-house, Norwood; J. G.
Crawford, Esq., 52, Gloucester-crescent, N.W.; W. M.
Wilkinson, Esq., Oakfleld, Kilbum; Lord Adare, 5,
Buckingham-gate; The Master of Lindsay, Grosvenor-
sqUare.”
Mrs. De Morgan has written a book, entitled
From Matter to Spirit (Longmans), where she
gives many interesting particulars, the result of
ten years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in his preface to the book, says:—
“ I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by
a rational being to be capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground
firm under me."
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President
of the British Association at Norwich in 1868,
spoke very highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, F;L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist. Professor Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventbr:of the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
action ” theory explained all the facts. A friend
wrote to him detailing things he had seen which
were inexplicable by that theory. Hare at once,
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
result was that he came into communication with
some of his own departed relatives. He then
made mechanical telegraphic'* machines, which
were intelligently worked by spirits while the
apparatus was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote a book recording all these
facts. That book is now in the British Museum
Library. Judge Edmonds, of New York, is another
very eminent American Spiritualist, who has also
written interesting books on the subject. Recently,
in England, Viscount Adare has written a book
bearing testimony to the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and movements of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley.
Mr. W. Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Chemical
News, is now investigating Spiritualism, and he
has. published an article in the Quarterly Journal oj
Science, stating that its phenomena are real, and
not delusion or imposture, though he does not know
as yet whether they are produced by disembodied
spirits. The following letter, which he wrote to
Mr. Varley, was published in the Spiritualist of
July 15th, 1870;—
“20, Mornington-road, London, N.W.
“July 13 th, 1870.
“Dear Mr. Varley,—I was very pleased to receive
your letter of the 9th inst., in which you discuss some
points alluded to in my paper on “Spiritualism viewed
by the Light of Modem Science.”
“You have been working at the subject for more
years than I have months, and knowing, as you do, the
enormous difficulties in the way of accurate investigation
—difficulties for the most part interposed by Spiritualists
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but
cool rather than warm—let arrangements be made that
nobody shall enter it, and that there shall be no inter-
ruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
Wet, damp, and foggy weather is bad for the production
of physical phenomena.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals
about the same number of each sex. Sit round an un¬
covered-wooden table, with all the palms of the hands
in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance,
Any table will do, just large enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it
sometimes, but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, plac some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may be
obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, except with well-developed
physical mediums ; it is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, but an
acrid feeling against them is a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature. A prayerful,
earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely, to avoid confusion, let one person only speak,
and talk to the table as to' an intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean
“Yes,” one means “No," and two mean “Doubtful,”
and ask whether the arrangement is understood. If
three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, aud spell us out a
message? ” Should three, signals be given, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations ?” _
Probably some members of the circle will then be told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will be
afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the-
medium ? ” When spirits come asserting themselves to
be related or known to anybody present, well-chosen
questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as spirits out of the body have all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms
of other forms of mediumship than tilts or raps
may make their appearance. Information respect¬
ing the many kinds of mediumship will be found
in Mrs. Professor De Morgan’s book, From Matter
to Spirit, published by Longmans; and this is a
good book to read before trying to start a new
circle.
XjlEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
His Grace the Duke of* Argyll, K.T.
Her Grace the Duchess of Argyll.
The Baroness de Bothschild.
The Countess de Noailles.
President:
The Bight Honourable the Earl of Shaftesbury, K.G.
Treasurer:
Henry Charles Stephens, Esq., 171 Aldersgate-street, E.C.
Honorary Secretary:
James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.
Lady Secretary:
Mrs. Blangy.
Bankers:
The London and County Bank, 441, Oxford-street.
The Female Medical Society is established for the
following objects:—
1.—To promote the employment of properly educated
women in the practice of Midwifery, and the treatment
of the Diseases of Women and Children.
2-—To provide educated women with proper facilities
for learning the theory and practice of Midwifery, and
the accessory branches of Medical Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses,
of the College, and all particulars as to the operations of
the Society, may be obtained of the Lady Secretary.
 Temporary Offices—4 Pitzroy-square, W.
ARON FRANKLIN, PRESERVER OF
BIBDS, ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOB OF,
NATUBE, Museums and private collections attended. ’
British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’ heads, fox’s heads,
shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and
kindred periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847.
Aaron Franklin, 58, Suffolk-street, Birmingham.
Heaven opened; or, messages:
for the BEBEAYED from our LITTLE ONES'
IN GLOBY. Through the mediumship of F. J. T. With
observations by Mrs. De Morgan. In neat cloth, Is. In
enamel wrapper, (id. London: J. BURNS, 15, Southamp¬
ton-row, Bloomsbury, W.C.
On the first of every month.
THE TRUTHSEEKER, a Review
devoted to the advocacy of reverent free
thought in matters pertaining -to Religion.” Edited by
the Bev. J. PAGE HOPPS. Price Threepence.
London: Triibner and Co., 60, Patemoster-row. Man¬
chester: Johnson and Bawson, and John Heywood; and
through all booksellers and agents.
British imperial insurance
CORPORATION, LIMITED.
FOR EFFECTING-
BANKING LIFE, & SELF, INSHBANCE POLICIES
ON GOVEBNMENT SECUBITIES.
Foolscap 8vo., cloth. Published at 3s., now offered at
2s.; post free, 2s. 3d.
THE MENTAL CURE | illustrating tlie
Influence of the Mind on the Body, both in Health
and Disease, and the Psychological Method of Treatment,
by Bev. W. F. Evans, author of “ The Celestial Dawn,”
“The Happy Islands,” “The New Age and its Messenger,”
&c., &c., &c.
The design of this Treatise is to explain the nature and
laws of the inner life of man, and to contribute some
light on the subject of Mental Hygiene, whichis beginning
to assume importance in the treatment of disease, and to
attract the attention of physiologists. The author has
aimed to illustrate the correspondence of the soul and
body, their mutual action and reaction, and to demonstrate
the casual relation of disordered mental states to diseased
physiological action, and the importance and mode of
regulating the intellectual and affectional nature of the
invalid under any system of medical treatment.-
Glasgow: James M'Geachy, 89, Union-street.’
themselves—you will not be surprised to find that I only
feel the ground firm under me for a very short distance
along the road which you have travelled so far.
“ I was deeply interested in reading of your experi¬
ments, the more so, as I have been working in a similar
direction myself, but as yet with scarcely a tangible
result.
You notice that I admit freely and fully the physical
phenomena. Let this openness be a guarantee that I
shall not hesitate for a moment in recording with equal
fearlessness for the consequences, whatever convictions
my investigation leads me to—whether it points to a
mere physical force, or makes me, as you predict, a con¬
vert to the spiritual hypothesis—but I must let my con¬
victions come in my own way, and if I hold somewhat
stubbornly to the laws of conservation of force and in¬
penetrability of matter, it should not be considered as
a crime on my part, but rather as a peculiarity in my
scientific education.
ft I have already had many letters, both from Spiri¬
tualists and from leading men of science, saying that
they are glad I have taken up the subject, and urging
me to continue the investigation. In fact,-! have been
agreeably surprised to find encouragement from so many
scientific men, as well as sympathy from the good
friends I possess amongst the Spiritualists.—Believe
me, my dear sir,1 very truly yours,
William Crookes.”
A work entitled The Book of Nature, by 0. O.
Groom Napier, F.C.S. (London, John Camden
Hotten, 1870), has a preface by the late Lord
Brougham, in which that eminent statesman
says
“There is but one question I would ask the author, is
the Spiritualism of this work foreign to our materialistic,
manufacturing age?—No; for amidst the varieties of
mind which divers circumstances produce, are found
those who cultivate man’s highest faculties;—to these
the author addresses himself. But even in the most
cloudless skies of scepticism I see a rain-cloud, if it be no
bigger than a man’s hand; it is Modem Spiritualism.”
Signor G. Damiani, a Sicilian gentleman living
at Clifton, has written a pamphlet, still in print,
in which he severely censures Professor Tyndall,
Mr. G. H. Lewes, and others like them, for refus¬
ing to investigate the subject. He further offers a
reward of 1,000 guineas to any respectable, scien¬
tific or educated men, who will investigate the
subject and prove it to be an imposture. The
following are his words:—
“ I now offer you two challenges.
“First, I challenge you, or either of you, or any of
the public who, like you, disbelieve in the genuinC'Cha-
racter of spiritualistic phenomena, to' deposit in the
hands of any well-known London banker whom you or
they may name, the sum of five hundred guineas; and
I pledge myself to immediately deposit in the same bank
a like amount,—the ownership of such sum of one thou¬
sand guineas to depend upon my proving by evidence
sufficient to establish any fact in history or in a criminal
or civil court of justice.
First—That intelligent communications and answers
to questions put, proceed from dead and inert matter in
a manner inexplicable by any generally recognised law
of nature.
“Secondly—That dead and inert matter does move
without the aid of any mechanical or known chemical
agency, and in defiance of all the admitted laws of gravi¬
tation.
“ Thirdly—That voices appertaining to no one in the
jfljesh are heard to speak, and. hold rational converse .with
.men. : , * . . ; | •
• “ A jury,of twenty4fpur gentlemen, twelve to be chosen
by each party (such jury to consist exclusively of mem¬
bers of the learned professions and literary men), to
decide whether or not the facts contained in the above
propositions are conclusively proved per testes—i.e., by
witnesses of established character. A majority of
the twenty-four to decide. If the verdict be that these
facts have not been established, the thousand guineas
are to belong to the party accepting this challenge; if
the verdict be that these facts are established, the thou¬
sand guineas to be mine.
“ Secondly—^Immediately after the above wager being
decided, either way, I offer a like challenge of five hun¬
dred guineas (to be met on the other side in like manner
as above)—the ownership of the second sum of one
thousand guineas to depend upon the establishment of
the facts contained in the propositions already given, by
experiments conducted in the actual presence of the twenty-
four gentlemen who have decided the previous wager;
the verdict of the majority to decide in this case likewise.
“ In either case, the seances are to be conducted in any
public or private building which the jury may select,
and which may be available for the purpose.
“The result of these challenges (if accepted and de¬
cided) to be advertised by the victorious party, at the
expense of the defeated party, in all the London daily
papers.
“ I hope this is plain English.
“ Awaiting a reply to this letter, and to the challenge
with which it concludes, I am, gentlemen; your obedient
servant, G. Damiani.
“Clifton, Oct. 1,1868.
*“P.S.—^Letters addressed ‘Sigr. Damiani, care of
Manager of West of England and South Wales District
Bank, Corn-street, Bristol,’ will always reach the writer.”
In addition to the above evidence, there is the
testimony of numbers that the modern spiritual
manifestations are realities. Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New America estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United States at rather less than
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybody has made. There are no accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
When reports of the speeches of spirits are printed in this
Journal, non-Sviritualists should understand that spirits
out of the body are wise or foolish, truthful or untruthful,
iust the same as spirits in the body. Moreover, they are but
individuals, so do not know everything: The statements of a
spirit are but the assertions of an individual; but by com¬
paring the statements of many spirits, it niay in time be
possible to discover in what points they agree, and to sift
out the unreliable communications. Many spirits cannot
see each other, any more than we can see them, and as some
of them are thus in different states of life, it does not follow
that contradictory messages are therefore untruthful.
Spirits are of different religions, consequenVy their teach¬
ings do not altogether agree; there is no more uniformity
in the next world than in this one. It is the business of this
iournal to report facts, so we are in no way responsible for
the religious, scientific, or any other teachings given by indi¬
vidual spirits.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental, trial at home, among family
friends and relatives, often gives the most satis¬
factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the same time, as no fully developed
medium is present among those who have never
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will be no results. * Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for every one successful
new circle thus started without a medium, there
are six or seven failures, but no accurate statistics
on this point have yet been collected. When
once manifestations have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive sittings. The following is a good plan of
action:—
•Head Offices:,-
Brown-street and Marsden-street, Manchester.
Branch Offices:
20, King William-street, London, E.O.
Victoria-buildings, 66, Benfield-street, Glasgow.
4, College-green, Dublin.
1, Brown’s-buildings, Exchange, Liverpool
93, Princess-street, Edinburgh. '*
Market-place, Douglass, Isle of Man.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF
Spiritualism in England, by Benjamin Coleman,
recently published in the Spiritualist, reprinted in
pamphlet form, on toned paper, with coloured wrapper.
The discussion is also included in the pamphlet. Copies
maybe had at one shilling each, of Mr. E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C., and are of especial value for
presentation to those who are uninformed on the subject
of Spiritualism.
THE DISTINGUISHING FEATURES OF THIS SYSTEM ARE
It provides Government Security for the Life Premium
Funds.
All the Premiums (with the exception of one-fifth for
Expenses of Management, Beserve, and Bonuses) are
invested in the Names of Trustees, for the sole purpose
of meeting Policy claims. These Trustees act indepen¬
dently of the Directors.
This form of Security is strictly defined by the General
Deed of Trust, and is unalterable.
An equitable Surrender-value endorsed on each Policy
and payable on demand.
From 50 to 70 per cent, of the net Premiums paid (ac¬
cording to the Table under which the Policy is effected)
can be obtained on demand by Insurants desirous of ceas¬
ing premium paying. The Surrender-value is endorsedon
each Policy, and Policyholders, upon depositing their
Policies with the Corporation, may draw upon the Sur¬
render-Value to its full amount, for any purpose, without
sacrificing their Policy; thus using it as a cash balance at
their Bankers. The Surrender-value cannot be forfeited.
Insurants cannot pay more in premiums than the amount
for which they have insured.
Insurants, desirous of ceasing premium paying, and
not wishing to withdraw their “Surrender-values" can
obtain “Free” or “Paid-up” Policies, for the whole
amount of Premiums paid, in exchange for the former
Policies held by them.
By this arrangement Insurants who have paid in
premiums, an amount equal to the sum for which they
are insured, can have a “Paid-up” Policy for the full
amount, together with the Bonus additions added there¬
to (if insured, with profits,) granted them in exchange for
their former Policies, without further payment.
Bankers: Bank of England, London. Manchester and
Liverpool District Bank, Manchester. Auditor (To the
Government Security Life Insurance Fund): Dr. William
Farr, F.B.S., &c., &c., London. General Manager: John
A. Feigan. Secretary: William Davies, Brown-street,
Marsden-street, Manchester.
SUNDAY EVENING MEETINGS in con¬
nection with SPIBITUALISM, conducted by Mrs.
Emma Hardinge, are held every Sunday evening, at
1, Cleveland Assembly Booms, Oleveland-street, Fitzroy-
square. Admission free. There is a collection at the
doors.
THE BRIXTON SOCIETY OF spiri¬
tualists meets at 98, Lothian road, North
Brixton.
k ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF EN-
QUIBEBS INTO SPIRITUALISM, 74, Navariho-
road, Dalston, E. Seances are held every Thursday
evening at 8 o’clock; and a Library is in course of
formation for use of members. Prospectuses and Buies
on application to the Secretary. Subscription Is. per
month in advance. Thos. Blyton, Secretary, &c.
'R. THOMAS R. MASON teaches
thoroughly and rapidly the VIOLIN, BANJO,
and GUITAB, at his Musical Academy, 134, Penton-
ville Bead, N., or at the pupil’s residence. Terms sent
on application.
“A Violin Solo (comique), entitled ‘ Echoes,’ per¬
formed by Mr. T. B. Mason. It consisted of Echoes of
London, Echoes of the Christy Minstrels, and Imita¬
tions of the Old Fiddler, the Bagpipes, the Hurdy Gurdy,
the Banjo, Paganini, and the Cries of Animals in a Farm¬
yard. The Imitations were remarkably good.”—London
Daily Chronicle.
JOSEPH BARKER’S NEW WORKS..
Just Published,
THE RIGHTEOUS AND THEIR POR¬
TION. Price Twopence.
THE GREAT FIGHT BETWEEN CHRIS¬
TIANITY AND INFIDELITY; Which Shall Con¬
quer ? Price Twopence.
LOVE AND MARRIAGE; or, The Way
to Domestic Happiness. Price Twopence.
THE TRINITY OF CHRISTIAN GRACES.
Price Twopence.
UNITARIANISM; What Claims has it to-
Bespect and Favour. Price, in Wrapper, Sixpence.
FAITH IN GOD; The Grounds on Which
it Bests, and the Influence it is Calculated to Exert
on the Heart and Life of Man.
London: James Beveridge, 9,10,11, Fulwood’s-rents,.
Holbom, W.C.
11XHIBITION OF SPIRIT DRAWINGS
J in Water Colours, by Miss Houghton, New
British Gallery, 39, Old Bond-street, Piccadilly, WILL
OPEN on Monday, MAY 22. Admission One Shillings
Catalogues One Shilling.
ESSRS. HERNE AND WILLIAMS,
Spirit Mediums, beg to inform investigators that
they are at home daily to give private stances from 12
a.m. to 5 o’clock p.m. They are also open to receive -
engagements for private stances in the evening, either at
home or at the residence of investigators. Address, 61,.
Lamb’s Conduit-street, Foundling, W.C.
Birmingham spiritualists’ as¬
sociation. The believers in Spiritual science
have taken a Boom at 125, Suffolk Street, where circles
are formed for the investigation of the phenomena, as ,
well as for the confirmed Spiritualist. Terms on appli¬
cation addressed to the Secretary. Stances every evening
OTmitentg.
Mr. Home’s Visit to St. Petersburgh   ...161
Other World Order       161
Mrs. Guppy’s Stances     ... 162
Matter and Spirit    ... ... ... ...  163 *
The Action of Light upon Spiritual Manifestation... 164
The Stance at St. Petersburgh University:—The Condi¬
tions on which the Stance was given—The Offi¬
cial Beport of the Stance—M. Aksakof’s Protest 164
Spiritualism and Experimental Eesearch 166 --
Poetry :—Archbishop Whately 166
Correspondence:—The Author of “Alpha’s Mes¬
sage ”—Electricity, Magnetism, and the Human
Body       ... 166
Messrs. Herne and Williams's Mediumship: — Mr. .
Williams’s Mediumship—Mr. Heme's Medium-
ship      166 ;
Spiritualism in Birmingham 167
The Life-Waves of Great Britain   167
Paragraphs—Miss Emma Hardinge, 164; Spirit
Drawings   ... 165
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Fraser,
at the Holbom Printing Works, Full wood's Bents,
High Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published i
by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C. ,
