A F(ECOF(D Of THE PROQREfJ3 Of THE fClEflCE /ND ETHICf OF ^PlF^ITU/OJfM.
No. 3.—Yol. I.
LONDON: FRIDAY, DECEMBER 17, 1869. pScethreepeSf^17*
LADIES m THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
Spiritualism demonstrates that no immediate im¬
provement is made in the moral or mental condition of
any human being, after passing through the process
•called “ death.” Hence, everything done on this earth
to improve human bodies and human minds, causes a
higher class of spirits to enter the next world. Such
facts have a very useful and beautiful practical teach¬
ing, for they let us know that to raise the present
average condition of this world and the next, we must
begin by doing everything possible to improve the
bodies and souls of man and woman-kind. "Why
should women he in a worse condition upon earth than
men, and be cut off so much from freedom of action, as
well as from facilities to earn an independent liveli¬
hood ? "Why should they not have equal opportunities
with men to gain a good education, when any of them
desire so to do ? The sight of the advertisement about
the Female Medical Society, printed on the last page of
this journal, led us to make a few inquiries about this
new opening for female industry, and the remainder of
this article is a summary of the information received
upon the subject.
During the last few weeks the University of Edin¬
burgh has opened its doors to ladies who wish to study
medicine, on. the sole condition that they comply with
the same regulations, and undergo the same graduated
examinations, as the students of the other sex. The
classes, however, are to he kept separate, each of the
university professors having a second-class for women
only, so that the sexes do not attend in mixed classes.
The women students, while so few in number, will have
to subscribe a large quota of the expenses of the course
in order to furnish a reasonable honorarium to the
respective teachers, and on that point the students will
have to arrange for themselves with the professors.
Flit,, the class-rooms, the museums, and the thousand
. *>ther standing accessories associated with the great
;; school!of Edinburgh, are now as freely at the disposal
, bf women as of men. The professors have promised to
•; give separate courses of lectures, for a mere nominal
acknowledgment in the shape of fee, in some cases
indeed allowing the women simply to pay the same
small fees as are paid by the men students in their
| very large classes. Five women have already presented
themselves in the medical matriculation examination,
i two of whom were “ honours students ” at the Obstet-
. ^icah College of the Female Medical Society in Fitzroy-
! 'square^ London—^Mrs. Isabel' Thorne and Miss Matilda
. Chaplin—one was a lady from America—Miss J. Blake,
and the two other ladies were Miss Peachey and Mrs.
Evans. The ladies came out almost at the top of the
lists, and one of the past students of the Female
Medical Society obtained special commendation.
On the bare question of right it has been a monstrous
violation of equity that women have been so long ex¬
cluded by technical means, from disposing of themselves
and their abilities as they choose, and as they can get
the public to employ them. The Female Medical So¬
ciety, a semi-benevolent society, founded on a purely
public basis, has not contemplated eleemosynary help
to ladies desiring to practice as physicians, or as general
practitioners, but seems to have thought that ladies of
that rank of ability were quite able to help themselves,
and that the proper way would he for them to gain that
access to the existing medical schools which has now
been gained at the Universities of Edinburgh, Paris,
Zurich, and some other places. Similar facilities must
ere long be given by all the medical colleges.
A very valuable and practically useful auxiliary
college has, however, been kept in operation for now five
years by the Female Medical Society, in order to teach
for a small fee the theory and practice of midwifery
and the accessory branches of medical science, to educated
women. When it is considered that more than a million
births occur every year in this country, and that probably
more than half-a-million sterling is paid annually for
professional attendances in that respect, which could be
infinitely better rendered by women than by men,
manifestly this branch of medical practice would he a
most valuable addition to the now narrow and over¬
crowded fields of usefulness which are open to women.
Of late years women have been artificially excluded
from the practice of midwifery, because they have had
no proper aids to study, and have had access to no
public examinations which would enable skilled women
to distinguish themselves from the drunken old women
into whose hands the female practice has drifted, and
who are of course quite unable to compete with the
well-educated “ gentlemanly ” person whom recent
collegiate medical teaching and certificating has intro-
troduced in displacement. With singular acumen the
new order of men-midwives still hold that women are
the proper persons to attend—-paupers—but that it is
highly improper and even dangerous for women to
attend patients of that class who are accustomed to
remunerate their attendants handsomely. It is very
noteworthy, however, that even illiterate old women
have fewer casualties and fewer deaths among their
lying-in patients than occur with educated medical
gentlemen, and Dr. Edmunds and other authorities have
proved that this fact is due to the circumstance that
medical men engaged in general practice, and having
to pass from cases of fever to those under notice, convey
upon their hands an animal virus which produces by
direct infection those febrile diseases which in the deli¬
cate condition of the recipient are so fatal and unman¬
ageable. Some additional facts about the Female Medical
Society are set out in our advertisement pages, and the
addresses of lady midwives, prospectuses of the college,
and all particulars as to the operations of the society,
may he obtained by writing to the lady secretary.
We may add that the society is much in need of
additional subscriptions in order to carry out its objects
more effectively, and that there are few. directions in
which money could be better utilised in helping women
to help themselves, and at the same time to render
valuable service to the public.
SPIRIT-RAPPING IN JOHN WESLEY’S FAMILY.
IX TEX PARTS.—PART THREE.
The following is the account written and published
by John Wesley himself, about the spirit-rapping dis¬
turbances in the house of his brother:—
“When I was very young, I heard several letters
read, wrote to my elder brother by my father, giving
an account of strange disturbances, which were in his
house at Epworth, in Lincolnshire.
“ When I went down thither, in the year 1720, I
carefully inquired into the particulars. I spoke to each
of the persons who were then in the house, and took
down what each could testify of his or her own know¬
ledge. The.sum.of wjiich was this
“ On Dec. 2, 1716, while Robert Brown, my father’s'
servant, was sitting with one of the maids a little
before ten at night, in the dining-room which opened
into the garden, they both heard one knocking at the
door. Robert rose and opened it, but could see nobody.
Quickly it knocked again, and groaned. c It is Mr.
Turpine,’ said Robert, ‘ he has the stone, and uses to
groan so.’ He opened the door again twice or thrice,
the knocking being twice or thrice repeated; but still
seeing nothing, and being a little startled, they rose
and went up to bed. When Robert came to the top of
the garret stairs, he saw a handmill, which was at a
little distance, whirled about very swiftly. When he
related this, he said,c Nought vexed me, but that it was
empty. I thought, if it had but been full of malt, he
might have ground his heart out for me.’ When he
was in bed, he heard as it were the gobbling of a
turkey-cock close to the bed-side; and soon after, the
sound of one stumbling over his shoes and boots; but
there were none there, he had left them below. The
next day he and the maid related these things to the
other maid, who laughed heartily, and said, fWhat a
couple of fools are you ! I defy anything to fright me.’
After churning in the evening, she put the butter in
the tray, and had no sooner carried it into the dairy,
than she heard a knocking on the shelf where several
puncheons of milk stood, first above the shelf, then
below. She took the candle, and searched both above
and below; but being able to find nothing, threw down
butter, tray, and all, and ran away for life. The next
evening, between five and six o’clock, my sister Molly,
then about twenty years of age, sitting in the dining¬
room reading, heard as if it were the door that led into
the hall open, and a person walking in, that seemed to
have on a silk night-gown, rustling and trailing along.
It seemed to walk round her, then to the door, then |
round again; but she could see nothing. She thought, j
r It signifies nothing to run away; for, whatever it is,
j it can run faster than me.’ So she rose, put her book
: under her arm, and walked slowly away. After
; supper she was sitting with my sister Sukey (about a
year older than her), in one of the chambers, and
telling her what had happened; she made quite light
of it, telling her, ‘ I wonder you are so easily frighted;
I would fain see what would fright me.’ Presently a
knocking began under the table. She took the candle,
and looked, but could find nothing. Then the iron,
casement began to clatter, and the lid of a warming-
pan. Next the latch of the door moved up and down
without ceasing. She started up, leaped into the bed
without undressing, pulled the bed-clothes over her
head, and never ventured to look up till next morning.
A night or two after my sister Hetty, a year younger
than my sister Molly, was waiting as usual, between
nine and ten, to take away my father’s candle, when
she heard one coming down the garret stairs, walking
slowly by her, then going down the best stairs, then up
the back stairs, and up the garret stairs; and at every
step it seemed the house shook from top to bottom.
Just then my father knocked. She went in, took his
candle, and got to bed as fast as possible. In the
morning she told this to my eldest sister, who told her,
‘You know I believe none of these things ; pray let me
take away the candle to-night, and I will find out the
trick.’ She accordingly took my sister Hetty’s place,
and had no sooner taken away the candle, than she
heard a noise below. She hastened downstairs to the
hall, where the noise was; but it was then in the
kitchen. She ran into the kitchen, where it was drum¬
ming on the inside of the screen. When she went
round, it was drumming on the outside : and so always
on the side opposite to her. Then she heard a knock¬
ing at the back kitchen door. She ran to it, unlocked
it softly, and when the knocking was repeated, suddenly
opened it; but nothing was to be seen. As soon as
she had shut it, the knocking began again. She
opened it again, but could see nothing. When she
went to shut the door, it was violently thrust against
her; she let it fly open, but nothing appeared. She
went again to shut it, and it was again thrust against
her; but she set her knee and her shoulder to the door,
forced it to, and turned the key. Then the knocking
began again ; but she let it go on, and went up to bed.
However, from that time she was thoroughly convinced
that there was no imposture in the affair.
“The next morning, my sister telling my mother
1 what had RappemM^'sfee^njdi! rl, hear anything
myself, I shall ’know how to' judge?r
begged her to come into the nursery. She did, aim
heard in the corner of the room, as it were, the violent
rocking of a cradle; but no cradle had been there for
some years. She was convinced it was preternatural,
and earnestly prayed it might not disturb her in her
own chamber at the hours of retirement; and it never
did. She now thought it was proper to tell my father.
But he was extremely angry, and said, ‘Sukey, I am
ashamed of you: these boys and girls frighten one
another; but you are • a woman of sense, and should
know better. Let me hear of it no more.’
“ At six in the evening, he had family prayers as
usual. When he began the prayer for the king, a
knocking began all round the room; and a thundering
knock attended the Amen. The same was heard from
this time every morning and evening, while the prayer
for the king was repeated. As both my father and
mother are now at rest, and incapable of being pained
thereby, I think it my duty to furnish the serious
reader with a key to this circumstance.
“The year before King William died, my father
observed my mother did not say Amen to the prayer
for the King. She said she could not, for she did not
believe the Prince of Orange was king. He vowed he
never would cohabit with her till she did. He then
took his horse and rode away; nor did she hear any¬
thing of him for a twelvemonth. He then came back,
and lived with her as before. But I fear his vow was
not forgotten before God.
“ Being informed that Mr. Hoole, the vicar of Haxey
(an eminently pious and sensible man), could give me
some farther information, I walked over to him. He
said, ‘ Robert Brown came over to me, and told me
I your father desired my company. When I came, he
! gave me an account of all that had happened, particu-
18
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Deo. 17, 1869
larly the knocking during family prayer. But that
evening (to my great satisfaction) we had no knocking
at all. But between nine and ten a servant came in
and said, ‘ “ Old Jeffrey is coming (that was the name of
one that died in the house), for I hear the signal.’ ”
This, they inform me, was heard every night about a
quarter before ten. It was toward the top of the
house, on the outside, at the north-east corner, resem¬
bling the loud creaking of a saw, or rather that of a
windmill, when the body of it is turned about, in order
to shift the sails to the wind. We then heard a knock¬
ing over our heads; and Mr. Wesley, catching up a
candle, said, ‘ “ Come, Sir, now you shall hear for your¬
self.’ ” We went upstairs; he with much hope, and I (to
say the truth) with much fear. When we came into the
nursery, it was knocking in the next room; when we
were there, it was knocking in the nursery. And there
it continued to knock though we came in, particularly
at the head of the bed (which was of wood), in which
Miss Hetty and two of her younger sisters lay. Mr.
Wesley, observing that they were much affected, though
asleep, sweating and trembling exceedingly, was very
angry; and pulling out a pistol, was going to fire at the
place from whence the sound came. But I catched him
by the arm, and said, ‘ “ Sir, you are convinced this is
something preternatural. If so, you cannot hurt it;
but you give it power to hurt you.’ ” He then went
close to the place, and said sternly, 4 44 Thou deaf and
dumb devil, why dost thou fright these children, that
cannot answer for themselves ? Come to me in my study
that am a man ?’ ” Instantly it knocked his knock,
(the particular knock which he always used at the gate)
as if it would shiver the board in pieces; and we heard
nothing more that night.’ Till this time my father
had never heard the least disturbances in his study.
But the next evening, as he attempted to go into his
study (of which none had any key but himself), when
he opened the door, it was thrust back with such vio¬
lence as had like to have thrown him down. However,
he thrust the door open, and went in. Presently there
was knocking, first on one side, then on the other; and
after a time, in the next room, wherein my sister Haney
was. He went into that room, and (the noise con¬
tinuing) adjured it to speak, but in vain. He then
said,4 These spirits love darkness; put out the candle,
and perhaps it will speak.’ She did so, and he repeated
his adjuration; but still there was only knocking, and
no articulate sound. Upon this he said, 4 Haney, two
Christians are an overmatch for the deyil. Go all of
you downstairs; it may be when .1 am alone, he will
have courage to speak.’ "When she was gone, a thought
came in, and he said, 4 If thou art the spirit of my son
Samuel, I pray knock three knocks, and no more.’
Immediately all was silence; and there was no more
knocking at all that night. I asked my sister Haney
(then about fifteen years old) whether she was not
afraid when my father used that adjuration ? She
answered, she was sadly afraid it would speak, when
she put out the candle; but she was not at all afraid in
the day-time, when it walked after her, as she swept
the chambers, as it constantly did, and seemed to sweep
after her; only she thought he might have done it for
her, and saved her the trouble. By this time all my
sisters were so accustomed to these noises, that they
gave them little disturbance. A gentle tapping at their
bed-head usually began between nine and ten at night.
They then commonly said to each other, 4 Jeffrey is
coming; it is time to go to sleep.’ And if they heard
a noise in the day, and said to my youngest sister,
‘Hark, Kezzy, Jeffrey is knocking above;’she would
run upstairs, and pursue it from room to room, saying,
she desired no better diversion.
44 A few nights after, my father and mother were just
gone to bed, and the candle was not taken away, when
they heard three blows, and a second, and a third three,
as it were with a large oaken staff, struck upon a chest
which stood by the bed-side. My father immediately
arose, put on his night-gown, and hearing great noises
below, took the candle and went down; my mother
walked by his side. As they went down the broad
stairs, they heard as if a vessel, full of silver, was
poured upon my mother’s breast, and ran jingling down
to her feet. Quickly after there was a sound, as if a
large iron ball was thrown among many bottles under
the stairs; but nothing was hurt. Soon after, our
large mastiff dog came, and ran to shelter himself
between them. While the disturbances continued, he
used to bark and leap, and snap on one side and the
other; and that frequently before any person in the
room heard any noise at all. But after two or three
days, he used to tremble, and creep away before the
noise began. And by this the family knew it was at
hand; nor did the observation ever fail. A little
before my father and mother came into the hall, it
seemed as if a very large coal was violently thrown
upon the floor, and dashed all in pieces; but nothing
was seen. My father then cried out, 4 Sukey, do you
not hear ? All the pewter is thrown about the
kitchen.’ But when they looked, all the pewter stood
in its place. There then was a loud knocking at the
back-door. My father opened it, but saw nothing.
It was then at the fore door. He opened that, but it
was still lost labour. After opening first the one, then
the other, several times, he turned, and went up to bed.
But the noises were so violent all over the house, tha t
he could not sleep till four in the morning.
44 Several gentlemen and clergymen now earnestly
advised my father to quit the house. But he constantly
answered, 4 Ho; let the devil flee from me; I will
never flee from the devil.’ But he wrote to my eldest
brother at London to come down. He was preparing
so to do, when another letter came, informing him the
disturbances were over; after they had continued (the
latter part of the time day and night) from the second
of December to the end of January.”
Mqports of Jfteettngs,
[When reports of the speeches of spirits are printed in this Journal, non-
Spiritualists should understand that spirits out of the body are wise or
foolish, truthful or untruthful, just the same as spirits in the body. More¬
over, they are hut individuals, so do not know everything. The statements of
a spirit are but the assertions of an individual; but by comparing the state¬
ments of many spirits, it may in time be possible to discover in what points
they agree, and to sift out the unreliable communications. Many spirits
cannot see each other, any more than we can see them, and as some of them
are thus in different states of life, it does not follow that contradictory
messages are therefore untruthful. Spirits are of different religions, conse-
sequently their teachings do not altogether agree; there is no more uniformity
in the next world than in this one.']
ST. JOHH’S ASSOCIATIOH OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Os Thursday evening, December 9th, a social meeting of
the St, John’s Association of Spiritualists was held in St.
John’s Hall, Corporation-row, Clerkenwell, the proceedings
beginning with tea, and ending with speeches. When the
business of the evening began, Mr. W. Cresswell was voted
into the chair.
The Chaibman said that it had been thought desirable to
spend the rest of the evening in the public narration of the
experience of each speaker on the subject of Spiritualism.
Many years ago he had discarded an intimate friend because
that friend took up the imposture of Spiritualism, and it was
not till the winter of 1860-61 that he (the Chairman) saw any
manifestations himself. After investigating the reality of the
common table manifestations, he satisfied himself that they
were true. He knew that much which is seen in Spiritualism,
taken separately, could be explained without assuming the in¬
tervention of disembodied spirits, but considering the pheno¬
mena as a whole, that spirits are at the bottom of them is
certain. Since 1861 he had been a very active worker in the
movement.
Mr. J. S. Steele, watchmaker, of 36, Great Sutton-street,
Clerkenwell, E.C., said that he first saw the spiritual mani¬
festations in the room in which he was speaking, and Messrs.
Cresswell, Davis, and Blackwell were present. He thought all
he then witnessed was contemptible rubbish, but he attended
twice more, and, his curiosity being aroused, he joined the so¬
ciety for the sake of obtaining regular admittance. After a
time he discontinued his visits, and at last said to his wife,
who had been a Spiritualist for some time, “ If you go to that
place again I’ll go to St. Luke’s madhouse and get one
straight jacket for you and another for Davis.” (Laughter.)
However, he attended once inore, and the spirits selected him
and ten other persons to sit at a dark seance. At that seance*
Mr. Davis was entranced, and repeated to him the dying
words of his son. This son had died a year before he knew
Mr. Davis, and he had never spoken to the latter on the sub¬
ject. The words were, “ Good bye, God bless you. You'll
never forget me, will you 1 ” Davis finished by saying, “ Is
there anybody here who remembers these words ? ” He (Mr.
Steele) shouted “Yes, I do.” Davis replied, “ I should think
you do, father.” His wife was not present at the stance. A
short time afterwards, a medium, Miss Dixon, came to his
house. He entered the parlour to speak to her, and she went
off into a trance upon the sofa. He felt very uncomfortable
to see a strange young woman apparently fainting away in
his house, as he did not know how to bring her round, and
was not used to that sort of thing. He thought to himself
“ Here’s a pretty pickle I’m in! ” She rose from the sofa,
bent one foot so that she walked on the edge of it, drew up
one arm into a cramped position, and limped in a peculiar
way across the room. He said, “Why, that’s my mother,”
The medium, who never knew his mother, replied, “ Yes, my
boy, I should think it is.” His mother had died many years
before, and she was much afflicted with paralysis. Another
spirit, purporting to be his son, spoke to him through Miss
Dixon, and said, “ Father, you once made me an earthly pro¬
mise.” He replied, “ Yes,” for shortly before his son died the
boy asked him to always wear a ring on his finger in remem¬
brance of him, with the date of his birth, death, and burial
engraved upon it. He (Mr. Steele) had not kept the promise,
and had not bold his wife about it, because he knew that if he
did she would always be pressing Mm tp wear the ring. His son,
through the medium, continued, “ Will you now make me a
spiritual promise ? ” He replied, “ Yes, but will you tell me
what was to be inside the ring ? ” The answer was, “ Do you
want me to tell you more than the three dates ? ” “ No,” he
said, “ I am satisfied.” And he mas satisfied, for no being on
earth knew anything about the private conversation between
Mm and his son about the ring.
Mr. Avert, an American, said that in the August of 1861
he was told through a trance medium that bis little daughter,
who was very ill, was suffering from a bad rupture, and would
soon enter the spirit world, although a short time before the
change she would appear to be much better. In October he
received, through a drawing medium, an accurate likeness of
his grandfather, who had then been in the spirit world for
sixty years. The medium was a stranger to him, and lived
500 miles from the locality where his grandfather spent his
life while on earth. The portrait was recognised by all who
once knew his grandfather. About this time his daughter got
worse again. She was very sick, and she told him that she
would come back to him sometimes from the spirit world if
she could. Through his own mediumship he was told several
days in advance that she would pass away on one particular
Sunday, a little after twelve o’clock. Everything took place
as predicted. In the following December he went to New
York, and while in his sister’s house a woman, a medium, en¬
tered in the trance state, and he heard his child's voice saying,
“Where’s Pa?” She added, “I’m Lavinia. Pal Didn’t I
tell you I’d come back again ? ” She chatted with him for
some time, told him that “ he was going crazy about Spiritual¬
ism,” and that in a short time she would find out a way of
convincing her mother through a medium. She finished by
saying, “ Oh, I’m so sick, I can’t stay longer.” She then left,
and the medium appeared to be very unwell, though other
spirits soon brought her round again.* The following summer
his wife went to Philadelphia, and said she was going to see
some clairvoyance, “ because that’s not Spiritualism, you
know.” (Laughter.) She went, and received more than she
expected. When she entered the room, the clairvoyant walked
up to her and said, “ Mother ! mother ! ” and the spirit of her
child forthwith told her the whole history of her life, as well
as many things which occurred before she was born, and
which were known to nobody but the listener. From that
time forth his wife never said another word about the foolish¬
ness of Spiritualism. “ It is one thing,’’ said the speaker, “ to
get evidence like this, and another thing to obtain the pure
love which belongs to the spirit world, and then act it out in
daily life. God is love, and to be true Spiritualists, you must
love everybody and everything. When you do that, heaven is
within you, and it is yours.” (Applause.)
Mr. J. Davis said that he was an unlettered man, that he
once thoroughly disliked Spiritualism, though his prejudices
were overruled by a friend who induced him to go and see
| the jugglery ” at the house of Mr. Blackwell in Bunhill-row.
Many of the persons present on that occasion he saw among
the listeners before him. He saw the table moving about, and
said, with a laugh, “ Why, anybody can do that.” He said to
his friend, “ Let’s put our hands on this table, and see whether
it will move for us.” It was a heavy four-legged table, with
coffee cups on it, and directly their four hands touched it, it
began to move. He turned red, and said to his friend, “ You
did that.” “ No, I didn’t,” said the friend, “ you did it,” and
they began to quarrel. He said, “ Well, let’s try again, and
you be honest this time.” “ I was before,” said the friend.
“ No you wasn’t,” was the answer, and the quarrel was re¬
sumed. However, they tried again, and not only did the
table move, but another small table, with nobody near it,
quietly walked by itself, in three strides, several feet along the
floor up to him (Mr. Davis). He jumped up and laid hold of
the table, which he examined for strings and wires, but conld
find nothing. He did not follow up the subject for some
months afterwards, but he was very much perplexed, and, at
last, he joined an experimental circle of six persons who re¬
solved to try for themselves, and to investigate Spiritualism
thoroughly. They obtained the manifestations, they searched
the Bible to discover its connection with the subject, and they
found out that both taught that men should love God with all
their hearts and minds, and love their neighbour as them¬
selves ; that they need not care for this, that, or the other
“ ism,” but should go about doing good everywhere. A few
weeks after the formation of the circle the spirits told him
that they were going to make him a trance medium ; he re¬
plied that “ he should not like to be entranced except by some
relation who would not hurt him.” However, he was en¬
tranced by not a very high influence, and “ a pretty figure he
cut,” for he frightened everybody in the room ; he was rather
ill afterwards from the physical effects. Afterwards partial
entrancement came on at times, but he had no confidence in
his mediumsMp, and thought it was something springing from
Ms own brain or physical body, and not from spirits. One
night, at a circle, he had tMs thought in his mind, and a
writing medium present wrote out very swiftly, “ You have
been doubting your own entrancement; don’t do it again, or
it will be to your own destruction.” From that time his
doubts about the reality of the power were gradually re¬
moved, and he had found his mediumship to be a great bless¬
ing—a source of happiness, quietness, and ease of mind—a
divine influence springing from the love of the Almighty
God.
The Chairman said that he was one of the circle of six
persons mentioned by Mr. Davis. The spirits who came to
that circle professed the Christian religion, and gently lec¬
tured the members when they did not act up to its principles ;
once they spoke to Mr. Davis about his not having spent a
Sunday in a proper way. One day Davis asked them for an
evening off, when he did not want to attend circle, and they
told him he might go ; but they let the other members know
that they would bring him that evening as usual. While the
circle was sitting they heard a noise, saw the handle of the
door turn, saw the door open, and saw Mr. Davis just mount¬
ing the top stair, which was about six feet from the door.
Davis was in an entranced state, and had been walked by the
spirits in that condition all the way from Lincoln’s-inn-fields
to Bunhill-row. Those who witnessed his entrance into the
room have no reason to doubt that, in ancient times, spirits
could open prison doors.
Mr. Woolnough said that he first heard of Spiritualism in
the adjoining coffee-house, and he asked Mr. Davis, “ When
does the performance come off?” He indignantly replied
that it was “no performance,” and brought him into the
room ; but the spirits turned him and others out again, saying
that their presence interfered. During the short time he was
in the room he saw nothing very striking, except that one of
the legs of a four-legged table rose off the floor, whilst the
other three stood firm, the table appearing to bend in the
middle ; this perplexed him a little, as he could not see how it
could be done. He thought it peculiar, and followed up the
subject for twelve months. They had pipes and coffee at the
circles on Sunday ; the spirits said nothing about this habit at
first; they did not knock their pipes out of their mouths;
but slowly and gently, as is ever their way, they spoke to
them of the impropriety, and induced them to break off the
custom. One evening, at Mr. Cresswell’s, an aunt of his
signalled through the table. This aunt died before he was
bom, and he (Mr. Woolnough) did not know that such a
person had ever lived, neither did his friends at home know of
her; but after searching for the particulars in a book, they
found out that what was said at the circle was quite true. He
had had eight years experience of the sayings and doings of
his spirit friends, and he had always found that when there
was a quarrel between members of the circle they never took
any part in it, and when they rebuked anybody, it was always
done gently and mildly; they are good guides, and set a good
example. When entrancement comes on slowly it is accom¬
panied by a feeling of intense happiness and pleasure, and if
death resembled entrancement, death would have no terrors
for him. When the entrancement comes suddenly, for the
instant the feeling is as if the head were dashed in, and is not
pleasant. When he first saw Mr. Blackwell, the medium, he
thought he looked very much like a conjuror ; and, as for Mr.
Davis, he thought him stupid; but having now become a
medium himself, his views were altered.
The Chairman said that he was very pleased to see Mr.
Shorter present, as he had not attended one of their meetings
for a very long time previously, and he was sure that every¬
body present would like to hear a few words from him.
* In the trance mediumship of Mrs. Olive, of 6, The Junction, Cambridge
road, Kilburn, W., it has often been noticed that after the spirits have left,
Mrs. Olive has felt symptoms of the diseases which afflicted them when they
died. Some spirits will not stay long, lest she should be too much incon¬
venienced in this way. Have similar facts been noticed elsewhere ?—Ed.
Dec. 17, 1869
THE SPIRITUALIST
19
Mr. T. Shorter said that Spiritualism has no class-sympa¬
thies or prejudices, and is adapted to meet the wants of
humanity at large. It is a boon to sorrowing, struggling
humanity. Sore and severe are the trials of the labouring
classes ; but Spiritualism strengthens them in their times of
weakness, and makes life more cheerful, more happy, and
more noble, for, among other things, it takes away all doubt
and distress of mind about the nature of the future life. It is
a noble movement, and though some of the manifestations
may seem to be trivial, it should be remembered that Franklin,
simply by flying a kite with a key tied to the end of the wet
string, learnt much about electricity, and Watt, while watch¬
ing the movements of the lid of a kettle, conceived the idea
of a steam-engine ; great things, therefore, may spring from
small motions, even though the articles moved be tables.
Spiritualism teaches men to realise more than they ever did
before, that they are preparing for a higher and better life
hereafter ; it teaches that our former friends, whose bodies are
laid away in the grave, still really and actually are with us,
and that their love still surrounds us. Death is not the grim
monster and the grisly image which he has been pictured;
for, although he strips us of our robes of clay, he is a benefi¬
cent angel who opens to us the flower-encircled door of the
summer land, and introduces us once more to those we love.
(Applause).
Mr. Overton said that he knew that spirits still live with
their friends on earth, and guide them, as he was a little bit
of a medium himself. He had travelled much in the world,
and found that v hen he was humble enough to be guided by
them, they had done him and others a great deal of good;
still, he often resisted their influence.
Mr. TOWNS said that he never sought Spiritualism, but
Spiritualism sought him. He knew the preceding speaker,
Mr. Overton, six years ago, when they were both living in
Melbourne, Australia. They lost sight of each other, i and
both came to England about the same, time, though neither
knew that the other was returning also; One day on returning
to his house in Clerkenwell, his wife told him that Mr. Overton
had called to see him, which surprised him very much, as he
did not know how Mr. Overton could be in England, or how
he discovered his address. Next day Mr. Overton called
again, and said that he had been told to come to that address
by the spirits, who had also stated that he (Mr. Towns) was a
medium. He told Mr. Overton he should like to see some¬
thing of Spiritualism, and on the following Sunday Mr. Over-
ton brought a Mr. Hillman with him, and they had a seance.
His wife did not approve of the step, and went upstairs into a
bedroom, where she locked herself in. They sat round a table,
which soon began to move, and presently they said, “ Your
father’s here.” He replied with a knowing look, “ Oh! is
he ? ” (Laughter.) But then the table spelt out his father’s
name, next where he used to live, and then came statements
of fact which he knew could not be known to Messrs. Overton
or Hillman. After they had gone, he sat down very seriously,
and told his wife he would try for half-an-hour if he could get
some more communications. After earnest prayer he made
the trial; the manifestations soon began, and answers were
given to mental and other questions, at which Mrs. Towns
was much frightened. From that time he began to attend
many spirit circles. Soon he began to feel the effects upon
himself of this strange power, which on some few occasions
has made him hold his hands in gas-flames, where they were
not hurt. Once he, Mr. Jones, and Mr. Childs, went to the
Marshall’s to hear the voices at a dark seance. He remarked
to his friends that he did not like the look of the tubes upon
the table; they agreed to seize them directly the lights were
put out, and they did so. John King’s voice roared out
“ George Childs.” “ Yes,” was the answer. “ What are you
doing with our trumpets ? However, never mind, you may as
well keep them.” Katie was there, and talked a great deal,
and grapes were given him, with the remark, ’‘There’s one
apiece for each of your five children at home ; the other six
are with us here.” A gentleman on a visit to London, who
was then stopping at the Norfolk Hotel in the Strand, was at
the s€ance, and considered it to be all an imposture, and next
day he brought a letter which he had written to publicly ex¬
pose it, to him (Mr. Towns) to read. Before taking further
steps they went to the Marshalls again, where Katie at once
told them that she had heard the letter read in his house, and
she narrated some little incidents which took place on the
occasion. Since then he had seen many wonderful manifesta¬
tions. He had been to church and chapel till he had been
preached outside of both (hear hear), and never could believe
that God would hereafter cook him like a leg of mutton, for
ever. Would any earthly father do such a thing to even the
worst of his children, or would any mother present ever do so,
and listen eternally without relenting, to cries of the child
subjected to the torture ? He entreated his hearers t< > use
their common sense, to investigate honestly, and they wuuld
discover the truth.
Mr. Morse, trance medium, said that he first heard of Spiri¬
tualism by reading the particulars of the trial of Lyon v. Home,
and he told his friends that he considered it to be partly mesmer¬
ism, partly imagination, and partly trickery. Still he saw
that respectable persons, more intelligent than himself, testi¬
fied to its truth, so he thought he was not justified in con¬
demning it without investigation. Accordingly he went to
Mr. Cogman’s circle, at the East-end, to expose it. After sit¬
ting about twenty minutes he felt as if his head was split
open and a shovel-full of sand dropped in. Then a power
stronger than himself made him get up and begin to roar and
bellow, though all the time he was conscious of his acts, and
very much ashamed of his behaviour. Mr. Cogman told the
spirit to leave him, and the reply through his (Mr. Morse’s)
lips was, “ Sit down, you old fool! ” The influence made him
misbehave himself for half-an-hour, and then it left him. He
was very much exhausted, and not a little out of temper, for
he felt that he had attended there to expose others and been
il taken in” himself. On the fourth Sunday of his attendance
at Mr. Cogman’s circle better influences controlled him, and
he was made to take the Bible, give out a text, and preach a
sermon for half-an-hour, and those present declared the dis¬
course to be very good. He himself now and then had a
faint, dreamy consciousness of what his mouth was saying.
For a long time the control of the spirits over him was imper¬
fect, and there was much stuttering when they tried to speak
through him. For months he did not believe that spirits had
anything to do with it, and thought that it was something
connected with his own bodily or mental organisation which
he did not quite understand. But on one occasion he chanced
to be at a circle where a seeing medium was present, who not
only described his spirit friends most accurately, but gave
their names in addition. He thought this rather singular, as
the young man was a stranger to him, and had never seen him
but once before. Later still he had been developed as a
writing medium, and had received a long communication,
signed with the name of his mother, telling him much about
his future life. The first part of it had since proved true, and
he hoped that it would be the same with the rest. Then
seeing-mediumship came on at intervals. The spirits had
made him lead a better life than he ever did before. They
had made him break off several bad habits by gently reason¬
ing with him, and pointing out what the consequences would
be if he persisted. His guardian spirit had, by advice, in¬
duced him to leave off smoking tobacco and drinking intoxi¬
cating liquors. He thought that the true saviour of mankind
was knowledge. He could feel the spirit influence beginning
to act upon him as he stood upon that platform.
Mr. Steele said that he was present when Mr. Morse first
attended Mr. Cogman’s circle, and he could bear witness to the
fact that Mr. Morse made the disturbance stated, and alto¬
gether cut a most ridiculous figure. He was sorry to see the
young man in that state, especially as it was his first expe¬
rience of the subject, so he walked part of the way home with
him to see that he was all right. Mr. Morse remarked to him
on the road, “ I know I have been doing something wrong.
What is the matter with me 1 ”
The Chairman asked Mr. Landore to say a few words to
the meeting.
Mr. Landore replied that he had nothing to say, but that
Mr. Morse sitting by his side was evidently “ going off,” so
that probably the spirits wanted to say a few words on their
own account.
Mr. Morse then mounted the platform again, passed into
the trance state, and in an impressive manner delivered the
short address, which is printed on another page.
Mr. Crockett then stated that he had seen a young man
lifted chair and all, three times off the floor, without visible
agency, in the presence of some dozens of persons, at the Star
Inn, Golden-lane.
Mr. Young- narrated evidence in favour of Spiritualism,
and said that he would leave it to his wife to say whether
their home had been made more like hell or more like heaven,
since he became a Spiritualist.
Mr. R. Pearce proposed a vote of thanks to the chairman
and speakers, and Mr. Davis seconded the motion, which was
carried by acclamation.
The Chairman said that sometimes it was grievous to see
how Spiritualism interferes with the preconceived notions of
people, who have grown aged in old ideas ; it is also trying to
be constantly told by them that research into the facts of
Spiritualism is a wrong step, but people must look at these
things in a rational way, and think for themselves. He was
sorry that a Christian minister could so thoroughly condemn
Spiritualists as the Rev. Mr. Brock had done recently in Mr.
Spurgeon’s Chapel, but words such as those uttered by Mr.
Brock gave him (Mr. Cresswell) greater energy to go on in
the work.
The proceedings then closed.
SEANCES AT THE SPIRITUAL LIBRARY.
On Friday, December 3rd, one of the weekly stances was
held at the house of Mr. Bum’s, the Progressive Library,
Southampton-row, Holbom, under the trance mediumship of
Mr. Morse.
The circle sat punctually at eight p.m., in a well-lighted
room, and in a few minutes the medium was influenced by
spirits purporting to be his uncle and a friend, who endeavoured
to elongate his body in a manner similar to that which has
caused so much astonishment and controversy at the seances
given by Mr. Home. They failed, and the circle was subse¬
quently informed by the guardian spirit of the medium, that
their failure was attributable to the absence of the spirit of,
Anton Mesmer, who usually superintended the operation.
A spirit then entranced Mr. Morse, who did not give his
name, but said he had been in life a staunch Wesleyan
Methodist, and quoted the text, “ If I tell you of earthly
things, and ye believe not, how shall ye believe if I tell you
of heavenly things ?” It was a hard task to make such of his
earthly friends who had been trained, as he had, to ignore the
very idea that spirits could return to earth, as foolish or pre¬
sumptuous, appreciate any narrative from him of what was
going on in the spirit world. Such an idea had never been
countenanced by his ;own strict earthly religion, about the
truth of the dogmas of which, although of a questioning in¬
tellect, he had never cared to inquire. In the world, there¬
fore, he had never heard of Spiritualism ; if he had, he would
have set it down as untrue, or the work of the devil. Nor did
he learn, until he had been out of his earthly body for eight
years, that it was possible for him to return, and communicate
with man. When brought down to earth by kind spirit
friends, and shown how he could do so by means of physical
manifestations, he was terrified by the mistaken notion that it
was evil and wrong, and begged to be taken from the circle.
Two years more elapsed before he fully comprehended the
value and blessedness of the privilege, after much patient
teaching from spirit tutors. He comprehended now what he
would have given much to have known in his earthly life—
that spiritual communication was right and good, and consis¬
tent with the great plan of the Deity. Those people who
knew of, and could appreciate Spiritualism in life, were, on
the entry into the next world, far in advance of those who
had died ignorant of such a grand truth.
Another spirit, who gave us her earthly name, “ Maria
Thompson,” but said she was known among her spirit friends
as the “ Little Forget-me-Not,” then took up the discourse of
the former spirit so quickly, and almost imperceptibly, that the
change was only noticed at first by one member of the circle.
She stated that the wonder of most spirits was great, when,
after death, they found that in their new condition they
could, under fitting circumstances, not only influence the
minds of those left on earth, but also exert forces to convince
them that could move common matter. There was much
that Spiritualists should learn before they commenced higher
experimental investigation. It would be best to study well
the subject in its early stages first. It was far better to work
upwards from the commencement, and not jump half way
over the bridge, and begin in the middle. Gradual develop¬
ment, both for mediums and inquirers, was best.
The highly intelligent guardian spirit of the medium, who
states that in life, long ago, he was a Chinaman named Tien
Sien Tie, then entranced him, and gave a long and eloquent
discourse, chiefly on mesmeric and clairvoyant phenomena, to
which, in this necessarily short report, we can hardly do jus¬
tice. He said that the diversity of minds on earth required
that spirits should manifest themselves there by diversity of
phenomena, wide in their range. These various modes all re¬
flected the Divine wisdom, from whence comes universal good.
The use of the odic force, which is thrown off by human
bodies, chiefly from the extremities, is one great agent for
producing high results. A person with much of this force
could, by his will, influence the body and spirit of another
person, throwing the former into profound slumber, and send¬
ing the latter to far distant places, there to gather informa¬
tion, and state, by means of the controlled bodily organs, what
was passing there. During natural sleep natural clairvoyance
took place, and the spirit left the body and visited the other
world. In answer to a question, the spirit said that he knew
of no one instance in his long experience, of the spirit of any
living person that had not, at some period of life, during
slumber, visited one or more of the planets. The reason why
so few persons remembered their spiritual travels on awaking
was, because their clairvoyant faculties were uneducated and
undeveloped. A mesmeric operator, who had studied the sub¬
ject, and influenced patients while on earth, would, after
leaving it, naturally return and operate upon the same persons,
and in most cases it was as easy and natural for him to do so
in the spirit as it was while in the body. Hence it was that
clairvoyants so often astonished their friends by going into
their peculiar condition uninfluenced apparently by any one
present. In answer to questions, the spirit said that the un¬
satisfactory result of many clairvoyant experiments was owing
to the fact that the patient had learnt an inkling of what in¬
formation was to be sought for through him, and so confused
ideas filled his brain. That retarded the efforts, and stood in
the way of the will of the operator. He said, speaking of
mental culture, that it was a great mistake to put books at
first into the hands of young children at schools. The primary
education of a tender child should be in the sunshine, among
the works of Nature, that the young mind might first leam
through the wonderful and beneficent works of the Deity to
study His Divine attributes of wisdom, justice, and love.
On Friday evening, December 10th, at eight o’clock, another
seance was held at the Spiritual Library, Mr. Morse being the
medium ; twenty ladies and gentlemen were present.
The medium having passed into the trance state, the first
spirit did not speak, but began pulling the little finger of the
left hand of Mr. Morse, and bending its joints to and fro. In
reply to a question why he did so, he said that it was a very
peculiar sensation to be back on earth in the body again, but
stranger still to have a little finger, for he had lost his by an
accident before his death. A lady present asked him to tell
his history, more particularly that part of it relating to his
death, and his after-life in the next world.
The spirit said that he would do his best. He began life as
a boy baby, he grew into a boy child, and at last became a
young man. There was nothing very good or very bad about
him ; he was considered to be the fool of the family, and he was
continually in mischief, which was the cause of his losing his
little finger. He was taken ill with inflammation of the chest,
and could feel some of its pains coming back again while he
was speaking through the medium. This inflammation at last
brought him to what people call “ death,” and as he lay on his
dying bed, he thought to himself, “ I have been a fool, and
never prepared myself for the life to come. Lord help me ;
what shall I do ? ” His sister-in-law was a good girl, and a
religious young woman, so she sat by his bedside and talked to
him. She asked him “ H he did not love Jesus, and whethef
he did not feel himself to be a miserable sinner ? ” He replied
that he “ did not see why he should not love Him, as by all
accounts He was a very good sort of person.” Then she
prayed, after which he prayed too, and then he felt much
better. One afternoon, just as the sun was setting, he went
into a kind of sleep—half asleep and half awake ; it seemed
as though one side of the room had fallen away, and through
the opening he saw a beautiful country, with men, women,
and children walking about. Two of them came out and said,
“ Timothy, my boy, you’ll soon be with us ; good-bye,” and
then all faded away. He at once thought that he was feverish,
or that his imagination was excited, or that he was a little
mad, for those two people were his father and mother, who
had been dead some years. He told his sister-in-law, who said
that he had better dismiss the subject from his mind. Next
day he felt numbed all over ; he could not open or shut his
eyes and he laid on the bed like a log of wood. Then he felt
as if he were falling a very very long way, through the floor,
and next he lost consciousness. When he came to himself he
had lost the pain in his chest, and felt better in health than
ever, so he thought that he had been to sleep and got over his
illness. But he was down in the front parlour, whereas he
went to sleep in his bed on the first floor. Folks came into the
room, and he said to them, “ Oh, I’m beautiful! I’m first-rate!
How are you ? ” They never took any notice of him, which he
thought very unkind. He went upstairs, where he found his father
and mother, and the latter said to him, “ You have got over
the river none the worse for it.” He replied, “ What do you
mean 1 ” She said, “ You are what the world calls , dead.’ ”
He answered, “ What do you mean 1 I have got a body, what
do you call this 1 ” She told him tjiat his body was dead,
and, pointed to his former house of clay, lying on the bed
before him. He looked at it, and then at himself—there was
no mistake about it, it was a clear case of the Corsican
brothers. (Laughter). They left the house together, and he
found that he could pass up through the air with ease, and
at last they reached what the Spiritualists call the “ Summer
Land,” but in reality the compound essence of seventeen
summers distilled into one, would not equal it in loveliness.
They were in a place surrounded by trees and flowers ; a path
covered with beautiful shells led through a grove, and at the
end of the path was a house, where his father and mother said
that they lived, and that he might stay there with them as
long as he liked. His father took him into a little room,
filled with pictures, and each picture represented the leading
events of his (the son’s) life, and they showed him how, while
upon earth, he had been saved from getting into many
little scrapes through the guiding spiritual influence of his
unseen father and mother. One picture, representing him on
his sick bed, was unfinished at the upper part when he cast
his eyes upon it, but while he gazed the smudge cleared away,
the colours seemed to spread out, and the picture was finished.
Well, this was all very nice, and very strange, and very unex¬
pected. He asked, “ How is it that I have been good enough
to come here 1 What do they do with the wicked folks, if a
place like this is the home of half-and-half people like me 1
Where’s that place that people are turned into for offending
God ? ” A solemn look came over his mother's face as she
said, “ Ah, my child, you’ll have to look a long time before
you find that.” As he was very selfish he did not trouble
much about it, and did not feel inclined to go and look for
the place, being perfectly contented where he was. In the
large hall of the house he found plenty of friends, grandfather,
and grandmothers, and great-grandmothers, and so on, but all
very bright, and beautiful, and happy. Next came a very
strange thing, and his listeners ought not to think his state¬
ments to be untrue, because they in earth-life never saw or felt
anything of the kind. He felt < drawn, he did not know how
or why, and he passed through the crowd of friends to the
other side of the room. There he saw a person, a lady, ad¬
vancing in the same way to meet him, and they both felt very
20
THE SPIRITUALIST.
pleased to have met each other, and had never parted since.
This was all very peculiar, and they told him that the lady
was his “ spiritual affinity.” Her name was Rose. His own name
was Timothy. His hearers must excuse his jumbling material
and spiritual things together. Everybody there was very
happy and comfortable, and everybody helped everybody else,
and it is astonishing what a lot of labour and unhappiness
that plan saved. They followed whatever pursuits they liked
best. In the garden was a fountain of what his listeners
would call “water,” but which the spirits call “magnetism.”
They were in the habit of sitting near it to study, and it had
a very soothing influence. The spirits among whom he dwelt
were not entirely free from sorrows. They had cares and
troubles about friends left behind on earth, as well as about
other matters. One society in his sphere was fond of travel¬
ling. Its members sometimes made excursions, not only
throughout their spirit land, but to some of the planets seen
from the earth. He once travelled with some members of
this society for two years, reckoning by earthly time. They
visited the earth, and when he got home again it was astonish¬
ing what a lot of knowledge he had gained, how strongly he
felt what a little mite in creation he was, and how little he
knew. He found that he did not understand himself, so what
right had he to judge other people 1 He felt that he was very
selfish, and that God had been very good to give him a much
better place to live in than he deserved, so he tried to make
himself better, and his father took him to a teacher, full of
knowledge and wisdom, who helped him. Once he could only
see a little good in the universe, and a great deal of evil, but
now he could see good in everything, because it comes from
the source of all good. He should like everybody to see these
things the same as he saw them, and a great deal better. He
said that his name was Timothy Martin ; in earth-life he was
a grocer’s assistant in Hull, and he entered the spirit world
about twenty-three years ago.
Another spirit then took possession of the medium, and said
that he was “ only a poor nigger,” with no soul, born to put
dollars in the pocket of his master, who often beat him, and
treated him very badly. He hated that master, but the first
thing his teachers did in the next world was to send him to do
good to the man, and he didn’t at all like the job, but he did
it, and felt all the better and happier afterwards. That master
is. now in the spirit world too, with nobody to attend upon
him, and he goes about “ cussing ” and swearing, and longing
to be back once more in his earthly body. The nigger was
much the happiest man of the two.
The question was asked, “ Was his spirit body black in
colour?” and he replied, “No. The black man has a white
soul, so when he dies he is turned inside out.” (Laughter.)
The next influence purported to be the spirit of an Indian,
who said, “ Brothers and sisters, I cannot say much through
this medium to-night, but I’ll do the best I can. I am glad to
see that many love the red man better than they used to do.
Things are changing here, where all is endless progression,
and ere many moons have passed away his whole race will be
above in the happy land, where all must come. Clear your
minds of all that is wrong, for that is the only thing to carry
you happily onwards to the land of light.”
Next came the guardian spirit, who gives the name of Tien
Sien Tie, and he said, “ Good evening, friends. How strange
it is that man has overlooked one fact belonging to his nature.
If he studied the evidence, he would find that his religion is
but the highest result of individual expressions of opinion
and knowledge. Certain minds see the same object in the
same light, and, forming a nucleus, they think that they have
all truth. So a religion is formed. They overlook the fact
that others have not the same religion. But men afterwards
spring up who see principles more clearly, and form the nucleus
of a higher religion ; at once a war begins between the
higher and the lower, and the followers of the latter say,
‘ They would draw us from the truth, and from our ancient
allegiance.’ This is true, not only in matters of religion, but
in all things appertaining to your daily life; it is true of the
vices and the virtues,Jof beauty and ugliness ; it is the same in
all things. What is vice and virtue to you, is your highest know¬
ledge of your individual self, and your perception of the things
around you. When things do not harmonise with your
interior light, you call that * evil.’ Then how charitable we
ought to be to our brothers and sisters around us. It shows us
that where another sins, he is but acting in accordance with
the light he has got. A man who has passed through life clad
in robes of light, and wisdom, and love, has only done what
his brother has done—acted up to his light. That poor one is
just beginning his earthly development, and the interior mind
is only just beginning to get the proper control of its bodily
covering ; it gets experience, it builds by the aid of its mis¬
takes, and plaits a grand cable of evidence harmonious in its
interweavings. Be charitable then, and bear with all around
you. Great changes in a few months will sweep over your
earth, and people will see the falsity of creedal opinions,
which are but the expression of individual ideas. It would
be a good plan for a few of the wisest men, of all nations, to
meet together to consider their religions, and to select the one
which can be supported by the largest amount of evidence.”
A visitor said, “ But some people do wrong, and know that
they are doing wrong.”
The Chinese philosopher replied, that when a man does a
thing knowing that he is doing wrong, he breaks a law, and
the law punishes him; but if his perceptions were fully
awakened, he would not do wrong. There is nothing but
universal law everywhere, although the laws may be un¬
written, and every law carries with it its own punishment for
those who break it. For instance, if a man break the laws
which govern the health of his physical frame, say, by eating
too much, the breaking of the law also inflicts the penalty.
In answer to the question of how many spiritual spheres
there are, he said that each spirit will give different state¬
ments according to the states or conditions of spirit life
through which he has passed. There is no defined separation
between them, but the states of spirit life merge into one
another like the colours of the solar spectrum.
In answer to a question as to how spirit hands and voices
are produced at circles, he said that the hands are formed
sometimes by the spirits covering their own hands with ema¬
nations from the medium, and sometimes by their making
separate hands out of the same emanations by the aid of tbeir
knowledge of the laws of chemistry. The voices are produced
in several ways. Sometimes the spirits make a tube out of
the emanations from the medium, and some of those who are
experienced at the work will even form a throat.
In answer to the question whether the spirits, who produce
physical manifestations, are of a lower order than the others,
he said that generally it is so, though not always, so a safe
rule cannot be laid down. The lower spirits live upon the
earth, and are more earthy in their natures and atmospheres
than the higher ones, so, as a general rule, with exceptions,
they have more power over common matter.
A Visitor—But how can they be lower since some of them
speak loudly and clearly ?
Tien Sien Tie—You can see upon this earth, my brother,
that loud speaking is not a test of knowledge.
Many other questions were briefly asked, and promptly
answered, and the stance closed at about ten o’clock.
General Ketos.
Mr. James Burns has during the past fortnight been
lecturing in Wales on Spiritualism and kindred subjects.
The British and Foreign Mechanic has been printing
some inaccurate statements about spirit photographs. The
articles are so poorly written as to be not worth quoting.
The watching of the Welsh fasting girl by four profes¬
sional nurses from Guy’s Hospital, began yesterday week, and
up to the present time, they have not detected her taking any
food.
Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A., will give a lecture at the
Literary Institute, Newington Causeway, on the evening of
the 10th of Febiuary next. The subject he has chosen is,
“ The Fairy Legends of Ireland.” The chair will be taken at
half-past eight o’clock.
Mr. C. F. Yarley, C.E., has been in the course of the
past fortnight, assisting in the work of laying a submarine
cable between the south coast of England and Cape Finisterre,
for the purpose of establishing more direct communication
between London and New York, via the French Atlantic
cable.
Viscount Ad a re is one of the Committee of “The Rev.
Charles Voysey’s Defence Fund.” Among the other members
of the Committee are Sir Charles Lyell, Bart., F.R.S., and
Dean Stanley, of Westminster. Subscriptions are received
by Messrs. Robarts, Lubbock, and Co., 15, Lombard-street,
E.C. ; and subscribers are not considered to pledge them¬
selves to any of the Rev. Charles Voysey’s opinions.
Mr. John de Morgan, public lecturer and trance medium,
Cork, is about to publish a “Guide to Health,” in which he
says that all the systems of medical treatment will be reviewed
and explained in clear and simple language ; instructions will
be given as to the treatment of diseases, aud the best methods
of keeping the body in good condition.
Spiritualism in East London.—For a long time the
circle of of Mr. R. Cogman, 22, New-road, Whitechapel-road,
E. C., has been one of the best known and most popular in
East London. Mr. Cresswell writes that Mr. Cogman’s
mediumship has begun to change ; the physical manifestations
are on the decline, and trance speaking has begun, though as yet
it is only at times that the spirits have their vocal organs under
full control. At one seance he poured forth streams of de¬
votional poetry, “of a character that fully established its origin¬
ality.” Mr. Heme, medium, was present, and was influenced
in like manner. This mediumship is of the character men¬
tioned in the November number of Temple Bar Magazine,
but not having been present at the manifestations, we cannot
say whether the poetry is of the same high character as that
quoted in the periodical just mentioned.
Spirit Identity.—Mr. R. Pearce, of 34, Halliford-
street, Downham-road, N., first had evidence of the truth of
Spiritualism in the January of this year, through a good
trance medium, Mrs. John Olive, 6, The Junction, Cambridge-
road, Kilbum, W. While he was present, Mrs. Olive passed
into the trance state, and letting down her back hair, she
motioned him to a low seat in front of the fire, then sat down
by his side, and chatted to him at a madcap rate, every now
and then calling him “ Dicky.” Mr. Olive asked Mr. Pearce
whether he knew what it all meant. He said, “Yes, my
little sister before she died, was in the habit of sitting like
this, and playing with me nearly every Sunday. ” Afterwards,
while in her normal state, Mrs. Olive’s hand was moved by
spirit influence, and she drew a picture of the front of Mr.
Pearce’s early home in Cornwall. There were three windows
above, and two below, with a door in the corner. The bottom
windows had a few large panes of glass, and the upper
windows many small ones. A creeping plant growing up the
front of the house, was also represented ; and a willow-tree,
as well as shrubs, and a garden path, were all drawn in their
proper places. Since then he has followed up the subject;
and is now the Hon. Secretary to the St. John’s Association
of Spiritualists in Clerkenwell.
Trance Mediumship.—In this number of the Spiri¬
tualist there is very much about trance-mediumship, and
many persons may very reasonably ask “ What is the evidence
that such manifestations are genuine ? ” The evidence that
trance manifestations are real, is of the same nature as the
proof that headaches are real. If an individual who all his
life had not heard of such a thing as a headache, nor had met
anybody so afflicted, were introduced to a person who said he
suffered from the complaint, the listener might think it was
not true, it being contrary to his experience. But when he
saw headaches breaking out among his own friends and rela¬
tions, he would gradually know that they were real, and by ex¬
perience would begin to know pretty accurately the symptoms
which indicate whether they are real or assumed. The com¬
munications received by trance-mediumship, are often very
much higher and more intelligent than could be given by the
medium in the normal state, and sometimes they are lower.
We have been told of a fashionable lady who was suddenly
convinced of the truth of trance-mediumship by seeing one of her
daughters influenced at a circle, and made to whistle a tune
with great vigour, to the great horror of the mother at the
vulgarity of the act. Experienced Spiritualists do not care
so much for the physical manifestations as strangers do, be¬
cause so much time is saved by getting communications
through the higher forms of mediumship. Signalling by table
movements or raps is slow work.
East London Association of Spiritualists. — On
Tuesday, December 7th, Mr. R. Cogman, who intended to
deliver a lecture to the East London Association of Spiri¬
tualists, upon “Facts and Gleanings from the Science of
Mind,” was unable to be present. Mr. S. C. E. Goss kindly
supplied the place of Mr. Cogman, and gave a lecture upon
“The Pioneers of Human Regeneration.” He said that in
examining the growth of a tree, its progress would be watched
from the bursting of the germ-seed, to the development of
trunk, branches, leaves, blossom, and fruit. In like manner
he would trace the growth of the different religions of the
earth, and show how they improved in quality as man grew
sufficiently advanced to be able to appreciate higher teachings.
After reviewing the religions of Buddha, Zoroaster, and many
other teachers, he spoke of Christianity, pointed out the
Dec. 17, 1869.
atrocities which have been committed in its name, and said
that even now men have forgotten its primary objects, the
fostering of brotherly love, and doing good to everybody.
These principles are much hidden by a mass of dead leaves,
in the shape of unmeaning dogmas and foolish ceremonies.
He thought that people should preach more by deeds and less
by speech, and should cease multiplying professions of faith
and creeds. He said that the vice of intense love of self, is
the only barrier to universal happiness and human brother¬
hood. The lectures in connection with the East London As¬
sociation of Spiritualists, will be resumed after Christmas.
The Spiritual Library.—In other columns will be
found reports of two of the seances held every Friday even¬
ing, under the mediumship of Mr. Morse, at the Spiritual
Library, 15, Southampton-row, High Holborn, W.C. Mr.
Morse is a very good trance medium. A week or two ago he
was at Cambridge, and had a seance with some of the under¬
graduates of the University there. The philosophical Chinese
spirit, some of whose sayings are recorded at length in these
pages, took possession of the medium, and carried on an
animated debate with those present on theological subjects.
The opinion some of them expressed about the manifestations
was, that they were “ very curious, and probably arose from
some abnormal state of the brain.” Admission to th.eseances
on Friday evenings is by introduction, readily obtainable by
those who really desire to investigate, and an entrance fee of
one shilling is charged. Trance mediumship, however, is
rarely convincing to beginners; and Mr. Burns, the pro¬
prietor of the establishment, is, we are told, likely, before
long, to get up regular seances for the physical manifestations.
Sucb a circle would be a great attraction. Addresses through
the mediumship of Mr. Morse would well sustain the interest
of the Gower-street conferences, should they be resumed.
The Famine Fever.—Great Britain, although not the
most thickly-populated nation in Western Europe, has for-
many long years had more paupers in proportion to the total
population than any other country in the world. During the
last few years also the pauperism has been greatly on the in¬
crease, as shown by the Government returns. The result ia
another outbreak of what is known as the “famine fever” in
London, and the Medical Department of the Privy Council
has just issued a circular to the London Vestries and District
Boards of Works detailing what precautions should be adopted.
Famine fever has not been epidemic in London since 1855.
In 1861 England had an average population of 373 persons,
and Wales 150 persons, to the square mile. At that time
Belgium had 400 persons to the square mile. Last Sunday
morning the Rev. Mr. Pennefather, Incumbent of St. Jude’s,
Islington, told his congregation that in his district not only
were the ordinary poor in great distress, but that actually he
knew many families in respectable houses, to look at from the
outside, in want of bread to eat, and suffering from starvation.
The proceeds of the collection, he said, would not be given to
the poor in money, but would literally be expended in food tot
go direct to the mouths of the hungry. English pauperism is
chiefly caused by the depopulation of agricultural districts.
For twenty years past, as shown by the census returns, all
the agricultural districts of England and Wales, except the
Midland counties, have been in course of depopulation of their
agricultural labourers -r-men and women. Ireland, which
once had 8,000,000 inhabitants, now has but 5,000,000.
Many of these agricultural paupers emigrate, but most of
them pour into towns seeking work, thus reducing wages by
an over-supply of labour, increasing competition in business,
and filling the poor-houses and prisons. The destitution will
keep on increasing till the over-crowding of great towns is
stopped, and the population of agricultural districts is allowed
to rise to its natural level.
Spiritualism in Clerkenwell.—On Sunday evening,
December 5th, a semi-public sea/nce was held at the house of
Mr. J. Steele, 36, Great Sutton-street, Clerkenwell. About
thirty visitors were present. The proceedings began by the
reading of the 17th chapter of John, after which those present
sang the anthem, “ I will arise and go to my father, and will
say unto him, * Father, I have sinned against heaven and be¬
fore thee, and am no more worthy to be called thy son. ’ ”
This was followed by prayer, after which a table with a circle
of seven persons sitting round it began to move, and signalled
out a message for all present to remain quiet, and wait a short
time for further manifestatiens. Three mediums, Messrs.
Woolnough, Davis, and Towns, then passed in succession into
the trance state, and delivered* addresses of a sermonising
character. The burden of the teachings was, “Love God, and
love one another.” A statement was made by one of the
spirits that many spirits directly after they are released from
the body at death do not know at first that they have passed
through the change. They feel as if they have lost a burden,
and then they see the house that they formerly inhabited lying
motionless, their will-power over the organisation being
severed. “Therefore,” said the communicating spirit, “we
want you to improve yourselves, that spirits of higher quality
may come amongst us, and work with us in unity and love.”
He continued, that wben the body sleeps the spirit does not,
and that all human beings pass hours in other scenes, of
which they know nothing when they awake in the body.
There is no time wasted, for while the body sleeps the spirit
is still progressing, though sometimes people are permitted to
remember what they see while in,the spirit world. In the
course of another communication it was stated that the mind
has a dual nature, that there is a spiritual and a bodily mind,
and that the two are often not developed to the same extent,
and do not harmonise as they should do. This is the reason,
it was said, why some highly intellectual men, so far as the
bodily mind is concerned, are slow to search after truth in
particular directions, and cannot investigate spiritual subjects
so readily as should be the case were they more perfect.
The Anthropological Society.—Last Tuesday even¬
ing, the Anthropological Society met, under the chairmanship
of Dr. R. S. Charnock, F.S.A., and Mr. C. Staniland Wake,
F.A.S.L., read a paper upon “The Race Affinities of the
Natives of Madagascar.” The paper and the discussion
proved that, in the shape of the skull, the Hovas of Mada¬
gascar bear resemblances to the Kaffirs ; but that the Kaffirs
have woolly heads, whereas the Hovas have hair. In gram¬
matical structure, the language of the Hovas resembles that
of the Hottentot Bushmen of the mainland, whereas in verbal
points it resembles the language of the Malays : the numerals
and commonest words being the same in both. On the whole,
the discussion perhaps tended to show that the Hovas are
more nearly allied to the Malays, than to the negroes of the
east coast of Africa. Traces of tree and serpent worship are
found in Madagascar, as well as in nearly every other part of
the world. The speakers were, Dr. Berthold Seemann, F.L S.,
Lieutenant Olliver, Mr. W. C. Dendy, Mr. Mackenzie, Mr,
Macgrigor Allen, and Dr. Carter Blake.
Dec. 17, 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
21
CHAiiGES FOE ADVEKTISEMENTS.
_ 1. Advertisements of Public Companies, Half-a-guinea per
sixth of a column, or every portion of sixth of a column.
2. General Advertisements, Five Shillings per twelfth of a
column, or portion of twelfth of a column.
Note.—Advertisements at the foregoing rates will be
'■‘displayed” so as to occupy the full space paid for, but
advertisements at the following rates will be in closely set
type.
3. General Advertisements, Half-a-crown per first five
lines or portion of five lines, and Fourpence for every line in
addition.
4. Situations Wanted, or Apartments to Let, One Shilling
per first four lines, or j)ortion of four lines; Threepence for
every line in addition.
Ten words are allowed to the line, and six figures or
initial letters count as one word.
When five or more insertions of the same advertisement
are paid for, twenty per cent, reduction will be made in the
above rates.
The power is reserved of refusing to insert any advertise¬
ment.
Advertisements and remittances should be sent to the
Publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's
Church-yard, London, E.C., or to Mr. J. BtrENS, 15,
Southampton-row, High Holborn, London, W.C.
Cu Comspnirmls.
All letters should be brief and to the point, as the amount
of space available for correspondence is at present small.
Communications intended for the Editor should be by
letter only, addressed to the care of the Publisher, Mr. E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's Church-yard, London,
E.C. Until the Spiritual movement in England,, together
with this journal, have both grown considerably, time cannot
be spared for personal interviews on subjects connected with
the literary work of The Spiritualist, but all letters will
meet with careful consideration.
The Spieitualist is a periodical intended to give great
freedom of expression to all the different shades of opinion
to be found among Spiritualists. There will therefore be
very little uniformity in the ideas promulgated in this journal,
more especially in the correspondence columns. Under these
circumstances every reader will find occasionally something
in The Spibitttalist which he or she does not like, but the
right of reply remains. This freedom of thought given to
others, the Editor claims for himself, and those who do not
like the contents of leading articles, can write against them
in the correspondence columns. This plan is thought better
than that of reducing the contents of the journal to a
pale weak mediocrity, by inserting only those contributions
which please everybody. The preceding remarks are not
intended to imply that those who have crotchets which they
cannot get printed anywhere else, can find an outlet for them
here, for none but those letters which are considered worth
publication will be inserted.
Notices of Public Meetings in connection with Spiritualism
should be sent to the office several days in advance.
Co Joir-Spintettlxsls.
A large amount of information is printed on the last two
pages of this journal, clearly demonstrating that the facts of
Spiritualism, highly improbable as they appear to be, are
real, and deserve serious investigation by all thoughtful
people. In other columns of every number, of The Spiei-
tualist will also be found plenty of additional evidence to
the same effect.
Co Subsmltars.
The first twelve numbers of The Spieitttalist will be
forwarded regularly by penny post to subscribers, who remit
four shillings in payment, to Mr. E. W. Allen, Publisher,
Ave Maria-lane, St. PauFs-churchyard, E.C.
of one second as the time lost between each letter of
the alphabet, manifestly much time is lost before such
letters as T, W, and T, are reached. This loss may
he obviated by writing the alphabet in the following
way, and by getting the spirits to adopt a method of
signalling hereinafter described :—
+
+
+
+
+
+
A
F
K
P
U
Z
C
H
M
R
W
D
I
N
S
X
E
J
O
T
Y
The six crosses in the foregoing alphabet should be
pointed to one after the other, and when the cross in
the same line with the letter wanted is touched, the
spirits should he requested to give one, two, three, four,
or five raps or tilts, to denote the identical letter. If
the letter be the third in the horizontal line, three raps
should he given. Thus, to get the letter Y, five crosses
only have to he touched in succession, instead of twenty-
five letters, as would he the case by the ordinary plan
so the saving of time is very great, and three or four
messages may he obtained in the time now occupied in
getting one only.
The speed of signalling may he still further increased,
by arranging the letters so that those which occur most
frequently shall he in the upper lines. Printers’ com¬
positors know very well which are the letters most
commonly used in the words of the English language,
and the best order of arrangement is as follows :—
+
+
+
+
+
+
E
S
L
W
Y
Z
A
N
U
Y
K
T
H
C
G
Q
I
R
M
P
J
O
D
F
B
X
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 17, 1869.
ECONOMY OF TIME IN SPIEITTTAL KESEAECH.
Those who are in the habit of attending miscel¬
laneous spirit circles, for the purpose of collecting in¬
formation about spirit life, and the methods employed
to produce the manifestations, soon discover that a
very large amount of time must be consumed to gain a
very small quantity of thoroughly reliable knowledge.
This is caused, partly by the uncertainty of the com¬
munications, partly because half-an-hour or so some¬
times passes away before the manifestations begin,
partly because some of the statements made are unre¬
liable, and partly because everybody present at a circle
wants to put questions, and one person cannot arrogate
the whole of the conversation with the spirits to him¬
self.
A great deal of time may he saved when receiving
communications by the ordinary tilts or raps, if the
alphabet be appealed to in a different way to that now
in vogue. By the present plan a member of the circle
points to all the .letters of the alphabet slowly and
deliberately, and a rap or tilt is given by the spirit
when the right letter is reached. Allowing an interval
With the alphabet thus arranged, the greater num¬
ber of the letters in all words will he obtained by
pointing only to three crosses in succession. The
plan here described was tried once at Messrs. Mar¬
shalls, the professional mediums, who looked on for
some minutes in a manifest state of perplexity at the
celerity with which the messages were obtained, for
the spirits understood the plan at once, and talked
away for several minutes before the mediums saw
clearly the nature of the new system of signalling.
Much time that might be saved, is wasted in other
ways in Spiritualism. The primary measure of the
value of anything, whether in the heavens above or
upon the earth beneath, is its use, beauty being a
secondary consideration—in fact, there is a use in
beauty. When spirits in the body waste years in use¬
less pursuits—such, for instance, as in elaborately carv¬
ing a piece of ivory, it is only right that their wiser
brethren should point out the folly of such reckless waste
of time. So, likewise, when spirits out of the body
spend much time, as very many of them do, both in
England and America, in making mediums draw fan¬
tastical designs, which are of no use when finished, it
is only common sense to break off such mediumship,
after giving the spirits say two or three weeks trial, to
see whether the work - actually results in something
useful or instructive. Baps and tilts are always useful,
whether the messages he wise or foolish, because the
movements and sounds are evidence to non-Spiritualists
of some very remarkable power being at work, but un¬
meaning drawings executed through the hand of a
medium have not even this to recommend them. These
remarks are not intended to apply to the works of art
which are sometimes executed in this way, and are
ornamental enough to deserve framing and suspension
in the drawing-room, because then some good is done
by work. Neither are the remarks intended to apply
to direct drawings by spirits, without the intervention
of human hands, for the production of such designs is
splendid evidence of an independent intelligence and
power at the root of the manifestations. Spirits who
spend much time in the useless though harmless way
herein described, should be taught by the medium to
act more wisely, just as undeveloped spirits in the body
ought to be taught better under the same circumstances.
We regret to see from a notice in Daybreak, that it is
possible that it will be discontinued very shortly. There can¬
not be too many workers in the field of the literature of Spi¬
ritualism, since every journal meets the wants of certain
readers. The December number of -Daycontains some
very interesting information about spirit life, furnished by
Mrs. De Morgan,
WANTED A GHOST!
(From last week's Punch.)
“ To Proprietors of Haunted Houses.—A few gentlemen wish
to have the opportunity of visiting a house said to be haunted,
situate in or near London, for the purpose of scientific obser¬
vation.”—(See Advertisement.)
Wanted a Ghost, of whatever variety,
Fitted to mingle in learned society :
Able to work on the feelings electric
Of savans devoted to themes dialectic!
Wanted—a house full of murderous hoards,
Bells autophonic and creakiest boards !
Regions by restless departed ones haunted,
That’s what, to keep up the spirits, is wanted.
Wanted to sit up the whole of the night
Waiting the advent of goblin or sprite !
Wanted from t’other side Jordan to roam,
Yampires inclined for a go-in “ at Home !”
Wanted some dasmon to give us a note
What it is keeps airy Daniel afloat!
Wanted at least elementary traces
What is the power that elongates his braces.
Wanted to know what on earth are the merits
That make Mrs. Marshall affected by “ sperrits.”
Wanted to know why respectable dead
Come back to life at five shillings a-head.
Wanted old ladies and children to fright,
Waked up by cats in the dead of the night!
Wanted this age of inquiry to daunt—
That’s what these pseudo-philosophers want.
Wanted to galvanise once and again
All the exploded old tricks of Cock Lane !
W anted to make a white sheet and a post
Go down once more as a genuine ghost!
Wanted—how idle such needs ’tis to flaunt !
Blessed if I think they know what ’tis they want.
Wanted—it seems to me : don’t it to you ?—
Dialecticians want something to do !
AN ADDRESS FROM A SPIRIT.
On Thursday evening, December 9 th, a public meet¬
ing of the St. John’s Association of Spiritualists was
held in St. John’s Hall, Corporation-row, Clerkenwell,
and the proceedings are reported upon another page.
In the course of the evening, Mr. Morse, medium, was
entranced by one of his guardian spirits, who gives the
name of Tien Sien Tie, and states that he was a Man¬
darin of the Second Order, who passed from earth at
Pekin a little more than one hundred years ago.*
Under this inspirational influence the following speech
was given from the platform :—
“ Brothers and sisters still journeying along the path
of time, pleased am I and the invisible host with me
here, to be able to speak a few words of love and
sympathy. Many ask, ‘ What is the use of the mani¬
festations ? ’ Let the minds of all here to-night,
travel back to their inmost recesses, and ask if there is
anything in nature which is not useful? No. All
things are useful, for they reflect the source from
whence they came for universal good. The manifesta¬
tions open the dark portals of the tomb, and permit
you to see the bright and glorious path beyond, thickly
dusted with the diamonds and flowers of affection and
love. They show you that communication exists be¬
tween the two worlds, that the friends who by the
love of God you have been permitted to love, remember
you when they have passed through the change called
‘ Death.’ They show how loving that Being is, by
opening the gates for you. Is there no use in know¬
ing that the wife, father, husband, brother, whom you
have loved long and tenderly, still entertains remem-
hrances of you, and can still speak to you ? Greater
than the consolation of that, is the knowledge of the
great stream of love, pouring down from the higher
spheres, trying to draw you upwards and onwards,
teaching you that you contain that priceless gem, a
human spirit, endowed with the attributes of the Deity
from whence it came. Cradled in the bosom of infini¬
tude, man—so far as I can read—has eternally existed,
world without end. When you feel happy within your¬
selves—when the silver cord of the soul is struck, and
you feel full of happiness, you desire that others shall
share that happiness also. You talk about the manifesta¬
tions with your friends, who in their turn become
centres of another circle spreading the truth, and so on
through infinity of extension. See the good, then, you
do by getting up meetings such as this to-night, faint
foreshadowings of those in the summer land, so called.
Think of the great truths we teach, but remember
especially these three principles : let your relations he
love—let justice govern your love—and let wisdom
govern both, that you may be perfection; then will
heaven be within and around you. Friends, farewell,
and carry away with you messages of affection from
the immortal host awaiting your entrance into the
realms of everlasting light and love. Farewell.”
Silence followed the delivery of this address, which
was spoken in a very impressive manner, and nobody
seemed inclined to say anything for the next few
minutes.
Mr. J. M. Peebles has arrived at Trebizond, but is ex¬
pected in England again in two months.—Dr. Willis is nowin
the South of France.—Miss Hay has arrived in New York
quite safe and sound,and iscomfortablylocatedat the Hygienic
Institute. She produced some remarkable spirit drawings on
board ship, when the roll was so great that she could not
write. —Day break.
* Those of our readers who chance to have friends in China, are re¬
quested to try whether they can get this statement substantiated.—Ed.
22
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 17, 1869.
ioetrg.
"QUID VERUMI"
Are there spirits floating round us,
Sinking from the Tranquil Land
Breaking through the chains that bound us
To this melancholy strand:
Where the surge of being’s ocean
Ever roars in tempest strife,
And its fierce continual motion
Wearies out the heart of life ?
Faintly dawns the longed-for morning,
Dim and vague the mountains show;
Will the sun arise, adorning ,
Earth and heaven with gorgeous glow?
Is it but a faithless glimmer
Bom of some electric blast,
. Like those northern lights that shimmer
Through the sky, and then are past ?
May the gloom be really over
And its grief and sadness gone!
May the earth, an ardent lover,
Else to heaven, its glorious throne
While the choirs of mom awaking
Pass to us in bright array,
And the night’s dominion breaking,
Open out the awful day!
London, December, 1869. U. C.
BELSHAZZAR
Belshazzar is King! Belshazzar is Lord!
And a thousand dark nobles all bend at his board;
Emits glisten, flowers blossom, meats steam, and a flood
Of wine that man loveth runs redder than blood •
Wild dancers are there, and a riot of mirth,
And the beauty that maddens the passions of earth;
And the crowds all shout,
Till the vast roofs ring,
“ All praise to Belshazzar—Belshazzar the King! ”
“Bring forth,” cries the monarch, “the vessels of gold
Which my father tore down from the temples of old:—
Bring forth—and we’ll drink, while the trumpets are blown,
To the gods of bright silver, of gold, and of stone.
Bring forth! ”—and before him the vessels all shine,
And he bows unto Baal, and he drinks the dark wine;
Whilst the trumpets bray,
And the cymbals ring,
“ Praise, praise to Belshazzar—Belshazzar the King! ”
Now what cometh ?—Look! Look! Without menace or call
Who writes with the lightning’s bright hand on the wall ?
What pierceth the King like the point of a dart ?
What drives the bold blood from his cheek to his heart ?
“ Chaldeans! Magicians I The letters expound! ”
They are read—and Belshazzar is dead on the ground!
Hark 1 The Persian has come
On a conqueror^ wing,
And a Mede’s on the throne of Belshazzar the King!
Barry Cornwall.
THE CHILD'S QUESTIONS.
Where will his house be now, mother ? Beyond the bright blue sky ?
Will he gather roses there, mother ? Or chase the butterfly?
And will he play with the stars there, those shining twinkling things ?
Will he ride through the air there, with angels on golden wings ?
Will he be near the sun, mother ? Close to the Lady Moon ?
Will there never be night, mother ? All light as day at noon ?
Will he see the lightning made, mother? And climb on the hills of snow,
Go where the thunder’s kept, and where sleep the rough winds that blow ?
Will he never be sad, mother ? And never wish in vain ?
But live for years and years, mother, without a single pain?
That must be very beautiful,—a land all joy and flowers;
I would we went there too, mother, and his bright home were ours.
Tail's Magazine.
Netospaper Criticism.
THE “ GLASGOW HERALD ” OH SPIRITUALISM.
The Glasgow Daily Herald has the honour of being the
first morning paper which has told anything like a portion of
the truth in a leading article about Spiritualism. The follow¬
ing is its article of November 27th last:—
“ Spiritualism in the 19th century is either a great fact or a
gigantic delusion, or both. That faith in spiritual manifesta¬
tions is, at all events, a fact, there can be no doubt whatever,
unless we are prepared to set down millions of men and
women as deep, designing knaves, and wilful impostors. It
would be unreasonable, as well as unjust, to adopt such an
alternative. The charge of knavery and imposture would be
too sweeping in any view of the case, and, besides, the charac¬
ter of not a few of the firmest devotees is far above such a
suspicion. When we find the names of such men as Professor
de Morgan, Robert Chambers, William Howitt, Judge Ed¬
monds, C. F. Yarley, and S. C. Hall on the roll of believers,
we must discard once for all the theory of universal imposi¬
tion. On the other hand, it seems nearly as hard to believe
that such men are simpletons or fools—the innocent dupes of
vulgar ‘ mediums,’ and the supporters of a doctrine or creed at
variance with the laws of nature, human experience, and
common sense. How are we to deal with such phenomena ?
The faith cannot be laughed down ; exposure has also failed ;
and persecution in these days is out of the question. . Spiri¬
tualism, in short, is a fact, just as Mormonism is a fact; and,
moreover, its progress has been infinite1" cu ore wonderful than
that of the faith propounded by Saint Joseph Smith. In the
United States, where both beliefs or systems originated, we
find the Spiritualists far outstripping the Mormons in num¬
bers, as well as in respectability and intelligence. The Mor¬
mons can scarcely show a thousand adherents for every year
that has elapsed since the advent of their original High-Priest,
while the Spiritualists in the States have been variously esti¬
mated within the last two years at from three to thirteen
millions. They are to be found in greater numbers than some
people are willing to believe in this country, on the Continent,
in India, and at the Antipodes, and they are increasing instead
of diminishing every year. They have magazines, newspapers,
lecturers, and mediums by the hundred ; and they have lately
commenced to defend their faith at the meetings of learned
societies.
“ A movement such as this in an age which has been called
materialistic and sceptical may well be considered remarkable,
even by its most resolute opponents. It is too important, in
fact, to be ignored altogether by the public, and too energetic
and persevering to remain in obscurity. Not a few of its
leading lights have published their experiences and their testi¬
mony, and challenge investigation and defy contradiction.
At a recent meeting of the Dialectical Society, of which Sir
John Lubbock is President, and Professor Huxley, Lord Am-
berley, and Mr. G. H. Lewes are Vice-Presidents, a paper on
Spiritualism was read which attracted much attention, and
the result was the appointment of a committee to investigate
the subject and to report thereon. This committee has already
* examined a considerable number of witnesses, and the follow¬
ing may be taken as a fair sample of the evidence as we find
it recorded in the first number of a new publication called
The Spiritualist. Mr. H. Jencken, barrister-at-law, de¬
clared that he had seen Mr. Home, the medium’s body,
rise in the air, and pass out of one open window and into
another at Ashley House.’ He had seen ‘ an accordion sus¬
pended in space and played by invisible agencies, the music
being accompanied by three spirit-voices chaunting a hymn.’
This experienced lawyer had also seen the body of Mr. Home
lengthened and shortened by similar agency; he had seen
this medium place his head ‘ in the flames of the grate, and
seen the flames playing between the locks of Mr. Home’s hair,
but no injury or pain resulted ; ’ and finally, Mr. Jencken had
seen spirit forms and spirit hands in the presence of many
witnesses, who ‘had seen these things at the same time.’ Mr.
E. L. Blanchard, the well-known author, deposed that he went
to Marshalls, the paid mediums in London, for the express
purpose of ‘ showing them up ’ in the newspapers, but the
manifestations displayed on that occasion compelled him to
believe in the presence of spirits. He saw, or supposed he
saw, a spark upon the floor, which gradually grew into a hand
and picked up a napkin. He had been raised into the air by
spirits, and kept in that elevated position for some time, but
latterly he had refused the use of himself as a medium, be¬
cause it was ‘ inconvenient to be interfered with by spirits
when printers were waiting for copy.’
“ No doubt it was. It is bad enough for a writer to be
afflicted with a ‘ devil ’ at his elbow ‘ waiting for copy,’ but his
misery must be intensified prodigiously with a batch of spirits
hovering about the apartment, tilting his table, and swinging
himself through the air. Under such conditions, literary
labour must have been anything but a joke, and we think
that Mr. Blanchard acted wisely in getting rid of his super¬
natural associates. But other witnesses had also their expe¬
riences to relate. The Master of Lindsay had seen the spirit
of Mr. Home’s wife ‘ in a long flowing robe which hung with¬
out belt from the shoulders ; ’ and, moreover, the shade ap¬
peared quite solid, and not by any means transparent. Mr. S.
C. Hall, author and barrister-at-law, had seen the spirit of his
‘venerable and truly Christian sister,’ plump, rosy-cheeked,
and fair to look upon, although she had died eight months be¬
fore an emaciated skeleton ; and this vision, he affirms, was
also seen by eight different persons at the same time. Spirit-
rapping and table-tilting sink into insignificance when com¬
pared with such manifestations, and we might multiply them
indefinitely. What, then, are we to make of such statements ?
Are we to reject them in toto as deliberate falsehoods ? We
cannot. The character of the witnesses, as we have said, is
above suspicion, and therefore we must believe that they are
stating what they believe to be the truth. Are they labouring
under a delusion, or is there something, after all, in this thing
which we call Spiritualism ? There may be something in it
unknown or unexplained—some hidden force of nature more
subtle than electricity which these men set down to the
agency of disembodied spirits. Mr. C. F. Yarley, the eminent
electrician, entertains, no doubt whatever that the manifesta¬
tions which he has tested were not due to the operation of any
physical laws of Nature at present recognised, ‘ but to some
intelligence other than that of the medium and observers.’
Professor de Morgan is equally confident in his belief. He
says—‘ I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impossible,
things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by a rational
being to be capable of explanation by imposture, coincidence,
or mistake.’
“ We may admit this without jumping to a supernatural
conclusion. Set aside imposture of every kind, and take these
manifestations as they appear—objects of the senses as they
are said to be—in hearing, seeing, and feeling. We cannot
explain them, we cannot even comprehend them ; but is that
a sufficient reason for us to call in supernatural agency in
order to get out of the difficulty ? This was precisely the
habit of our ancestors in the dark ages, when everything in¬
comprehensible by ignorance was ascribed to devilry or witch¬
craft. History repeats itself, and now we find lawyers and
literary men, mathematicians and philosophers, abjuring
witches and accepting spirits with a confidence that cannot be
shaken.. And such spirits! They profess to hold converse
with the shades of Bacon, Shakespeare, Milton, and scores of
other immortals ; but the spirits appear to have degenerated
sadly since they left the flesh. They come to answer the most
frivolous questions, to tilt tables, and to scratch commonplace
remarks upon slips of paper. Other spirits tell lies, and show
their want of education in the most ridiculous ways. We are
told, indeed, that they are ‘ good, bad, and indifferent, as
upon earth, and that some of them are ragamuffins ’—a piece
of information which seems necessary to account for their dis¬
reputable tricks. But why should the mediums confine the
agency of great spirits to such ignoble uses as they have
hitherto done ? Could not the shade of Milton, for example,
be called upon for a second edition of Paradise Regained,
which could not fail to be far more glorious in conception and
execution than the original work ? Could not Shakespeare be
coaxed to give some of the London theatres a new drama,
capable of driving such rubbish as After Dark and Formosa
off the stage ? Could not the spirit of Byroq be induced to
finish Don Juan, or to answer the ‘ True Story ’ of moral Mrs.
H. B. Stowe ?
“ And again we may ask if spirit agency cannot be turned
to a more profitable account than in moving household furni¬
ture ? If spirits can make heavy loo tables dance like ballet-
girls and float in middle air like balloons, why cannot they be
sent to turn grindstones, drive machinery, or drag railway
trains ? If spirits are able to whisk Mr. Home out of one
window and in by another, why cannot they transport him
across the Atlantic in forty minutes, and thus give the world
a manifestation that could not be gainsayed ? Finally, if Mr.
Home is able to stick his head into a blazing fire without pain
or injury, can he not open the eyes of the sceptic and shut the
mouth of the scoffer by jumping into a pig-iron furnace while
the metal is boiling white and the flames are roaring and
rising high in the air ? Experiments or manifestations such
as these would certainly be awe-inspiring ; and when they are
successfully accomplished we may look out for the millennium,
or the fulfilment of Dr. Cumming’s prophecies.”
The Spiritualist.—There is no doubt now that this,
journal meets a public want by supplying shorthand and other
news of Spiritualism at brief intervals, and it may be con¬
sidered to be a permanent institution in connection with the
movement. At the same time the question is open for the
present, whether it will be the wisest plan to to bring it out
monthly or fortnightly. The rate at which the circulation
goes on rising during the next few weeks will answer the
question ; the endeavour will be made to continue to bring
it out as at present, unless the loss over the step be unrea¬
sonably heavy. We are much obliged to those readers who
are aiding the journal in its early stages.
THE GLORIES OF THE HE A YENS.
Translated from the German.
“ God called up from dreams a man into the vestibule
of Heaven, saying, ‘ Come thou hither, and see the
glory of my house.’ And to the servants that stood
around his throne, he said, 1 Take him, and undress him
from his robes of flesh: cleanse his vision, and put a
new breath into his nostrils; only touch not with any
change his human heart—-the heart that weeps and
trembles.’ It was done : and, with a mighty angel for
his guide, the man stood ready for his infinite voyage;
and from the terraces of heaven, without sound or
farewell, at once they wheeled away into endless space.
Sometimes with the solemn flight of angel wing they
fled through Zaarahs of darkness, through wildernesses
of death, that divided the worlds of life; sometimes
they swept over frontiers, that were quickening under
prophetic motions from God. Then, from a distance
that is counted only in heaven, light dawned for a time
through a sleepy film; by unutterable pace the light
swept to them ; they, by unutterable pace, to the light.
In a moment, the rushing of planets was upon them ;
in a moment, the blazing of suns was around them.
“ Then came eternities of twilight, that revealed,
but were not revealed. On the right hand and on the
left, towered mighty constellations, that, by self-repeti¬
tions and answers from afar, that, by counter-positions,
built up triumphal gates, whose architraves, whose
archways, horizontal, upright, rested, rose, at altitude
by spans that seemed ghostly from infinitude. With¬
out measure were the architraves, past number were
the archways, beyond memory the gates. Within
were stairs that scaled the eternities below; above was
below, below was above, to the man stripped of gravi¬
tating body: depth was swallowed up in height insur¬
mountable—height was swallowed up in depth un¬
fathomable. Suddenly, as thus they rode from infinite
to infinite,—suddenly, as thus they tilted over abysmal
worlds, a mighty cry arose, that systems more
mysterious, that worlds more billowy, other heights and
other depths were coming, were nearing, were at hand.
“ Then the man sighed, and stopped, shuddered,
and wept. His overladened heart uttered itself in
tears; and he said, ‘Angel, I will go no farther; for
the spirit of man acheth with this infinity. Insuffer¬
able is the glory of God. Let me lie down in the
grave and hide me from the persecution of the infinite ;
for end, I see, there is none.’ And from all the listen¬
ing stars that shone around issued a choral voice, ‘ The
man speaks truly : end there is none, that ever yet we
heard of! ’ * End is there none ? ’ the angel solemnly
demanded : ‘ Is there indeed no end ? and is this the sor¬
row that kills you ?’ But no voice answered, that he
might answer himself. Then the angel threw up his
glorious hands to the heaven of heavens, saying, ‘ End
is there none to the universe of God. Lo ! also there
is no beginning.’ ”
Mrs. Hardinge’s Lectures.—If the following statement,
wMch we extract from the Banner of Light, be true, Mrs.
Hardinge is engaged to lecture in the United States until the
end of April next. “ Mrs. Emma Hardinge will lecture in
Philadelphia, Pa., during October and November ; in Boston,
Mass., during December and April. For lectures during other
months, and week-evenings, address care of Mrs. J. M. Jackson,
229, East Sixtieth-street, New York, or M. B. Dyott, Esq., 114,
South Second-street, Philadelphia.”
Will-Power.—An interesting fact in mesmerism was
stated one evening to the Dialectical Society by Mr. J. S.
Bergheim, a powerful mesmerist. He said that one night he
sat among the public at a lecture on Mesmerism, and, without
saying anything to anybody, willed strongly and constantly
that the lecturer should have no power over the individuals
he tried to influence. Failure upon failure was the result of
all the lecturer’s exertions, and while much perplexed at this,
he caught sight of Mr. Bergheim, whom he knew, and guessed
the interference at work. He accordingly came to Mr. Berg¬
heim, and told him that “ if he could not sit there without in¬
terrupting the lecture, he had better walk out.” With the
same will-power some unintelligent, strong-minded persons
are able to stop weak physical manifestations at Spirit circles,
and when'they chance to mentally or vocally utter a religious
formula at the same time, have been known to ascribe the re¬
sulting stoppage to the efficacy of their theological adjuration.
A Spirit on “ Space.”—The following remarks by a
spirit, were recently made through the mediumship of Mrs. J.
H. Conant, 158, Washington-street, Boston, United States :—
“Space, as defined, doubtless, by your correspondent, is not
what we understand it to be. Go wherever we may, we find
no condition where there are not atmospheric tides ; electric
conditions, that in their action are capable of generating life
—all kinds of life of which we can conceive. Could you,
with your spiritual eyes, behold this atmosphere, you would
find an infinite number of electric ramifications, coming out,
seemingly, from no centre except the earth centre. They are
shooting north and south, and east and west. Then there are
cross-lines; and each one is connected with all the rest, and
acts upon all the rest. And each one is connected with every¬
body in the universe, is acted upon by everybody, and, in
turn, acts upon everybody. Every living thing that is capable
of being sustained, or of living at all in this condition of
being—the animal, vegetable, mineral, and spiritual life—
must, of necessity, be wedded to all those different currents
that are passing to and fro through space. And if we go
outside of the earth’s atmosphere, we find the same magnetic
and electric wires stretching from planet to planet, and de-
terming the course of each one ; and binding each one to a
certain relationship with all the rest. Where is the vacuum ?
I fail to find it.”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A Country Journalist.—Your letter in our next.
Dec. 17, 1869,
THE SPIRITUALIST
23
FACTS FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
As this Journal will necessarily often come
under the observation of those who are not
Spiritualists, it has been thought judicious to
reprint regularly on this and the next page,
the following condensed evidence that spiri¬
tualism deserves serious investigation. The
phenomena witnessed in spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
within the ordinary range of human experi¬
ence, that it is quite right not to accept them
on the testimony of others. Each individual
should witness and test them personally, and
believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
isgained that denial is impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses that the phenomena of Spiritualism are
actual facts,' and not imposture or delusion, has of
late years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Robert
Chambers, Mr. C. P. Varley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
Mrs. S. 0. Hall, and others, all made affidavits
strongly in favour of Mr. Home. The following
was the affidavit of Mr. 0. P. Varley, C.E.,
P.R.G.S., M.R.I.:—
“ I, Cromwell Fleetwood Varley, of Fleetwood House,
Beckenham, in the County of Kent, Esquire, make oath
and say as follows:—
“ I have heen a student of electricity, chemistry, and
natural philosophy for twenty-six years, and a tele¬
graphic engineer by profession for twenty-one. years,
and I am the consulting electrician of the Atlantic Tele¬
graph Company, and of the Electric and International
Company.
“ About nine or ten years ago, having had my atten¬
tion directed to the subject of Spiritualism by its spon¬
taneous and unexpected development in my own family
in the form of clairvoyant visions and communications,
I determined to test the truth of the alleged physical
phenomena to the best of my ability, and to ascertain,
if possible, the nature of the force which produced them.
“Accordingly, about eight years ago, I called on Mr.
Home, the defendant in this suit, and stated that I had
not yet witnessed any of the physical phenomena, but
that I was a scientific man and wished to investigate
them carefully.
“ He immediately gave me every facility for the pur¬
pose, and desired me to satisfy myself in. every possible
way, and I have been with him on divers occasions
when the phenomena have occurred. I have examined
and tested them with him and with others, under con¬
ditions of my own choice, under a bright light, and have
made the most jealous and searching scrutiny. I have
been, since then, for seven months in America, where
the subject attracts great attention and study, and where
it is cultivated by some of the ablest men, and. having
experimented with and compared the forces with elec¬
tricity and magnetism, and after having applied me¬
chanical and mental tests, I entertain no doubt whatever
that the manifestations which I have myself examined
Were not due to the operation of any of the recognised
physical laws of nature, and that there has been present
on the occasions above-mentioned some intelligence
other than that of the medium and observers.
“The subject of course offers many opportunities and
inducements for fraud, and I only speak of what I have
myself seen and tested. Since my acquaintance with
Mr. Home began I have pursued the enquiry, and I have
found engaged in it able, learned, and scientific men,
who are convinced as I am, that the physical manifesta¬
tions are but the introduction to an extensive field of
mental and physical knowledge which will in a great
measure explain and reconcile the beliefs of all ages and
nations. I know of several instances both in Europe
and America in which this course of study has awak¬
ened the perception of the purest and loftiest truths and
principles. There have been no doubt cases in which
the intellect has been too feeble for the stimulus, and
has been overpowered by it, just as frequently results
from excessive application to religion and other exciting
topics, but such cases have not come within my own
observation.
“Mr. Home, like several other non-professional me¬
diums whose cases I have studied, was passive during
the occurrence of the manifestations. He, like the
other mediums, is extremely susceptible to external in¬
fluences, and has a mind better suited to receive impres¬
sions than to prosecute enquiries. I willingly testify my
entire conviction of his truthfulness and honesty.
“ 0. F. Varley.”
It also came out in the evidence given at the
trial, that Mr. Home had heen the invited and un¬
paid guest of the Emperor and the Empress of the
French, the Emperor, Empress, and the late Em¬
press Dowager of Russia, the Grand Duke Con¬
stantine, the King of Prussia, the late King of
Bavaria, the late King of Wurtemburg, and the
Queen of Holland. Mr. Home says that all his
life he has never taken a farthing of pay for his
seances. In March, 1869, the Spiritual Magazine
gave the names of the following gentlemen as
those who have long been investigating the sub¬
ject:—
“Cromwell F. Varley, Esq.,Fleetwood-house, Becken¬
ham ; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., 9, St. Mark’s-crescent,
N.W.; Professor De Morgan, 91, Adelaide-road, N.W.;
Captain Drayson, B.A., Woolwich; Dr. J. M. Gully,
The Priory, Great Malvern: Dr. J. J. G. Wilkinson, 4,
St. John’s-wood-villas, N.W.; Dr. Dixon, 8, Great Or-
mond-street, W.C.: S. 0. Hall, Esq., 15, Ashley-place,
Victoria-street, S.W.; Newton Crosland, Esq.; William
Howitt, Esq., The Orchard, Hare-green, Esher, Surrey;
Bobert Chambers, Esq., St. Andrew's, Edinburgh; H.
D. Jencken, Esq., Kilmorey-house, Norwood; J. G.
Crawford, Esq., 52, Gloucester-crescent, N.W.; W. M.
Wilkinson, Esq., Oakfleld, Kilbum; Lord Adare, 5,
Buckingham-gate; The Master of Lindsay, Grosvenor-
square.”
Mrs. De Morgan has written a book, entitled
From Matter to Spirit (Longmans), where she
gives many interesting particulars, the result of
ten years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in his preface to the book, says:—
“ I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by
a rational being to be capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground
firm under me.”
The following is an extract from another
affidavit, made in the suit of Lyon v. Home:—
“ I, James Manby Gully, of The Priory, Great Malvern,
in the County of Worcester, doctor of medicine, make
oath and say as follows:—
“I have known the above-named defendant, Daniel
Dunglass Home, for seven years and upwards, last past,
and have during that period been in the habit of attend¬
ing him professionally, and also of receiving him in my
house as a personal friend, and I have never had the
smallest reason to doubt his character as a man of
honour and proper moral feeling.
“ I have during the past seven years witnessed both
in my own house, and elsewhere, in the presence of the I
said Mr. Home many curious occurrences, which I am
unable to explain, in the way of singular phenomena,
such as displacement of objects without physical con¬
tact, &c., and from my personal and careful investiga¬
tions (which Mr. Home himself ever urges) I am positive
that it is not in consequence of any trick or device that
such phenomena occur. I have even been witness to
singular phenomena when the said Mr. Home was not in
the same room, and also when he has been asleep. I
have never known the said Mr. Home receive money for
what is termed ‘a seance' but I have known him re¬
peatedly refuse offers of as much as twenty guineas for
a single seance. “ J- M. Gully, M.D.”
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President
of the British Association at Norwich in 1868,
spoke very highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, P.L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist. Professor Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
action ” theory explained all the facts. A friend
wrote to him detailing things he had seen which
were inexplicable by that theory. Hare at once,
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
result was that he came into communication with
some of his own departed relatives. He then
made mechanical telegraphic machines, which
were intelligently worked by spirits while the
apparatus was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote a book recording all these
facts. That book is now in the British Museum
Library. Judge Edmonds, of New York, is another
very eminent American Spiritualist, who has also
written interesting books on the subject. Recently,
in England, Viscount Adare has written a book
bearing testimony to the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and movements of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley.
The Spiritual Magazine for October, 1869, gives
the following names of friends of Spiritualism
who have now and then contributed to its pages:—
“ Viscount Adare; John Ashbumer, M.D., Translator
of Beichenbach, author of Philosophy of Animal Mag¬
netism and Spiritualism; T. B. Barkas, author of Outlines
of Ten Years' Investigation into the Phenomena of Modern
Spiritualism; George Barth; Bichard Beamish, F.B.S.,
author of The Life of Brunei; Bev. S. E. Bengough,
M.A.; Edward L. Blanchard; Edward Brotherton; Cap¬
tain Bichard F. Burton (the African traveller;) William
Carpenter, author of Political Letters, The English Bible;
Captain Edward Henry Chawner; Henry T. Child,
M.D. (Philadelphia, U.S.A.); Benjamin Coleman, author
of Spiritualism in America; Bobert Collyer, M.D., F.C.S.;
Christopher Cook; Bobert Cooper, author of Spiritual
Experiences; Mrs. De Morgan, author of From Matter to
Spirit; Jacob Dixon, L.B.C.P., author of Clairvoyance,
Hygienic, and Medical; Hugh Doherty, M.D', author of
Organic Philosophy; Captain Drayson, B.A.; Judge
Edmonds (New York); Captain H. A Fawcett, B-N.;
J ohn M. Gully, M.D.; Professor W. D. Gunning (Boston,
U.S.A.); Samuel Carter Hall, F.S.A.; Emma Hardinge;
George Harris, M.A., F.S.A., President of the Manches¬
ter Anthropological Society; W. E. Hickson, late editor
of the Westminster Foreign Quarterly Review; Bev. A.
W. Hobson, M.A.; Baron 0. Dirckinck Holmfeld; Daniel
Dunglass Home; Bev. J. Page Hopps, editor of The
Truthseeker; Mary Howitt; William Howitt; Henry D.
Jencken, M.B.I., F.G.S.; John Jones, author of Man:
Physical, Apparitional, and Spiritual; Bev. William
Ker, M.A.: Seymour Kirkup (Florence); Andrew Leigh¬
ton ; Bobert Leighton; Kenneth B. P. Mackenzie, F.S.A.;
Bev. William Mountford (Boston, U.S.A.); A. E. New¬
ton (Boston, U.S.A) author of The Ministry of Angels
Realised; Mary S. Gove Nichols; J. H. Powell: Baron
Beichenbach, author of Researches on the Dynamics of
Magnetism; Elihu Bich, author of several articles in the
Encyclopsedia Metropolitana; J. Lockhart Bobertson,
M.B.C.P.: Mary C. Hume Bothery; Bev. W Hume
Bothery, M.A.; Epes Sargent, author of The Planchette;
Thomas Shorter; Bev. W. B. Tomlinson, M.A.; Crom¬
well F. Varley, F.B.G.S.; C. Staniland Wake, author of
Chapters on Man; Alfred E. Wallace; A. M. H. Watts;
William White, author of Emanuel Swedenborg: His
Life and Writings; W. M. Wilkinson, author of Spirit
Drawings; James J. Garth Wilkinson, M.D., author of
The Human Body, and its Connection with Man; Bev. F.
B. Young.”
Signor G. Damiani, a Sicilian gentleman living
at Clifton, has written a pamphlet, still in print,
in which he severely censures Professor Tyndall,
Mr. G. H. Lewes, and others like them, for refus¬
ing to investigate the subject. He further offers a
reward of 1,000 guineas to any respectable, scien¬
tific or educated men, who will investigate the
subject and prove it to be an imposture. The
following are his words:—
“ I now offer you two challenges.
“First, I challenge you, or either of you, or any of
the public who, like you, disbelieve in the genuine cha¬
racter of spiritualistic phenomena, to deposit in the
hands of any well-known London banker whom you or
they may name, the sum of five hundred guineas; and
I pledge myself to immediately deposit in the same bank
a like amount,—the ownership of such sum of one thou¬
sand guineas to depend upon my proving by evidence
sufficient to establish any fact in history or in a criminal
or civil court of justice.
First—That intelligent communications and answers
to questions put, proceed from dead and inert matter in
a manner inexplicable by any generally recognised law
of nature.
“Secondly—That dead and inert matter does move
without the aid of any mechanical or known chemical
agency, and in defiance of all the admitted laws of gravi¬
tation.
“ Thirdly—That voices appertaining to no one in the
flesh are heard to speak and hold rational converse with
men.
“ A jury of twenty-four gentlemen, twelve to be chosen
by each party (such jury to consist exclusively of mem¬
bers of the learned professions and literary men), to
decide whether or not the facts contained in the above
propositions are conclusively proved per testes—i.e., by
witnesses of established character. A majority of
the twenty-four to decide. If the verdict be that these
facts have not been established, the thousand guineas
are to belong to the party accepting this challenge; if
(he verdict be that these facts are established, the thou¬
sand guineas to be mine.
“ Secondly—Immediately after the above wager being
decided, either way, I offer a like challenge of five hun¬
dred guineas (to be met on the other side in like manner
as above)—the ownership of the second sum of one
thousand guineas to depend upon the establishment of
the facts contained in the propositions already given, by
experiments conducted in the actual presence of the twenty-
four gentlemen who have decided the previous wager,
the verdict of the majority to decide in this case likewise.’
“ In either case, the seances are to be conducted in any
public or private building which the jury may select,
and which may be available for the purpose.
“ The result of these challenges (if accepted and de¬
cided) to be advertised by the victorious party, at the
expense of the defeated party, in all the London daily
papers.
“ I hope this is plain English.
“ Awaiting a reply to this letter, and to the challenge
with which it concludes, I am, gentlemen; your obedient
servant, G. Damiani.
“Clifton, Oct. 1,1868.
“P.S.—Letters addressed ‘Sigr. Damiani, care of
Manager of West of England and South Wales District
Bank, Corn-street, Bristol,' will always reach the writer.”
In addition to the above evidence, there is the
testimony of numbers that the modem spiritual
manifestations are realities. Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New America estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United States at rather less than
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybody has made. There are no accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
All these facts, together with those which
follow, prove that Spiritualism deserves serious
investigation. Not a few learned men have pri¬
vately been examining the phenomena in order to
“ explode the imposture,” but these extinguishers
soon catch fire themselves. In short, in the
minds of most of the English public, Spiritualism
has to pass through the following five stages:—
1. The manifestations do not take place.
2. Spiritualism is a gross imposture.
3. It is a delusion.
4. It is the work of the Devil.
5. It is a great blessing, and we always said so.
Experience shows that the feebler the intellect,
and the lower the standard of energy and educa¬
tion, the sooner does the investigator break down
at one of the first four out of the above five steps
in the ladder of progress.
MR. HOME’S AFFIDAVIT.
In the Chancery suit of Lyon v. Home, for the
recovery of certain monies given by Mrs. Lyon
to Mr. Home against the advice of her lawyer
and her friends, Mr. Home made an affidavit, from
which the following is an extract:—
“ I, Daniel Dunglass Home, of 22, Sloane-street, in
the County of Middlesex, one of the above-named de¬
fendants, make oath and say as follows:—
“ I was bom in Scotland on the 20th of March, 1833,
and from my childhood have been subject to the occa¬
sional happening of singular physical phenomena in my
presence, which are most certainly not produced by me
or by any other person in connection with me. I have
no control over them whatever: they occur irregularly,
and even when I am asleep. Sometimes I am many
months, and once I have been a year without them.
They will not happen when I wish, and my will has
nothing to do with them. I cannot account for them
further than by supposing them to be effected by intelli¬
gent beings or spirits. Similar phenomena occur to
many other persons.... These phenomena occurring in
my presence have been witnessed by thousands of
intelligent and respectable persons, including men of
business, science, and literature, under circumstances
which would have rendered, even if I desired it, all
trickery impossible. They have been witnessed repeat¬
edly and in their own private apartments, when any
contrivance of mine must have been detected, by their
Majesties the Emperor and the Empress of the French,
their Majesties the Emperor, Empress and late Empress
Dowager of Bussia, their Imperial Highnesses the Grand
Duke and Duchess Constantine of Bussia and the mem¬
bers of their august family, their Majesties the King of
Prussia, the late King of Bavaria, the present and late
King of 'Wurtemberg, the Queen of Holland, and the
members of the Boyal Family of Holland; and many
of these august personages have honoured, and I be¬
lieve still honour, me with their esteem and goodwill, as
I have resided in some of their palaces as a gentleman
and their guest, and not as a paid or professional per¬
son. They have had ample opportunities, which they
have used, of investigating these phenomena, and of
inquiring into my character. I have resided in America,
England, France, Italy, Germany, and Bussia, and in
every country I have been received as a guest and
friend by persons in the highest position in society, who
were quite competent to discover and expose, as they
ought to have done, anything like contrivance on my
part to produce these phenomena. I do not seek, and
never have sought, .the acquaintance of any of these
exalted personages. They have sought me, and I have
thus had a certain notoriety thrust upon me. I do not
take money, and never have taken it, although it has
been repeatedly offered me for or in respect of these
phenomena, or the communications which appear to be
made by them. I am not in the habit of receiving those
who are strangers to me, and I never force the subject
of Spiritualism on any one’s attention. .. . Some of the
phenomena in question are noble and elevated, others
appear to be grotesque and undignified. For this I am
not responsible, any more than I am for the many
grotesque and undignified things which are undoubtedly
permitted to exist in the material world. I solemnly
swear that I do not produce the phenomena aforesaid,
or in any way whatever aid in producing them,” &c.
“ I have been subjected to much persecution through¬
out my life, because of my conscientious belief as to the
meaning and great purpose of spiritual phenomena
taken as a whole. That belief I have not, like the
plaintiff, foresworn. I have always courted the strictest
investigation, although I have not condescended to
notice all the attacks and anonymous slanders that have
been circulated respecting me. The book shown to me
at the time of swearing this affidavit, marked H 8, con¬
tains a correct list of upwards of 1,300 letters, with the
writers’ names, which I still retain (after having de¬
stroyed about 10,000), written to me by persons of every
rank and class, including persons of the highest social,
political, literary, and scientific position, who have in¬
vestigated these phenomena, and corresponded with me
about them. After the fullest opportunities of examina¬
tion, they have formed different opinions as to their
origin and meaning; but I believe that all are
thoroughly satisfied of my entire honesty in the matter;
and lately, while the plaintiff’s base and unfounded
charges of fraud and imposition have been hanging
over me, and during the months of January and
February, 1868, these phenomena have been thoroughly
tested by another scientific man, named Mr. Hawkins
Simpson, the inventor of electrical apparatus, including
one for printing at a distance by the telegraph—a
drawing and description of which were, as I am in¬
formed and believe, given in the Engineer newspaper of
the 15th November, 1867.”
Omitting the remainder of Mr. Home’s affidavit,
the following evidence given by him before the
Dialectical Society, is of interest:—
“He had seen a pencil lifted by a spirit hand write on
paper in the presence of the Emperor Napoleon. This
took place in a large room, the Salon Louis Quinze. The
Empress was also present. The hand, after writing,
went to the Emperor, who kissed it; it then went to the
Empress; she withdrew from the touch, and the hand
followed her. The Emperor said, ‘Do not be fright¬
ened, kiss it! ’ She then kissed it, and it shortly after¬
wards disappeared. The writing was an autograph
of the Emperor Napoleon I. The Emperor of Bussia
had also seen and handled spirit hands, which after¬
wards seemed to melt away into thin air.”
The Emperor Napoleon has heen at a great
many of Mr. Home’s seances, and Mr. Home was
asked by members of the Dialectical Society to
state other things which had been observed on
those occasions. Mr. Home said that he did not
feel at liberty to state any more than the Emperor
was in the habit of telling himself.
WHAT IS THE USE OF SPIRITUALISM ?
Strange to say there are people who can ask
what is the use of communication with friends
and relatives, who have passed the great harrier
of the grave. One use of Spiritualism is, that all
Spiritualists who lead moderately good lives, are
found to gradually lose the fear of death. Spirits
through the agency of suitable media have much
power in the healing of diseases, and the removal
of deformities, though such power is far from
absolute. The following is a narrative, published
in Daybreak, of some of the powers exercised
through Mr. Newton, the best healing medium in
the United States; he is expected to visit England
in the course of the year 1870. The following ex¬
ample from a very boundless field of choice, is
enough for the present on the subject of the uses
of Spiritualism:—
‘ Friday, May 22, of the present year (1868) will for
ever remain one of the most memorable days of my life.
It was on that day, when the sun was shining brightly
and bathing the world with its light and heat, that I
arrived at Newport, Bhode Island, and first came under
the healing powers of Dr. J. A. Newton. I had heard
of him through The Spiritual Magazine, Mr. William
Howitt, and Mr. Coleman, and was assured that if I
placed myself in his hands I should be speedily and
radically cured of the neuralgic affection in my head,
for which I had been suffering for eleven years. It was
not until I had become a little more familiar with some
of the facts and phenomena of modem Spiritualism
that I felt a quiet faith in the power of Dr. Newton to
remove my disease. Having once attained to that state
of mind, and becoming satisfied that it was my duty to
cross the Atlantic in search of health, I made arrange¬
ments for doing so, and left Liverpool for New York on
Saturday, May 9, arriving at the latter place on Tuesday
evening, the I9th. * * * * The moment Dr. New¬
ton and I met, I found in his face and simple kindly
manner a human image of the outside sunshine, and
but few words had been spoken when I was convinced
that the errand upon which I had come, would be ful¬
filled. I was about to give him the history in detail of
my affliction when he stopped me by saying, ‘That
after I had been cured he would be very glad to listen
to anything I might wish to say, but that the cure itself
was the first matter to be attended to.’ He then poured
a large quantity of very hot water upon my head while
I was leaning it over a basin into which the water fell.
After my head had been dried with a coarse towel, I
was made to sit upon a moveable seat, similar to a
music-stool, the doctor standing behind me, and placing
my head against his chest with his hands crossed upon
my forehead. He then moved my head in various
directions until all at once a clicking noise was heard at
the top of my spine. The doctor immediately cried out;
‘ That noise is the sign that you will be cured; the dis¬
turbance of the nerve current has been removed.’ Ha
then faced me, and lifting both his hands towards
heaven, he looked me hard in the face, saying, ‘Look at
me. In the name of God our Heavenly Father, and of
the Lord Jesus Christ the Great Healer, I bid this
disease depart from this dear suffering brother and
never more afflict him. It is gone—it is gone—it is
gone for ever, my brother; you are cured; rise up on
your feet and be cured.’ At that instant I felt a strong
current of new life flowing into and through every part
of my body, and I was conscious that I had entered
upon an altogether new phase of existence. From that
day to the present hour, July 13, I have been entirely
free from my pain, and have felt as well, I should think,
as it is possible for any human being to feel. Physically
speaking, I am a new creature; old things have passed
away and all things have become new. Of course it is
not for me to say absolutely that the cure will be per¬
manent, but, if I may judge from my present expe¬
rience, I see no reason why it should not be so.
"Wonderful as my case is, it is only one of thousands, so
far as Dr. Newton is concerned. He has cured almost
every form of disease, and removed almost every kind
of suffering. In fact, he appears to have done every¬
thing but raise the dead. And yet even he does not
cure all cases, and this failure enables him to keep alive
the consciousness that it is not he who cures, but God
who works in and through him. He tells me that he
has cured something like a quarter of a million of
people. * * * * Most of his cures are done without
fee or reward. In my own case he steadily refused to
take a single dollar, and I saw him act in like manner
towards several others. During my stay I witnessed
several instances of his healing power; some of them
being so manifest as to defy all attempts at explaining
them away. On the very morning that my own cure
was effected, I witnessed his cure of a paralytic who for
three years had been unable to walk without the aid of
crutches, and even then, only in a partial degree. This
woman was brought by her parents to Newport, and, in
less than five minutes from the time when she came
under Dr. Newton’s hands, she got up from the couch
on which she had been laid, and walked away np the
street and back again, a full mile, and afterwards
walked and ran and jumped and danced, as so many
signs that her cure was a complete one. I also saw him
cure a young man who had a withered hand. Indeed, I
might have seen day by day, and hour by hour, ex¬
amples of this healing power had I chosen to have done
so. Every now and again, there are trains from Boston
and Providence freighted with the lame, the halt, the
blind, and the diseased, sometimes to the number of
500 or 600. These come to Newport, and a large majo¬
rity of them are sent away perfectly cured. In one part
of Dr. Newton’s house there is a room of considerable
size, full of crutches, sticks, spectacles, eye-shades,
bandages, and other memorials of disease and sickness
which have been left behind by patients as so many
signs and trophies of their cure.
* * * * * *
“ Frederick Bowland Young,
“ Minister of the Free Christian Church, Swindon.”
There are Yery many healing mediums in the
United States, who can do good only in certain
diseases, or whose powers are so feeble that suc¬
cessful results may with more probability of accu¬
racy be put down to the imagination of the
patient.
A great use of Spiritualism is that it demon¬
strates the immortality of the soul. But why
ask, “ Of what use is Spiritualism ? ” for here the
thing is in our midst as much a part of nature as
the trees, the clouds, and the flowers, and as it
cannot be abolished there is no alternative but to
subject it to investigation, or to look^on in igno¬
rance.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family
friends and relatives, often gives the most satis¬
factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the same time, as no fully developed
medium is present among those who have never
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will be no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for every one successful
new circle thus started without a medium, there
are six or seven failures, but no accurate statistics
on this point have yet been collected. When
once manifestations have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive sittings. The following is a good plan of
action:—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but
cool rather than warm let arrangements be made that
24
THE SPIRITUALIST.
nobody shall enter it, and that there shall be no inter¬
ruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
■Vfet, damp, and foggy weather is bad for the production
of physical phenomena.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit round an un¬
covered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands
in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance.
Any table will do, just large enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it
sometimes, but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may be
obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, except with well-developed
physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, but an
a arid feeling against them is a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature. A prayerful,
earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely, to avoid confusion, let one person only speak,
and talk to the table as to an intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean
“Yes," one means “No,” and two mean “Doubtful,”
and ask whether the arrangement is understood. If
three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a
message ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “ Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations ?”
Probably some members of the circle will then be told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will be
afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the
medium ? ” ' When spirits come asserting themselves to
be related or known to anybody present, well-chosen
questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as spirits out of the body have all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body. .
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms
of other forms of mediumship than tilts or raps
may make their appearance. Information respect¬
ing the many kinds of mediumship will be found
in Mrs. Professor De Morgan’s book, From Matter
to Spirit, published by Longmans; and this is a
good book to read before trying to start a new
circle. It usually takes several years for any
medium to attain full power, and it is not an
uncommon although not an everyday thing, for
chairs and other articles to move about in the
presence of a good well-developed physical medium
without anybody touching the articles at all. This
fact effectually disposes of Faraday’s “unconscious
muscular action ” theory. Some have suggested
that the phenomena are all mental, since mental
conditions influence their production, and that
those present all believe they see and hear things
which they do not in reality see and hear. The
answer is that there is sometimes such a noise
with improperly powerful manifestations that the
sounds are heard all over the house by persons
not in the room; the furniture sometimes gets
broken by movements of too violent a character,
and the broken portions remain as evidence that
the phenomena were not- of a mental character.
The upholsterers’ bills which result also serve to
convince that the occurrences are facts. The
higher spirits seem to have little power over
common matter, and the highest communications
are not usually obtained through physical mani¬
festations.
' There are in England several very interesting
circles for physical manifestations, where the
spirits speak with audible voices, but, unfortu¬
nately, total darkness is a necessary condition.
Non-spiritualists who are inquiring into the sub¬
ject should have nothing to do with dark seances,
which should be held only by those who know
each other, since they offer so many facilities for
fraud. When any circle regularly obtains power¬
ful physical manifestations, they may desire to sit
for the voices. The very slightest glimmer of
light must be excluded from the room, while the
members of the circle sit round the table in the
ordinary way. One or two paper tubes, each
twelve or eighteen inches long, with an orifice
about an inch-and-a-half in diameter, should be
placed on the table. They may be readily made
by rolling up a piece of music and tying a few
ipieces of cotton round the rough tube thus formed.
In the early stages of a voice-circle these tubes
are necessary for the use of the spirits, but after¬
wards they may be dispensed with except when
.the weather and other conditions are unfavour¬
able. When first trying to obtain the voices the
-spirits may not be able to lift the tubes from the
table, afterwards they often get them up in the
air a foot or two and let them drop again. When
they get full control over them they can carry
them about up to the ceiling and to all parts of
the room, and they talk to the members of the
circle often while floating about above their heads.
Very beautiful luminous phenomena are some¬
times shown by the spirits at dark circles. While
-sitting for the voices, the spirits will tell by the
ordinary table signals how they are progressing in
'their work of getting control of the tubes.
Every human being is surrounded by an atmo¬
sphere which to the spirits is luminous and mate¬
rial, and this atmosphere is largely used by the
spirits in the production of the physical manifes¬
tations. Baron Reichenbach, while he knew
nothing of Spiritualism, discovered by experiment
the presence of unknown forces emanating from
human bodies, and published the results in his
Researches on Animal Magnetism. All the pheno¬
mena of Spiritualism draw temporarily upon the
vital powers of those composing the circle, but
the medium is the chief source of energy.
A still atmosphere and subdued light in the
room are favourable conditions for the physical
. manifestations.
SPIRITUALISM AND MEN OP SCIENCE
Sir J. Emerson Tennent once invited Faraday
to a seance at which Mr. Home was to be the
medium. Faraday wrote and asked for a pro¬
gramme of the manifestations, and as nobody
knows beforehand what will take place at a circle
any more than the details of an expected star-
shower can be given in advance, it was not pos¬
sible to comply with his demand. Faraday also
required an answer to the following questions,
among others, before attending:—
“Would he [Mr. Home] he glad if their [the manifesta¬
tion's] delusive character were established and exposed,
and would he gladly help to expose it, or would he be
annoyed and personally offended? [The italics in this
sentence are not in the original.]
“ Does he consider the effects natural or supernatural ?
If natural, what are the laws which govern them? or
does he think that they are not subject to laws? If
supernatural, does he suppose them to be miracles, or
the work of spirits ? If the work of spirits, would an
insult to the spirits be considered as an insult to
himself ? ”
Mr. Home took no notice of the above insults,
and, it is believed, never wrote Faraday in the
first instance, or took any notice of him whatever.
He never even saw his letters.
Dr. John Tyndall, F.R.S., in a note dated May
8, 1868, commenting upon Faraday’s letter just
mentioned, wrote:—
“ I hold myself in readiness to witness and investigate,
in the spirit of the foregoing letter [of Faraday’s], such
phenomena as Mr Home may wish to reveal to me
during the month of June.”
A few days previously Mr. Home had written
in the Pall Mall Gazette:—
“ It will give me pleasure to meet Professor Tyndall,
and any two gentlemen he shall designate. On my side
I shall have: at least two gentlemen whose names and
position place them above the suspicion of aiding or
abetting a fraud. I will meet Professor Tyndall and
these gentlemen when and where they please, and
under such circumstances as they may decide on. I
must only crave their patience if nothing should occur
at the first, or even the second, siance"
From that day to this Dr. Tyndall has not
accepted the above invitation.
A demand for a programme where no programme
can be given, and the writing of supercilious
letters in reply to civil invitations, amounts prac¬
tically to a refusal to observe faots. Dr. Tyndall,
and men who act like him, are recommended to
bear in mind the following words of Galileo :—
“ Oh, my dear Kepler, how I wish that we could have
our hearty laugh together. Here, at Padua, is the prin¬
cipal professor of philosophy, whom I have repeatedly
and urgently requested to look at the moon and planets
through my glass, which he pertinaciously refuses to do.
Why are you not here ? What shouts of laughter we
should have at this glorious folly; to hear the Professor
of Philosophy at Pisa, labouring before the Grand Duke
with logical arguments, as if with magical incantations
to charm the planets out of the sky! ”
A little society known as the Dialectical Society,
is now investigating Spiritualism. It numbers
among its members many shrewd and intelligent
men, belonging chiefly to the legal and medical
professions. Spiritualists watch its proceedings
with a moderate amount of interest; nothing that
any man or body of men may say or do can alter
the established phenomena and laws of nature.
THE LITERATURE OF SBHRITUALISM.
The literature of Spiritualism now consists of
several hundreds of volumes, good, bad, and indif¬
ferent, and almost entirely of American origin.
Among the best volumes on the subject are Mrs
De Morgan’s From Mattes' to Spirit (Longmans)
with a preface by Professor De Morgan, President
of the Mathematical Society of London; The
Planchette, by Epes Sargent; Spiritualism (2 vols.),
by Judge Edmonds and G. T. Dexter, of New
York; a History of Spiritualism, by Emma Hard-
inge; and The Autobiography of Andrew Jackson
Davis. An interesting book, consisting simply of
narrations Of facts witnessed at remarkable seances,
is Incidents of My life (Longmans), by D. D.
Home. The Soul of Things, by Denton, is a curious
book indirectly connected with Spiritualism, and
worth reading. Those unacquainted with Spiri¬
tualism are recommended to read these books in
the order in which they have just been mentioned.
The only large lending library of Spiritual books
in Great Britain is that belonging to Mr. J. Burns,
15, Southampton-row, High Holbom, London,
W.C. The English periodicals on the subject
are, The Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, Day¬
break, and The Spiritualist.
ADVICE TO INQUIRERS.
Those who know no intelligent Spiritualists,
and nothing about Spiritualism, yet who want to
investigate, are recommended to begin by reading
the first two books mentioned in the preceding
paragraph. Then they should call upon the chief
publisher of Spiritual books in London, Mr. J.
Bums, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom (where they
are sure to be treated with attention and courtesy),
and ask for the names and addresses of say four
good professional or non-professional mediums,
accessible to the public, and “ recognised by Spiri¬
tualists as reliable for powerful physical manifes¬
tations.” There are plenty of mediums cfr of people
who fancy themselves mediums, who can rarely show
anything satisfactory, and with whom, an inquirer
might waste much time. He should then get say
two sittings by daylight in his own house with
each of the four mediums, because the power
varies in strength at times with every medium;
at the end of the eight sittings he is sure to be
thoroughly interested in Spiritualism, and to have
thrown overboard the imposture theory, which is
the clumsiest and most superficial one of all.
Many of the public have vague ideas that electri¬
city can do all kinds of unaccountable things, but
A GENUINE MEDIUM NEVER HAS ANT HESITATION
IN SITTING WITH A CIRCLE IN A HOUSE AND AMONG
FURNITURE WHICH HE OR SHE HAS NEVER SEEN IN
his or her life before. Even with a good
medium it is best, if time be valuable, not to
investigate at crowded public circles, because,
assuming imposture to be at work, there is no
telling who may not be aiding, among the
numerous spectators. Besides, where so many
people want to ask questions of the spirits, the
investigator has not time to put many himself.
Investigators are recommended to be thus careful
in the selection of mediums, because as public
attention is gradually more rivetted upon Spiri¬
tualism, impostors are sure to spring up, and even
to advertise in Spiritual periodicals, for the editors
manifestly cannot investigate the claims of every
professing medium. At present (November, 1869)
there is very little imposture mixed up with the
Spiritual movement in Great,Britain, and there are
only four or five paid mediums in all London.
"Good paid mediums deserve high praise rather
than that censure which is thrown upon them even
by Spiritualists; they find house-room; they are
ready to receive strangers at stated times when
private circles could not sit for the convenience of
inquirers; the sittings exhaust their vitality like a
hard days’ work, and they have to put up with
much abuse when uneducated roughs unaccus¬
tomed to investigation persecute them by attend¬
ing. The inquirer should mention to the medium,
civilly and kindly, his doubts respecting the
phenomena he may witness'; the invisible beings
around will at once, on the spot, do their best to
remove those doubts, or an explanation will be
obtained from the medium. When there is real
foundation for suspicion, the best plan is to go
often to the medium, accompanied by witnesses,
detect the imposture, and prosecute the medium
for obtaining money under false pretences.
Genuine manifestations are not under the control
of the medium, so that a paid medium who does
not get manifestations, is under a great temptation
to try to make them. This fact makes it difficult
for Spiritualists to speak absolutely as to the relia¬
bility of any paid mediums, however genuine the
majority of the manifestations may be which occur
in their presence. After getting thoroughly inte¬
rested in Spiritual phenomena, the inquirer should
take his friends to see them, and afterwards get up
a private circle in his own house. Manifestations
will most likely not be obtained at the first sitting,
but after very few or very many sittings they will
come; gradually the great barrier of the grave
which now separates friends will be broken down,
and after the experience' of a year or two the
dread of the beautiful natural process, called
“death,” will be destroyed, as it is destroyed in
the minds of all experienced Spiritualists, except
those who during life have done harm to their
fellow-creatures. Very high spirits and then-
homes are perfectly invisible to very low spirits;
this, coupled with the fact that there is no more
uniformity in the next world than there is here,
accounts for the endless contradictions about spirit
life given in Spiritual communications.
An investigator of a logical and scientific turn of
mind may possibly have to closely follow up the
subject for some weeks before gaining the absolute
knowledge that the manifestations come from
spirits. . Unlike Mr. Home and a few other excep¬
tional individuals, most mediums are developed
for one or two special purposes only. Thus, vio¬
lent physical manifestations, inexplicable by any
of the recognised laws of matter, may be seen in
the presence of one medium, but mental tests and
questions may bring forth a majority of inaccurate
and unreliable answers. Where good mental tests
are ©btainable through a medium, the physical
manifestations may be altogether absent.
There are so few public or semi-public spirit
circles at work in London, and the pressure for
admission is so great where the manifestations are
good, that the best plan for novices is usually to
try to get manifestations at home among their own
friends.
JOSEPH BAEKER’S AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
Now ready, neatly bound in cloth, price 2s. 6d.
Teachings of experience; or,
Lessons I have Learned on my Way through
Life.
London: James Beveridge, 9, 10, 11, Fullwood’s-rents,
Holborn, W.C.
UMAN NATURE, a Monthly Record
of Zoistie Science, Intelligence, and Popular
Anthropology. Recent numbers give full details of the
extraordinary Manifestations through the celebrated
Medium, D. D. Home, Esq., with philosophical reason¬
ings as to the nature and cause of the phenomena: a
new series of lessons on Phrenology and the Tempera¬
ments is being given, containing some new instructions
of great value to the student; first-class Portraits of
eminent men and women, with Biographies and Phreno¬
logical delineations are frequently introduced; a serial
Tale of great power and beauty; articles on Physiology,
Diet, Temperance, and Health; translations from Con¬
tinental Works and Periodicals; treatises on Mesmerism,
Clairvoyance, Spiritualism; reviews of Books; reports
of Lectures, Meetings, and Societies, renders this the
cheapest, most varied, and instructive Periodical of the
kind in the world. The fact that this Periodical is en-'
tirely unbiased and devoted to the truth respecting all
the topics on which it treats, is a point not to be over¬
looked by all earnest investigators, whatever their
opinions may be. Post free, 7s.*per annum, or 6d. per
month from the Booksellers. James Burns, Progres¬
sive Library, 15, Southampton-row, Bloomsbury-square,
Holbom, London, W.C.
THE PROGRESSIYE LIBRARY and
SPIRITUALIST DEPOSITORY has been re¬
moved from Camberwell to No. 15, Sonthampton-row,
Bloomsbury-square, Holbom, W.C.
There is a Publishing Office and Shop for the sale of
Books; a Circulating Library of all Works on Spiritualism,
&c.; a Reading-Room supplied with the Spiritual and
Progressive Publications of the World; a Drawing-
Room for the special use of Ladies and Subscribers;
Private Rooms for Stances, Committees, Meetings, &c.,
and where all information respecting the Cause and the
Progress of events may be obtained.
The Subscription, entitling to all the privileges of the
Establishment, including the use of two Books at a
time from the Library for home perusal, is 21s. per annum
A well-assorted Stock of Stationery, Periodicals, cur¬
rent Progressive Literature, Standard Works, Cheap
Books and Tracts, Blanchettes, Materials for Writing
and Drawing Mediums; also Works and Appliances on
Phrenology, Physiology, Health, and Dietetic Reform,
Temperance, Hydropathy, Gymnastics, Mesmerism,
Clairvoyance, Anthropology, &e., will be kept on sale.
As the responsibilities incurred in establishing this
“ Home for Spiritualism ” and the Science of Man are
very heavy, the Proprietor earnestly solicits the kind
co-operation and support of all who sympathise with
the enterprise. Strangers in London should at once
call at the Progressive Library, where they may hear of
Lodgings and get other useful information.
J. Burns, Progressive Library, 15, Southampton-row,
Bloomsbury-square, Holbom, London, W.C.
The spiritual magazine, pub¬
lished Monthly, contains all the news of Spiri¬
tualism, and psychological articles by writers of ability.
Publisher, James Burns, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom,
W.C. .
THE BANNER OF LIGHT, the Chief
Weekly Newspaper on Spiritualism in the United
States, may be ordered through Mr. James Burns, 15,
Southampton-row, Holbom, W.C.
MR. J. L. OLIVE, Professor of Modem
Spiritual Science, 6, The Junction, Cambridge-
road, Kilbnm, W. Mr. Olive is prepared to afford infor¬
mation relative to Spiritualism, the Development of
Mediumistic power, &c., with facilities for investigation
of Phenomena. Reliable advice based on large medical
experience, and aided by beneficent Spirit Intelligences,
may also be obtained for the relief of ailments of Body
or Mind. Consultation Fee, One Shilling.
Dec. 17, 1869.
TO LIFE POLICY-HOLDERS. — The
recent disclosures in the Chancery'Court indis--;
putably prove that neither the antiquity of a life office
nor the magnitude of its income, affords to the public
any security that the premiums they have paid for the
purpose of securing a snm of money to their families
may not be frittered away in costly amalgamations, or
jeopardised by fire, marine, or accidental risks.
In order to remove this insecurity the BRITISH IM¬
PERIAL INSURANCE CORPORATION was esta¬
blished on the principle substantially adopted by Her
Majesty’s Government for small policies, and carried out
through the medium of the Post-office.
The Life Funds of the British Imperial Corporation
are placed beyond the control of the Directors, being in¬
vested in the Government Funds (for the sole purpose
of meeting policy claims) in the names of trustees, who
act independent of the Directors, and solely on behalf of
the policy-holders.
The system of investing Insurers’ net premiums in
Consolidated three per cent. Annuities in Trustees’
names for the sole purpose of meeting Policy Claims,
combined with the creation of a number of Separate
Trusts, presents entirely new elements of security to
Insurers.
Any section of the community who are dissatisfied
with the ordinary plan of entrusting their premiums to
the care of the Directors of a life office may, without
cost or risk, constitute themselves into a separate sec¬
tion of the British Imperial Corporation, and appoint
their own trustees to control the life insurance funds
contributed by them.
Trustees :
Christopher Weguelin, Esq., Director of the Bank of
England (Messrs. Thomson, Bonar, and Co.)
Charles Oppenheim, Esq., Director of the Union Bank of
London (Messrs. S. Oppenheim and Sons).
William G. Goodliffe, Esq., Accountant-General, India
Office, Westminster.
Augustus F. Bayford, Esq., LL.D., Senior Registrar,
Court of Probate, Doctor’s-commons, Chancellor of
the Diocese of Manchester.
Alderman Thomas Dilworth Crewdson, J.P., Greenheys,
Manchester.
Head Offices:
SI, KING-STREET, AND 60, SPRING-GARDENS,
MANCHESTER.
Chief Offices for London :
20, COOKSPUR-STREET, PALL-MALL.
JJ1EMALE
MEDICAL
Vice-Patrons:
society;
His Grace the Duke of Argyll, K.T.
Her Grace the Duchess of Argyll.
The Baroness de Rothschild.
The Countess de NoaUles.
President:
The Right Honourable the Earl of Shaftesbury, K.G.
Treasurer:
Henry Charles Stephens, Esq., 171 Aldersgate-street, E.C
Honorary Secretary:
[James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.
Lady Secretary:
Mrs. Blangy.
Auditors:
Colonel Oldfield, Ticehurst, Sussex.
Captain Webber, 94, Gower-street, W.C.
Bankers:
The London and County Bank, 441, Oxford-street.
Temporary Offices:
4, Fitzroy-square, London, W,
The Female Medical Society is established for the
following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated
women in the practice of Midwifery, and the treatment
of the Diseases of Women and Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities
for learning the theory and practice of Midwifery, and
the accessory branches of Medical Science.
Midwifery and the accessory branches of medicine
offer a wide field of honourable and lucrative employ¬
ment for educated women; also a means of intellectual
culture and social usefulness to ladies who may not be
dependent upon their own exertions. For want of
properly qualified ladies the best portion of the practice
of midwifery has drifted into the hands of gentlemen,
though female practitioners still attend the bulk of the ’
population. But any person may undertake the duties
of a midwife. Proper means of study have never been
provided for women, and there has never been any
public examination, by which women when well qualified
might be distinguished from those who are illiterate and
unqualified.
The Society has carried on for five years the Ladies’
Medical College, which has taught the theory and prac¬
tice of Midwifery and the accessory branches of medi¬
cine. Eighty-two ladies have already availed themselves
of its advantages, and many of these ladies are settled
in practice, and succeeding admirably.
A life subscription of ten guifieas, or an annual sub¬
scription of one guinea,^constitutes a member of the
Society, but stamps or other small contributions will be
gladly received.
Lady subscribers of not less than one guinea are
invited to visit any Lectures in which they are likely to
be interested.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses
of the College, and all particulars as to the operations of
the Society, may be obtained of the Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4 Fitzroy-square, W.
Cheques to he crossed London and County Bank.
“THE NEWSPAPER PRESS ’’—THE PRESS ORGAN
THIS JOURNAL is the adopted and re¬
cognised Representative of the Newspaper in¬
terests, and the medium of intercommunication between
Proprietors, Editors, Reporters, Correspondents, Pub¬
lishers, Printers, and all parties associated with News¬
papers.
“ We hail with satisfaction the addition of the News¬
paper Press to the journalism of the United Kingdom.”
—Saunders' News Letter.
“ Information of a kind peculiarly valuable to every
one connected with newspapers.”—Dublin Freeman's
Journal.
“We feel it our duty especially to commend it to all
newspaper men.”—Brighton Gazette.
Subscriptions, 4s. per annum, post "free, payable in ad¬
vance.
London: E. W. Allen, Publisher, 11, Ave Maria-lane
Ladies in the Medical Profession  17
Spirit-rapping in John Wesley’s Family. Part III. 17
Reports of Meetings :—St. John’s Association of
Spiritualists   ...    ... 18
Seances at the Spiritual Library  19
General News:—Spiritualism in East London.—
Spirit Identity.—Trance Mediumship.—East Lon¬
don Association of Spiritualists.—The Spiritual
Library—-The Famine Fever. — Spiritualism in
Clerkenwell.—The Anthropological Society ... 20
Leader:—^Economy of Time in Spiritual Research 21
Wanted a Ghost  21
An Address from a Spirit ...  21
Poetry:—“ Quid Verum."—Belshazzar.—The Child’s
Questions   22
Newspaper Criticism:—The Glasgow Herald on
spiritualism  22
The Glories of the Heavens   ... 22
Paragraphs:—The Spiritualist, 22.—Will-Power,
22.—A Spirit on “Space," 22.—Mrs. Hardinge’s
Lectures, 22.
Printed for the Proprietor by James Beveridge, at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High
Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and
St George the Martyr, London, and published by E.
W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
