AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 74.—(Vol. IY.—No. 4.) LONDON: JANUARY 23j 1874. Published Weekly; Price Threepence
(Eontents.
The Spiritual uses of Physics        37
Mr. Gerald Massey on “ The Devil’’      ... ... 38
Spirit Identity... ... ...           '- 39
The “ Daily Telegraph ” on Spiritualism      40
Home Experiences in Spiritualism.—The Advent of Mr. Benjamin
Cross—The First Visit of the Spirit “ Florence ”—The Home Influ¬
ence of Spiritual Phenomena—Face Manifestations at Teignmouth
—The Religious influence of Spiritualism ... ... ...    42
A Trance Sermon and Prayer   ... .,.    ...    44
Anti-Spiritualism in Birmingham   ... .]     45
Agassiz       45
Poetry.—From One to Another           46
Correspondence. — The Difficulties of an Inquirer    ... 46
The Dalston Society ... ... ...    . .. ... ... 46
Window-pane Pictures... ... ... ...      47
Paragraphs.—National Organisation, 41; The Human Double, 45; A
Candid Investigator, 48; The Religious Influence of Spiritualism,
48; Miss Lottie Fowler....'•   ..1   ... 48
Crown 8vo. pp. 126, Cloth 2s. 6d. '
HINTS for the “ EVIDENCES of SPIRITUALISM.
By M.P.
London: Triibner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE
EXPLAINED.
THE DEAD? or, SPIRITUALISM
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London : Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISTS.—Sunday Evening Services are Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o’clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
R. Pearce, Son. Sec.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and ’on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist.
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
M
RS. CORA L. V. TAPP AN’S SUNDAY EVENING
DISCOURSES
New Ooub.se. • > . . r
Committee.: —
Dr. Gully, M.D., Chairman. .
N. F. Dawe, Esq., Portman Chambers, Poftman-square, W.
J. T. Hoskins, Esq., 5, Connaught-square,'W.
T. H. Noyes, Jun., Esq., “United University Club,” Suffolk-street, Pall-
mall, S.W.
Thomas Slater, Esq., 136, Euston-road, N.W.
Mrs. Honywood, 52, Warwick-square, S.W., Treasurer.
Webster Glynes, Esq., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W C., Hon. Secretary.
At an influential meeting, recently held, fctio above-mentioned persons
were appointed a working Committee, with power to add to their number,
for inaugurating a further course of 12 Discourses by Mrs. Tappan, on
Sunday evenings.
The course was commenced on the 18th iust., and it is hoped will be con¬
tinued up to the 5th April next. Doors open at 6.15 p.m., to commence
at seven.
It is estimated that the expense of holding the course would be £144, or
£12 a night.
Of this amount it is expected that £50 only will be obtained from the
admission of the general public.
The balance of £94 must therefore be procured from other sources.
The Committee look for liberal donations from the general body of
friends of the movement, and to the proceeds of the sale of a limited
number of tickets for reserved seats, as the means of providing this sum.
They make an earnest appeal for support, and trust to receive a speedy
and 'nearty response, as they feel sure that it would be a matter of great
regret if these beautiful addresses, should not receive the support they un¬
doubtedly deserve.
A considerable amount is still required to make up the estimated
expenses.
Transferable tickets, to admit one person to a reserve seat for the whole
series, will be sold at 5s.. 12s. and 24s. each. But seats, however, cannot
be reserved after the commencement of the service.
Sets of tickets for the course can be obtained of the Treasurer, or Hon.
Secretary, by forwarding Post Office Order, or of Messrs. Chappell, Bond-
street, either singly or in sets, or of Mr. Bums, 15, Southampton-row
Holbom, who will give every information.
Single tickets 2s. Is. or 6d.
Admission to the body of the Hall free.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1873.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.
Mr. John Davidson, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H. J. Charlton,
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. G. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. R. Casson.
Mr. D. Gay.
Mr. T. B. Griffin.
Committee of Management.
Mrs. Gay.
Mr. Riece.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Casson.
Trustees.
Mr, Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. John Lamont.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
Mr. Bretherton. | Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
. 1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 23, 1874.
Lately published,
WHAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Mental
Philosophy and Psychology. Yol. I. The MECHANISM of MAN
By EDWARD W. COX, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s. 6d.
Contents.
CHAP.
1. Introduction.
2. What am I?
3. The Man.
4. How we Grow.
5. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
, The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The. Mechanism of the Mind.
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the Will.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
81. Soul—Spirit—Anima.
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. The Natural and the Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul,
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery,
45. Cpnclusions.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS IIS TO
SPIRITUALISM^ (Established 1870.)
President.—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Council.
Mr. George Blyton, 1 Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mrs. Amelia Comer, J Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mr. E, J. Wilson.
Secretary & Treasurer.—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
A DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on hear¬
ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, and in¬
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might be
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 15th September, 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts; through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter caieful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modern Spiritualism
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations-(side Rule IX). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordi¬
nary seance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month Is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussicns, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on th-Q first Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Rooms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelope
should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and charming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and no
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Herald.
A remarkable book.—Builder,
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I ?”—Leicester Mercury
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflective readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily, Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest.—South Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume With some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of. all praise.—Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
London: Longman and Co., Patemoster-row.
Just published,
The second yolume of “ what am i ?”
A Popular Introduction to Psychology and Mental Philosophy. By
EDWARD W. COX, Sergeant-at-Law. Price 10s. 6d.
This Volume complete^ the work. It treats of the Mechanism of Man in
action. The following are the
Contents :—
CHAP.
Preface.
1. Introductory.
2. Of the Intelligent Motive Forces.
3. The Conditions of Existence.
4. The Mechanism in Health.
5. Of Sleep.
6. Of Dreams.
7. Of some of the Phenomena of
Sleep and Dreams
8. Of Delirium.
9. Of Insanity.
10. Of Natural Somnambulism.
11. Of Artificial Somnambulism. I.
The Condition.
12. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
II. Clairvoyance.
13. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
III. The Mental Phenomena.
14. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IV. Catalepsy.
15. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
V. Insensibility and Uncon-
' sciousness.
CHAP.
16. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VI. History.
17. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VII. Healing Power.
18. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VIII. SupersensuousPercep¬
tion.
19. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IX. Thought Reading.
20. Of Trance.
21. Of Unconscious Cerebration.
22. Of Psychic Force.
23. Of Psychic Force. I. The
Proofs.
24. Of Psychic Force. II. Its Phy¬
siology.
25. Of Psychic Force. III. The
Directing Inteligence.
26. Other Psychic Phenomena. I.
Communicated.
27. Other Psychic Phenomena. II.
Experiments.
28. The Summing Up
29. The Conclusions.
VOL. I. MAY BE HAD, PRICE 8s. 6d.
London: Longman & Co., Patemoster-row.
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Weekly Journal. Edited by J. Tyieman.
Price Threepence. To be had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
Dalston association of enquirers into
SPIRITUALISM. {Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly ; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
THOMAS BLYTON, Secretary and Treasurer
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, | Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
YERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
info England the subject attracted attention in ^Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assocciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. ' Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance With one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Uommittee
Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
NEW WORK BY ROBERT DALE OWEN.
Crown 8vo. pp. 344, cloth 7s. 6d.
THREADING MY WAY % Twenty-Seven Years of Auto¬
biography.
A most interesting volume, being a narrative of the first twenty-seven
years of the Author’s life; its adventures, errors, experiences; together
with the reminiscences of noted personages whom he has met, etc.
London: Trilbner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
EJ. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North, that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c., &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms, cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to MR. BARKAS),
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
. VOjLUJVIE FOUR. JNUJVtBEI\ FOUR.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 23rd, 1874.
Established in 1869.
HARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch
Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
' All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T- Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department Should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of Orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of '■'•The Spiritualist" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals :—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver; Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Ob., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Oadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
■ Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 164, Bourke-street.
„ Mr H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &e., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. 0. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. 0. A Durham, news agent, &c., 118 Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74’ Bruaswick-street,
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road,
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Oastlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-ttreet.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher.
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny,
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 10s., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
•JjlEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects :—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children. .
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
THE SPIRITUAL USES OF PHYSICS.
In the philosophical world at the present day there
are two very opposite lines of speculation as to the
fundamental nature of matter and spirit. On the one
hand there is the materialistic school, which holds it to
be probable that mind is evolved from matter, or, in
other words, that the genius of Shakespeare, the in¬
telligence of Newton, and the purity of the great
spiritual teachers of the world, were once potential in
the fires of the sun and in ultimate atoms of matter.
Professor Tyndall appears to hold these ideas to a very
large extent, so far as can be gathered from his public
utterances. On the other hand, there are those who
are inclined to the opinions enunciated by Bishop
Berkeley, to the effect that the external world is the
result of mental conditions, and that when the inner
nature of man undergoes a change, the external world,
as we see it now, may exist no longer for him. Pro¬
fessor Huxley inclines very strongly indeed to the
views of Bishop Berkeley, and is at heart more a
Spiritualist than a materialist. Spiritualism and mes¬
merism throw a great deal of light upon these im¬
portant problems, since they present us with physical
phenomena influenced to a large extent by mental
conditions. The clairvoyant, for instance, will some¬
times see events then taking place in a distant town ;
the room in which he is sitting exists no longer for
him, and by the temporary unfolding of one of the
powers of the spirit, he observes that which is oc¬
curring at a distance. The intervening walls, and
streets, and hills, and valleys exist no longer for him.
Here, then, seems to be an experimental fact in favour
of Berkeleyism, and strongly opposed to materialism.
Again, a mesmerist will make his sensitives see certain
things which have no real existence. He can make
them believe the sky to be green, or a rose to be black,
or that buffaloes are drawing London cabs, or force
them to accept any other absurdity for the time being.
These things are, however, all real to them. The
mesmerist uses this power in a disorderly and irregular
manner; he understands little about its laws, its
nature, or its conditions. But what evidence have we
that some greater and more intelligent mind than that
possessed by a mesmerist may not be acting upon all man¬
kind in an orderly manner, by the intelligent exercise
of the same great laws, whereby all the facts of ma¬
terial existence may be impressed upon us to serve
only temporary purposes, so that when the said mental
conditions are no longer ordained to surround us, and
when their temporary use has been fulfilled, the pre¬
sent external world fades from our consciousness.
This is but speculation, still it deserves consideration.
Assuming, then, that the things of the spirit and of
the affections are real and eternal, whilst the things of
matter are mere shadows, fugitive and temporary in
their nature, what are the spiritual uses of physics ?
Physical science of course tends to ameliorate the
38
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 23, 1874.
material condition of mankind; it tends to increase
our comforts, to advance education, and to do good in
ten thousand ways, but the point on which we now
desire to speculate is, what is the use of it to the man
himself after he goes into another world, where those
material conditions in the study of which he has spent
so much of his life, may no longer exist, not that the
next life is less real in every sense to the spirit than
the present one. Perhaps the answer to this problem
may be found in the circumstance, that all the laws
and facts of matter may have their mental and spiritual
analogies. Por example, if the statement is made that
“ the effects of a good deed or of a bad deed are never
lost ”—to the unscientific mind such an assertion is
mere speculation; but the man trained in physics, who
understands the law of the conservation of energy,
knows, as an absolute fact, that physical power is never
lost, so is more prepared to receive the analogous
spiritual truth. If an anvil be struck by a hammer,
the power is not gone after the blow has been struck;
it is merely transformed into another kind of energy,
which exercises its influence to all eternity. When a
weight is raised to the top of a house, the power ex¬
pended in raising it is not lost, but for the most part is
stored up in the weight, which at the top of the house
possesses a power which it did not possess at the
bottom. Por instance, in returning to its former level,
it can do work. It can be made to turn the hands of a
clock, or to drive a coffee mill, which it could not do
before it had been raised. Therefore some of the
power employed in raising it was stored up in the
weight itself in the form of potential energy. Thus it
will be seen that the man who has fully grasped all the
bearings of the law of the conservation of energy is in
a better position to understand the spiritual truth that
the effects of good and evil actions endure for ever,
although by diffusion their results may in the long run
be infinitesimal in any particular case. Indeed, in
thinking out the problem, all the laws of physics ap¬
pear to have their analogies in things spiritual, and the
same trains of thought which lead to accurate results
in the one case, should be connected with analogous
trains of thought_which will lead to reliable results in
the other.
“Action and reaction are equal,” says the physicist.
“ You cannot indulge in angry passions without in¬
juring yourself as much as the object of your passion,”
says the Spiritualist. Yet how much more firmly can
the scientific mind grasp the reality of this idea, from
its experimental knowledge of the physical fact. The
knowledge of the expense and trouble due to acting
upon mere assumptions and speculations as if they
were proved facts, has been bought by the physicist by
costly experience, so that in spiritual things he is very
cautious not to accept assertions and authoritative
statements as truths. Thus, a good scientific training
may, rightly applied, be a good spiritual training, but
the physcist who at heart and in spirit is self-seeking,
who studies the facts of matter merely for worldly pur¬
poses, finds his affections clinging to him after death,
and remains an earth-bound spirit. “ "Where thy
treasure is, there will thy heart be also,” said one of
old, and any keen scientific mathematical mind, with
no soul above the study of physics for the sake of
material wealth or public applause, will find himself
tied after death to wealth and conceit, which are of the
earth earthy.
ME. GERALD MASSEY ON “ THE DEVIL.”
The Iteligio-Philosophical Journal (Chicago) of Jan.
10th, says :—“ Why does not God kill the Devil ?”
The following answer thereto was given by Gerald
Massey in his lecture in this city:—
He took for his text the question proposed to Robin¬
son Crusoe by Friday: “ If God much strong, much
mighty as the devil, why God no kill the devil? So
make him no more wicked.” In these words, he said,
Defoe had propounded a conundrum which required a
vast deal of circumlocution to answer. The human
mind had long been under the dark shadow of ideas,
the real meaning of which the modern mind had failed
to grasp. Myths and allegories had been adopted in
ignorance, and reissued to men as truths from a divine
source. The ancient religions interpreted their myths,
but ours was misinterpreted, and much of that which
Christians regarded as God’s revelations to man was a
mass of inverted myths. These parables had been
elevated to the position which the groups of stars
known as the “ serpent,” the “ bull,” or the “ crab,”
would occupy were we to believe them to be in reality
these animals, instead of constellations with symbolical
names. This perversion from ideas came from taking our
history, geography, and versions of the myths from the
Jews, an ignorant and blindly bigoted people.
The Chinese did endeavour to date the deluge, and
the Hindoos reckoned their past ages by millions of
years long before j but the Jews succeeded in revealing
to the modern world nothing but the doctrine that
symbols and myths were real, living historical beings.
The least freedom of thought or assertion of comifion
sense would have overthrown those ideas, had men but
dared to think. If God had had the smallest chance
within the human soul to speak for himself, man must
perforce have been convinced of the absurdity of these
mis-interpretations, and the horrible creations would
have dropped away from the freed goul like vermin
starved off a clean, healthy body.
The speaker explained the “ Legend of the Golden
Age,” as the primeval parable of pre-existence, assert¬
ing that-one of the fast disappearing races of the earth,
the Eastern Australians, had a version of the myth
that was nearer to its origin than those of Plato or the
writer of the Pentateuch. The motive of the Hebrew
legend of the fall of man was essentially vulgar, ful¬
minating their anathema against knowledge by the
mouth of God Himself. Knowledge was figured as the
forbidden fruit, yet it was called the fruit of the tree
of knowledge of good or evil. It was made to bring
death into the world, and the logical conclusion was
that the only human condition that touched the divine
was perfect ignorance. He believed there was an
image of the divine nature always striving to form
itself in humanity, but it was no reflection of the far-off
past. It was a divine image, a faint reflection of the
living God. There had been a fall in the past, not of
humanity, but a fall of the intellect from the height
attained under certain civilisations of the past, espe¬
cially the Egyptians, a fall because we had lost the key
of their mysteries.
There was sufficient truth in this fall to constitute a
doctrine of illusion when wrongly interpreted. The
height attained by the Egyptians and Chaldeans had
been made to look like a divine beginning on earth.
Doubtless all origin was divine, but divine origin could
THE SPIRITUALIST.
39
Jan. 23, 1874.
not be visible, and was applied to our beginning, not
from actual knowledge, but from a misconstruction on
the part of the Jews of the Egyptian and Chaldean
myths. Men did not begin a state of perfection, and
never fell from such a condition, and those who formu¬
lated these myths never had such a meaning.
Our orthodox devil was not, however, directly de¬
rived from the Jews. They never had the existence of
a devil revealed to them, nor did the heathen believe in
such a personage. The devil of theology was the oppos¬
ing of theology.
The lecturer’s theory of the myths was that they were
created in man’s thought about his own nature, and
merely symbolised by, not directly derived from exter¬
nal nature. He traced the history of the serpent through
the two religions based on the male and female prin¬
ciples of nature, gave the derivation of the orthodox
word “ Satan,” and an explanation of the two serpents,
types of good and evil. The personified evil spirit was
probably first adopted during the Babylonian captivity,
but it remained for Luther, Calvin, and Milton to re¬
habilitate the devil in the popular mind.
The satan of sacerdotal belief was not a being for
God to kill, but an effigy in shoddy which only wanted
to be ripped open to show that it was filled with saw¬
dust. There was devil enough, but of another kind,
the natural nemesis following broken laws and dogging
the law-breaker. This was not a satan of God’s making
but a devil to be recognised by his likeness to ourselves
—the devil of our own ignorance and self-deification,
bequeathed to us by centuries of ignorant selfishness.
And then men had the blasphemous impudence to make
God the author of this dark shadow of themselves.
Pain was a consequence of imperfect condition. As,
for instance, pain was the sentinel that warns a child
of evil, and prevents him from thrusting his hand into
the fire and allowing it to be consumed, so mental pain
was the warning sentinel of the soul,—God’s reminder
of something to be remedied. Pain was a passing ne¬
cessity, the result of our imperfect condition, and God
did not destroy it once because he intended man to
get rid of it as he became more and more enlightened.
By applying fire to dense earthly matter it became
transfigured into transparent glass, and by applying
pain to the human soul it became so purified that the
light of heaven could shine through it clearly.
The lecturer then launched into a long definition of
suffering, that of the individual and that of humanity in
general, and explained it as a burden imposed for the
crime and ignorance as well of centuries before us as
those of the present, and explained that each indi¬
vidual was in some measure responsible for the con¬
duct of his fellow-beings; that despite the questionings
of the fact, every man was his brother’s keeper, and
could not escape the responsibility of the charge, or
the punishment for its neglect. And God was not re¬
sponsible for our evil conditions. He placed us in a
world sparkling with purity, and it was we who
created the illness of poverty which afflicts mankind.
And this result attained, God was implored to work a
miracle and cleanse the world that we befouled.
Humanity was so depraved that it was impossible
for God to dwell in common with it. It was a farce
for men to pray for the kingdom of God to come while
they were doing all in their power to prevent its coming.
Man was sent here to create the kingdom by the power
of love, by loving his neighbour as himself, and the very
reason why the kingdom did not come was because man
failed to prepare the way. Jesus Christ was a life
measure for us to test ourselves by, and we were to use
him as a model, and not as a plank by which to cross
over the dark river of death.
The lecturer then launched forth into a lengthy dis¬
sertation on Spiritualism, concluding, “ Call it supersti¬
tion if you will, but it is a superstition that will, sooner
or later, overthrow and do away with your superstition,
the superstition of orthodox Christianity.”
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
We have received the following letter from Dr.
Speer:—
To the Editor of " The Spiritualist."
Sir,—The enclosed spirit communications, given through
the mediumship of a gentleman well known to yourself, are so
remarkable as bearing upon the question of an outside inde¬
pendent intelligence and of identity, that my egotism in sub¬
mitting them to the readers of the Spiritualist may possibly
be pardoned.
The singular character of these communications lies in this :
that perhaps upon no single point that could be mentioned is
the medium so absolutely devoid of all ordinary information
as upon matters musical; whilst the details here given of the
lives of certain old ecclesiastical musicians, purporting to
have influenced my son (a boy of fourteen), are so minute,
and so absolutely accurate in every respect, that no living
musician, albeit trained from childhood in a cathedral choir,
could, without reference to a musical biography, afford such
information.
I may add, that at present every manifestation occurring in
our circle has apparently for its object the establishment of
the all-important question of identity.
Stanhope T. Speer, M.D., Edin.
Dudley Villa, Shanklin, Isle-of-Wight, Jan. 19th, 1874.
In order to render intelligible the following curious
communications, it is necessary to premise that they
relate to a son of Dr. Speer’s, a boy of fourteen.
From the earliest years be has displayed remarkable
musical ability, and has attracted notice from, and
raised the highest expectations in all who are able to
judge of his compositions. So large a number of com¬
munications having been given on various subjects, Dr.
Speer requested the medium to ascertain, if possible,
whether any musical spirits were concerned as the boy’s
guides. It was in reply to this request that the sub¬
joined information was given. The information given
was unknown to the medium ; indeed, it is so minute
in detail that it could only be verified at some con¬
siderable trouble through a friend who consulted a
biographical dictionary of music. The names given
are such as would be unknown to any, except persons
who were versed in the history of church music. The
curious point is that the compositions of the boy were
markedly influenced by the peculiar style of the com¬
poser, who was declared from this independent source
to be concerned with him at the time. Even more
details than those here printed were given; but enough
is quoted to show the tenor of the writings.
[April 14$, 1873.] Can you give me any information
about C.’s guides ?
C—n is principally guided by an earnest and very
thoughtful spirit, who was in earth life a member of
that same family from which came Janet Nares Lyd¬
gate and John Lydgate, with whom you have com¬
municated. His name was James Nares.
Was Tie a musician ?
. Yes, like C—n, he played with great skill upon the
organ, and was organist to the king and master of the
royal choristers.
40
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 23, 1874.
How came he to be attracted to 0. ?
Spirit guides are not always attracted. Sometimes
they are selected for their own fitness. They are
naturally apt to teach. Sometimes they are sent with
a special commission. Sometimes they are picked out
because they are able to supply that which is wanting
in the character which they are to train. Sometimes
they themselves select a character which they wish to
mould. This is a great pleasure to the higher spirits.
Sometimes they desire for their own spiritual progress
to be attached to a soul the training of which is irk¬
some and difficult. They toil upward along with the
soul. Sometimes they are attracted by pure affinity,
or by remains of earth love. The guide in this case
was appointed because he too on earth was an accom¬
plished musician at an early age. When organist at
York, not yet twenty years old, he won great renown,
April 20th, 1873. I have ascertained that the in¬
formation is correct. Where was Dr. Hares born?
At Stan well. His father was under the Earl of
Abingdon.
Who trained him ?
Gates first, and then Pepusch. The former was
master of the royal choristers.
Where was his first appointment ?
As deputy to Dr, Pigott at Windsor, and finally to
Dr. Salisbury, at York. There it was that the old man
scorned him as a child, and that he played a very diffi¬
cult service, although at half a note below the pitch,
so that he brought it into the key of seven sharps. He
succeeded Dr. Greene as organist to the king; and also
filled the place of his old master. Gates. To him, friend,
you owe the first introduction of expressive melody into
Church music.
Is he the only guide ?
No; there are others. The Brothers Lawes.
Give me facts. I specially want tests of identity.
The minutest facts.
They Were pupils of old Caperario; sons of Yicar-
Choral of Canterbury they were in earth life. William,
the elder brother, was a friend of young king Charles I.
He composed fantasias for the viol; songs and masques.
Henry, the younger, was a friend of Milton and Waller.
Milton wrote the Comus for him, but the music was
lost.
I never heard of them. Gan you tell me where they
lived?
[After a pause.] Henry passed to the spirit land in
1662, William in 1645.
[Sep. 12, 1873] I should Wee to have the scraps of in¬
formation which have been lately given, put into a con¬
nected shape. The great question in my mind is that of
identity. Any minute points which you can give I will
test. All you have said as yet is literally true.
We will give every proof that is in our power. In¬
deed these minute details are worthless save for your
conviction. Until that is established little more can be
done. Therefore we devote ourselves to demonstrating the
reality of those who, themselves unseen, coinmunicate
with you.
Benjamin Cooke is now greatly concerned with C—n,
being attracted to him by similarity of taste. He in
the earth of life was early developed as a musical genius.
It was, I think, before he reached the age1 of fourteen
years that he performed upon the organ of Westminster
Abbey. Like lames Nares who has communicated to
you, he was a pupil of Pepusch and of Gates, both of
whom he succeeded in their work.
Is the spirit himself present ?
He is here.
Will he reply to me in detail?
He will give you proofs. He was born in 1730, and
had progressed under care of Pepusch so far that he was
sub-organist of Westminster Abbey in 1742. He suc¬
ceeded his master Pepusch as principal of the Academy
of Ancient Music; and Gates as organist and lay-clerk
of the Abbey, as well as master of the boys. He was
then 32 years old. As a child he was a prodigy of
musical talent, and therein has great sympathy with
your boy.
Is he the Dr. Cooke whose name we found at the head
of a Chant ? The Christian name was not given.
Yes, he obtained the degree of Doctor of Music from
the University of Cambridge in 1775, when his anthem
“ Behold how good and joyful ” was performed as
exercise for his degree.
Did he write any considerable work ?
We do not know what you could call a consider¬
able Work. It was as a secular composer that he most
shone, though he was organist of the church of St.
Martin-in-the-fields. He wrote much for the Catch
Club. Collins’ “ Ode to the Passions ” was among his
longer works; He passed over at the age of 63.
The other spirit is Wellesley, Earl of Mornington.
He too was early developed. His father played the
violin, and the child delighted in the instrument. He
played it as soon as his infant hands could grasp it. At
9 years old he composed, without any earthly instructor,
a serenata for the violin. This was under spirit
guidance.
And. had he no masters at all ?
He composed so well that Gemminani and Rosen-
grave could give him no assistance.
These are now concerned with C—n.
[The above facts and dates are literally accurate, and
were entirely unknown to the medium before they were
written out; nor had the subjects or names been iri any
way present to his mind at any time.]
THE “DAILY TELEGRAPH” ON SPIRITUALISM.
[The following leading article is extracted from the Daily
of January 13th last. Now that the editor of the
Telegraph speaks of the possibility of his being “ converted11
to Spiritualism, times are indeed changed.]
“ Spiritualism, if it is dying, as many allege, seems resolved
to ‘ die hard.’ In revenge for some recent exposures of de¬
tected tricks, it points to Mr. William Crookes, a Fellow of
the Royal Society, converted four years ago to a certain
reverence for, if not' a belief in, the true faith, and still re¬
taining his respect for the ‘ phenomena called spiritual.’ We
certainly admit, the importance of this conversion. Mr.
Crookes is a distinguished, if not an eminent, man of science ;
his honesty is above doubt ; and his courage in confessing to
opinions associated in the minds of most thinkers with rank
imposture and sheer credulity is praiseworthy in itself. He is
accustomed to observe facts, to draw conclusions : he is
familiar with natural phenomena, and with the laws based
upon them. Take him for all in all, he is a good witness.
He now comes forward to tell us the result of four years’
experiments, and in all sobriety and seriousness he records
miracles—that is, astounding occurrences in defiance of ‘the
most firmly-rooted articles of scientific belief.’ The ‘miracles ’
occurred, for the most part, in his own house, surrounded by
private friends, and in broad daylight. Untouched chairs
moved freely across rooms; heavy dining-tables rose in the
air, nobody lifting them ; chairs with ladies sitting on them
were elevated about three inches; Mr. Home, ‘on three
separate occasions,’ was raised completely from the floor;
accordions floated about the room playing airs; hands were
frequently felt and sometimes seen; or occasionally ‘ a
nebulous cloud taking the form of a hand ’ hovered about with
flowers. ‘ I have retained one of these hands in my own, firmly
Jan. 23, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
41
resolved not to let it escape. There was no struggle or
effort made to get loose ; but it gradually seemed to resolve
itself int6 vapour, and faded in that manner from my grasp.’
A pencil wrote many messages in the dark, but when requested
to do so in the light visibly struggled to form a word, on one
occasion ‘ propping itself against a lath ’ in order to do its
duty. ‘ Transparent forms ’ came, like angels out of livery, to
lacquey Mr. Home. On one occasion a lath, untouched by
human hands, responded so correctly to Mr. Crookes’s request
for a particular kind of message that he was ‘ convinced there
Was a good Morse operator at the other end of the line, wher¬
ever that might be.’ This was in the light; the lath lay on
the table and playfully tapped the inquirer’s hands ; and it
must be gratifying to telegraph clerks in general—who in this
world are not well off—to find a deceased | Morse operator’ so
much at his ease in the Spirit Land that he occupies his leisure
moments in sending messages to Mr. Crookes. We also learn
that long blades of grass went ‘ through ’. a table, and that
a handbell came through a locked door. The author of
Friends in Council some time ago desired to possess an
animated paper-knife that would come when its owner
whistled ; if he could only secure a medium he could achieve
even more astounding and useful phenomena—according to
Mr. Crookes.
“How are we to treat revelations so surprising, the most
astonishing thing being this conversion of a distinguished
scientific man to a full acceptance of such abnormal pheno¬
mena ? - To treat the question gravely, as we are bound to do
in the first instance, we would ask Mr. Crookes to make his
account more precise and more specific. He has to record
facts opposed to generally accepted theories, and he asserts
that they occurred on special occasions in his own house, in
the presence of trustworthy witnesses, friends of his own. But
we want dates and names, and full particulars. Why do not
all the witnesses sign a statement testifying to the facts ? If
a number of persons have seen a heavy dining table lifted up
without human contact, where is the record of the fact signed
by the spectators ? Something of the same kind was reported
to have occurred at one of the meetings convened by the Dia¬
lectical Society. We turn to the report of that society, and we
find the statement, but no mention of the witnesses by name.
This simply indicates that the nature of evidence was not
understood by the reporters; and Mr. Crookes must forgive
us for saying that even in his present pamphlet he be¬
trays some looseness in his reports. For instance, he speaks
of‘a conclusive experiment’—‘the movement.of a heavy
table in full light, the chairs turned with their backs to the
table about a foot off, and each person kneeling on his chair,
with hands resting over the backs of the chair, but not touch¬
ing the table.’ But owing to the use of the wrong words, the
description conveys no idea whatever of a ‘ conclusive’ experi¬
ment. The mere ‘ movement ’ of a table under such conditions
is no wonder at all; if it had been f lifted ’ several feet, then
it would be rather surprising. Mr. Crookes, in a paper pro¬
fessing severe accuracy, thus uses one word when he clearly
means another ; and we regret to say that looseness of this
kind runs through his entire report. No lawyer would accept
the evidence without subjecting the witness to a very search¬
ing cross-examination. It might be that there would then be
no prevarication or break-down ; but as the case stands now
the account of these strange facts is not sufficiently explicit
and is not adequately attested. Where are the confirmatory
signatures of Mr. Crookes’ independent friends ? Where are
the minutes of the seances ? We wish to know the exact
places, dates, ancl conditions of all these alleged facts. We
admit that, if the phenomena are uncontrollable by the
medium, they may sometimes come and go-—disappear in pre¬
sence of one observer and manifest themselves when he
leaves—and yet be possibly genuine. But, at all events, we
want the testimony for them to be taken, recorded, and sifted
like the evidence for any other new and startling facts. A
doctor, for instance, sometimes hears that a fellow practitioner
has seen new and peculiar phenomena of disease hitherto un¬
recorded. He neither rejects the account because it startles
him, nor does he accept it without inquiry. He requires the
observer to state the alleged facts with precision, and then he
treats them as the basis of fresh observation. We require
this from Mr. Crookes. We ask for such detailed proof as all
legal and scientific men demand before arriving at a conclu¬
sion on any group of facts.
“ Mr. Crookes, it mrtst be borne in mind, is not a Spiri¬
tualist in the proper sense of the term. He simply records
what he has seen, or what he thinks he has seen, without
setting up a theory of his own or accepting any invented
explanation. This gives his evidence of course, a greater
value. In truth an observer who, on seeing the capers of
a chair or table, jumps to the conclusion that there is a
spirit in the room, is so hopelessly bereft of reasoning
powers that it is impossible to receive even his evidence with
any respect. As to the weight to be attached to the cumula¬
tive testimony of apparently honest witnesses, we can only
say that may persons treat with absolute incredulity reports
of occurrences backed up by a larger number of witnesses than
those at the command of Mr. Crookes. We will not refer to
the phenomena of witchcraft, accepted by learned men for
ages, and attested by numerous confessions at the point of
death. But we will refer to matters very familiar to our own
generation. For the last fifty years the Virgin Mary is stated
to have appeared more than once in Italy and France; and
certain miracles declared to have been wrought by her have
been attested by many witnesses, and confirmed by bishops
and priests. Yet English Protestants in the mass believe not
one word of the stories thus related. They treat the sup¬
porters of the legends some as impostors, some as dupes. No
age, no sect, no country has been free from reports of alleged
miracles ; but the striking thing is that they are always done
in a corner, before believers, and are not repeated in the light
of day. Even Protestantism can show records of visions and
voices once accepted by thousands of men who rejected as in¬
ventions the miracles announced by priests. All this is nothing
new. In digging down into the records of the human race we
come upon abundant fossils of old faiths, of ancient
delusions once animating the lives and consecrating
the deaths of millions of men, yet now provoking merely the
curiosity of the antiquary or the smile of the philosopher. Is
there a single student to-day who receives as true the old and
abundant stories of pagan gods punishing those who profaned
their sanctuaries, or personally and publicly rewarding the
zeal of their especial votaries ? Yet these tales were as well
supported and as widely believed as the story of “La
Salette,” and much more popular than the belief in Mr.
Home’s levity, or in the bounding mahogany of MJ&
Crookes. Why should we more than our ancestors be free
from epidemics of sustained delusion? We are sometimes
told that we ought not to use ridicule in opposition to these
theories set forth with gravity by solemn men. We have not
applied any such test to Mr. Crookes, but we do not relinquish
our right to use the weapon. Elijah directed it against the.
priests of Baal. St. Paul did not spare the tender feelings of
the worshippers of Diana. Why should Spiritualism be fenced
round from the essence of reasoning sometimes contained in
jokes ? If a grave truth it will not be strangled by a laugh ;
but should 'death ensue it will not be the first superstition that
ridicule has killed. ' All we can finally say is that before Mr.
Crookes can make us converts he must show us. his evidence
is better than that which supported of old the lying legends
of ancient mythology, corrupted Christianity, or mediaeval
witchcraft; and which, in our own day, has enlisted millions
who believe in winking Virgins, and thousands who abun¬
dantly attest by their devotion the sacred character of Joe
Smith.’’
National Oegantsation.—The new Australian weekly
paper, the Progressive Spiritualist, of November 29th last,
says of the British National Association of Spiritualists re¬
cently formed in England :—“ At the National Conference of
Spiritualists, lately held in Liverpool, several questions were
discussed and plans adopted which_ must have an important
bearing on the future of Spiritualism in Great Britain.
Among other things it was decided to form a National Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists. This was a necessary and cannot fail
to be a useful step. It will give a status and influence to the
movement it has not yet attained in that country. Organised
effort, without interfering with individual liberty, is absolutely
necessary, in the present state of sdciety, if Spiritualism is to
become the mighty power in the world which its professors so
often predict. We hope to see a conference of Victorian
Spiritualists held at no distant date, and in course of time a
still larger gathering of representatives of the movement
from all the Australian colonies. The following article on the
English Association of Spiritualists is taken from the
Spiritualist, 15th August, 1873, and will, no doubt, be read
with interest by our colonial friends, and will, perhaps,
kindle a spirit of holy emulation in some of their breasts.’’—
The Rev. John Tyerman, the editor of the Melbourne Pro¬
gressive Spiritualist, has been invited to become a correspond¬
ing member of the National Association, and his reply will
probably reach England in a week or two.
42
THE SPIRITUALIST.
HOME EXPERIENCES IN SPIRITUALISM.
No. III.
BY HIED ERIKA. SHOWERS.
After listening to the singing for a considerable time, I
went up to my own room, greatly agitated and bewildered by
what was occurring. My departure seemed to be the signal for
more violent demonstrations, and the dancing and singing in
accompaniment to music become so uproarious, that tbe dust
from the carpet penetrated to my room, and the doors and
^windows were thrown open to make the atmosphere more en¬
durable.
THE ADVENT OF MR. BENJAMIN CROSS.
My daughter came to me coughing violently, and after a
few moments we both heard a gruff, masculine voice singing
several verses of a song beginning—
“ I’m the rare old Turpin, Oh! ’’
The words of the song, and the amusing manner of its
execution, attracted the attention of a farmer and some
labourers in the adjoining field, and, to our great annoyance,
they put their heads over the wall, and looked inquiringly
around. All the windows and doors were immediately
fastened, but the voice was powerful enough to be clearly
audible to people who were driving up the road, from which
the housejstands some way back. At intervals, too, the singer,
who called himself Benny Cross, addressed some very rough
and discourteous remarks to me. Greatly alarmed, I took my
daughter’s hand, and we both knelt and prayed that this
dreadful thing might be removed. Some acquaintances of
ours, members of a sect called the Plymouth Brethren, had
previously earnestly implored me to desist from inquiring fur¬
ther into Spiritualism. “ You are inviting them ; they will
come, they will take possession of you all, like the demons
spoken of in the New Testament, and the mental aberration
or death of your child may be the consequence. Pray desist
before it is too lateand very fervently, and with the best
intentions, they prayed over me in a manner that was not
altogether tranquillising to a nervous person, who was passing,
unsupported by the aid and counsel of friends, through such
an ordeal as mine. In the surprise and terror of the moment,
all my resolutions and convictions became shaken, and I
bitterly regretted my presumption in meddling with such a
matter at all. “ Let us go down and spend the rest of the
evening by the beach,” I suggested, “ there will be time for
reflection, and things may be quieter on our return. ” Accord¬
ingly, we put on our bonnets and shawls, but there was
no possibility of leaving the house in the usual manner, by the
front door, Benny having put into execution a threat already
made, that he would lock us in. We effected our escape,
however, through the kitchen.
My feelings as we approached the house on our return were
by no means pleasant. It had indeed suddenly become hate¬
ful to me. People who know me well are aware that I have
always had rather a peculiar habit of sending everybody away
occasionally for several hours, in order that I might enjoy un¬
interrupted the luxury of solitude. The scenery about the
spot is of so sublime and beautiful a character, and the
emotions it awakens so utterly indescribable, that I could
not at times endure sight or sound to interfere with the enjoy¬
ment derived from the contemplation of it. ” Now,” I thought,
” the time will never come when I shall bear to be alone
again even for an hour ; in fact, I never could have been
alone ; these incomprehensible invisible beings must have
been ever as much around me as they are now.” Now that I
know what kindly, inoffensive things these spirits are, and
what sorrow I should feel if any barrier were to be placed in
the way of a communication with them, I often smile at the
recollection of my abject state of terror on that evening.
As soon as Ellen opened the door, she gave me to understand
that a sort of witches’ frolic had been going on during our
absence; the piano had been played, and there had been a
good deal of dancing. On entering the passage, the voice I
so dreaded again commenced shouting and singing.
I may remark here that at that time, and for some weeks
subsequently, none of us were aware that the voices came
through the medium—in fact, at the first violent outburst of
the force, I am certain they did not. So much fear and con¬
fusion could never have been created by four voices alone.
There seemed to be dozens of them. I have heard them
calling from the upper window when my daughter was in the
garden, and Ellen standing beside me. I have also known
the voices of Peter and Florence to sing successively in the
dark without cessation, in the most enthusiastic and animated
Jan. 23, 1874.
manner for more than an hour at a time, without stopping to
take breath. A light has been struck, and Miss Showers has
been seen by several people as composed and undisturbed as
any other person of the party—in fact, more so, if anything ;
for she has always been very quiet and undemonstrative.
Indeed, ladies have frequently expressed their surprise at the
coolness and indifference manifested by her in the course of
these manifestations. I know her to have been a most unwil¬
ling agent throughout, in the hands of some superior power.
At first I was under the impression that it was the spirit
called Peter, who was speaking both through my daughter
and Ellen; but it was soon explained that Peter had never
manifested, through Ellen at all. Always from the earliest
stages of our investigations there had been a marked differ¬
ence in the manifestations whenever other persons were placed
at the table. The movements were rough and frequently
injurious, and the messages delivered coarse and rude in the
extreme; but I could not at the time discern the cause, and
attributed it to the additional force contributed by another
medium. I have since learned by experience the extreme im¬
propriety and danger of associating minds of refinement and
culture with those of a totally different class.
I have mentioned that on our re-entering the house, the
voice of Benny Cross again addressed me. The tone was so
discordant, and the feeling manifested so very unamiable,
that I really thought we had better all leave the house and
sleep at a hotel that night; in fact I contemplated going
away for several days, it seemed so improbable at the time
that things would resume their former course. Miss Showers,
however, proposed exercising her influence through Peter,
in procuring, at any rate, a temporary respite, and was so far
successful that, after exacting certain conditions, Benny pro¬
mised to be silent for that evening, and disappeared, so Ellen
said, into the kitchen cupboard 1 However absurd this may
appear, and I cannot help feeling amused at the recollection
myself now, it was no laughing matter then.
THE FIRST VISIT OF THE SFIRIT “ FLORENCE.” *
I took my accustomed seat for the evening, and tried to
read. Ellen went down to the turnpike to procure some water
from a well there, our own supply having become exhausted.
I heard the sound of her feet on the gravel till she opened the
outer gate. Miss Showers, with an exclamation of fatigue,
threw herself into an arm chair in the adjoining room which
communicated with mine by folding doors that were open at
the time. “ Bosina, Bosina,” exclaimed a delicate female
voice, I? May I speak to Mrs. Showers?” “ Oh, Mary,” I ex¬
claimed, “these dreadful things have come back again, send
her away, pray send her away.” “ Who are you?” asked my
daughter, “ see how frightened mama is; pray go away till
to-morrow.” “ Indeed, indeed, dear Mrs. Showers, it is for
your sake I have come. We are more distressed about you
than you can imagine; there is nothing to be afraid of,” con¬
tinued the voice in such soft and soothing tones, that my fear
gradually subsided into curiosity. “ Who are you?” I asked.
“ Florence ” was the reply. “ I died in Scotland at a very
early age, and my mother is living there still.” “ Why do
you not go to your mother,” I said, “ instead of coming here ?”
“ I cannot go to my mother, she is not a medium. We can
only come where there are mediums. You have two very
powerful ones in this house, and that is the reason that so
many spirits are here, all trying to communicate.” “ Will
this always be the case then ? I am expecting my sister and
her children, and they have long been looking forward to this
visit. . They will be terrified out of their lives ; and I don’t like
to write and tell them not to come.” “ It is quite unnecessary
to be anxious on their account; they are not expected for
three weeks, and by that time things will have become much
quieter ; besides their presence will weaken our power, and if
for the next few days these manifestations are too much for
you, separate the mediums. Send Ellen to her father, who is
ill, and will be glad to see her, and Bosina to her aunt, and I
promise you that you will never hear a sound.” It is im¬
possible for me to relate all our conversation, which was so
intensely interesting that we did not go to bed before two
o’clock in the morning, and by that time I had ceased to feel
the slightest fear, and began to have a clearer comprehension
of what Spiritualism really was. Among other things it was
explained to me that the manifestations had nothing what¬
ever to do with the bouse, and that the apparitions we had
seen from time to time, were solely attributable to the
presence of my daughter, who had been a medium from
* “ Florence ” is the name given by the spirit, who now appears at
stances through Miss Showers’ mediumship.—Ed. .
THE SPIBITUALIST.
43
Jan. 23, 1874.
her childhood. “ Wherever there ia a medium, there are
likely to be apparitions,” said Florence in conclusion.
I pause here to declare most solemnly in the presence of
the eternal God, and by the sacred memory of my beloved
child, that the substance of all I have related (it is impossible
of course to remember the exact words) is true. I have never
been the victim of any deception in this matter, and have
laboured under no hallucination whatever. Moreover, none
of us had any knowledge of the different phases of medium-
ship till they came upon us, and were made clear to our com¬
prehension by the spirits calling themselves Peter and
Florence. I knew there were people styled “ mediums,’' but
1 looked on them as impostors, and often wondered why those
who professed to call up the spirits of the dead, and ap -
parently gained a livelihood by imposing on the credulity of
weak-minded people, were not prosecuted in the same manner
as the old women who were so frequently brought up for de¬
luding maid servants into a belief that they could tell fortunes
and name their future husbands.
THE HOME INFLUENCE OF SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA.
My life for the next twelve days passed in a manner per¬
fectly delightful. Peter talked to us all day, and told us the
most witty and amusing anecdotes. He arranged airs for the
voices of Benny, Florence, and Ada, and sang them with a
spirit and execution perfectly marvellous. Florence played,
and Benny became so good-natured and obliging that we
loved him almost as much as Peter. The house seemed com¬
pletely transformed. For two years previously a deep gloom
had pervaded it; the sounds of gaiety and laughter had never
echoed there since the death of my son, and people who live
in towns can hardly realise the perfect stillness that used to
prevail, broken only by the chirping of birds or the deep bark
of Lion. Now, all was changed—in addition to ourselves
there were four invisible inmates, in whose amusing and lively
society it was impossible to be dull even for an instant. I
forgot everything relating to the outer world. Letters re¬
mained unanswered, papers that came in and used once to be
a source of such intense interest to me, were now not even
opened. Never in my life had I felt so happy, for the fear of
death, which had once been ever present to my thoughts, was
completely taken away. ’Tis true I had never had any com¬
munication purporting to come from those, who had left me,
but the presence of these intelligences clearly proved another
existence, and so, on that point, too, I was content. I felt
that all was well with them, and could look forward with cer¬
tain hope to the period of our reunion,
FACE MANIFESTATIONS AT TEIQNMOUTH.
I think it was Sunday, the 22nd of June, 1873, when Peter,
whose manner to me had become particularly affectionate and
considerate for two or three days previously, announced that he
had something very particular to communicate to Mrs. Freddy,
as I was now termed. Since Wednesday he had been play¬
fully showing what he termed a materialised finger, then a
hand, and also something that he called a moustache, but
which I supposed to be a piece of my daughter’s hair. I was
utterly unsuspicious of him, and quite unconscious that there
was yet a further phase of mediumship for Miss Showers and
Ellen to go through.
“ How do you think Rosy is looking, Mrs. Freddy ; pale and
thin, is she not ?”
Now, I had been remarking this, too, and Peter’s knowledge
and power appearing at that time to be illimitable, the dread
thought flashed across my mind that he had come to prepare
me either for her death or for some serious illness.
“What do you mean?” I asked, “ is there anything the
matter with her. Oh, why did I ever meddle with this
subject?” was my exclamation as i rose hurriedly from my
chair.
“ Now, there you go again, agitating yourself for nothing.
Just sit down and listen to what I have got to say. The time
has come for this child to be entranced, and after that she will
be quite herself again.”
“Entranced!” I exclaimed. “No, never will I allow
such a thing! ” my terrified imagination conjuring up the
form of my child stretched pale, insensible, and lifeless
before me.
“ Oh, very well, Mrs. Showers,” was the reply, in a pecu¬
liarly haughty and dignified tone, assumed, I suppose, for the
occasion. “You can do as you like about that; but you
■hould never have meddled with Spiritualism if you intended
thwarting us in this ^manner at every step. You have given
me more trouble than any person I have ever yet bad to deal
with, and my patience is getting exhausted. Either let
Rosy be entranced by Florence this very evening, or prepare
to lose her, for she will die.”
I could not answer, for I was crying. “ What have I done ? ”
I thought. “ What have I done ? Manby is dead, Mary
may die too. Oh, that I were dead also.’ ’
“ Mama, dear,” said my daughter, “ don’t frighten yourself.
Let me be entranced. I don’t think they will hurt me, and it
may be for my benefit, as Peter says.”
“ Hurt you, Rosy dear—no, that we certainly will not. If
anybody will hurt you, it is your mother. You will never
come to any harm through us,” continued Peter.
“ Oh, Mary,” I said, “ you don’t know what a trance is;
they will take all vitality from you, and, perhaps, they may
never be able to give it back.”
“ Take her vitality, and not give it back ! What stuff and
nonsense! That shows how ignorant you are. Now, won’t
you believe me when I tell you that we love our medium, and
will never hurt her. Won’t you believe me if I swear it on my
honour—the honour of ‘ Payter 1 ’ ” and he pronounced the
name with a drawl so comic, that I smiled involuntarily,
feeling my former confidence in some degree return.
“ Ah, that is right 1 You are coming round now. I see
you smiling. I was only joking just now when I said she
would die. Come along, Rosy, come along upstairs, and I will
show you something ; ” and shortly after, I heard the tramp¬
ing of busy feet and the sound of a hammer ; after which the
voice of Peter shouted downstairs, telling me to cheer up, and
that I should soon be rewarded by seeing him in all the glory
of a “ billycock-hat and a grey shooting-coat.”
The idea of a spirit—a ghost—in a billycock-bat, was so
irresistibly comic, that I nearly laughed myself into hysterics,
and, in my altered mood, Ellen found no difficulty in per¬
suading me to go upstairs and look at the temporary peep-
show that had been erected under Peter’s directions. In fact,
a small dressing-room had been converted into a very excellent
substitute for a cabinet. “And so this is Spiritualism, is it,
Peter ? ’’ I said, in rather a dissatisfied tone, as I recalled the
feelings under which I had commenced this investigation, and
sighed over the utter extinction of the hope that I might get
a communication from my son.
“Yes, Mrs. Freddy, {this is Spiritualism, and a glorious
thing it is. I am sorry you are displeased, because, instead of
gloom and mystery, we bring you mirth and cheerfulness.
And please will you now be so kind as to state to me your
reasons for assuming that we spirits must all be long-faced
muffs ? ”
“ Indeed, Peter, I am no match for you,” was my reply.
“ Still, I may say that this is not the sort of Spiritualism
I looked forward to.”
‘ ‘ Ah ! but it is the only sort you will get, from us at least.
If you want to hear about the dead, you must go to good
trance mediums ; they (the* dead) are too far off, and we can¬
not tell you anything about them. Now, go downstairs, and
don’t come up till I call you. As you are so nervous, I will
entrance Ellen first, and Benny Cross will appear through her.
After you have seen Ellen perfectly restored, you will cease
to be anxious about Rosy ; but give-me one promise first.”
“ What is it ?”
“ On no account come till I call you, and do not attempt to
touch the spirit. You will seriously injure, or perhaps kill the
medium, if you do. Stand far back from the aperture, and
obey all the instructions I give. Will you give me your
solemn word that you will not break these conditions ?”
“ How absurd you are, Peter I Do you suppose I would
voluntarily injure my child ? Of course, if I promise not to
come near the door I will not do so.”
“ Very well then, I will trust you. Go down, and the
entrancement will commence. I will call to you when Ellen
is entranced, and Benny ready to appear.”
As I turned from the door, the blended voices of Peter and
Ada swelled out into a harmony so mournful, and sublime,
that the tears involuntarily started into my eyes. “Oh, my
God 1” I exclaimed, clasping my hands, “is it possible that
these things are true, and that the majority of mankind are
living on in utter ignorance of them ?” Hardly knowing
where I went, I walked up and down the garden path in
company with Lion, who carefully measured his pace with my
own, in evident consciousness of my abstracted mood, till the
now solemn and almost terrible voice of Peter called to me
from above. “ Come up, but turn away your eyes, at first,
from the aperture. Stand at the further end of the room,
and only approach gradually, as I tell you.”
I did as Peter directed, and soon perceived the lively
44
THE SPIRITUALIST.
animated countenance of a young man, clad in a dark,
flowing mantle, standing at the aperture, a few feet from me.
He had a long, dark moustache, and his face was rounder and
fuller, but the resemblance to Ellen was nevertheless plainly
discernible. My daughter, however, assured me that Ellen
was at that moment lying back insensible in her chair..
After five or six minutes, Benny disappeared, and the same
solemn strain announced that the entrancement of Miss
Showers had commenced. After an interval of about twenty
minutes, the voice of Peter directed me to walk a few paces
further back, and a very beautiful female head, enveloped in
a snowy veil, appeared at the aperture, the resemblance of
which to my daughter, in her early childhood, struck me
forcibly, but the eyes wore such a sanctified, sad expression,
that I could hardly discern a strong similarity to her at her
present age. After remaining in view about the same length
of time, this head gradually departed in the same manner.
Thankful that the ordeal was over, I returned to the garden,
the solitude of which was never so welcome to me before.
Our hearts were so full, that my daughter and I hardly ex¬
changed a word, as, in compliance with Peter’s injunctions,
we went out for a long walk on the sea-shore,* Ellen having
been sent previously in another direction to procure some par¬
ticularly good wine and a few other delicacies that the
mediums were desired to partake of before going to bed.
THE EELIGIOTJS INFLUENCE OF SPIRITUALISM.
I have here endeavoured to furnish you with a hasty record
of the more marked stages in my daughter’s mediumistic ex¬
periences ; to narrate the whole would require a volume. It
pa ay not perhaps be inappropriate to add that I have at last,
after my long search for truth, discovered in Spiritualism a
religion that satisfies both the “ yearnings of the soul and the
demands of reason.” At one period of my life I had, like
many others, been in the habit of reading the Bible without
using much effort to obtain an understanding of it—in fact, it
would then have been impossible to understand it. Now—
read by the light of Spiritualism—discrepancies vanish, and I
find that nations and religions have in all ages testified to its
divine significance and mission, the gospels themselves being
substantially truthful memorials of the same universal spiri¬
tual manifestations. -
In confirmation of this opinion, I hope you will permit me to
quote, for the perusal of your readers, the following lines
from the writings of a Persian poet of the 12th century.
They were uttered at the moment when death was about to
darken the windows of his earthly habitation, and must, even
after the lapse of seven centuries, find an echo in every heart:
“ Tell tlxou to my friends when weeping
They my words descry;
Here you find my body sleeping,
But it is not I.
Now in life immortal hovering,
Far away I roam. •
This'was but my house, my covering,
’Tis no more my home;
This was but the cage thatbonnd me,
I, the bird, have down;
This was but the shell around me,
I, the pearl, am gone.
Over me, as o’6r a treasure,
Had a spell been cast;
God hath spoken at His pleasure,
I am free at last.
Thanks and praise to Him be given,
Who hath set me free.
Now for evermore in Heaven,
Shall my dwelling be;
There I stand His face beholding,
With the saints in light;
Present, future, past, unfolding,
In that radiance bright
Toiling through the plain I leave you,
I have journeyed on,
From your tents, why should it grieve you,
Friends, to find me gone?
Let the house forsaken perish,
Let the shell decay. |
Break the cage, destroy the garment,
I am far away.
Call not this my death; I pray you,
’Tis my life of life;
Goal of all my weary wanderings,
End of all my strife.
Think of God with love for ever,
Know His name is love;
Come to Him, distrust Him never,
He rewards above.
I behold each deathless spirit,
All jour ways I view.
Lo! the portion I inherit,
Is reserved for you.’’
* It is a common thing for mediums to be made to walk in the open air
directly after powerful face manifestations.
Jan. 23, 1874.
A TRANCE SERMON AND PRAYER.
Last Sunday night Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan gave a trance
discourse at the Cleveland Hall, Cleveland-street, Portland-
road, under the presidency of Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.
Dr. Gully, in introducing Mrs. Tappan, made a few general
remarks, saying that he feared that the committee had been
a little unbusiness-like in its arrangements, partly because
there had been some difficulty in procuring a hall, and partly
because the printer had not done his work so quickly as was
desired, but he hoped that those shortcomings would be over¬
looked. Mrs. Tappan had told him that she desired that a
chapter from the New Testament should be read, so he would
call upon Mr. Glynes, the secretary, to read the same.
Mr. Webster Glynes then read a portion of the “ Sermon
upon the Mount,” from the fifth chapter of Matthew.
Mrs. Tappan., who was indistinctly heard at times, in con¬
sequence of the imperfect acoustical properties of the hall,
then, while in the trance state, offered the following prayer;—
Oh God, Infinite Spirit, our Father which art in heaven,
Thou source of every good, Thou divine giver of every bless¬
ing, we praise Thee I The human heart bows in adoration to
Thy law, uplifts itself in thanksgiving, and with voice of
praise mankind adore Thee. But, Oh God, let us praise Thee
more with the thoughts, with the mind, with the understand¬
ing, not alone with words, but with the loving pulsations of
our spirits, with aspiration for every divine thing working Out
in soul, those divine beatitudes with which Thou hast endowed
us. We seek only for truth, that highest and greatest gift,
wherein the soul can read Thy thoughts and. understand Thy
meanings. We seek for love, that breath of Thy life which
binds us to Thee, and links mankind together. Chiefest do
we ask that our souls may be purified, disenthralled from
time and sense, and endowed with the gift of understanding
spiritual things. We praise Thee for all material blessings,
for those wondrous laws which guide the seasons, and
which govern the revolutions of the planets; for the
spring-time and summer; for the blessings which earth
doth give; for the richness of all material wealth with which.
Thou hast endowed humanity. But more do we praise Thee
for the things of the spirit, those wondrous gifts of the soul,
that in the spring-time and summer, and winter alike,
blossom with the forces of Thy divine love, with those
glowing beatitudes, those divine harmonies and perfections
of Tove, which uplift the spirit and free it from all care,
purifying the soul. Oh God, while kingdoms fade and
perish, while the earth, in its changes, gives little to humanity
of rest or of freedom from the thraldom of sense, and from the
deep darkness of sin and sorrow around us, may the love of
our Father teach us more of the immortal destiny of the
living soul. For spiritual gifts we praise Thee without ceas¬
ing, and may our thoughts be of devotion and peace.
Mrs. Tappan then delivered a trance address, taking for
her text, “ Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see
God.” She said, that of all the sermons that the world had
ever known, the “ Sermon upon the Mount” was the most
memorable, and had had the most powerful influence upon
human society, and upon the multitudes who profess and aim
to follow the teachings of Jesus of Nazareth. A special re¬
quest had been made that the meeting of that night should be
addressed upon the subject of theology, and better advice
could not be given, than to urge the listeners to read the ser¬
mon which had been quoted—to read it in the quietness of
their own sanctuaries. She spoke of the beauties of external
nature, the colours of the flowers, and the corona which sur¬
rounds the sun, as being merely outside things upon which it
would be vain to moralise, since the spiritual teachings in the
lesson, applied to that state of being which transcends both
human action and the physical phenomena of nature, but
probes the most secret recesses of the human heart. In the
course of her discourse she said that the generality of the
public connected very erroneous ideas with the phrase “ see¬
ing God many of them expected to see Him with physical
eyes, or in another state of existence, to see Him as a physical
being, whereas all the spirits who have ever yet communicated
with man, say that they have never yet seen the Almighty,
except through His works. She said that there was a divinity
within man struggling to get free, but cramped and confined
by the body, and by the various artificial surroundings forced
upon man by society. Suppose, she said, they were told that
in their own dwelling there was a bright and beauteous angel
concealed, a being adorned with such rare grace and excel¬
lence that to gaze upon it would be life, and light, and salva¬
tion, they-’would break down all walls and every barrier to see
the bright and transcendent being; the walls were their own
Jan. 23, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
45
body and external surroundings, embracing the angel as if the
iron key of Nemesis had been turned upon it for ever, but
within the casket the angel was waiting to come forth to adorn
and beautify their lives ; the angel was their own soul, that
part of themselves which was endowed with life and im¬
mortality from the Infinite, and which might so blossom
and adorn their ways that the lilies of the field, the wav¬
ing com, the stars of the firmament, would not be so
bright. She argued that “seeing God” was acting in har¬
mony with the inner nature, doing everything which was
holy, and pure, and good, not for the sake of external re¬
ward or of public approbation, but from pure love of that which
is good and holy, so that the whole being of the individual
should be transparent to thoughts having their origin in
infinite love.
ANTI-SPIEITUALISM Iff BIRMINGHAM.
The Birmingham, Post reports a meeting held there for
the purpose of forming a Birmingham Anti-Spiritualist Asso¬
ciation^, at which Mr. Robert James Lees,* who has been a
trance medium, gave his experience in Spiritualism. When
he was a Spiritualist he did not work with the majority of
Spiritualists in Birmingham, because that majority denied
Christ a^ the second person in the Trinity, and also denied
the existence of a hell or a devil; whereas several spirits
who spoke through him upheld the doctrine of Father, Son,
and Holy Ghost, and eternal punishment for all who did not
obtain redemption by the blood of Christ. When an emer¬
gency, however, occurred—if there were to be any great
meetings, or if any great medium was coming to the town—
the Spiritualists never forgot to send to him (Mr. Lees). At
the time he was a medium he had developed to such an extent
that when D. D. Home came to the town to attend a seance,
the Birmingham Spiritualists chose him as the best medium
to sit with that gentleman. Mr. Home then put his hand on
his (Mr. Lees’s) shoulder, and said, “You are developed to
such an extent that if you like to travel with me you can
share my fortune.” Miss Chapman, the great medium, also
told him that if he liked to travel he could make his twenty
or thirty pounds a-week. He had, however, discovered it to
be a delusion ; still, if the Spiritualists could show him any¬
thing which he could not prove to be produced by other
means than the spirits of the departed, he would rejoin
them. On the recommendation of Miss Chapman, the
Spiritualists of Birmingham urged him to take the superin¬
tendence of developing all their mediums, and he held seances
for that purpose. Now for the mode of development. To
develope tipping mediums, all they had to do was to let
them sit at a table, and if the conditions were favourable, and
they had developed fully, the table would tip. Then they
had speaking mediums and seeing mediums, which were more
difficult to develope. Speaking mediums went into the
trance, and, if they could not go off by themselves, they
were sent off by mesmeric passes from one of the members
of the circle. Next, as to seeing mediums, if they wished
to see any of their departed friends, he would give them
instructions. He used to be a seeing medium, and used to
see spirits so that he could not distinguish them from real
men ; but after giving up Spiritualism about three months,
he had never seen a spirit, though he possessed all his other
faculties of mediumship. The most nervous persons made
the best seeing mediums. They must go home, shut them¬
selves in a dark room, bandage their eyes, and sit there for
half-an hour. That was for the first night, and they must
repeat it until they could see spirits. It was the way he de¬
veloped two or three persons who at the present time were
good mediums amongst the Spiritualists. Mr. Lees next
went on to speak of the mistakes made by spirits, their
general forgetfulness of names, and the impossibility of
testing many of their communications. Among other things,
he mentioned that the spirit of John Skelt, a Scotch
minister, once made the mistake of manifesting himself in
Birmingham and Wolverhampton at the same time. One
night a speaking medium was speaking, and on the name of
the spirit being asked, the reply was “Jesus Christ.” He
(Mr. Lees) said, “ Are you the Jesus Christ set forth in the
New Testament as the Saviour of the world ? ” The answer
was “ Yes ; ” but on his asking, “ Are you the Saviour of
the world?” the reply was “No.” There were persons pre¬
sent in that room when sitting with him in circle, at the
end of 1867 or commencement of 1868, when they received a
* We do not remember to have ever heard of a Birmingham trance
medium of the name of Lees,—Ed. of S.
communication from Dr. Livingstone, who, at that time, was
supposed to have been cruelly murdered in Africa. The
spirit of Dr. Livingstone told them that he had been shot;
that five Africans attacked him, but before he was killed
he managed to “settle” four of them; also, that he was
buried in a village with about twenty-six letters in its title.
Having quoted instances to show that the Spiritualists
themselves did not thoroughly believe the communications
made to them from the spirit world, and promising further
information at a future meeting, Mr. Lees concluded his
address. A motion that an anti-Spiritualist association
should be formed, was carried nem con.—Sussex Daily News.
AGASSIZ.
The following beautiful lines refer to Professor Agassi*,
who recently passed to the higher life, and who is known to
have taken much interest in Spiritualism ; he was, moreover,
himself a mesmeric subject:—
It was fifty years ago,
In the pleasant month of May,
In the beautiful Pays de Vaud,
A child in its cradle lay.
And Nature, the old nurse, took
The child upon her knee,
Saying, “ Here is a story book
Thy Father has written for thee.
“ Come, wander with me,” she said,
“ Into regions yet untrod,
And read what is still unread
In the manuscript of God.”
And he wandered away and away,
With Nature, the dear old nurse,
Who sang to him night and day,
The rhymes of the universe.
And whenever the way seemed long,
Or his heart began to fail,
She would, sing a more wonderful song,
Or tell a more marvellous tale.
*#*#'#
Inscribed to Professor Agassiz on his fiftieth birthday.
May 28th, 1857, by W. H. Longfellow.
Mb. Cbookes’s crucial experiments with psychic force,
are better known among his scientific colleagues as Crookesial
experiments with the sly-kick force.
The Human'Double.—The Princess Marie Lichtenstein,
adopted daughter of the present Lady Holland, has compiled
and published a very interesting and well-written history of
Holland House. In it she has brought together with much
taste and evident appreciation of her very rich material,
biographical sketches and anecdotes of the long array of
distinguished persons—historical, aristocratic, literary, artis¬
tic, and otherwise—connected with this unique old mansion.
She refers to two ghost legends as connected with Holland
House. . .. Lord Holland, the first of his name, and the chief
builder of Holland House, is, the Princess Lichtenstein tells
us, believed to yet haunt one room of the splendid old man¬
sion. ‘ ‘ The gilt room is said to be tenanted by the solitary
ghost of its first lord, who, according to tradition, issues forth
at midnight from behind a secret door, and walks slowly
through the scene of former triumphs with his head in his
hand. To add to this mystery, there is a tale of three spots of
blood on one side of the recess whence he issues—three spots
which can never be effaced.” In the grounds of Holland
House is “ the Green Lane,” formerly called “ Nightingale
Lane,” so long as nightingales frequented it. “It is,” says
the Princess, “ a long avenue, like an immense gallery, arched
with trees and carpeted with grass, the distant light at the
end softening down into that misty blue so peculiar to dear
England.” This avenue is the scene of a “ spiritual experi¬
ence,” chronicled by Aubrey in his Miscellanies, and which is
as follows:—“The beautiful Lady Diana Rich, daughter to
the Earl of Holland, as she was walking in her father’s garden
at Kensington, to take the air before dinner, about 11 o’clock,
being then very well, met with her own apparition, habit and
everything, as in a looking-glass. About a month after she
died of small-pox. And ’tis said that her sister, the Lady
Isabella Thinne, saw-the like of herself also before she died.
This account I had from a person of honour,”—Spiritual
Magazine,
46
THE SPIRITUALIST.
FBOM ONE TO ANOTHER.
An amber heaven fades to faintest grey:
Sky stoops to sea, sea rises grey to sky,
Wave rolls on wave, for ever, sigh on sigh—
The death of day.
Art thou, too, dead ?
The sea that rolls between, is that Death's sea ?
May no hands touch, no solemn echoes fall,
None answering cry if one to other call,
From land or sea ?
Oanst thou forget ?
Wandering for ever on some unknown shore,
Living or dead, oblivious or most blest.—
Perchance thy feet at last have found a rest
For evermore ?
Living or dead,
Star-eyed and pale thy face seems ever near: ’
Remembering, Love, in life one hour, one day,
Call once from out the dark, then turn away—
One heart may hear.
Hast thou not heard
Passionate moan of waves that break in tears,
Break on, and die, and still may not forget
The infinite perfection of regret—
Those weary years.
(Eurrespontiaue.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and, its readers.]
THE DIFFICULTIES OF AN INQUIRER.
Sir,—Some years ago, after much reading and devoting all
my leisure to the practical study of mesmeric phenomena, I
found myself insensibly, and by slow degrees, drifting into the
wonderland of clairvoyance. After a time, however, I was
finally brought to a stand, for beyond it lay a waste of unex¬
plored territory, and well do I remember the feeling of utter
helplessness with which the dreary prospect oppressed me ; it
seemed little better than a “ central Africa ” mapped out by
conjecture, and coloured by the brush, now of credulity, now
of ignorance. Those few scientific men who had occasion to
allude to it, either in pity or disgust, styled it Spiritualism.
To me just erherged from the bewildering mysteries of
Mesmer, it seemed a region of perpetual night, and I doubt
not many an inquirer, starting as I did, could record similar
experiences. Engaged in these and such-like investigations,
I soon began to encounter the criticism of observant or inqui¬
sitive friends who had not themselves quitted the beaten track
of knowledge, and the result was, that, having excited a
spirit of inquiry, I gradually succeeded in convincing them
of the truths enunciated by Mesmer and others. This, how¬
ever, was only while the subject ranged within the more
moderate limits of scientific research, or in other words,
while the motive power at the root of all these strange occur¬
rences could be conveniently summed up in such expressions
as odic or psychic force. For when, after a time, I endea¬
voured by such agents to explain and unravel the more occult
marvels of modern Spiritualism, I failed signally and entirely.
And the reason was, that I had not grasped the subject
myself. In fact, I was teaching that which I did not know.
The truth is, such terms as odic or psychic force conduce only
to mystification and equivocation. They mean nothing, nor
will they suffice to solve the smallest difficulty furnished at
such seances as I have seen reported over and over again in
the organs of Spiritualism. For my own part, I have, during
the last few years, attended several public seances, not without
interest, but I have come to the conclusion that the experience
to be gained at a private seance far outweighs that obtainable
under less disinterested conditions.
Among your numerous readers there must, I feel sure, Sir,
be some who would not be unwilling to encourage honest
inquiry at their own houses, even at the hands of a stranger.
It is then with a view to soliciting such opportunities for
observation, that I have troubled you with this long letter,
which I would ask you to be kind enough to publish. I will
only add that my social position would be ho discredit to the
circle of any who might favour me with an invitation, an
assertion which I shall be happy to substantiate either by
references or testimonials; and in no case will I publish the
name or addresses of my entertainers, or in any way abuse
their confidence. I enclose my card, but for the present
subscribe myself, 0. C. A.
January 16th, 1874.
P.S.—Communications to be addressed to C. C. A,, 245,
Maida Yale, Kilburn.
Jan. 23, 1874.
THE DALSTON SOCIETY.
Last Tuesday night Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan delivered a
trance lecture in connection with the Dalston Association of
Inquirers into Spiritualism, at the Luxembourg Hall, Kings-
land ; there was a large attendance.
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, who presided, said that the council of
the association had wisely arranged to have a lecture by Mrs.
Tappan, for the benefit of members who lived in the neigh¬
bourhood, and to whom it might be inconvenient to go to a
distance to hear her. All Spiritualists should now and then
listen to inspirational lecturers, since those who were in the
habit of attending seances were apt to get too fond of the mere
physical phenomena, with the little jokes and other things
connected with them, which might, at times, be too frivolous.
Mrs. Tappan’s utterances were calculated to counteract such
influences. Spiritualism was either a very serious question or
no question at all. It demonstrated to man that there was a
life beyond the grave, that death was not annihilation, but a
passage from one life to another, where friends were ready to
welcome the newly-born spirit; he could not conceive that any
person with right feelings could do aught but rejoice at such a
revelation as this. Truly, many believed in a future state
before the advent of Spiritualism, blit did so entirely upon the
authority of tradition or of faith—upon nothing more than the
reports contained in the Scriptures ; but now, some could see,
and some hear, and others have communication in one way or
another with spirits. When such evidence was obtainable, it
must be more convincing than the most unbounded faith it
was possible to experience. The council of the Dalston As¬
sociation had very wisely recently appointed a committee to
investigate mesmerism, a subject which he thought to be de¬
serving of study for many reasons, among others, if they
learnt how to treat a delicate clairvoyant, they would be com¬
petent to combat with difficulties which now and then pre¬
sented themselves at spirit circles. He had seen things occur¬
ring at circles which frightened the friends and parents of the
medium very much, in consequence of the mesmerising of the
medium by evil spirits, who, however, could only cause tem¬
porary inconvenience. At the close of the lecture there would
be no discussion.
Mrs. Tappan than went into the trance state, and delivered
the following prayer:—Loving Father, Oh Thou divine spirit,
we would implore Thy blessing and Thy love upon us, wher¬
ever we may be'; whatever may be the theme of our medita¬
tions, we still would remember that Thou alone canst guide.
With what unfathomable purpose hast Thou endowed the
human mind with intelligence, with what aspirations hast
Thou created the soul! Let us pursue those themes which
will lead us to a knowledge of Thy laws. Wherever the mind
may be, it mounts on loving wings of light towards Thee ;
still Thou art near the soul, and Thy presence is ever manifest
in words and deeds of loving kindness.
Mrs. Tappan, who was still in the trance state, said that
the subject of her discourse would be “ A few Suggestions
concerning the Methods and Purpose of Investigating Spirit¬
ualism.” Montaigne had stated that whoever made up his
mind on a subject before investigation, proved himself to be
a fool. Professor Tyndall had said that there undoubtedly
came a time when it was wise to suspend judgment until more
testimony could be added, and that to be always ready to re¬
ceive truth was the greatest safeguard of a scientific man.
The majority of men in the world had some belief or faith in
a future existence, but no proof or knowledge that their faith
was well grounded, the masses being dependent for their be¬
lief upon those who taught them the faith of their fathers.
The question of the immortality of the soul belonged to one
of the vast series of subjects respecting which Spiritualism
had brought proof positive, and if the listeners wanted
an answer to the question “ If a man die shall he
live again ? ” then was it needful that they should investigate
Spiritualism. If they wished to know what philosophies
would supersede the superstitions of past ages, they should
also investigate that Spiritualism which was silently, and
slowly, and surely paving its way in their midst. There were
three phases of spiritual phenomena. The first appealed to
man through his physical senses. Whilst all the religious be¬
liefs of the day demanded faith as the evidence of things not
seen, and as the substance of things hoped for, the physical
manifestations of Spiritualism appealed to man through his
senses, by causing the movement of material objects. Another
channel of knowledge to man was through his intelligence,
without which his physical senses would be of little value,
and she believed that the intelligence preceded and superseded
the organism. The phenomena of Spiritualism displayed in-
Jan. 23, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
47
telligence which belonged either to an embodied or a disem-
bodied person ; that intelligence had never claimed to be
psychic force or electricity, but to be the spirit of a departed
human being 5 it required a vast stretch of imagination, and
more credulity than the average Spiritualist was endowed
with, to believe that psychic force would invariably announce
itself to be a departed spirit. Force, unaided by intelligence,
could have no power of conversation; besides, it was not plea¬
sant to think that irresponsible psychic force and electricity
could play tricks on their own account with household furni¬
ture. A second order of phenomenal experiences stepped in,
in the form of trance, clairvoyance, and healing mediumship,
produced by powers who claim to he the same as those pro¬
ducing the physical manifestations, but that in the present
case they influence human thoughts and human utterances.
The third and highest of all the forms of spirit intercourse was
to be found within all human beings; it was “intuition,”
which in spite of all the hard intellectuality of the day, would
produce consciousness of the immortality of the human soul,
if men would not let the things of matter and the cares of the
world, stifle the voice within themselves. Had not some of
her hearers in the still hour of prayer, felt the rustling of light
robes above their heads, and felt that answers came from the
unseen world? If so, they had no need of external evidence. The
world of spirits was in their midst, and its inhabitants were
knocking at their doors, and seeking admission into the
hearts of men. Spiritualism should not be pursued for the
sake of pastime; it were better, rather, that it should not be
inquired into at all, for, of all themes, it most demanded the
serious attention of mankind; for, by simple sounds and
spoken messages, it solved the greatest question of human
life—Does man live beyond the grave ?—Does the soul mount
upwards on wings of progress for ever ? Beyond these ques¬
tions came a vast range of spiritual subjects, that would either
uplift the world into realms of supremest truth, or prove to
be an ignis fatuus, which would lead men to destruction.
The temples they built would be in accordance with the
foundations they laid; if they built upon the earth, they
built one way, but if they would build upon the facts of eternal
life, then it was important they should know about Spiritual¬
ism ; they should lay the foundations of goodness, truth, and
purity, that the angels might smile from their abodes, and
their beloved ones in the higher world rejoice, whilst the loving
Father, bending over all, would uplift them in His supreme
and eternal arms.
Mrs. Tappan then paused a few moments, after which she
delivered the following inspirational poem:—
“ What seed shall we sow ? ” said the gardener of God.
Lo ! the earth bare and barren appears.
Is there room for the beautiful lilies to grow ?
Is there room for the flowers of hope there to blow ?
Lo 1 the Earth, with her weary grey years,
Groweth blind, and man sinketh in tears.
“ What seed shall we sow ?” for the nations are drunk,
In their power, and their strife, and their bitterness sunk,
In the darkness of cruelty gone.
Ambition grows mad. Growing blind with dull care,
The world looketh on unamazed, unaware
That the time flows so rapidly on.
“ What seed shall we sow ? ” Lo ! the spring-time is here,
And the buds need but showers of rain ;
Soon the summer and harvest shall come, and the world,
Beap fruits sown in sorrow and pain.
The Angel of Death hovers o’er all the land,
The departed gaze sadly below,
Crying, “ What shall we say to the desolate band,
Who wait for the lilies to blow ?”
Ah! out of the depths of their magical space,
The Angels of Hope and of Love,
With the smile of God’s truth on each radiant face,
All silently, wondrously move.
And they sow the rare seeds of that wonderful clime,
Where the hills are adorned with God’s love,
Where blossoms of beauty endure for all time,
Where angels in purity move.
They scatter around hope, faith, truth, and love,
They sow all the seeds with God’s power,
They are given the Angel of Death to remove.—
We shall gather there some lovely hour,
When the spring time shall gladden our souls with the sight,
Of the beautiful angels who move
In the rapturous regions of heavenly delight—
They sow you the seeds of their love.
WINDOW PANE PICTURES.
BY HUDSON- TUTTLE.
Thh various theories presented to account for the occa¬
sional appearance of supernatural pictures on window panes,
have never been more than conjectures, often indicative of
unpardonable ignorance. That a chemical change takes place
in the glass, by which its transparency is impaired, and an
iridescent surface created, is quite plausible ; and when it is
found that, of a hundred panes on which this cloudiness and
play of colours arise, not more than one presents any ap¬
proach to a picture, this theory becomes still more probable,
for this one might be from chance, as clouds sometimes take
the form of animals. That they are the work of designing
persons, is not for a moment to be entertained, as the structure
of the glass itself is changed, and there is nothing on its
surface that can be rubbed or washed off.
Recently I heard that one of these pictures had appeared
on the window in the residence of Mr. Milton Laughlin, of
Berlin, O., and it was represented as being so vivid and un-
mistakeable that my curiosity was aroused, and the more
with the legend connected therewith, which will presently be
narrated. This legend seemed to connect the picture with
design, and gave an intent to it which it would not otherwise
possess; So dim, shadowy, and uncertain were the best of the
Milan pictures, that it seemed as if the ghostly dead had
broken the quietude of their slumbers, while we sinning
mortals reposed in the arms of sleep, to paint each other’s por¬
traits : they, too, had better have been asleep. A cloudy pane,
in which one person saw a “ perfect ” likeness of a prominent
man, another thought a remarkable picture of a dog ; and the
writer failed to detect more than a cloudiness, which imagina-
nation could torture into no form, terrestrial or celestial. I
expected to find nothing more in the window of Mr. Laughlin,
and confess to being greatly surprised when the reality
was better than reported. We were received by Mr. L.
in a cordial manner, and found several others present,
examining the picture, among whom w;as Mr. H. Hoak,
the well-known agriculturist, enthusiastic as usual, and una¬
bashed by ghostly paintings .or ghosts themselves. Then it
was on the lower right-hand corner pane of the lower win¬
dow. Mr. Laughlin adjusted the lamp, and when we gained
the right angle all exclaimed, “ It is Mr. Tucker 1”
There were the exceedingly characteristic features, the sharp
nose, the small and contracted mouth, the thick white beard,
the short and snowy hair. Not on the glass as a picture,
but as an intangible shadow behind the glass, looking in upon
us! That glass, in the day-time, is the clearest in the
window, for it is washed and scrubbed and rinsed, to wash
away, if possible, the picture; but when night throws a
black back-ground against it, the light shines on the before
invisible face. It is not drawn with sharp lines, and light
and shade well defined, and they who expect to find these
will be disappointed. It resembles a dim daguerreotype.
The bright surface of the glass reflects the light, and only in
one position can the picture be seen. Then it is a shadow
defined and undefined, yet, as a whole, unmistakable and im¬
pressive.
On repairing to the sitting-room, Mrs. Laughlin narrated
the circumstances connected with the appearance, which I
have spoken of as the legend. Mr. Hardin A. Tucker was
well and favourably known in this vicinity as one of the
pioneer inhabitants, and an upright, honest, intelligent man.
He accepted the doctrines of Spiritualism, and was, as usual
with him when he had come to a conclusion, fixed and un¬
swerving in his belief. Shortly previous to his death, in con¬
versation with Mrs. L., who is opposed to what she honestly
considers a delusion into which many good people are misled,
he said that it was useless for them to argue longer, but he.
should soon discover the truthfulness of his belief, and if he
found it possible he would return and compel her to believe.
Said Mrs. Laughlin, “ As I was sitting in the kitchen one
evening, in last April, alone, a sudden impulse made me look
up at the window. There I saw the face of Mr. Tucker, look¬
ing at me. I was terribly frightened, and yet I continued to
look. I should think I steadily looked at him for half-an-hour.
When I moved it grew indistinct, and I gained courage to
take the lamp and leave the room.”—Banner of Light, Jan.
3rd, 1874. • 
The Religio-Philosophical Journal (Chicago), of January
10th, republished from the Spiritualist the report of Mr.
Howell’s lecture on Mesmerism, delivered before the Dalston
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism.
48
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 23, 1874.
Db,. Hugh McLeod, of 22, Robert-street, Hampstead-
road, N.W., is open to receive engagements to deliver public
lectures on Spiritualism.
' Me. Epes Sabgeant, of Boston, the author of Plan-
chette, or the Despair of Science, one of the best books pub¬
lished on Spiritualism, is, we are informed, about to publish a
new work upon the same subject, presenting its most recent
phases, and summing up the overwhelming proofs in favour of
Spiritualism. Spiritualists will hail its appearance with great
pleasure.
A Candid Investigatoe.—The Rev. John Tyerman,
editor of the Melbourne Progressive Spiritualist, says :—
“ Spiritualism was first brought under my notice in Man¬
chester, England, some twelve or thirteen years ago; but foi
various reasons I did not pay much attention to it at that
time. Some years afterwards, whilst in New Zealand, it
crossed my path occasionally, but not in a character that was
attractive, or in any way calculated to induce me to under¬
take a fair and full investigation of it; On coming to this
colony, I found it was exciting a very lively interest in certain
quarters ; the pulpit was thundering against it; the press was
heaping ridicule and contempt upon it ; and many people
were anxiously asking the question, 1 What is this thing
called Spiritualism of which we hear and read so much V
I resolved that, instead of relying solely upon the testimony of
others, either for or against, I would investigate the subject
for myself; and would.do so as thoroughly as my time,
powers, and opportunities would allow. I determined to enter
upon the investigation openly, and in broad daylight, so that
no one attending upon my pulpit ministrations could say that
I was deceiving them. I also went into the subject with
a mind unbiassed by preconceived notions, and open to
receive such conclusions as the facts and evidence in the case
seemed to fairly warrant; even though such conclusions
might modify, or entirely change some of the views I had
hitherto held. In other words, my supreme and only object
was truth."
The Religious Influence oe Spiritualism.—Mr. J.
Thornton Hoskins, of the Reform Club, has contributed a long
letter to the East Sussex News on Spiritualism, concluding
with the following remarks :—“ Suffice to say, in conclusion,
that every objection can be fairly met by reasonable argu¬
ment and the production of irresistible evidence ; that not
only writers and speakers, but thoroughly practical men like
Mr. Livermore, of New York, who has been long successfully
engaged in extensive—nay, even colossal financial trans¬
actions, involving constant watchfulness and responsibility—
have also frequently attested to the reality of spiritual phe¬
nomena ; and that these phenomena, if real, of which there
is no doubt whatsoever, afford indisputably the strongest
proofs of the authenticity of the enormous variety of incidents
of a similar character mentioned in the Old and New Testa¬
ments. Stripped of parasitic creeds, noxious growths, and
unscientific beliefs, yet clothed with refined, restated doc¬
trines, and despite not unimportant differences of theological
opinion, Christian Spiritualism is, I am convinced, destined
—and that speedily—to crush both priestcraft and materialistic
infidelity, and become the universally-accepted religion of the
near future.”—Mr. Thomas Everitt, writing on the same sub¬
ject to the Pioneer of Progress, says :—“ If the religion of the
heart is right, we must deal very gently with the religion of
the head, or in trying to remove the scales from the eyes of
such we shall do more harm than good, and it is here that
great harm has been done by our over-zealous, uncharitable,
and injudicious advocates. For most men in the religious
world are better than their creeds, and as we all fall far short
of living up to the knowledge and privileges we possess it
shows the necessity (especially on the part of Spiritualists) for
toleration, good feeling, forbearance and charity towards those
who differ from us, and so fulfil the law of love by overcoming
evil for good. . . . If we cannot get men to see truth from
our stand-point, let us not wantonly and needlessly wound the
cherished and sacred life-long feelings (it may be) of their
hearts; but give them credit for being as honest as we are
ourselves, knowing that there are an endless variety of states
(in My Father’s house are many mansions), and that the
inhabitants of every state hold some leading or central
truth ; and that every inhabitant of this world, in spirit is
attached to some particular society, in which he lives and
breathes the most freely, and from which he receives by
influx a constant flow of material into the mind, from
which by his will and power he forms his thoughts, his
sentiments, his truths ; and as the quality of the material
such are his thoughts, his sentiments, his life.”
Miss Lottie Fowleb will remain, in Scotland for some
weeks.
The Spiritual Evidence Society is still holding its meet¬
ings at Mr. Cogman’s, at the East-end of London.
Mb. Gerald Masset is now lecturing in Boston, IT.S.,
and he has been in Boston since the beginning of this month.
The Royal Institution Session has begun, and Dr.
Rutherford will soon deliver another course of lectures on the
” Nervous System.”
The Psychological Society of Liverpool has appointed
new officers for the present year, and their names will be
found in our advertising columns.
FaiNt iridescent pictures have appeared on the window-
panes at Mrs. Andrews’ house, Moravia, U.S., and have been
examined by Mr. Dale Owen.
Mb. J. M. Peebles is “ lionising” in the States, after
his journey round the world to observe the present position of
Spiritualism in various parts of the globe ; he has lecturing
engagements extending to July next.
An American impostor has been travelling in the United
States producing writing on the arm by artificial means ; he
painted letters on his arm with some transparent glutinous
substance, and when he desired to make the same visible,
rubbed powdered charcoal over his arm.
On Wednesday evening, February 25th, Mr. John
Beattie, of Clifton, will read a paper on “ Spirit Photography,”
before the Bristol Scientific and Mechanical Association, at
the Athenaeum, Corn-street, Bristol. Mr. J. Kerslake is the
president of the society.
Miss Lottie Fowleb.—Miss Fowler is now in Edin¬
burgh. A letter about her mediumship was published in the
Durham County Advertiser, in which the writer, who had at¬
tended one of her seances at Bishop Auckland, says;—“ She
told me my name and age, that I was married, had six child-
ren, three boys and three girls, described my wife, and
imitated the symptoms of a bronchial disease which she said
often afflicted one of the children. She then told the number
of my mother’s children who were dead, and stated the exact
number of years since the decease of the last one. She now
began to address herself to me pei’sonally. She said that
since I reached manhood I had had much trouble ; described
accurately a failure in business which occurred ten years ago,
and ended by telling me my present thoughts and resolutions.”
What is wanted in further proof of spirit identity, is the
revelation of facts not known at the time to any person in the
room. Once, in London, Miss Fowler told of an event then
occurring in South America.
ANSWEBS TO COBBESPONDENTS.
J. W., Oldham.—The title-pages and the indices to the three
volumes will be out soon.
P. Mulford.—What is your address ? We have found the
extracts.
Last Saturday morning we received an empty wrapper with two
penny stamps upon it, also a Post Office mark, the latter stating
that the wrapper had been found without contents in a letter
box.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND OLAIBYOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Bevealing Startling Facts
to the public, can be consulted on either Medical or Business Affairs con¬
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 12 to 5. Terms, One Guinea.
Address, care of Mr. Middleton’s “ City Temperance Hotel,’’ foot of Lord
Oockbum-street, Edinburgh.
R. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmebist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—194, Oomwall-road, Notting-hill, W. (Hammersmith line).
Please write.
R. JOHN HUNTER and DR. MESMER may he
consulted upon all forms of illness, through MR. ROBERT HARPER,
from whom Mesmeric Treatment and Eclectic Medicines may be obtained,
at 114, Wardour-street, Oxford-street, 'W. Fees, 10s. and upwards. Hours,
one to five o’clock daily.
MRS. EMPSON, Medical Clairvoyant and Mag-
NEfiO Healer, undertakes the Diagnosis and the Cure of Diseases
(if curable). Patients at a distance may obtain diagnosis and advice by
sending magnetic link and fee of 10s. Address, 114, Wardour-street,
Oxford-street, W. Hours, one to five o’clock daily.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
Jan. 23, 1874;.
H
UGH McLEOD, M.D., Psychometric, Impressional, and
healing by the laying on of hands; in which, departments of Medium-
ship Dr. McLeod is prepared to give the highest references. Terms, 5s.
each person. Visits by arrangement. Hours 10 till 4. 53, Great Ooram-
street, Russell-square, W.O.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in "Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bemard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—19, Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy-
square.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5.s; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A MEETING of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. -A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Association are
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tern., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Richabd Fitton, Secretary pro tem.
Gr
Now Ready, Price Sixpence.
OD AND IMMORTALITY, viewed in relation
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
to
A Discourse delivered in the City Hall Saloon, Glasgow, on Sunday
Evening, February 23rd, 1873, by
GEORGE SEXTON, M.A., M.D., LL.D., D.SO.,
Honorary Member of L'Accademia Dei Quiriti, at Rome, dbc
BY THE SAME AUTHOR—
Price Threepence,
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF MACBETH.
A Lecture delivered before the Psychological Society of Glasgow, on
May 4th, 1869.
“We advise all playgoers and dramatic readers to give a glance at this
pamphlet; they will be well paid for their trouble, and will see the phases
of Macbeth’s character far better than any actor of the present day can
delineate them.”—Theatrical Journal.
“ The lecture is a full, careful, and philosophical treatise on the
Shakespearian tragedy. Dr. Sexton makes the most patient analysis of the
character of the Thane; and in his conclusions, generally speaking, the
student will readily acquiesce.—The Era.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS to be presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain to
Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERR'S, 96, RtrssELL-STEBBT, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
Aaron franklin, preserver of birds and
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OP NATURE. Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’-heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. Aaron Franklin, 100, Suf-
folk-gtreet, Birmingham.
THOS. WILKS, ROOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E, respectfully solicits the patronage" of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of CJapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingslaud.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
'NSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“The prayer over he commenced an eloquent and philosophical address
on modern Spiritualism.”—North-Western Daily Times.
“ The medium then passed into what is termed the trance state, and in
clear and forcible language, with a readiness of expression and fluency of
utterance delivered a discourse on Spiritualism.”—Liverpool Daily A Ibion.
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lecturer, or what
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature and its. Needs’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!”—South Wales Press.
“ Those who are intellectually inclined, and desire to know what Spirit
ualism is as taught by the spirits, will learn more in an hour’s conversation
with Mr. Morse’s guides than in months of misdirected seeking.”—Medium.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.”—Spiritualist.
“ Mr. Morse is what is called a speaking-medium, of no mean order, for
he kept crowded audiences intently listening each evening for above an hour
and a half to his certainly most powerful and accomplished addresses.”—
Darlington and Richmond Herald.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
MR. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements" in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
Mr. Morse holds a seance every Friday evening, at 8 o’clock, at 15, Southamp¬
ton-row, "W.O., when he is in London, where letters, &c., may be addressed,
or to his private residence, "Warwick Cottage, Old Ford, Bow, E.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 69 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4J-d. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER, LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing, the church).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for Newspaper.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London-: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
WORK BY THE SAME AUTHOR.
An elegant little volume, bound in blue and gold, carmine edges,
Price 4s. 6d.
LYRICS AND BUCOLICS. The Eclogues of Virgil,
a selection from the Odes of Horace, and the Legend of the Sibyll.
“Mr. Noyes’ qualifications are of no mean order. In the first place, he
has the essential one of thoroughly entering into and appreciating the true
spirit of his master, and even where, as we have said, he exceeds what
we conceive to be the limits of a translation, we attribute it rather to his
being carried away by his own muse than to his misunderstanding his
author’s. And here we have a second and no less important qualifi¬
cation for success. Mr. Noyes has a genuine poetic vein of his own, and
his lines have almost always the ring of true metal.”—Standard,
April 1th, 1868.
“There is a certain freedom and swing in these translations, which not
only more resembles the brisk spirit and ringing tone of the original, but
is truly refreshing after the stiff rendering which had been generally made
of Horace’s choicest composition.’-—Aowtfora Review, Feb. 15th, 1868.
“The Translations from Horace are spirited and musical. His light
Epicureanism and gay Stoicism are happily hit off."—Daily News,
March Zd, 1868.
“ Mr. Noyes’ Version of Virgil’s Pastorals may fairly take its place by the
side of Mr. Oonnington’s translation of the iEneid. The lovers of such
poetry have here as pleasant a bouquet as can well be set before them,”—
Speculator, March 7<ft,1868.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
• SELLER, STATIONER. AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39, Smallbrook street, Birmingham, Supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 23, 1874.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.Q-.S., G. "WheatleyBennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B,. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.O.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq. ; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Eobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry JeSeiy, Esq.; Albert Eisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; C. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq, Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq, Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.E.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
repprt, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im-
posturo.’’ -    
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
8. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is .best that.neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping oyer the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps. '
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? " Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
-The majority, of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
B
RITISH NATIONAL INSURANCE CORPORATION
LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STEELING.
»
Bead OJkes.-BHOWN STBEET and MAESDEN STEEET, MANCHESTER
FIBE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates
Bonus Beturns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Benewed Premiums.
FIDELITY GUAEANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, EING WILLIAM STEEET, LONDON, E.O.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities
TO OWNEESOF HOUSE PEOPEETY.
E. BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
11, PAEK GEOVE, SHEPHEBD’S LANE, BBIXTON,
T3 ESPECTFULLY solicits the patronage of Owners of
J_Vi House Property^ the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixton
Boad, and near the Bailway Station—offering special facilities for the
prompt letting of Houses of every description.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVEB PLACE, PAEK BO AD, EEGENT’S PAEK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASS.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS. — Handsomely-printed Blue
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion, may be obtained in packets, each containing 400, price 2s. 6d. per
packet. They, are especially useful for distribution at public meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, reading-rooms, clubs, and places of
public resort.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, London, E.O.
A NEW ERA IN JOURNALISM!
THE FREE SPEAKER, a High Class Family News¬
paper. Weekly—One Penny.
SPECIAL POLITICAL AND SOCIAL AETICLES,
BY INDEPENDENT WRITERS.
Full Eeports of Home, Foreign, and General News. Law and Police.
FREEDOM OF CORRESPONDENCE.
WEEKLY TALES BY THE FIEST WEITEES.
Publishing Office: 125, Fleet-street. Advertisement Office: 106, Shoe-lane.
LUNACY LAW REFORM.
ALL PERSONS cognisant of cases of INCARCERATION,
under a false plea of Insanity, or of MALTEEATMENT OF
LUNATICS, or who are ready to co-operate in obtaining AMENDMENT
OF THE LUNACY LAWS, are earnestly requested to communicate with
MRS. LOUISA LOWE,
97, BUBTON BOAD, BBIXTON.
The following Extract from the “ ACT to Amend the Law relating to LUNA¬
TICS ” is a fair spscimen of Lunacy Legislation
“ It shall be lawful for the Proprietor or Superintendent of any licensed
house with the previous assent in writing of two or more of the Commis¬
sioners, or in the Case of a House licensed by Justices, of two or more of
the Visitors to entertain and keep in such house as a Boarder for such time as
may be specified in the assent, any person who may have been within Five
Years immediately preceding the giving of such assent, a Patient in any
asylum, hospital, or licensed house, or under care as a Single Patient.”—
& 26 Viet., ch. iii., sec, 18.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London,, and published by E. W.
Allen, Aye Maria-lane London, E.O.:
