AND
JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 77.—“-(Vol. IV.—No. 7.) LONDON: FEBRUARY 1874. Published Weekly; Price Threepence
Contents.
Spirit Teachings      73
Clairvoyance of the Blind           75
A Seance on the Great Pyramid '    76
A Haunted Prison  ;      77
Mr. Gerald Massey on Spiritualism     ...   77
A Seance at Mr. Sergeant Oox’s     78
Spiritualism at the London Anthropological Society—What is the best
Method of Demonstrating the Reality of Spiritual Phenomena?—
What Professor Leitner Thinks—Does the Anthropological Society
know all the Laws of Nature—The Cross examination of Ghosts—
Spiritualism and Materialism—A Proposal to Investigate Spiritual¬
ism—The Reliability of Tradition   78
A Strange Partnership     81
Spirit Poetry.—The Kingdom      ...   82
Spirit Forms  -... ... ... ...    82
Correspondence.—The Grasp of a Spirit Hand, 83; Swedenborg on
Spiritual Communion, 83; Other World Order   84
Paragraphs.—A Curious Trance, 83; Spiritualism in Canada, 84; Ac¬
cident to Dr. Sexton, 84; Mr. Massey in America   84
Answers to Correspondents... '-... ...   ...   84
Crown 8vo. pp. 126, Cloth 2s. 6d.
HINTS for the “EVIDENCES of SPIRITUALISM.V
By M.P.
London* Triibner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits ; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London: Simpkin, marshall & Co.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISTS.—Sundat Evening Services Are Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o'clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
R. Pearce, Son. Sec.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and .on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis;
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
WANTED BY A SPIRITUALIST.—A Situation as
MESSENGER, or COLLECTOR, or PACKER, in a Bookseller’s
and Stationer’s Warehouse. .Age 28. Address, G. F. Taylor, 5, Trinity-
place, Trinity-street, Southwark, S.E.
. CORA L. V. TAPPAN’S SUNDAY EVENING
INSPIRATIONAL DISCOURSES.
New Course.
AT CLEVELAND HALL, CLEVELAND-STREET, OXFORD-STREET.
Committee: —
Dr. Gully, M.D., Hill Side, Streatham, Chairman.
N. F. Dawe, Esq., Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
J. T. Hoskins, Esq., 5, Connaught-square, W.
T. H. Noyes, jun., Esq., “United University Club," Suffolk-street
Pall-mall, S.W.
Thomas Slater, Esq, 136, Euston-road, N.W.
Mrs. Honywood, 52, Warwick- quare, S.W., Treasurer.
Webster Glynes, Esq., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C., Hon. Secretary.
At an influential meeting, recently held tan above-mentioned persons
were appointed a working Committee, with power to add to their number,
for inaugurating a further course of i2 Discourses by Mrs. Tappan, on
Sunday evenings.
The lec’ures commenced on the 18th January, and they will be con¬
tinued up to the 5th April next. Doors open at 6.15 p'.m., to commence
at 7 precisely.
It is estimated that the expense of holding the course will be £144, or
£12 a night.
Of this amount it is expected that £50 only will be obtained from the
admission of the general public.
The balance of £94 must therefore be procured from* other sources.
The Committee make an earnest appeal for support, and solicit liberal
donations from the friends of the movement.
Tickets sold at the doors, also at Chappell’s or Ollivier’s, Bond-street, or
Burns’s, 15, Southampton-row, Holborn.
In order to prevent interruption it is requested that no person leave be¬
fore the conclusion of the service. No admittance after the discourse has
begun.
Donations thankfully received by the Treasurer or Hon. Secretary.
Reserved seats 2s. and Is. each; Back seats 6d.
Body of the Hall free.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1873.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament,
Secretary.
Mr. John Davidson, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Archibald Lament.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. G. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. R..Casson.
Mr. D. Gay.
Mr. T. B. Griffin.
Mr. Riece.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Cassoh.
Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. John Lamoat.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
Mr. Bretherton. | Mr. H. J. Charlton..
THE object of tbis Association is tbe discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the' dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 13, 1874.
Lately published,
WHAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Mental
Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. I. The MECHANISM of MAN
D ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS IE TO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.)
By EDWABD W. COX, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s. 6d.
Contents.
chap.
1. Introduction.
2. What am I?
3. The Man.
4. How we Grow.
5. How we live.
6. What Life is.
- 7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13: Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses. I
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The. Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind.
The Beflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the Will.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
31. Soul—Spirit—Anima.
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. The Natural and the Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery,
45. Conclusions.
President.—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell:.
Mrs. C. A. Blyton,
Mr. George Blyton,
Mrs. Amelia Comer,
Mrs. Theresa Wood,
Council.
Mr. A M. Greene,
Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mr. B. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mr. A. M. Greene, Secretary, pro. tem.
A DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on hear¬
ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, and in¬
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might be
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 15th September, 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter careful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modem Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations (vide Buie IX). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordi¬
nary seance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on the first Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Booms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelope
should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
OPINIONS OF THE PBESS.
A most useful and charming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Oox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and no
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford. Herald.
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I ?”—Leicester Mercury
Mr. Sergeant Oox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflectiv readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest—South Wales Daily Hews.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book, is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette. '
London: Longman and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just published,
THE SECOND YOLUME OF <‘WHAT AM I ?”
A Popular Introduction to Psychology and Mental Philosophy. By
EDWABD W. COX. Sergeant-at-Law. Price 10s. 6d.
This Volume completes the work. It treats of the Mechanism of Man in
action. The following are the
Contents :—
CHAP.
Preface.
1. Introductory.
2. OfthelntelligentMotive Forces.
3. The Conditions of Existence.
4. The Mechanism in Health.
5. Of Sleep.
6. Of Dreams.
7. Of some of the Phenomena of
Sleep and Dreams
8. Of Delirium.
9. Of insanity.
10. Of Natural Somnambulism.
11. Of Artificial Somnambulism. I.
The Condition.
12. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
II. Clairvoyance.
13. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
III. The Mental Phenomena.
14. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IV. Catalepsy.
15. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
V. Insensibility and Uncon¬
sciousness.
CHAP.
16. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
.VI. History.
17. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VII. Healing Power.
18. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VIII. Supersensuous Percep¬
tion.
19. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IX. Thought Beading.
20. Of Trance.
21. Of Unconscious Cerebration.
22. Of Psychic Force.
23. Of Psychic Force. I. The
Proofs.
24. Of Psvcbic Force. II. Its Phy¬
siology.
^25. Of Psychic Force. III. The
Directing Inteligence.
26. Other Psychic Phenomena. I.
Communica ted.
27. Other Psychic Phenomena. II.
Experiments.
28. The Summing Up
29. The Conclusions.
VOL. I. MAT BE HAD, PhICE 8s. 6d.
London: Longman & Co., Paternoster-row.
The progressiye spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Weekly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman.
Price Threepence. Tojbe had of W. H. Terry, 96, Bussell-street Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
Dalston association of enquirers into
SPIBITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Booms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members
Subscriptions :—Ordinary. 3s. quarterly ; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Buies on application to the Secretary.
ALFEED E. LOVELL, President.
Mr. A. M. GBEENE, Secretary pro. tem.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. B. Barber.'
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. B. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Banger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Bichard Pearce.
VERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
into England the subject attracted attention in Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some' of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assocciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
. Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Booms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy,8vo.,
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel Swedenborg: his life and
WETTINGS. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History the
Doctrines and the other-world Experinces of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav¬
ings, by O. H. Jeens—I. Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
Price 2s. 6d.
Glimpses of a brighter land.—
Showing the harmony of things spiritual with things material,
“ The tone of the book is exceedingly pure and good.”—Christian Spiri¬
tualist.
*** A list of spiritual and mesmeric works on application.
London : Bailliere and Co., King William-street, Strand.
VOJLUjVtE FOUR. f{U]VlBEf\ ^EYEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13th, 1874
Spmtalxst
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
Sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch
Beduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Ookrespondenob.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous 'Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions':—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of u The Spiritualist" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor' Or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave. Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. T.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Oo., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &o., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street,
- Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118 Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78. Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road,
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-ttreet.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher.
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny,
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 10s., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
JjlEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects: 
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the-
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
NO. YI.
An unsuccessful, sitting having been held, the com¬
municating spirits, through Mr. D. D, Home, said that
conditions were interfered with by the Derby Day. I en¬
quired for information on this point.
Friend, any such occasion disturbs the moral condi¬
tions, and renders it hard for us to reach you. The
spirits who are antagonistic to us are massed together
in great force whenever any occasion is offered for them
to operate successfully on men who are gathered to¬
gether for the purpose of gratifying their bodily
passions. Yesterday there were vast masses whose
passion of cupidity was excited to an enormous degree.
They were the point of attack from similar spirits.
Others there were whose bodies were wildly excited by
intoxicating drinks; others who were feverish with
expectation of coming gains; others again plunged
into depths of despair by loss of all, the ready prey
these last of the suggestions of tempting spirits; and
even when these baser passions were not actively ex¬
cited, the moral balance was upset; that calmness and
equability which should regulate the temper, and which
are as a shield against the foe, were absent, and so a
chance of favourable assault was given. For, friend,
short of absolute evil, much ground for assault is given
by an ill-regulated, disordered mind, by minds un¬
hinged and ill-balanced. Avoid all such. They are
frequently the ready agents of spirit influence, but of
undeveloped and unwelcome guides. Beware of im¬
moderate, unreasoning, excited frames of mind.
For these reasons the occasion to which you refer is
one that would make largest demands on the efforts of
the agents of good, lest the undeveloped, massed and
disciplined for assault, succeed and draw down souls.
But ivhat you say would apply to all national holi¬
days.
Not necessarily so. So long as a holiday is associated
with giving a loose rein to passion, with the immode¬
rate use of fiery, intoxicating poison, with sensual
gratifications, with the body and not with the spirit, it
must needs be so. The body so situated places the
spirit at the mercy of the adversaries. But the holi-
* In the Spiritualist of August 15th, an account was printed of some
remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-road, St. John’s-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extracts they gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium, free, to a large extent at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently, the “ spirit teachings ” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, maybe assumed to be to a. considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many: each gives his name and details Of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing, peculiar to the communicating intelligence, is always preserved,
and the individuality remains throughout the same.—Ed.
74
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 13, 1874.
day that is associated with rest- of body and refresh¬
ment of spirit is far from being such. When the
bodily powers which have been drained by overtaxing
work are recuperated by genial and moderate rest;
when the mind, vexed and harassed by the worries and
anxieties of daily toil, is refreshed by moderate amuse¬
ment, and by being relaxed and plunged for awhile in
oblivion of anxious care, the while it is braced and
stimulated by pleasant change; when this is so, a
gentle calm pervades the spirit, and renders it peculiarly
open to the beneficent influences of the heavenly
guardians. Thus the power of angel ministry is
strengthened, and the "plans of the most powerful ad¬
versaries are set at nought. Ye must progress far in
knowledge of spirit guidance and of the duties ye owe
to yourselves before your national holidays become
aught but opportunities for the degradation of your
people. The holiday that is marked by riot and
debauchery, by sensuality and gambling, and evil,
angry passion and despair, this is no holy day to us,
but one to be dreaded and watched and prayed over.
God help and guard the blind souls in their insensate
folly!
* * * *
On enquiring about some results of a 'previous seance,
it was written—
Yes, we have experimented, but it is extremely
difficult to do anything well, or indeed to attempt
special manifestations with you during the time that
your daily work is of an exhausting description. We
can only make attempts with care, and under carefully
guarded conditions. Nor can we do anything save in
the study, and when atmospheric conditions are favour¬
able. Were your state of mind and body suitable we
could do far more, and could show the lights you name
more freely. ■
Can we do anything to help*!
Keep yourself as passive and quiet as you can.
When over-tired with work, or fretted with care, or
exhausted, do not attempt to seek communion with us.
Do not add to the circle any new elements which do
but disturb and perplex conditions. Suffer us to per¬
fect our experiments before you interfere to spoil
them. We will advise you of any change we wish in
the composition of our circle. Do not alter the room
in which you meet: and strive, in so far as may be, to
meet with a passive mind and a healthy body.
Yes, worhing all day with body and brain does not
improve conditions, I suppose. But Sunday is generally
worse.
It is not a favourable day for us because, when the
strain is removed from mind and body, the reaction
leaves the spirit disinclined for action and more apt for
repose. We are fearful of cultivating new manifesta¬
tions with you; we fear experimenting with physical
manifestations lest they do harm. Moreover, they are
not our object, only subsidiary to it. They are but
the signs which witness to our mission; and we do not
desire that you rest in them. There is also a special
reason why we are unable to manifest on Sunday for you.
You do not know the difficulty which changes in con¬
ditions make to us. You have heard before that sitting
down immediately after a meal is not good. The
bodily conditions which we seek for are passivity and
quickness of receptivity: but not the passivity which
comes from sluggishness and torpor. No worse con¬
dition can be than that state of somnolence and torpor
which follows on a plentiful meal during which stimu¬
lating drink has been taken. Such stimulus may aid
the physical manifestations in some cases, but it is a
bar to us. It opens the door for the advent of the
more material spirits, and stops our power. We have
frequently found our plans frustrated by such means.
You would do well to think of this and guard your¬
selves against excess in any way when you are about to
seek communion with us. The body should not be
heated nor torpid with food: nor the mind drowsy and
inactive. Both conditions prevent us from operating
freely. They react on us, and sensibly mar our power.
One such member in a circle, even as one ailing or suf¬
fering, will create conditions which we cannot over¬
come.
But a weak body and temper disturbed by want of
food is bad surely?
We do but counsel moderation. The body should be
strengthened with food, but you should not sit down un¬
til the food is assimilated. You require moderate
stimulant to fit you for your daily work, but that
should be guardedly taken, and you should see that you
do not enter into communion with us save under such
conditions as we have stated. When mind or body is
pre-disposed to sleep or indisposed to sustained at¬
tention, or sick or suffering, it is better not to sit
save under direction. Equally when the body is
replete with food, the physical spirits may be ex¬
pected to be in the ascendant, and we are unable
to operate. Even the physical phenomena are
then of a ruder and more violent character, and not
of the delicate and beautiful description, which they
would assume under more favourable circumstances.
We do not desire extremes. A body wasted by fasting
is not in any way profitable: but neither is a body
which is clogged and loaded by over indulgence.' Tem¬
perance and moderation are what help us. If you de¬
sire, friend, to facilitate our work, and to attain the
best results, you should bring to the sitting a body
healthy and sound, senses clear and watchful, and a
mind passive and receptive. Then we can do for you
more than you think. With a circle harmonious and
properly constituted the manifestations would be more
delicate, and the teaching given more refined and trust¬
worthy. Even the light of which you spoke under
such conditions is pale, clear, and smokeless : under un¬
favourable conditions would be dull, dirty, and smoky
in appearance.
# * # # #
It having been said that a friend and his wife who
had frequently manifested were now removed to other
spheres of work, I asked whether the marriage ties
were perpetuated.
That depends entirely on similarity of taste and
equality of development. In the case of this being at¬
tained, the spirits can progress side by side. In our
spheres we know only of community of taste and of as¬
sociation between those who are on the same plane, and
can be developed by mutual help. All things with us
are subordinated to the education of the spirit which is
perpetually being developed. There can be no community
of interest save between congenial souls. Consequently
no tie can be perpetuated which is not a help to pro¬
gress. The uncongenial bonds which have embittered
the soul’s earth life, and marred its upward progress
cease with the bodily existence. The union of soul with
soul which in the body has been a source of support
and assistance is developed and increased after the spirit
is free. The loving bonds which encircle such souls
THE SPIEITUALIST.
75
Feb. 13, 1874.
are the greatest incentive to mutual development, and
so the relations are perpetuated, not because they have
once existed, but because in the eternal fitness of things
they minister to the spirit’s education. In such cases
the marriage tie is perpetuated, but only in such sort as
the bond of fellowship between friends endures, and is
strengthened by mutual help and progress. All souls
that are mutually helpful remain in loving intercourse
so long as it is profitable for them. When the period
arrives at which it is more profitable for them to separate
they go their way without sorrow, for they can still
commune and share each other’s interests. The reverse
of such law would only perpetuate misery, and eter¬
nally bar progress. Nothing is permitted to do this.
JSo. But some, I can conceive, may not be exactly
the same mental or moral plane, and yet be full of
mutual love.
Spirits filled with mutual love can never be really se¬
parated. You are hampered in understanding our state
by considerations of time and space. You cannot under¬
stand how souls can be far apart, as ye count space, and
yet be, as ye would say, intimately united. We know no
time, no space. We could not gain to be in close union
with any spirit unless the intelligence be absolutely on
the same mental and progressive plane: Indeed any such
union would be impossible for us. Soul may be linked
with soul in bonds of affection, without any intimate
connection such as we mean by being on the same plane
of development. Love unites spirits at whatever
distance. Ye see that in your low state of existence.
The brother loves the brother, the vast expanse of ocean
separates their homes, the long years have rolled away
since the eye looked on the form, and the ear listened
to the words of the absent one. Their pursuits may be
widely different: they may have no mutual idea, yet
mutual love exists. The wife loves the degraded
besotted ruffian who mutilates her body, and strives to
crush her spirit. The hour of dissolution will free her
from slavery and pain. She will soar while he will
sink, but the bond of love will not be snapped, though
the spirits may no longer consort together. Even here
space is annihilated, with us it does not exist. And so
ye may dimly understand that with us union means
identity of development, community of interest, mutual
and affectionate progression. We know no such indis¬
soluble ties as exist with you.
Ihen the Bible words are true, “ They neither marry
nor are given in marriage, but are as the angels of God.”
It was truly said. We have before told you of the
law of progress, and of the law of Association. They
are invariable: Much that now seems good to you, ye
will throw aside with the body. Your state now
colours your views. Much we are obliged to clothe in
allegory, and to elucidate by borrowing your phraseology.
So that ye must not insist too strongly on literal
meanings of words used by us to describe what exists
only with us, which finds no counterpart in your
world, and transcends your present knowledge, and
which therefore can only be approximately described
in language borrowed from earth. This is a necessary
caution:
Yes. Thai would account for discrepancies in spirit
communications in some cases.
Such differences arise in many cases, from want
of knowledge on the part of the spirits themselves;
from their inability to get their ideas through the
channel of communication: from imperfect conditions
at the time of the communication and from other causes.
Doubtless, one cause is, that curious and foolish ques¬
tions bring foolish answers from spirits on the plane of
the question.
But would not a high spirit endeavour to raise the
questioner instead of “ answering a foot according to his
folly?” V "• . < ■ .
Yes, were it possible; but the foolish frame of mind
precludes too frequently such raising. Like attracts
like, and the silly curious enquirers who ask from no
desire for information, but only to gratify a whim or an
idle curiosity, or to entangle us in our talk, is answered,
if at all, by a spirit like to himself. Such is not the
frame of mind in which to seek communion with us.
A reverent, earnest mind gains for itself that informa¬
tion and instruction which it is capable of receiving.
The self-conceited, flippant, ignorant, and curious,
receive only what they seek and are sent away without
reply, or with such as suits their query. Flee such. They
are empty and foolish.
GLAIRY0YANCE OF THE BLIND.
In a recent number of this journal we published a
statement by Dr. Henry Child's, of Philadelphia, telling
how a blind medium of his acquaintance had clairvoyant
powers which enabled him to drive vehicles in the
crowded streets, and to see persons walking, although
his physical organs of sight were useless. The Baroness
Yay also stated in an article written by her, and pub¬
lished in the last number of 'the Spiritualist, that she
knew a blind woman who was able to see persons by clair¬
voyance, and if she would give more detailed particulars
about the case they would be of interest in connection
with the present subject. Mr. Edwin Lee, M.D.,
issued a book in 1866 upon Animal Magnetism (pub¬
lished by Longmans), in which he not only tells how
mesmeric sensitives can sometimes clairvoyantly read
books when their eyes are bandaged or otherwise se¬
cured, but he incidentally mentions a few cases of blind
persons who have the same power. For instance, he
quotes the following sentence from Nature’s Secrets, by
W. Denton, published in London in 1863, by Houlston
and Wright.
Harriet Martineau tells of an old lady who had been blind
from her birth, and yet saw in her sleep, and when in her
waking state described the colour of the clothing of indi¬
viduals correctly. Most blind persons exhibit such pheno¬
mena to a greater or less extent, according to the sensitive¬
ness of the individual and the length of time during which
the power has been cultivated. The case of the blind York¬
shire surveyor is familiar to most persons, and in his case the
possession of vision without the use of the eyes seems most
evident.
Who was the blind Yorkshire surveyor of whom
Professor Denton makes the above casual mention ?
Dr. Lee also quotes Dr. Wayland’s Intellectual Philo¬
sophy, in which Dr. Wayland states that “ persons
totally blind, when in a state of mesmeric consciousness,
have possessed for the time the power of perceiving ex¬
ternal objects.”
Dr. Lee also quotes a book by Dr. Macario who de¬
scribes the case of Miss M’Evoy, of Liverpool, who was
blind, yet could read from a book by placing her finger
ends upon the pages. Dr. Macario adds -
A venerable prelate related the following circumstance to
the illustrious philosopher, Rosmini. Having requested Miss
M’Evoy to tell him the hour indicated on a watch, she touched
the glass and said, ‘ f You have put something under the
glass so that I cannot perceive the hour.” I had, in fact,put
a piece of paper between the glass and the face of the watch,
76
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in order to see whether she would be able to distinguish the
figures. On its being rejnoved, she told me the hour to the
half minute.
Thus it 'will be seen that the fact is well established
that blind persons may in some cases have clairvoyant
powers developed by mesmerism, after the physical
organs of sight are utterly useless, and such is the im¬
portance of this mesmeric truth because of the power
which it gives of relieving sufferers from a very terrible
calamity, that the readers of these pages would do well
to bring the matter under the notice of their medical
friends, and of the managers of all public and private
establishments for the relief of the blind.
In conclusion, we append the following letter on the
subject from Hr. Henry Gr. Atkinson, the author of the
well-known letters to Miss Martineau on psychological
and metaphysical subjects. Perhaps the case which he
describes is the same one which is casually mentioned
by Dr. Lee, as already stated:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sir,—As we can only rightly interpret nature through
order, classification, and comparison, it is all important in
reporting rare or exceptional instances to refer to any similar
cases that may be on record, by doing which we shall aid the
reader; and greatly assist the investigator in his scientific
researches and inductions.
In regard "to the astonishing case of a clairvoyant, physi¬
cally blind, reported in your issue of January 16th, I beg to
say that I have a blind friend who sees in her sleep. She is a
lady of great intelligence—one of three sisters, all blind from
birth. Among other peculiarities, this lady tells us that she
always sees in her sleep—in her natural sleep. She has never
been mesmerised. This, lady is so honourable, so benevolent,
and of such acknowledged excellent good sense, that all idea
of her willingly deceiving one is out of the question ; and the
fact of her seeing in her sleep has long been known to her
family. It may seem difficult to say how such a fact can be
known; but I have elicited what is, for my own part, satisfac¬
tory. She says that the perception she has in her sleep is
intense and clear, and quite distinct from all other impres¬
sions and ideas arising from them: She has a sense of the
chair, she says, from touch, and the idea of this sense ; but
her vision of form is totally different from the touch impres¬
sion, though seeming to include it. She sees colours, and
light and dark; describes their effects, and the similitude
of those effects to musical sounds, as a corresponding har¬
mony. She likens the sparkling light to the brilliant
music, and shade to the grave sounds. She describes
the distinction between light, and shade, and colours,
and the relation of light and dark to colours, and forms, and
feeling. She pictures the effect of light and shade on objects,
and describes the different qualities of colours, and their
harmony in relation to the feelings. She sees the deep blue
sky, the agreeable green of the grass, the sparkling waves of
water, the glare of the white clouds, and the simple light of
the sun ; and this sense, in all varieties, is wholly distinct
from any other sense or perception she has when she is awake.
She sees distance and space in a broad survey of a landscape
at once, so different from any idea she could form from touch
and from moving about.
It seems to me clear that she has a new sense opened to her
in her sleep, which answers to those effects and relations that
we perceive in seeing, and which is, in fact, sight. But this
is not all. This lady is clairvoyante in other ’respects, and
frequently in her sleep perceives what is going on in distant
places; and she also foresees events. With this fact her
family are familiar; many striking occurrences have hap-
■ pened, precisely as she has foreseen them ; and in such
visions she perceives forms and colours such as no one could
have guessed at, such as the different colours of a person’s
dress ; and she is invariably found to be correct. Is not this
case,? then, doubly conclusive ? If this lady could have her
eyesight given her, she could not only say that red was differ¬
ent from green, but which was red and which green; so that
the blind boy operated upon in the celebrated story related by
Hobbes might not, after all, have been an impostor. As the
eyes are merely instrumental; one can see no positive object
eion to vision occurring without them, and it is by the
txceptional or deviating instance that we learn the most, as
Feb. 13, 1874.
we have found in all the advanced sciences, from astronomy
downwards, even to the sounding and sensitive flames that
have been made so much of, yet ignore the facts now revealed
concerning the more sensitive nature of man, striving to
exhibit him as a mere machine. Henry G-. Atkinson.
A SEANCE OJST THE GREAT PYRAMID.
The Banner of Light (Boston, TJ. S.) of January 10th last
publishes a letter from Mr. James M. Peebles, late American
Consul at Trebizond, about a seance upon the top of the Great
Pyramid. The medium was Dr. Dunn, who recently visited
England in company with Mr. Peebles, after their tour round
the world for the purpose of gaining personal knowledge of
the present position of Spiritualism in all the chief countries
upon tfie globe. The result of this enterprising trip is that
Mr. Peebles has lecturing engagements among Spiritualists in
the United States extending to the middle of this year. The
following is Mr. Peebles’ account of the seance
Sunny and joyous, Dr. Dunn and his Arab aids started first
to make the ascent, but for some unaccountable reason they
had not yet reached the pinnacle. Looking over the precipi¬
tous rocks, there he was, full a third of the way down.
“ What’s the matter ?” we inquired. “ Why those gesticu¬
lations ? and why the delay ? ” “ Dun no,” was the Arab re¬
sponse in broken English. “Well, go down and help them,”
A shrug of the shoulders said No! Becoming alarmed, I ex¬
claimed with strong emphasis, “ Oo down after them ! ” They
stood mute and stolid as statues. Impulsively taking all the
silver from my pocket and giving it to the leader, I said once,
“Go to the rescue!” Down they went. Alone now upon
the pyramid ! What a moment! But here the whole
party comes, Dr. Dunn unconsciously entranced and the
Arabs all excited—frightened at his “fits.” The mystery
was solved. Michael O’Brien, the controlling spirit, said:
" Faith, Jamie, I saw these beastly fellows pulling away at
the madeuin, and I thought I would just lind a hand.”
“Well, you probably did more harm than good.”
M More harm than good ! and is that the way you talk to a
fine Irish jintleman ?”
“ But you alarmed me ; what did you entrance him for ?”
“ Sure, and don’t I understand my own business ? and
don’t I want to see the Round Towers of ould Ireland ?”
“ These are not the Round Towers of Ireland.”
“Well didn’t I know that? These are the Pyramids,
and I wanted to see ’em, that I might compare them with,
those Round Towers of my native country, that puzzle
you and everybody else. But I must out of this, for here’s
one of those old long-haired spirits, who lived awhile after
this pyramid was built. He wants to talk to you. The top
of the morning to you, Jamie !”
A change ; owing to inharmonious conditions the entrance-
ment is spasmodic. How the Arabs stare I It is difficult to
keep them at a distance.
But listen—another spirit has taken possession. What
dignity in the attitude! and what a deep-toned voice :—
“Traveller, you stand now upon the summit of one of the
world’s wonders—a mountain of stone rising from trackless
sands. I once lived under these skies, vestured in a mortal
body. The same majestic river rolled through the valley; but
winds, storms, shifting sands, and maddened convulsions
have (changed all else. This pyramid, upon which I often
gazed, was, even then, more a matter of tradition than history.
It must have received its final cap stone full six thousand
years since. Our time was measured by ruling dynasties.
My years on earth seem now like a half-forgotten dream.
Starry worlds have faded; islands have risen from the ocean ;
continents have disappeared ; thronged cities have perished ;
conquering kings have been born, ruled, died, and been for¬
gotten ; but this Titanic monument of the desert still stands
in stately solitude ! And yet nothing earthly is immortal;
this pillared pile of composite, of granite and of porphyry is
slowly, surely crumbling. Only the undying soul, the
templed pryramid of divinity within, is eternal. See, then,
oh, stranger and pilgrim, that every thought, deed, act—each
a ‘ living stone ’ placed in the spiritual temple you are con¬
structing—is polished and fitted to its place with the master’s
‘mark.’
“ But you wish to know the purpose of this, the oldest of the
pyramidal structures. The aim was multiform. Carefully
Feb. 13, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
77
considering the constellations, the position of the North Star,
and the shadow cast by the sun at the time of the equinoxes,
it was built, upon mathematical principles, to the honour of
the Sun-God that illumines and fructifies the earth; built for
the preservation of public documents and treasures during
wars of invasion, and built as a store-house for grain during
famines and devastating floods, with that mystic coffer in the
centre, as an exact measure for the world. A universal system
of weights and measures, a universal currency, and a universal
government were Utopian theories of the ancients before my
period of time. This pyramid was not built by forced toil and
at a great sacrifice of life, but by gratuitous contributions, the
servants of the wealthy doing the manual labour. There are
seven granary apartments in the structure, with shafts leading
from each to the common granary of the coffer, now called the
King’s Chamber. These shafts have not yet, to my knowledge,
been discovered.
‘ *. During long rains and terrible floods, ancient Memphis
was twice swept away—once even to its walls, with all its
inhabitants, in a single night. Convulsions of Nature and
terrible floods were then common. Immediately after one of
these, the pyramid was commenced, requiring more than a
generation in the construction. It was completed before the
great flood and the wars of the Shepherd Kings.
“ Once in my time the water rose and rolled over the very
apex of these stones. It rained forty-jive consecutive days;
and while torrent swept down the Nile valley from the south,
stout, heavy winds from, the Mediterranean drove the water
up the country, piling wave upon wave, till this structure was
completely submerged. But, though thus buried in the
flooding waters, the treasures and well-filled granaries remained
to feed, when the waters subsided, the famishing people who
had fled southward to the hilly country. There seems to be
less water upon the face of the earth now than then. Liquids
are giving place to solids, and change in every department of
being is doing its destined work. Only pyramids of truth, con¬
structed of immutable principles, are eternal! ”
“ Che-ops-see, the great king of the world, died in Thebes.
Embalmed by the priests, he was placed, after a time, in this
pyramid, as a mark of honour for having conceived and
planned a monument serving as the saviour of his subjects.
Finally, he was godded or deified—Ramses the First; and the
Sphinx, that calm, weird, unreadable face, now mutilated by
a degenerate people, was designed to hand the outlines of his
physiognomy down to posterity. I must leave. Stranger
from a foreign country, do well the work appointed you, that,
when ashes and sand claim their own, you may be prepared
for the fellowship of those ancient spirits of whom you seek
counsel.”
I have reported this Egyptian spirit’s ideas and words as
best as I could. Take them for what they are worth, making
history, hieroglyph, and reason the umpire of decision.
Powhattan, the good Indian spirit, came, and, noting the
waning of the western sun as a symbol of the fading away of
the aboriginal tribes before a merciless civilization, said they
went down like setting stars, to rise into the better conditions
of the Morning-land.
Descending from this dizzy height, we explored the pas¬
sages and the inner chambers ; a description of which, with
Heliopolis, Alexandria, the Rosetta Stone, and the trip to
Jerusalem, the Dead Sea and the Jordan, shall be forthcom¬
ing.
Madame Blawatsky, assisted by other brave souls, formed a
society of Spiritualists in Cairo about two years since. They
have fine writing mediums, and other forms of the manifesta¬
tions. They hold weekly seances during the winter months
Madame Blawatsky is at present in Odessa, Russia. The lady
whose husband keeps the Oriental Hotel, is a firm Spiritualist.
A HAUNTED PRISON.
The Religio-Philosophical Journal (Chicago) of January
3lst last, contains a long article quoted from the Joilet Sun,
about a ghost who has caused much commotion in the Joilet
gaol, by haunting one of the cells. A man of the name of
Chase was hanged a few years ago for murdering a prison
warder. His head was taken by the doctors, who opened the
skull and took out the brains for experimental purposes. A
cast of Chase’s head, in plaster, may be seen on a shelf in the
sheriff’s office in Joilet. The cell in the prison that is haunted
most by this ghostly visitant, is the one the murderer occupied
during his confinement.
A man of the name of Perteet, who was confined in the
murderer’s cell, has made the following statement:—
Since my confinement in the Will county gaol I have seen the ghost of
Chase a number of times. I saw him at one time without any head on
him. At another time his head seemed to be opened and the brains taken
out. His actions indicate that he was hung wrongfully. The spook comes
in every form—sometimes pleasant, at others frightful. His visit is from
ten to eleven p.m. to three a.m. This is a certain fact. When I see the
ghost I turn over in horror. I am sure it is the ghost of Chase.
Ahdbbw J. Perteet.
Another prisoner testifies as follows :—
He is a man apparently about thirty years of age, comes and looks into
my cell; has a cut across his forehead, and a dark circle around his
throat, and is dressed like a circus actor; don't speak; stays about ten
minutes; then disappears; at other times I find him in my cell, between
me and the wall, crowding me out of bed, which awakens me; he then
feels over my face with his cold, clammy hands ; then seems to be satisfied,
and goes away. Immediately after that I hear chains dragging over the
floor. Others hear the same. John McCarty.
Another correspondent says :—
“ Sometimes he is seen with a blue mark around his neck, and
with a portion of his head removed. The frontal bone in the
skull appears to have been taken out, leaving the brain exposed,
His face and neck are very pale, and appear to be more so
since he has dressed in black, and the contrast is very great.
He has on a white -shirt, without any collar. There is one
cell in the gaol which the ghost apparently prefers to visit.
This is situated on the south side, and is the third cell on the
upper corridor. Prisoners have repeatedly refused to sleep in
this cell, after staying there one night, and what is not a little
singular is that some of these people have never heard of the
ghost before, so it cannot be that it is a mere picture of the
imagination. All persons who have seen this apparition affirm
that while it is within their sight it exerts the same influence
over them that some varieties of snakes throw over their vic¬
tims. They are absolutely unable to move a muscle. Their
eyes are fixed on the strange figure, and there remain. If the
ghost moves, their eyes involuntarily follow him—not by any
will of their own, but their very movements appear to be
controlled by the former. Their chests seem oppressed, and
they are unable to stir. He has a fashion of coming into
this cell and climbing up into bed with the occupant. He
prefers the further side, and forces himself into the ham¬
mock, crowding the person out in order to obtain his fa¬
vourite place. He sometimes lays his hand on the person of
the occupant. His hand is like his face, very white, since
the finger bones are large and the hand pretty well spread
out, like that of a labouring man,, yet it appears that it
has been in active service for some time, the palm of the
hand appearing to the sight to be as soft and white as the
back. Its touch is cold and clammy, and although the
person who receives it is desirous of shrinking from it, and
makes every effort to do so, yet he is so paralyzed as it were
that he is unable to.” ’
Other testimony is published, but the editor of the Sun
gives precedence to the statement of Perteet, who is con¬
demned for murder, but with whom he seems to be greatly
pleased, perhaps for the following reason :—
A few dajs ago the junior editor of the Republican sent in his card and
begged an interview with Perteet, hut that worthy resented the idea of
such a meeting, wi h the remark that he hoped he had not fallen so low as
to hold converse with such a blackguard as that. If he ever did fall so low
ha hoped the governor would withhold his reprieve until he might be
executed, and thus prevent the interview.
It is further stated :—
It seems that quite a number of Chicago reporters have been making in¬
effectual efforts to learn particulars; but Perteet and his companions have
become so disgusted with the way they magnify and distort the truth that
they have refused to divulge anything to ihem. Many of the prisoners are
as firm in the faith that these are “ real spirits ” as they are of their own
existence, and they do hot propose to furnish capital for those unprincipled
Bohemians to manufacture into ridicule am senseless sensation.
MR. GERALD MASSEY ON SPIRITUALISM.
Mb. Gerald Massey is making a tour, and delivering
lectures at the present time in the chief cities of
the United States, where he has been received in a
cordial manner, more especially among Spiritualists.
Among the varied subjects which he handles in his
masterly way, Spiritualism is one; and in Boston last
month, at the Music Hall, where American Spiri¬
tualists have been accustomed to hear their own best
speakers, he delivered a discourse which must have
delighted his audience, and proved to them how bound¬
less the subject is when dealt with by a man of Mr.
Massey’s genius. In proof of these remarks, we give
a few extracts, and regret the want of space to quote
78
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 13, 1874.
the entire discourse, which, however, it is to be hoped,
will in due time, together with his other discourses on
this theme, be published by him in. a separate form,
H Since my first gropings in the darkness of this
subject, light has dawned on me more and more, and
the facts have gone on unfolding their meanings until
the presence of the Spiritual world is to me as real as
that of the natural world; the unfeatured darkness
has unveiled, a living face.
“ Standing on this side of my facts, how should I
care to argue with those who stand on the other to
assert they cannot be true ? Where is the use of
arguing when sheer ignorance of the subject is to be
the base of our opponents’ reasoning, and his funda¬
mental assumptions are false, which are, that he
sufficiently divines the relationships of mind and
matter in the life which is known, so as to say that
these things are impossible in their relationship to a
life that is to him unknown ?
“ If it were possible to set aside our facts, we should
still be acting on. a belief professed by the whole
Christian world. It is asserted by them that the soul
of man is for ever influenced by good or evil sugges¬
tions, invisibly conveyed of course.
“ Spiritualism has already proved itself the greatest
solvent of dogmas yet known. It is the truth that sets
you free for good as well as for evil. It has acted, and
is acting, on the most stupendous obstacles of progress,
and an imposture cannot do that. It will finally break
up many a poor miserable effigy of God to fully reveal
the Divinity Himself to the unfettered human soul.”'
A SEANCE AT MR. SERJEANT COX’S.
Tub following is an extract from the second volume
of Mr. Serjeant Cox’s “ What Am I?" published last
week by Messrs. Longmans
“ On Tuesday, June 2, 1873, a personal friend, a
gentleman of high social position, a graduate of Oxford,
came to my residence in Russell-square to dress for a
dinner party to which we were invited. He had pre¬
viously exhibited considerable power as a Psychic.
Having half-an-hour to spare we went into the dining¬
room. It was just six o’clock and ol course broad day¬
light. I was opening letters; he was reading the
Times. My dining-table is of mahogany, very heavy,
old-fashioned, six feet wide, nine feet long. It stands
on a Turkey carpet, which much increases the difficulty
of moving it. A subsequent trial showed that the
united efforts of two strong men standing were required
to move it one inch. There was no cloth upon it, and
the light fell full under it. No person was in the
room but my friend and myself. Suddenly, as we
were sitting thus, frequent and loud rappings came
upon the table; My friend was then sitting holding
the newspaper with both hands, one arm resting on
the table, the other on the back of chair, and turned
sideways from the table, so that his legs and feet were
not under the table but at the side of it. Presently
the solid table quivered as if with an ague fit. Then
it swayed to and fro so violently as almost to dislocate
the big pillar-like legs, of which there are eight. Then
it moved forward about three inches., I looked under
it to be sure that it was not touched; but still it moved,
and still the blows were loud upon it.
“ This sudden access of the Force at such a time and
in such a place, With none present but myself and my
friend, and with no thought then of invoking it,
caused the utmost astonishment in both of us. My
friend said that nothing like it had ever before oc¬
curred to him. I then suggested that it would be an in¬
valuable opportunity, with so great a power in action,
to make trial of motion ivithout contact, the presence of
two persons only, the daylight, the place, the size and
weight of the table, making the experiment* a crucial
one. Accordingly we stood upright, he on one side of
the table, I on the other side of it. We stood two feet
from it, and held our hands eight inches above it. In
one minute it rocked violently. Then it moved over
the carpet a distance of seven inches. Then it rose
three inches from the floor on the side on which my
friend was standing. Then it rose equally on my side.
Finally my friend held his hands four inches over the
end of the table, and asked that it would rise and touch
his hand three times. It did so ; and then, in accord¬
ance with the like request, it rose to my hand held at
the other end to the same height above it and in the
same manner.
With such conclusive proofs before me it is impossible
to doubt that there is some Force, whatever it may be,
by ivhich heavy bodies are moved without muscular con¬
tact or effort. What is it, whence it comes, and how
it operates in the production of these results, are ques¬
tions in no way affecting the fact. These problems it
is the province of science to solve by experiment when
the fact itself is proved.
SPIRITUALISM AT THE LONDON ANTHRO¬
POLOGICAL SOCIETY.
On Tuesday night, last week, a meeting of the London
Anthropological Society was held at 37, Arundel-street,
Strand, under the presidency of Dr. R. S. Charnock, F.S.A.
The proceedings began by the reading of a paper by
Mr. Churchill, in which he narrated how mythical stories
have become matters of history, either in poetry or prose, and
afterwards accepted as true. He included in his list of cases
the narrative about Samson catching the foxes, and turning
them loose into the camp of the Philistines, with firebrands
tied to their tails.
WHAT IS THE BEST METHOD OE DEMONSTBATING THE
BEAUTY OE SPIBITHAD PHENOMENA ?
Mr. George Harris, JF.S.A., then read a paper upon certain
tests applicable to the determination of the reality of pheno¬
mena like those seen in connection with modern Spiritualism.
He began by saying that subjects relating to the mind should
not be ignored by anthropologists, who especially should give
attention to the question of the nature and reality of spiritual
beings, since no system of anthropology could philosophically
grapple with the whole subject* which did not take into con¬
sideration the spiritual and mental nature of man. All the
various branches of anthropology ought to be investigated'
together, for anthropology, as he understood it, dealt with the
living, and not with the dead man. Man was composed of
something more than bones and clay, and if the anthro¬
pological society studied bones and clay only, it was to some
extent exercising the functions of a burial board. Few
people were free from superstition. Sailors firmly believe
that ill-luck is attached to Friday, and others think it is a bad
omen if thirteen persons sit down to dinner at one table.
Not a few people also believe in presentiments, or a feeling
that some unknown danger threatens them. Why were these
superstitious feelings excited within us ? Did they come from
some timidity, or from our own nature ? If spiritual beings
visited the earth, how could their visitations be proved ?
This was no idle question to ask, for if they once, as was
generally believed, paid visits to men, was there any reason
for supposing that they did not do the same in our own day,
especially when there are many living witnesses who say that
they have seen or communicated with spirits ? Was it pos¬
sible to test these things ? For a long time superstition had
revelled in these subjects, while science had been standing
aloof, without even attempting to draw scientific conclusions
relating to the matter. Mr. Harris then spoke of the descrip-
Feb. 13, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
79
tions given by Shakespeare, and Sir Walter Scott, of the visi¬
tations of spiritual beings, and he added there was within us
a feeling that death was not annihilation, and that every
soul will seek its own centre when the body dies. If such
ideas did not belong purely to the imagination, they should be
submitted to tests and to laws of evidence. Facts only, and
not opinions, should be allowed to guide the investigators.
He believed that the great majority of alleged spiritual mani¬
festations were due to self-deception, or to disease, while some
of them had turned out to be imposture; he could tell
instances of the latter, but that would not disprove that there
had been genuine visitations as well. After a passing allusion
to Scott's Demonology, to Brewster’s Natural Magic, and to
the experiences of De Foe, he said that Baxter had written a
most remarkable work upon The Revelation of a World of
Spirits, and the Appearance of the Dead, in which he
stated that he had been visited by spirits himself. There were
several ways in which the denizens of another world were
alleged to communicate with man, firstly, as apparitions ;
secondly, supernatural communications were said to be given
by voice, by sounds, or by spirit rappings; and thirdly by
dreams, in which communications were supposed to have
been sometimes given. How could these things be tested?
If a man said he had seen a ghost, it did not absolutely
prove the fact, which might be due to the disease of his
digestive organs, or to imposture ; he also might have mis¬
taken a stump in the twilight for a ghost, or have been
deceived by luminous emanations from grave-yards. The
narrative was more likely to be true if he both saw and
heard the ghost, so that two of his senses were brought
into play, and the fact would be further strengthened if
two persons or more saw it; further, if an animal, such
as a dog, also saw it, and exhibited signs of fear,
as in certain well-authenticated cases, the evidence would
be stronger still. Another test of the reality of an appari¬
tion might be when the ghost gives information to the listener
of which he knew nothing before. Sir David Brewster tells
persons who see ghosts to lift their hands, and place them
between their eyes and the ghost, saying that this would
prove whether there was any delusion, since if the apparition
were due to internal disease, the raising of the hands would
not cut off the sight of the spirit; still, this advice was not
necessarily sound, for the spiritual powers of the seer might
be developed for a time, enabling him temporarily to observe
things in the spiritual world. After telling the story of the
ghost of the Duke of Buckingham, as narrated by Lord
Clarendon, Mr. Harris came to the subject of spirit rappings ;
he said that the sense of hearing was very deceptive, espe¬
cially as to the direction of sounds, and that it was also much
subject to disease ; but if many persons were present, and all
of them heard the same sounds,. that was good evidence,
though he thought that the proof of houses being haunted
should go beyond noises which might be caused by rats. In
all ages dreams had acted powerfully upon the ignorant and
superstitious, but if in dreams facts were ever communicated,
which could not have been known in any other way, that
would be some proof that they had a real spiritual origin. As
to the phenomena alleged to take place at spiritual seances,
they should have evidence that the motions of furniture which
occur are not produced by artificial methods, and the com¬
munications themselves should contain information previ¬
ously unknown to every person in the room ; vague answers
should be considered unsatisfactory. Lord Amberley, in a
recent article in the Fortnightly Review, on Spiritualism and
its Phenomena, had stated that the people who attend seances
should be free from theories and from the desire to astonish.
He (Mr. Harris) thought that the great majority of the things
which occurred at seances, arose from disease or imposture;
but, after allowing for all these, many of the phenomena
were well established, and tended to prove that the souls of
departed persons were permitted to return to communicate
with friends on earth. He had heard the charge brought
against the ghosts that they were very unreasonable in their
conduct, because when they had a murder or other crime to
reveal, they did not go at once to the magistrate of the dis¬
trict, but to some person in no way interested in the matter ;
he did not think them much to blame in this, because if all
troubled ghosts were to act as had been recommended, very
few persons would like to be in commission of the peace, and
it would hinder timid persons from acting as magistrates.
Another objection was that they have a rude habit of disappear¬
ing through walls without going through a polite form of taking
leave. De Foe was very hard upon the poor ghosts because
they did not reveal hidden treasure enough, but he (Mr.
Harris) thought that the ghosts had acted very fairly and
creditably in the matter, since nobody ever offered to pay
them for their work. He thought that total disbelief in
spirits was as irrational as utter credulity ; it was a subject of
deep and thrilling interest, and had attracted the attention
of wise men in all ages. (Applause.)
WHAT" PROFESSOB. LEITNER THINKS.
Professor Leitner, P.H.D'., M. A., said that he thought that
the charge had often been brought against the Anthropo¬
logical Society that it took extreme views on the subject of
religion, but an answer to that charge had been practically
given in the paper which had just been read, which was reve¬
rent and enthusiastic; he therefore spoke of it in words of
praise, without committing himself to any superstitious
views of the author, or approving his methods of investiga¬
tion. He was glad when Mr. Harris deprecated flint imple¬
ments, but his surprise was great when he heard demonology
introduced as one of the chief branches of anthropology, and
as connected with anthropology, in its truest and noblest
sense. It was satisfactory to know that°in that Society such
views would get a fair hearing, but Mr. Harris very much
represented a voice from the other world; candour like
his would have been good in the Middle Ages, when
his tests also would have been very useful, for no
doubt they would have- helped to abolish supersti¬
tions much sooner, but to hear at the present time the
question raised whether we shall inquire into the supernatural
—when it had long ago been settled that there was no super¬
natural, that supernaturalism was inconceivable, and that the
word involved a negation of terms—when such things were
heard, it was a matter of surprise to him, but also of pleasure ;
in fact it was a great and new pleasure to him. Once upon a
time there was an honest judge, who before condemning a
witch because a black cat had been seen entering her room,
tried very carefully to find out whether the cat was black and
had entered the room as stated, and after a most thorough
investigation he came to the conclusion that a black cat had
walked into the room, consequently he ordered the person to
be executed. It was curious that such views should exist
still, that it should be supposed that anthropologists really
ought to have anything to do with such matters, and that men
should really exist who suggest that these subjects should be
taken up. If so they ought to add to the tests proposed by
Mr. Harris, those of chemistry, physics, and all branches of
science as well as of law. The thing was absolutely beyond
the scope of a scientific society, which ought to forfeit its
name if it took the subject up, since if it once recognised the
reality of the supernatural, the realms of science would have
been left behind, and they must go for information to cardinals
and priests.*
DOES THE ANTHROEOLOGTCAIi SOCIETY KNOW AID THE
DAWS OE NATURE ?
Mr. Grazebrook said that he thought the Society was not in
a position to say that certain things did not exist. Were they
able to define the life or the soul of man, or to tell how the
soul worked? If they could not understand these things
then they ought to approach the Unknown with respect, for
there were many instances of communication with another
world which could not be gainsaid, although tens of thou¬
sands of other cases might be due to disease of the mind, or
to intoxication. Many of the laws of nature were known to
them, but there were plenty of laws which they did not know
nor understand; they were only on the threshold of know¬
ledge ; he said this with all deference to the important dis¬
coveries which had been made by science. In speaking
upon the powers and possibilities of the spirit, they were all
at sea, and when spiritual manifestations took place, the par¬
ticular points relating to them ought to be carefully examined;
if they proved to be natural, then the difficulty was solved,
but if they found something beyond themselves, then it was
only honest that gentlemen should admit that there was
something in the universe which they did not understand.
Not only were visitations from beyond the grave spoken of by
tradition, but in our own time men of science and others had
stated facts which seemed beyond all explanation. The
evidence about the appearance of apparitions in distant places
at the moment of the death of the individual was very strong;
He knew of a wife who possessed a subtle intelligence some¬
what common amongst women, whereby they know or have
* All the phenomena of Spiritualism are governed by law, but most
of the laws have not yet been discovered.—Ed,
80
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 13, 1874.
an idea of what is going on in distant plaees, and he had
himself met such instances and could testify to them ; yet he
was a cool, and calm, and logical thinker, and after allowing
for coincidence and chance over and over again, facts re¬
mained which he could not account for. There was some¬
thing belonging to our higher nature which told us that after
we parted with our-material bodies, we might be able to travel
with the force of will, and scientific men should not close
their eyes to the possibility of such facts, but approach them
with modesty, criticise, examine, discover, and find out.
Years ago mesmerism ought not to have been left to quacks,
for at the present time it was acknowledged that men have
power over each other as regards their nervous systems. He
believed that it was possible for a departed wife to appear to
her surviving husband when it was necessary for his welfare,
whilst those who said that it could not be, defined the limits
of nature’s laws. It was said that the ghost, not having sub¬
stance, could not make an image on the retina, consequently
there could be no ghosts but those of the imagination, but
that was but speculation. Mr. Harris’s paper de'alt with
great problems of which men of science knew nothing, and
they ought to approach the unknown with reverence. (Ap¬
plause.)
THE CROSS-EXAMINATION OE GHOSTS.
Mr. H. B. Churchill, V.P.L.A. S., said that he disclaimed
making any distinction between the natural and supernatural,
and he should like to examine a ghost just as he would
examine a criminal; he had never yet found a ghost who
would bear cross-examination ; he had never even met a
person who had seen a ghost. But as to dreams, certainly
many curious things had been discovered by dreams. If a
disembodied spirit could take human shape—and he would
neither deny nor affirm it—how was it that it never appeared
naked? Were there ghosts of coats, and waistcoats, and
breeches ? If he saw a ghost of the last century, he should
say to him, “ Where did you get your clothes made ? ”
(Laughter.) The question was a fair one.
SPIRITUALISM AND MATERIALISM.
Mr. J. Jeremiah, jun., M.A.I., said that he was astonished
that there had been no mention in the paper of the researches
of Dr. Carpenter of Miss Frances Power Cobbe upon uncon¬
scious cerebration, which would explain many of the facts
mentioned by Mr. Harris. If they denied many of the
phenomena of Spiritualism, how were they to avoid elimi¬
nating those in Holy Writ ? How could they say, “ These
are miracles, and these are not miracles?” He raised this
question reverentially, and not to offend any person present.
When they looked upon the human race as merely one por¬
tion of the animal creation, it seemed to him that man had
been continually searching after the ideal of goodness, and
in this search savages and others had given forms of
expression to their ignorance; at least, sometimes it was
called ignorance and sometimes religious enthusiasm, but it
seemed to all come from the dreams of the human mind in
its attempts to unravel the incomprehensible in nature.
Savages were uncultured, and continually saw apparitions,
and as they became civilised they gave up many absurd
superstitions. Man continually projects his mind forward,
and then in comes superstition ; but civilised people know
rather more than savages, so have not the same series of
superstitions, but higher ones of a more divine nature. Thus
the phenomena which man cannot comprehend have the
effect of uplifting the human mind, and allowing it to expand
unhampered by carnal and worldly considerations. In putting
forward these ideas, he desired not to offend the religious sus¬
ceptibilities of any person present, for these superstitions
tended to raise men, even though they were founded upon
misunderstood phenomena. They had persons in their midst
who believed in such individuals as Mr. Home; they were
absurd enthusiasts, and he would ssiy, “ Put the ban upon
such people, and not mix up their ideas with such as are in¬
cluded in the Christian religion.” He looked forward to the
day when even the high standard of superstition of civilised
people should be swept away; the whole drift of the age was
in favour of materialism, and he was very glad of it. He did
not think that the paper had comprehended the subject as Dr.
Carpenter had explained it, or as explained by Liebnitz in his
essay on Latent Thought.
A PROPOSAL TO INTESTIGATE SPIRITUALISM.
Dr. C. Carter Blake said that he was thankful for the paper,
because it fulfilled the pledge made in the President’s opening
address, Of giving a fair hearing to all scientific questions ;
and, indeed, the Society was giving gentlemen who believed
in Spiritualism a fair method by which they could bring forth
their arguments—that paper, he was told, being but the first
of a series. He could not agree with his friend Professor
Leitner. They ought to enable witnesses to bring forth their
evidence, and if Spiritualists chose to bring forward their bill
of indictment, and to bring forth their witnesses, the society
would be glad to cross-examine them, and Mr. Harris had
pointed out certain rules by which their statements might be
tested. Then, again, he disagreed with Professor Leitner
about the past generation having used inferior methods of
study, for he submitted that the anatomists of a hundred years
ago uttered far fewer absurdities, and perpetrated fewer
grammatical errors than are done by anatomists of the present
day ; they also knew their facts better, for he contended
that the old method of teaching and testing these facts
was better than the modern one ; he preferred the old
Aristotelian system. If some of those gentlemen who have the
power of presenting some of the spiritualistic phenomena,
would only bring them before the Society, or before certain
members of the Society, and would submit to a series of tests,
he thought that good results would arise, and he hoped that no
Spiritualist would feel offended at the nature of some of the
tests which might be proposed,* for there had been a tendency
to avoid some of the severer tests which it might be desirable
to apply. These things ought to be worked out by a psycho¬
logical committee, and then the matter might once for all be
settled. He did not think that such a term as “ spirit” should
be used, while they were unable to give any precise definition ;
at the same time he did not think that the idea of the exist¬
ence of man apart from the visible body should be regarded as
an absurdity ; such philosophy would set aside the researches
of Dr. W. B. Richardson, and men like him. He was glad
that the subject of Spiritualism had come up for discussion,
and he hoped that Spiritualists would come before them to
have the matter investigated ; they would have a fair field,
and no favour. He wished that Professor Leitner had told
them that evening something about the curious psychological
phenomena which had been witnessed in Thibet. He thought
that the subject was a great one, and might occupy the at¬
tention of the Society for three or four years, if it were dealt
with in a business-like and scientific manner ; the tests should
be carried on with the same fairness as in the experiments of
Dr. Bastian and Dr. Terrier, and if the witnesses of spiritual
phenomena differed no more than the witnesses of the experi¬
ments of the two doctors just named, he did not wonder that
there were many contradictions in Spiritualism.
Mr. A. L. Lewis (secretary), said that Mr. Harris’s paper
did not go into the question whether supernatural beings
exist; it merely told them how to put salt on the tails of the
ghosts if they appeared. (Laughter.) He hoped that Mr.
Harris would make a further communication to the society ;
he entirely agreed with the paper, and with most of the ob¬
servations made about it. There had been much evidence in
favour of supernatural occurrences, and it was unscientific to
say that such things could not be; he had never seen anything
supernatural himself, but he knew people of high character
who said that they had seen such phenomena, and under such
conditions that it was very difficult to suppose they were mis¬
taken ; he therefore particularly desired to see the subject in¬
vestigated in a scientific and perfectly fair manner, without
any previous conclusions being brought to bear upon the
question. At the same time he protested against being sup¬
posed to express any view, for or against, or whether it was an
imposture or not; he merely waited for evidence. Referring
to Mr. Churchill’s first paper saying how loose statements had
been made the theme of history, poetry, and science, he
thought that in some respects he had been a little too
sceptical.
THE RELIABILITY OE TRADITION.
The President said, in reference to that part of Mr.
Churchill’s paper which described the incident of catching
the three hundred foxes, and tying their tails together, as was
said to have been done by Samson, Samson could not have been
a worthy descendant of Nimrod. He did not see how it was
possible to catch three hundred foxes. Even supposing them
to be caught, and tied together by their tails, they would then
pull against each other, and after they got loose they would be
* The members of the society should form spirit circles in their own
homes, with no Spiritualist present, just as the Dialectical Society did. In¬
structions will be found on the last page of this number of the Spiritualist.
No Spiritualist will feel offended at any test which the fellows of the An¬
thropological Society may impose upon themselves, or upon any member
of any of their families.—[Ed.]
THE SPIRITUALIST.
81
Feb. 13, 1874.
sure to seek their covers. It had been said that the word
“ foxes” meant “ jackals.” David spoke of giving up a body
to foxes, but he must have meant jackals, for jackals like
bodies, and there were places in Asia Minor in which the
word was used for jackal; the word was also found in Persia.
Mr. Harris had spoken of the prejudice against thirteen people
sitting down to dinner ; he believed that prejudice had arisen
from what is generally called the Lord’s Supper ; it had also
been said that one in thirteen was the average that died
within the year, but if one of thirteen would die he should
have thought that one in fourteen would have been more
likely to die ; further, as the average in England is now one
in forty, he did not see that the idea of the origin of the preju¬
dice held good.
Mr. G. Harris said that the amount of prejudice perhaps
depended upon the quality of the dinner more than anything
else. He had heard that a tradition about Judas Iscariot up¬
setting the salt, gave rise to the superstition relating to the
spilling of salt at a dinner-table. Dr. Leitner had seemed to
say that he (Mr. Harris) was an advocate for Spiritualism,
but he had only urged inquiry into the subject, and it well
deserved it at the hands of the Society. Medical opinions
were not infallible. A short time ago there was a statement
in the Times about sixteen persons dying from poison, and
not one of the medical men who had been called in to attend
them thought to look to the stomach for poison. A speaker
opposite had spoken of savages as believers in spiritual phe¬
nomena, but the truth was that such phenomena were believed
to be real by the most enlightened people of Greece and Rome,
and he (Mr. Harris) did not see how mental phenomena could
be discussed without considering also the question of the
spiritual nature of man. Dr. Carpenter had been supposed
sometimes to deny spirits, and sometimes to. affirm their
existence, so it was difficult to understand his position. Pro¬
fessor Leitner had defined the limits of human knowledge,
and said, in a dogmatic way, there were no such things as
spiritual beings, and he had then dismissed the subject alto¬
gether.
Mr. Churchill said that somebody had argued that the word
“ foxes” in his paper should have been “ wheat sheaves,” but
then firebrands could not have been tied to them, or if they
had, they could nob have gone into the standing army of the
Philistines. He had an impression that Jerome and the
translators of the Septuagint knew the Hebrew quite as well
as any modern scholar, and the word had been translated
“ foxes ” in nearly every European language, therefore he
would stick to the foxes, and not accept the jackals.
The proceedings then'closed.
A STRANGE PARTNERSHIP.
PAUL Duhalde was born at Paris, in 1691; he was the
son of a dealer in diamonds, and lost his father at the age of
sixteen years, when he was sent to Spain by his mother to
learn the arcana of the business. The lad had no success,
and returned. He was then placed with a merchant at Rouen,
but did not get on, and subsequently passed to America, but
his restless disposition soon sent him back to France. This
brought him to the year 1717, and he was now twenty-six
years of age. He remained some months with „his mother,
and then, having contracted a partnership with two jewel
merchants, set off a second time to Madrid. This enterprise
was, however, not more successful than those preceding it,
and he came back to Paris, in the month of February, 1719,
profoundly discouraged, and not without reason.
Here the melancholy reflections consequent on his repeated
and persistent failures suggested to him a very singular
notion—that of contracting a partnership with God, He
proceeded to enter seriously into this bizarre contract, and
drew up an act in regular and technical form, which he tran¬
scribed into his day-book on Sept. 24, 1719, in the following
terms :—“ I have resolved to enter into a partnership with
God, promising and undertaking to fulfil all the within-named
articles ; and I enjoin my heirs, whoever they may be, to
carry out these my intentions in case I should die before
accomplishing them myself.” He then proceeds to declare
that this association, the object of which is to deal
in precious stones, shall hold for five years, reckoning
good from Oct. 2, 1719. He fixes his capital at 3,000
Spanish piastres (£600), being all that remained to him
of his patrimony. He binds himself not to enter into
any other partnership during the five years, unless with a
Woman by marriage. As soon as the five years shall have
elapsed, he proposes to balance his accounts, to begin by with¬
drawing from the partnership the 3,000 piastres with which he
started ; secondly, to take from it the dowry that his wife may
have brought him ; thirdly, any sum or sums that may have
fallen in to him by succession or otherwise during the time ;
after which he adds, “ And the surplus shall be equally divided
between God and myself.”
This unique partnership having been thus determined,
Duhalde starts a third time for Spain, but the outset of this
new attempt does not augur well for the partners. Two years
after, however (1721), the project of a double marriage
between the Courts of France and Spain gives a new impetus
to the branch of commerce in which he is engaged, and he
resolves to improve the opportunity. At last fortune seems to
smile upon his endeavours, and the ultimate results exceed
his fondest hopes. He now returns to Paris, resolving to
settle himself finally there. In 1772 he married the daughter
of De Hansay, a well-known bookseller, who brought him
30,000 livres, and from his mother, who died in September of
the same year, he inherited 70,226 livres. On May 20, 1723,
a son was born to him.
Meantime Duhalde never loses sight of the obligations he
has taken upon himself towards God. He draws, from time
to time, from the common fund, sums which he distributes in
the name of God to the poof, and inscribes these with regu¬
larity and precision in his registers. On October 1, 1724, the
partnership expires. Duhalde strikes a balance of his ac¬
counts, and finds from the aggregate of the entries that he
has already paid to the poor 13,684 livres; but this is not all-
in the statement of account drawn up, he has considered three
classes of stones as constituting a portion of the profits; one of
these lots is at Amsterdam, one at Madrid, and one at Paris ;
these he shares equally, inscribing on the packets which con¬
tain them, “Half for the poor;” and at the foot of the
statement of account he writes:—“ Misfortune and male¬
diction upon my heirs, whoever they may be, if, under
any pretext whatever,’ they should fail to distribute to
the poor the half of whatever proceeds may come from
the jewels now in my possession, if so be as God should
call me away before I shall have been able to satisfy their
claims myself. Further, if by any extraordinary event
it should appear at my death that no other amounts are
forthcoming but those goods or sums which are virtually the
property of the poor, let not a sacrilegious hand be laid upon
them; they constitute a deposit which can under no circum¬
stances be diverted from its just course.” In addition to this
precaution, and in order to secure to the poor the amounts he
regarded as strictly their due, Duhalde drew up in the month
of January, 1725, eight bills of 1,000 livres each, payable to
order from year to year, comprising the years 1725 to 1732,
and placed these bills in the hands of the Vicar of St. Ger¬
main 1’Auxerrois.
On January 14,1725, he fell ill and made his will, by which
he declares that:—In the books which contain the minutes
of his affairs there are several articles touching matters
that concern the poor; he begs the executor to examine these
articles with the greatest accuracy, and to see they are carried
out with the strictest attention. Two months after Duhalde
dies, leaving a young widow, a minor, and an infant two
years’ old. The schedule of property is called over, the
administrators of the Hospital General are invited to attend.
Among the effects of the deceased are found packets of pre¬
cious stones, labelled “ Half for the poor their portion is
estimated at 18,188 livres. The administrators claim it, but
offer to compromise for the sum of 15,900f. The young widow
protests; the guardian contends that the will should be set
aside on the ground that no sane man ever got into a partner¬
ship with God. The parties appeal to law, and after a spirited
altercation, a judgment was obtained, April 3, 1726, on the
decision of D’Agussean (Avocat General), ordering that “ The
will of Duhalde and the acts and codicils dependent thereon
shall be fulfilled according to the desire of the testator; he
consequently condemns the guardians of the widow and her
son to hand over to the administrators of the hospital funds
the jewels constituting the legacy made by the testator to the
poor, but leaving him the choice of paying the sum in money
value, as estimated by experts to be provided by the Court;
the course adopted by the said guardian to be decided within
a fortnight.”—Weekly Times, Feb. 8th.
Mbs. M. E. Tebb recently remitted <£15 17s. 6d. to the
Rev. J. Murray Spear, Philadelphia, in addition to the
£26 2s. she had previously collected for the benefit of this
veteran medium.
82
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 13, 1874.
Spirit foettg.
THE KINGDOM.
The following poem, given through the trance mediumship
of Miss Lizzie Doten, is extracted from her Poems of the Inner
Life, published by Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S.:—
’Twas the ominous month of October—
How the memories rise in my soul!
How they swell like a sea in my soul!—
When a spirit, sad, silent, and sober,
Whose glance was a word of control,
Drew me down to the dark Lake Avernus,
In the desolate Kingdom of Death—
To the mist-covered Lake of Avernus,
In the ghoul-haunted Kingdom of Death.
And there, as I shivered and waited,
I talked with the Souls of the Dead—
With those whom the living call dead ;
The lawless, the lone, and the hated,
Who broke from their bondage and fled—
From madness and misery fled.
Each word was a burning eruption
That leapt from a crater of flame—
A red, lava-tide of corruption,
That out of life’s sediment came,
From the scoriae natures God gave them,
Compounded of glory and shame.
“Aboard !” cries our pilot and leader ;
Then wildly we rush to embark,
We recklessly rush to embark ;
And forth in our ghostly Ellida *
We swept in the silence and dark—
O God ! on that black Lake Avernus,
Where vampires drink even the breath,
On that terrible Lake of Avernus,
Leading down to the whirlpool of Death !
It was there the Eumenides f found us,
In sight of no shelter or shore—
No beaepn or light from the shore.
They lashed up the white waves around us,
We sank in the waters’ wild roar;
But not to the regions infernal,
Through billows of sulphurous flame,
But unto the City Eternal,
The Home of the Blessed, we came.
To the gate of the Beautiful City,
All fainting and weary we pressed,
Impatient and hopeful we pressed.
“ 0, Heart of the Holy, take pity,
And welcome us home t© our rest !
Pursued by the Fates and the Furies,
In darkness and danger we fled—
From the pitiless Fates and Furies,
Through the desolate realms of the Dead.”
“ Jure Divino, I here claim admission !”
Exclaimed a proud prelate, who rushed to the gate ;
“ Ave Sanctissima, hear my petition,
Holy Saint Peter ; why should I wait ?
0,fonspietatis, 0, glorious flood,
My soul is washed clean in the Lamb’s precious
blood. ”
Like the song of a bird that yet lingers,
When the wide-wandering warbler has flown;
Like the wind-harp by Eolus blown,
As if touched by the lightest of fingers,
The portal wide open was thrown ;
And we saw not the holy Saint Peter,
Not even an angel of light,
But a vision far dearer and sweeter,
Not as brilliant nor blindingly bright,
But marvellous unto the sight!
In the midst of the mystical splendour,
Stood a beautiful, beautiful child—
A golden-haired, azure-eyed child.
With a look that was touching and tender,
She stretched out her white hand and smiled :
* The dragon-ship of the Norse mythology,
t The Fates and Furies.
“ Ay, welcome, thrice welcome, poor mortals,
O, why do ye linger and wait ?
Come fearlessly in at these portals—>.
No warder keeps watch at the gate !”
“Gloria Deo ! Te Deum laudamus/”
Exclaimed the proud prelate, “I’m safe into Heaven;
Through the blood of the lamb, and the martyrs who
claim us,
My soul has been purchased, my sins are forgiven !
I tread where the saints and the martyrs have
trod—
Lead on, thou fair child, to the temple of God !”
The child stood in silence and wonder,
Then bowed down her beautiful head,
And even as fragrance is shed
From the lily the waves have swept under,
She meekly and tenderly said—
So simply and truthfully said :
“ In vain do ye seek to behold Him ;
He dwells in no temple apart;
The height of the H eavens cannot hold Him,
And yet He is here in my heart—
He is here, and He will not depart.”
Then out from the mystical splendour,
The swift-changing, crystalline light,
The rainbow-hued, scintillant light,
Gleamed faces more touching and tender
Than ever had greeted our sight—
Our sin-blinded, death-darkened sight;
And they sang : “ Welcome home to the Kingdom,
Ye earth-born and serpent-beguiled ;
The Lord is the light of this Kingdom,
And His temple the heart of a child—
Of a trustful and teachable child,
Ye are born to the life of the Kingdom—
Receive, and believe, as a child.”
SPIRIT FORMS.
BY PRINCE 'WITTGENSTEIN, AIDE-DE-CAMP TO THE
EMPEEOE OF EUSSIA.
The uncourfceous attacks, systematically directed by
part of the Spiritualistic press in England, against a
young lady of scarcely seventeen, should make it a law
to every gentleman who has had the honour of being
admitted to her private seances, to stand up in her
behalf, and join the few generous persons who, like
Messrs; Crookes, Luxmoore, Dunphy, Tapp, and others
unnamed, have loudly borne witness for her, and to
whom you, sir, have most loyally opened the columns
of The Spiritualist newspaper.
Being little accustomed to write your language,
I beforehand beg your readers’ pardon for every sin I
may perchance commit against it, hoping that they will
forgive the form for the sake of the intention which
dictates these remarks.
I have, during my short stay in London, some six
weeks ago, been twice favoured with invitations to
Miss Cook’s seances, once at Mr. Luxmoore’s, the other
time at Hackney, and found that not only the mani¬
festations I witnessed were beyond all human power of
imitation, thus excluding any possible suspicion, but
that the extreme youth, modesty, and gentle ladylike
demeanour of the medium herself, as well as the re¬
spectability of her parents and of the company I had
the pleasure of meeting—but especially the fact of no
material interest whatever being in question—made
every interpretation of deceit and charlatanism quite
inadmissible;
Feb. IB, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
83
I confess that the illusion produced by the ma¬
terialised “ Katie ” is complete, and that one might
strongly he induced to believe that the graceful, lively,
sympathetic young woman smiling at you is not merely
a momentary condensation of impalpable fluids, but a
real, charming human being in flesh and blood. I con¬
fess, also, that she resembles Miss Cook by the law of
the perisprit keeping, when disengaged, the impression
of the material form to which it belongs. But it re¬
quires only a glance to ascertain the difference in shape,
proportions, manners, voice, &c., existing between Miss
Cook and “ Katie,” and to get convinced that they
positively are two very distinct personalities, not to be
mistaken, and only bearing between themselves a sort
of strong family likeness.
One of the most striking proofs of Katie’s imma¬
teriality appears to me in her way of moving. She
did not walk; she did not even slide; she seemed to be
there at once, without my knowing how she came.
The touch of her hand also, is not that of a material
one. It feels more like velvet than like skin, and pro¬
duces the impression of an empty glove, filled with air;
it came accidentally in contact with a slight cut on my
chin, and produced a little burning sensation, which
lasted upwards of two minutes.
But the most irrefutable proof of her and Miss Cook
being two separate individuals, was given to me at the
end of the seance at Hackney: Katie had not disap¬
peared for longer than forty seconds at most, when we
opened the curtain and found Miss Cook in the act of
awaking. It would have been quite impossible for her
to change her gown, put on her boots, dress her hair in
so short a time ; and the space itself in which she sat
is too narrow to admit the possibility |of moving about
and dressing in it, had even the time been sufficient for
the operation.
Another proof of Katie’s reality as an immaterial
being, was given to me, by her putting some flowers
into my button-hole. [In the dark ?] I felt her hand
touching my coat; but I did not feel the rest of her
person, although it stood nearly between my knees,
seeming to lean against me.
This, sir, is what I can affirm, as the result of my
personal experience, and I should feel most happy, if,
by your kind insertion of this in your next publication,
it could help to disable ungenerous and hostile insinua¬
tions, which ought not to gain ground against a young
lady, having no other defence than the purity of her
reputation.
Emile, Prince of Sayn Wittgenstein.
Neider Walluf on the Rhine, 9th Eeb., 1874.
A Couloirs Teance.—There is a little boy in Detroit,
Michigan, who can mimic death, during which he has
Strange dreams and visions. His name is Ned Baker, and
he lives with his aunt on Macomb-street. The Detroit
Free Press says that he will, for a small compensation,
stretch out on the floor, cease to breathe apparently, grow
white in the face, affect the rigidity of a corpse, and his
pulse becomes so feeble that the beating can only be
detected by a practical finger. He lately went through this
performance in a saloon on Woodbridge-street, and so much
like genuine death was his counterfeit, that the men who put
him up to the trick became greatly frightened, and bribed him
to come out of his trance. His breathing was so faint that it
could not be felt on the hand or cheek, and hardly dimmed
the glass held down to his lips. He says that the performance
does not injure his health, and he can make himself so near
dead, that it is only by a great mental effort that he throws off
the lethargy.—Rsligio-Philosophiccd Journal,
ararteapontience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
THE GKRASP OE A SPIEIT HAND.
Sib,—Supposing any one, doubting the reliability of Pro¬
fessor Tyndall’s exhibition of a sounding and sensitive flame,
were to conduct himself in some outrageous manner, by way
of satisfying his doubt, or of detecting an imposture, would
not all the benches of the Boyal Institution resound with
shouts of execration, and would such conduct be less profane
when accepting conditions of admission to a private circle ?
The only excuse I can see is that opponents of Spiritualism
seem often to quite lose their senses, and to be hardly masters
of themselves.
But I can well conceive the danger of interference in spirit
circles, knowing what it is for lookers on to interfere with a
mesmerised patient; I have known most alarming conse¬
quences to result from such interference, which is termed
cross-mesmerism.”
In regard to the Davenports, I have seen people at private
seances often endeavour to catch hold of the hands, though
without succeeding, but then there were no conditions im¬
posed, and it was never objected to ; but the fact of the hands
eluding the grasp was rather amusing, so that I am surprised
at the story related of them after their giving a seance ex¬
pressly for the object of convincing the person referred to.
I had been told that spirit hands, if taken hold of, would melt
away in your grasp; so that it was natural to conclude that if
you could succeed in taking hold of one of those hands, its
melting away in your hold would settle the question of its
spiritual nature, and if it did not melt away, and you could
keep hold of it till the door was opened, you would detect the
imposture. Now, I did, at a private seance, succeed in taking
fast hold of one of those hands ; it grasped my hand in return,
and, in spite of all resistance on my part, dragged my hand
into the aperture and downwards, and I thought my wrist
would have been broken against the sharp edge of the aperture.
Thankful I was when it let me loose, as the door was being
opened, and there sat the brothers secured just as we had left
them. Thus, then, the hand neither melted away, nor did I
detect imposture, but I felt the injury to my wrist for a long
time. Our old notion in respect to spirits or ghosts was as
things that could vanish through walls, or such as you might
cut through and through with your sword without doing them
injury. But these materialised hands flashing into existence
and gone again into airy nothing in an instant, yet “ sensible
to feeling as to sight,” and equal to making you only too
sensible of their power and actuality, must make one pause and
ponder touching what is spirit and what is flesh, until one
seems to see some slight glimmering in the path of life lead¬
ing up to its spiritual source, in quite an opposite line from the
dead mechanical materialism of Messrs. Darwin and Wallace.'
Boulogne. Henby G. Atkinson.
SWEDENBOBG ON SPIBITTJAL COMMUNION.
Sib,—I presume the quotations from Swedenborg on
“ Communion with Spirits,” which appeared in your paper of
Jan. 30th, were not meant so much for the instruction of
Spiritualists, as for the sake of such interest as might attach
to the writings of the great seer upon the subject. Admirable
and instructive as are the works of Swedenborg, and probably
not sufficiently read by Spiritualists generally, yet I think that
modern Spiritualism has so far outgrown his guidance as the
nineteenth century has outgrown the eighteenth, or as the
Christian dispensation may be said to have outgrown the
Mosaic, or Jewish. It must be thus ever in the growth and
development of the human race. There is no retrogression in
knowledge. We cannot now, I think, hamper our movements
by the warnings that might have been suited to the time when
Swedenborg lived. At any rate we shall find it impossible so
to do, for the spirit world, under Divine direction, is pressing
down upon us with a power that compels attention. It is
well, however, to know what the character of our visitants
may be. Forewarned, we become forearmed, but it does not
84
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 13, 1874.
follow that all from the spirit-world are to be disbelieved and
treated as liars, because Swedenborg says so. If all spirits are
liars, how much are the teachings of this medium of the last
century to be relied upon, all of which came from spirits ?
And if man—as he says—may be deceived into believing he
converses with the Holy Spirit, and the spirit then with man
believes himself to be that Holy Spirit, what was the fate of
Swedenborg, who tells us that the Lord Jesus Christ appeared
unto him and taught him ?
From modem Spiritualism has grown the system of spirit
guides, the only safeguard, perhaps, in pur dealings with the
other world. At this day, if a man be determined to com¬
mune with the invisibles (and why should he be debarred from
seeking knowledge in that way as well as any other?) his
safest plan is to find out who are his spirit-guides, and under
their direction and protection, he can safely expose himself
to those dangers against which Swedenborg warns us so
frequently in his works ; a warning which his followers
adhere to strictly, thereby closing the door upon much useful
knowledge.
In regard to the identity of spirits, spiritualists generally
know'how to obtain tests ; but when the returning spirit is a
lately departed friend, and the medium’s spiritual senses are
sufficiently opened to permit an actual enjoyment of the pre¬
sence equal in many instances to what it was in the flesh,
seeking for tests of identity becomes superfluous. The actual
presence is there; the personal sphere of the spirit is strongly
felt; the form in its enhanced beauty is beheld ; the turns
and form of speech peculiar to the individual in the flesh, are
exhibited to the medium purposely to mark identity ; the acts
of the spirit in kindly ministrations carry out to the full the
character and nature that was known on earth. In such a
case as this, falsehood is no more to be thought of than in our
communion with beloved and trusted friends on earth.
As regards the danger of intercourse with spirits,—egotism,
irreverence, and folly alone make it dangerous. When for
years one has had communion with the same spirit, and he
proves himself by every act to be in very truth a guardian
angel,—urging on to good, reproving tendencies to evil,
bestowing moments of highest spiritual happiness, or tenderly
and sorrowfully inflicting the necessary pains for wrong doing,
as a parent would chastise a child. When one converses
with such a being at any instant as with a friend in the flesh ;
when in the fullness of time one’s eyes are opened to behold
the spiritual presence in all its beauty, it is impossible to be¬
lieve in danger ; but the soul ravished with the contemplation
of the great blessings accorded unto it, is overwhelmed with
sentiments of love, admiration, and worship of that great
God, whose will and whose work are gloriously exhibited in
our much decried and despised Spiritualism.
Swedenborg wrote of the spiritual faculties inherent in
every man, which may be opened to this celestial communion ;
he also prophesied that the time would come when angels
would again walk upon earth with man. The time has come,
and we have only reverently and humbly to make ourselves
clean for such company to be raised to its enjoyment.
Catherine Woodforde.
OTHER WORLD ORDER.
Sir,—The opening sentence of my last paper must have
puzzled any careful reader. It ought to have run thus:—
‘‘ It is one of the hardest things in the world to get accurately
understood, and when misunderstood we are apt to consider
the xe&diex'sperspicacity at fault rather than our own perspi¬
cuity.” “ Perspicuity ” was substituted for “ perspicacity ; ’’
and a friend remarks, “ You are rightly served for using such
a long word.” I am also made to say, “ The salvation of a
devil is equivocal to his conversion into an angel,” when
I meant to write equivalent. Such mistakes made me miser¬
able when I was young, but now I am hardened.
William White.
30, Thurlow-road, Hampstead, N.W. 9th Feb., 1874.
Spiritdalism in Canada.—Spiritualism is spreading in
Montreal and Western Canada. The son of a wealthy mer¬
chant—Mr. H. Matheson, 16, King-street, East Toronto—has
been developed by the invisibles as a medium for spirit mate¬
rialisations, musical and physical phenomena, and the writing
of discourses and messages while in an unconscious trance.
Gyving to the perfect reliability and high social standing of
the family, the strange occurrences have caused the utmost
curiosity in Toronto.
There will be another meeting of the Council of the
British National Association of Spiritualists next Monday, to
finally decide upon the prospectus.
The object of Mrs. Showers in visiting London, is to ob¬
serve spiritual phenomena, not to give seances, and it is to be
hoped that facilities will be given her for so doing, since she
has published such interesting testimony as to the reality of
spiritual, manifestations, by narrating what she has witnessed
in the privacy of her own house.
Accident to Dr. Sexton.—On Sunday evening last, as
Dr. Sexton was crossing the street opposite the statue in
King William-street, City, he, was knocked down by a four-
wheeled cab, which was being driven along at great speed.
He was thrown nearly under the wheels of an omnibus, and it
was almost a miracle that he was not killed on the spot.
Fortunately, he escaped with some bruises and a severe
shaking, from the effects of which, we trust, he will speedily
recover.
Mr. Massey in America.—On more than one occasion
Mr. Gerald Massey’s lectures in the United States have been
too unorthodox for the listeners. The executive committee of
the Chicago Philosophical Society recently replied as follows
to a protest from the trustees of the Chicago Methodist
Church, who had let their building to the society for the de¬
livery of one of Mr. Massey’s lectures :—“ We fully recognise
not only your right, but your duty, to protest against any
improper use of the church property held by you as trustees,
and we are free to admit, in the case of Gerald Massey’s
lecture, we did not use our usual caution in ascertaining the
character of it ; and are equally free to say that, had we been
aware of its character, we should have declined it.” On the
17th of last month, at a dinner which took place in Boston in
connection with the Franklin Typographical Society, Mr.
Massey said :—“ I am pleased that the first public social re¬
ception given to me in Boston should have come from the
working-men. I was born among the workers, and to them
1 belong. At the present time I am associated with a subject
that is tabooed and unfashionable—so much so that only a
single preliminary word of welcome was given to me by the
Boston press. It has always been my fate to stand on the
weaker and Vmpopular side, and it is so still. * But, gentle¬
men, I can assure you it was the side that came uppermost,
and was the stronger in the end, and I do not doubt it vyill be
so with this much despised subject of Spiritualism. I carry
with me from England letters of introduction from some of
our foremost people to some of your most honourable citizens.
But, as fate would have it, none but the despised Spiritualists
invited me to lecture in Boston, and with them have I cast
in my lot. In this connection, too, it is pleasant to reflect
that all the private hospitality extended to me in America
has been in the homes of the Spiritualists.”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
B. Edinburgh:—Mr. Ely ton, who was present at the seance,
published an account of it in these pages a few weeks ago.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND OLAIRVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Revealing Startling Facts
to the public, can be consulted on either Medical or Business Affairs con
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 12 to 6. Terms, One Guinea.
Address, care of Mr. Middleton's ■“ Oity Temperance Hotel,” foot of Lord
Oockburn-street, Edinburgh.
R. W. G. SCORE Y, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successiully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—194, Comwall-road, Notting-hill, W. (Hammersmith line).
Please write.
R. JOHN HUNTER and DR, MESMER may be
consulted upon all forms of illness, through MR. ROBERT HARPER,
from whom Mesmeric Treatment and Eclectic Medicines may be obtained,
at 114, Wardour-street, Oxford-street, W. Fees, 10s. and upwards. Hours,
one to five o'clock daily.
RS. EMPSON, Medical Clairvoyant and Mag¬
netic Healer, undertakes the Diagnosis and the Cure of Diseases
(if curable). Patients at a distance may obtain diagnosis and advice by
sending magnetic link and fee of 10s. Address, 114, Wardour-street,
Oxford-street, W. Hours, one to five o’clock daily.
For sale, price £5, breeches’ bible
{Geneva edition), 1610, black letter, with copious annotations through¬
out. Liustrated with plates. In perfect condition. To be seen on applica¬
tion to T. Blyton, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 13, 1874.
in
"CITUG-H McLEOB, M.D., Psychometric, Impressional, and
J-l. healing by the laying on of hands; in which departments of Medium-
ship Dr. McLeod is prepared to give the highest references. Terms, 5s.
each person. Visits by arrangement. Hours 10 till 4. 22, Robert-street,
Hampstead-road, N.W.
'RS.WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bemard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended,
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOVANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—19, Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy-
square.
'R. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
_ daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5.s; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A MEETING of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Association are:—
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tern., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Richard Fitton, Secretary pro tem.
Gr
Now Beady, Price Sixpence.
OD AND IMMORTALITY, viewed in relation to
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
A Discourse delivered in the City Hall Saloon, Glasgow, on Sunday
Evening, February 23rd, 1873, by
GEORGE SEXTON, M.A., M.D., LL.D., D.SC.,
Honorary Member of L’Accademia Dei Quiriti, at Borne, dtc.
BY THE SAME AUTHOR—
Price Threepence,
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF MACBETH.
A Lecture delivered before the Psychological Society of Glasgow, on
May 4th, 1869.
‘We advise all playgoers and dramatic readers to give a glance at this
pamphlet; they will be well paid for their trouble, and will see the phases
of Macbeth’s character far better than any actor of the present day can
delineate them.”—Theatrical Journal.
“ The lecture is a full, careful, and philosophical treatise on the
Shakespearian tragedy. Dr. Sexton makes the most patient analysis of the
character of the Thane; and in his conclusions, generally speaking, the
student will readily acquiesce.—The Era.
PHOTOGRAPHIC COPIES OF THE ILLUMINATED
ADDRESS to be presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain to
Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERR'S, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
11 parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
Aaron franklin, preserver of birds and
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE. Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’-heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. Aaron Franklin, 100, Suf-
folk-street, Birmingham.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &o., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
INSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“ The prayer over he commenced an eloquent and philosophical address
on modern Spiritualism.”—North-Western Daily Times.
“ The medium then passed into what is termed the trance state, and in
clear and forcible language, with a readiness of expression and fluency of
utterance delivered a discourse on Spiritualism.”—Liverpool Daily Albion.
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lecturer, or what¬
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram¬
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature and its Needs’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!”—South Wales Press.
“ Those who are intellectually inclined, and desire to know what Spirit
ualism is as taught by the spirits, will learn more in an hour’s conversaiion
with Mr. Morse's guides than in months of misdirected seeking.”—Medium.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.'’—Spiritualist.
“ Mr. Morse is what is called a speaking-medium, of no mean order, for
he kept crowded audiences intently listening each evening for above an hour
and a half to his certainly most powerful and accomplished addresses.”—
Darlington and Richmond Herald.
“He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
MR. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
Mr. Morse holds a seance every Friday evening, at 8 o’clock, at 15, Southamp¬
ton-row, W.O., when he is in London, where letters, &c., may be addressed,
or to his private residence, Warwick Cottage, Old Ford, Bow, E.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 59 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4Jd. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s) >
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER, LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the chtjkch).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Spiritualist Newspaper.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
YMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
WORK BY THE SAME AUTHOR.
An elegant little volume, bound in blue and gold, carmine edges,
Price 4s. 6d.
LYRICS AND BUCOLICS. The Eclogues of Yirgil,
a selection from the Odes of Horace, and the Legend of the Sibyll.
“Mr. Noyes’ qualifications are of no mean order. In the first place, he
has the essential one of thoroughly entering into and appreciating the true
spirit of his master, and even where, as we have said, he exceeds what
we conceive to be the limits of a translation, we attribute it rather to his
being carried away by his own muse than to his misunderstanding his
author’s. And here we have a second and no less important qualifi¬
cation for success. Mr. Noyes has a genuine poetic vein of his own, and
his lines have almost always the ring of true metal.”—Standard,
April 7th, 1868.
“ There is a certain freedom and swing in these translations, which not
only more resembles the brisk spirit and ringing tone of the original, but
is truly refreshing after the stiff rendering which had been generally made
of Horace’s choicest composition.’ —iomfon Review, Feb. \5th, 1868.
“The Translations from Horace are spirited and musical. His light
Epicureanism and gay Stoicism are happily hit off.”—Daily News,
March Zd, 1868.
“ Mr. Noyes’ Version of Virgil’s Pastorals may fairly take its place by the
side of Mr. Connington’s translation of the JEneid. The lovers of such
poetry have here as pleasant a bouquet as can well be set before them,”—
Speculator, March 7th, 1868.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
« SELLER, STATtONER. AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist. 39. Smallbrook street, Birmingham, Supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
iv;
THE SPIRITUALIST.
.Feb; 13; 1874,
- EYIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERYES
IHYESTIGATIOH.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years.
has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volunies and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart.-, M.P., appointed a Committee to inyes-'
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. G. Atkinson, Esq., P.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C-E.; H. R. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. 0. Maurice Davies,^
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
. D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,'
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq ; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; 0. Russell Roberts, Esq.,'
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S.-Yeomans,Esq.
“ Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.;? Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H, Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
J’osiah Webber, Esq.” ,
After inquiring into the,subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume,' published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance nf any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the su^-committees of the Dialectical Society reported: —
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’ 'V  
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their -own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch eacn other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but hot
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, *to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
. 6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
. 7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question, should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the medium ? ” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body!
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
Toe best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations arc born of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STERLING.
Bead OJfces.-BROWN STREET AND MARSDEN STREET; MANCHESTER
Eire.
. Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates
Bonus Returns.'—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Renewed Premiums.
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence
standing tofact for the Corporation in unrepresented localities
TO OWNER S OF HOUSE PROPERTY.
E. BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
11, PARK GROVE, SHEPHERD’S LANE, BRIXTON,
RESPECTFULLY solicits the patronage of Owners of
House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixton
Road, and near the Railway Station-Coffering special facilities for the
prompt letting of Houses of every description.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed,
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS. — Handsomely-printed Blue
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion, may be obtained in packets, each containing 400, price 2s. 6d. per
packet. They are especially useful for distribution at public meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, reading-rooms, clubs, and places of
public resort.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, London, E.C.
A NEW ERA IN JOURNALISM!
THE FREE SPEAKER, a High Class Family News¬
paper. Weekly—One Penny.
SPECIAL POLITIC^ AND SOCIAL ARTICLES,
BY INDEAJINDENT WRITERS.
Full Reports of Home, Foreign, and General News. Law and Police.
FREEDOM OF CORRESPONDENCE.
WEEKLY TALES BY THE FIRST WRITERS.
Publishing Office: 125, Fleet-street. Advertisement Office: 106, Shoe-lane.
LUNACY LAW REFORM.
ALL PERSONS coguisapt of cases of INCARCERATION,
under a false plea of insanity, or of MALTREATMENT OF
LUNATICS, or who are ready to, co-operate in obtaining AMENDMENT
OF THE LUNACY LAWS, are earnestly requested to communicate with
MRS. LOUISA LOWE,
97, BURTON ROAD, BRIXTON.
The following Extract from the “ Act to Amend the Law relating to Luna¬
tics!’ is a fair specimen of Lunacy Legislation :—
“ It shall be lawful for the Proprietor or Superintendent of any licensed
house with the previous assent in writing of two or more of the Commis¬
sioners, or in the Case of a House licensed by Justices, of two or more of
the Visitors to entertain and keep in such house as a Boarder for such time as
may be specified in the assent, any person who may have been within Five
Years immediately preceding.the giving of such assent, a Patient in any
asylum, hospital, or licensed house, or under care as a Single Patient.”—25
& 26 Viet., ch. iii., sec. 18.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, . Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, iq. the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W
Allen, Aye Maria-lane London, E.C,
