>
f AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE., t
TEEGISTERED FOE TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No.. 167.—(Yol. YII.—No. 19.) LONDON: NOVEMBER 5jl875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
The Lateral and Vertical Extension of Spiritualism   ... 217
Manifestations with!the Fakirs in India. No. III. By Dr. Maximilian
Perty       217
Spirit People    ...   218
Spiritualistic Sunday Evening Services at the Cleveland Hall   218
Pulpit Abuse of Spiritualism  218
Winter Meetings of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
By George King  219
Brixton Psychological Society. A Seance with Mr. Williams   219
Provincial News:—Isleof Wight, Extraordinary Seances at V entnor and
\ Oarisbrook—Terror of a Dog at the Spirits—Dublin, Spiritualism
in Dublin—Newcastle-on-Tyne, A Trance Lecture—Immortality—
Miss Fairlamb’s Mediumship—Liverpool, Liverpool Psychological
Society  ,  ... 220
A Trance Lecture in Dalston  221
The 1875 Conference of Spiritualists:—Public Reception of Mr. Morse
-^Presidential Address by Mr. Coleman—The Progress of Spirit¬
ualism during the Past Year—Words of Welcome to Mr. Morse
—Spiritualism finds its own Workers—The Antagonism of Excep¬
tional Scientific Men—Mr. J. J. Morse on Spiritualism in America
—Spiritualism in Baltimore—Spiritualism in Philadelphia—Spi¬
ritualism in Boston—ASeance with Mrs. Lord—A Seance with
Mrs. Thayer—A Test Seance—Spiritualism in Maine, Connecticut,
and Massachusetts—Painting Mediumship    222
Pardon of Mr. Firman   ... 226
A Seance at Dalston        ... 226
Poetry:—Mad     ... 227
Correspondence:—Good and Evil—The Funeral of the Body—The
Mediumship of the Bamford Brothers—Direct Spirit Writing ... 227
A New Hypothesis. By Colonel H. S. Olcott   228
Dalston Association of Spiritualists  ?   228
Paragraphs:—Magic, 217; Mr. Bright on Funeral Reform, 206; A
Hindoo Somnambulist, 226; the Davenport Brothers in Europe 228
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogmon’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
T3IRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
I# Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to th“ Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
urchases and Sales of British. Foreign, ana Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o'clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
58, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected with Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
in addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes membership:
Quarterly tickets, 6s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
A .Seance room can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on-Saturdays.
N.B.—The Subscription for the Current Year, 1875, will not be
CLAIMED FROM MEMBERS JOiNINO AFTER THIS DATE.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS
SUNDAY EVENING LECTURES.
MR. J. J. MORSE, TRANCE SPEAKER,
WILL DELIVER
A SERIES OF INSPIRATIONAL LECTURES,
At Cleveland Hall, Cleveland-street, near Portland-road Station, W., on
the following Sunday evenings:—November 7th, 14th, 21st, and 28ih.
Reserved seats, 2s. and Is. Tickets for the course, 6s. Body of the
hall, free.
Service to commence at 7 o’clock. Doors open at 6.30.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALI STS.
THE 1875 CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS
will he held in London, at 38, Great Rmsell-street, IF’.C'., Jrom the 3rd
to the 5th of November.
General Programme.
Wednesday, November 3.—Opening Soiree—at the Cavendish Rooms, for
the benefit of Mr. Morse. Hours from 6.30 to 10.30.
Thursday, November 4.—First Session of Conference, 3 p.m. Second
Session, 7.30.
Friday, November 5.—Third and Fourth Sessions at same hours.
Subjects for Papers.
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, an
umbrellas. ,
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney. Third Edition. Price 3s.
LONDON:—SlMPKIN, MARSHAIL & CO. 
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY GEORGE
SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the oldest of the periodicals
devoted to the cause of Spiritualism, having now been in existence for
upwards of fifteen years. It has from the first taken a very high stand in
the literature of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary Ability, and contained only such articles as were likely to
have a permanent interest.
A new series of the Magazine commences in January, 1875, and this pre¬
sents therefore a favourable opportunity for new subscribers to commence
taking it regularly.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Patemoster-row ’E C.
PARIS.—Parisian, readers of The Spiritualist may obtain
it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des
Oapncines, Paris.
THE “STURMBERG ” PLANCHETTE writes answers
to your thoughts, whether by Spirit Agency or not. Ail should
judge for themselves. Of most fancy dealers, or from J. Stormont
Constitution-hill, Birmingham. 4s. 4d., 2s. 2d., and Is. 9d., post free.
1. The Moral Responsibility of Physical Mediums.
2. The Importance of the dissemination of Spiritualism as a Religious
Influence.
3. Healing Mediumship.
4. Reincarnation; the theories it involves, and the evidence in support
of it.
5. The unreliability of Spirit-communications, and how far this arises
from ignorance, carelessness, or deception.
6. The British National Association of Spiritualists—its objects and
interests.
7. Popular errors with regard to Spiritualism.
Other papers on kindred topics are also invited.
All essays to be sent in to the Secretary, 88, Great Russell-street, W.C.,
not later than Saturday, October 30.
Admission to Conference, Free, by Tickets, to be had on application to
the Secretary.
All Spiritualists and inquirers are invited to take part In the conference.
Further particulars in future advertisements.
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK. By ALLAN KARDEC.
Translated into English by Anna Blackwell. Price 7s. 6d. Postage
6£d. Post Office Orders to be made payable to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist
Newspaper branch publishing office, 38, Great Russell-street, London W.C.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED ENGLISH¬
MEN. A practical suggestion for a model colony—Congenial English
society, lovely scenery, a delightful climate, and the most fertile of soils.
By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Nov. 5, 1875,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Eltz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambrldge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balhatn, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.B.C.S., 29, Ersklne-street, Isllngton.sq., Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 82, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-road, Finch-
ley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., I, King Edward-street, Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F. A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Hoiland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Yue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 30, Campden-hill-gardens, Kensington, W.
Dawson, George fl., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., 28, Portland-place, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North Brixton.S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton, S.VV.
Freeman, Joseph, 6, Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hiU, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end. Doddington-grove, Kennington-park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
James, Capt., 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E , Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 8, Granville-terrace, Shaftesbury-road, Hammersmith, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C.T., M.R.C.S., 19, Nottingham-place, York-gate, Regent’s-pk., N.W.
Pearce, Hich&rd, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-6nd, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A.,LL.D., &c., 17, Traralgar-road, Old Keut-road, S E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versdilles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald Mot611, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Fernside, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, W.
White, J. Shadwell, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall, S.W., and
3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater. W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs. Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-dc-Camp
General de S.M.I. I’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine, near
Wiesbaden.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdje' Capoussou, Constanti¬
nople.
The Baron Yon Yay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potsehach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, Nevsky Prospect
6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-ETysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, Now York ; U S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co , New Jersey, U.8.A.
Mrs. Cora L- V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, RueLaurlstdn, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 206, West 38th Street, New York, U.S.A.
A. J. Rlko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne,
M. C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 4, Via Morone, Milan, Italy.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne, Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg University, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 90, Kussell-street,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse, 35, Gartenhaus, Leipsic.
W. H- Terry, Esq., 96,Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq.,M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq.,M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Escu M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 18, Rue d’Acnieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi, Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq , 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waltzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society, 74, Russell-street, Liverpool/
L’Union Spirits et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121, Rue ds
Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances, Esq., 22,
Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton Prochaszka
Josefstadt, Erzherzog, Alexander-gasse, 23, Buda-Pesth, Hungary,
BRITISH .NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association ok Spiritualists is formed to unite Spirit¬
ualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to aid students
and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal the means of syste¬
matic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic; to
make known the positive results arrived at by careful research; and to direct
attention to the beneficial influence which those results are calculated to exercise
upon social relationships and individual conduct. It is intended to include Spi
ritualists of every class, whether members Of Local and Provincial Societies or not,
and all inquirers into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year 1873,
at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, at which ail the great
Societies of Spiritualists, and the Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United
Kingdom, were represented. The amount of the annual subscription to the
National Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year. Each
member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is eligible for election to all
offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wishing to become
allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at
the offices of the Association, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C., of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules Inay be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Wobum-street.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.tn. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday and Thursday evenings; and Saturday evenings,
for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening. Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Conuol in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 10, New Ormond-street, Bloomsbury.
PROFESSOR REGAN, PSYCHOPATHIC
HEALER, wishes to make known, by desire of his Spirit Phy¬
sicians, who cure through him, in his normal state, that having been de¬
veloped by them into a powerful healing medium, and at the same time, by
a course of deep study, acquiring a practical knowledge of the philosophy
of disease, and its rationale of cure, he is now prepared to examine, treat,
and cure patients, suffering from all kinds of acute, chronic, nervous, and
organic disease of long years’ standing,- Consultations and invaluable
treatment given at his own house, or at patient’s residence, by appoint¬
ment. Visitors received at his Consulting-rooms from 12 to 4 daily. Fee,
One Guinea. Address, 59, Finborough-road, Redcliffe-gardens, South
Kensington.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street,
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
R. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL TRANCE
SPEAKER, has returned to England, and is now prepared to re¬
ceive calls as usual, to (lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow,
London, E.
■VTOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER, Professor
JlN of Curative (Mesmerism (80 Years Established), attends patients
daily! from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indication of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
RS. OLIVE, SPIRIT MEDIUM, 49, BELMONT-
. STREET, CHALK B’aRM-ROAD, N.W. Trance communica¬
tions for Tests, Business and Medical advice, Healing by Spirit Mesmerism,
&c. Terms for private seance, one guinea, public seances on Tuesdays, at
7 [i.m., and Fridays, 3 p.m., at above address. Admission 2s. 6d. Previous
appointments should be made for private seances.
% olj % J’rujrm »| ifp attil ^i|^s of jSpttjtiusKsm,
V0LUJV1E ^EVEj^f. JSfUjVIBEE J^IJMETEEjsf.
LONDON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8th, 1878.
THE LATERAL AND VERTICAL EXTENSION OF
SPIRITUALISM.
Sthange changes have taken place in Spiritualism
in America; there was a time when two or three
thousand Spiritualists attended the Sunday services in
the Boston Music-hall, whereas now only a hundred
or two are to be seen there. Mrs. Hardinge has
withdrawn from the rostrum, because she does not like
the way in which the public business of Spiritualism
is transacted in that country, and altogether a tem¬
porary reaction has set in. We attribute this to the
circumstance that little or no deep research or scientific
observation of phenomena has been carried on there,
so that little real knowledge has been acquired, but
mediums have been multiplying faster than the dangers
and advantages of mediumship have been unravelled,
and half-educated talkers have uttered much nonsense,
mixed with a little intelligence, from public platforms,
and, with no standard of excellence imposed upon them
by the body at large, have imperfectly and ill-advisedly
mooted many wild social problems in the name of
Spiritualism. Had the prevailing knowledge of
mediumship in America equalled even the little that is
known here, Mr. Dale Owen would not have trusted
the Holmeses or their spirits so far in the absence of
test conditions, and Mi's. Carpenter’s outrageous conduct
would have promptly met with a stern rebuke.
Close study or the facts, with extensive scientific
appliances if need bo, is more requisite in Spiritualism
just now than mere proselytising work, not that the
latter should be undervalued. The solid and slow
growth of the oak produces more permanent results
than the quick growth of the cucumber, and those who
in their haste wish to rise like a rocket, must expect
to fall like its stick. Heavy public blows, like, those
in America and France, will now and then fall upon
the movement until the nature of powerful physical
mediumship is better understood; and the best thing
England and America could do at the present time
would be to try to make some arrangement, if possible,
whereby such men as Dr. Crowell, Mr. A. ft. Wallace,
and Mr. Epes Sargent, should devote their whole time
to the unravelling of the laws and facts of Spiritualism.
Yertical growth is more required than lateral exten¬
sion, in the present state of the Spiritual movement.
Magic.'—“Art-Magic: or, Mundane, Super-Mundane, and Sub-
Mundane Spiritism ” is the title of a work particulars of which
are contained in a circular received from Mrs. Hardinge Britten,
and which closes with a letter from that lady recommending the
book in the highest terms. It will be published under certain
stringent conditions, should as many as five hundred subscribers
be forthcoming before the end of this year. A copy of the circular
will be sent to any lady or gentleman applying to the Secretary to
the National Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.O., by whom the names of those wishing to sub¬
scribe will be received and forwarded to Mrs. Hardinge Britten,
who has consented to act as the author’s secretary. Mrs. Britten
considers the work to be the “ most wonderful and practical revela¬
tion of the subject treated on, and the only scientific explanation of
occult powers in man and his planet ever given to the world.”
MANIFESTATIONS WITH THE FAKIRS IN INDIA.
No. HI.
BY DU. MAXIMILIAN PERTY,
Professor of Physical Science, Berne. Translated from “ Psychic Studies."
It often happens that wealthy Indians spend their last years a*1
Benares, retired from the world. Among the pilgrims who resort
there are sdme who have been commissioned to bring the ashes of
rajahs or other rich persons, which have been collected in sacks after
the burning of their bodies, for the purpose of throwing them into
the sacred stream; for it is the last hope of the Hindoo to die on the
banks of the Ganges or to cause his remains to be brought there.
To this circumstance Jacolliot was indebted for the acquaintance of
one of the most extraordinary fakirs, Covindasamy by name, whom
he had met in India. He came from Trivanderam, not far from
Cape Comorin, the southern point of Hindostan, with the order to
convey the remains of a rich native of Malabar, of the commercial
caste (commutys) to Benares. The prince, whose family had come
from the south, was accustomed to entertain pilgrims from Tra-
vancore, Mai'sur, Tanjore, and the old Mahratta country, in the
precincts of his palace, and had assigned to Covindasamy, who had
already been there a fortnight, a little straw hut on the banks,
where for twenty-one days he had to make, morning and evening,
daily ablutions in honour of the dead. As soon as Jacolliot had
gained his goodwill he asked him to come one day at noon, when
every one in the palace was taking his siesta, to his room, in front
of which was a terrace overlooking the Ganges, and where a foun¬
tain diffused the most agreeable coolness.
When the fakir had crouched down on the ground, with his legs
crossed under him, Jacolliot asked whether he might put a question
to him. “ I am listening,” was the answer. “Dost thou know,”
continued Jacolliot, “ whether any force is developed in thee when
these phenomena are produced, and dost thou never feel a peculiar
sensation in the brain or muscles ? ” “ It is no natural force that
is at work,” answered Covindasamy; “ I call on the souls of my
forefathers, and it is they who show their power, and whose instru¬
ment I am.” Various fakirs, whom Jacolliot had questioned on the
same point, gave nearly the same answer, and he now asked Covin¬
dasamy to begin his work. The fakir, who had already taken his
seat, stretched out his hands in the direction of a very large bronze
vessel filled with water. Scarcely five minutes afterwards the vase
began a series of swinging motions, and was soon unmistakably
approaching the enchanter, without being visibly propelled, and in
proportion as the distance from him diminished, metallic sounds
were heard proceeding from it, as if of strokes from a steel rod; and
these sounds were at one moment so numerous, and followed one
another so quickly, that it was like a shower of hail upon a zinc
roof. Jacolliot asked to be allowed to suggest the order of the
operations, which the fakir allowed at once, and the vase under his
influence moved forwards or backwards, or stood still, and the
sounds were given forth in tmbroken succession, or came slowly
and regularly, like the strildng of a clock, according to the wish
expressed by Jacolliot; also a certain number of strokes followed
in a given time, and the playing of a musical box which was in the
place—and of which Hindoos are particularly fond—was accom¬
panied in time by the strokes, whether the tune was a waltz from
Der Freischiitz, or the march from Le Prophete. Everything took
place without apparatus on a terrace of a few yards square, and the
vase in question, which was of a broad open form, and used to
receive Water from the fountain for the morning’s ablutions (which
in India means a bath), was, when empty, of such great weight
that two men could scarcely move it.
The fakir, who until now had remained crouching, rose up and
placed the points of his fingers on the edge of the vase, which in a
few minutes began to rock to and fro still more rapidly, without
any sound proceeding from its base, though it rose and fell, first on
one side and then on the other, on the stuccoed floor. Besides that,
to J acolliot’s great astonishment, the water in the vase remained
motionless, as though prevented by some heavy pressure from
following the movement of the vessel, which continually altered its
point of gravity. Three times during these operations the vase
was raised from seven to eight inches above the ground, and when
it was again deposited there was no perceptible shock.
The sun, which was now nearing the horizon, reminded Jacolliot
of the excursion he intended making among the ruins and monu¬
ments of ancient Kassy, the centre of the spiritual power, since
the Brahmins had lost their territory to the rajahs, and the fakir
j of the customary prayers in Siva’s temple preparatory to the ablu¬
tions and ceremonies for the dead, which he was bound to fulfil
218
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 5, 1875.
every evening on the shores of the sacred river. He promised to
conie every remaining day of his stay in Benares, for Jacolliot had
won his heart, because he, having lived many years in the south of
India, could speak the soft and euphonious Tamul language, which
is not understood in Benares ; the fakir was therefore enabled to
converse with him about his wonderful native country, full of
ancient monuments and luxurious vegetation, and about the mys¬
terious crypts in the pagodas of Trivanderam* where he was
initiated in the art of invocation by the Brahmins.
At their meeting on the following day, while Oovindasamy, after
the usual preliminaries, was sitting pensively on his crossed legs,
he rose up suddenly, approached the bronze vessel, which was
filled to the rim with water, held his hand over it, and remained
motionless. Perhaps because his power was weaker on that day,
an hour passed without any visible results, until finally the water
began to be agitated as if a slight breeze were passing over it.
Jacolliot, who had placed his hands on the edge of the vase, felt a
cool breath, and a rose-leaf lying on the water was driven towards
one side of the vessel. It was remarkable that the ripples were
formed on the side opposite to the fakir, and flowed towards him. ]
By degrees the water began to bubble, as if strongly heated. It
flowed over the hands of the enchanter, and some of the water shot
upwards to the height of about two feet. When Jacolliot asked the
fakir to withdraw his hand from the water, the motion subsided
gradually; when he went near again it recommenced as before.
The Hindoo begged for a little stick, and Jacolliot gave him an
uncut lead pencil, which Oovindasamy laid in the water, and which
presently followed the fakir’s hands, as iron will follow a magnetic
needle in any direction. Then he laid his forefinger very lightly
on the middle of the pencil, and it sank in a few moments under
water to the bottom of the vase. Jacolliot had seen, with some of
the fakirs, objects raised from the ground, and asked Covindasamy
for this manifestation. The fakir took an ironwood stick, which
Jacolliot had brought from Ceylon, rested his right hand upon the
knob, cast down his eyes, and began his evocations, when gradually,
still leaning one hand upon the stick, and with his legs crossed in
oriental fashion, he rose about two feet from the ground, and
remained immovable, in a position similar to that of the bronze
Buddhas which every tourist now brings from the far East,
whereas the greater part of these statuettes are manufactured in
the foundries of London. Jacolliot could by no means comprehend
how the fakir could remain over twenty minutes in a position
entirely contravening the law of gravitation. When he took leave
of Jacolliot that day, he informed him that at the moment when the
sacred elephants in Siva’s pagoda should strike the midnight hour
on the copper saucers, he would call on the familiar spirits of the
Eranguys (Frenchmen), who would then manifest their presence in
Jacolliot’s bedchamber. In order to secure himself against decep¬
tion, Jacolliot sent both his servants to spend the night in the
dingui, with the cercar (boatman) and other attendants. The palace
of the Peishwa has windows on the Ganges side only, and consists
of seven stories, whose rooms open on to covered terraces ancf
galleries. The stories communicate with each other in a peculiar
way; from the ground-floor a staircase leads to the first story,
and at the further end of this is another flight of steps to the next
above, and so on to the sixth, from which a movable flight,
attached with chains like a drawbridge, leads to the seventh story,
which is furnished half in oriental, half in European style, and is
generally reserved for the foreign guests of the Peishwa.
After Jacolliot had carefully searched his rooms, and pulled
up the drawbridge, all communication with the outer world was cut
off. At the given hour he thought he heard two distinct raps on
the wall of his room, and as he went towards the spot, a faint
rapping noise seemed to come from the glass bell that protected the
hanging lamp from mosquitoes and night-moths, then a noise in
the cedar beams of the roof, and all was still. He then walked to
the end of his terrace ; it was one of those silvery nights, unknown
in our climates. The Ganges lay like a broad carpet at the foot of
the sleeping city, and on one of its steps a dark figure was visible;
it was the fakir of Trivanderam, praying for the repose of the dead.
Jacolliot could not feel convinced that the theory of the Hindoos,
that the phenomena which he had now so often witnessed were
produced by the spirits of their ancestors, was in any sense proved;
but he was equally certain that no one in Hindostan understood
by what means these enchanters operated; he saw that the Hindoos
do not separate material phenomena from religious belief. “It was
so,” he said to the fakir, when he appeared the next evening; “the
sounds which you announced were really to be hoard; the fakir is
very skilful.” “ The fakir is nothing,” answered Oovindasamy
quite calmly; “he says his mentrams, and the spirits hear him. It
was the manes of thy French forefathers, who visited thee.”
“ Thou hast power also over foreign spirits ? ” “No one can com¬
mand the spirits.” “ I mean, how can the souls of the Franguys
hear the prayers of a Hindoo, when they are not of thy caste ? ”
| There is no caste in the world beyond.” It was impossible, as at
all other times, to shake Covindasamy’s conviction.
He took a little bamboo stool, without further ado, and seated
himself with his legs crossed Moslem fashion, and his arms across
bis breast. The servant (Cansama in Hindostani, Dobaschy in
Tamul) had lighted the terrace to the brightness of day, and
presently Jacolliot saw, after the motionless fakir had apparently
concentrated his will-power, the bamboo stool begin to glide along
the ground about ten centimetres at a time, and in about ten
minutes arrive at the end of the terrace, the distance of seven
metres, and then return backwards to its former place. This
happened three times, in accordance with Jacolliot’s wish; the
fakir’s legs being raised above the ground to the level of the seat of
the stool. The heat was on this day unusually great, the cool
evening breeze from the Himalayas not having yet set in, and the
cook was working with all his bodily force, by means of a cocoanut
fibre string, an enormous punkah, a sort of movable fan, which
was fixed to an iron pole in the centre of the terrace. The fakir
took hold of the string, placed both hands upon his forehead, and
crouched beneath the punkah, which soon began to swing, without
any movement on Covindasamy’s part, first gently, then; more and
more rapidly, as when moved by a human hand. If the enchanter
let the string go, the punkah moved more and more slowly, till at
last it stood still. Covindasamy next chose one of three flowerpots
on the terrace, which were so heavy that a man’s whole strength
was necessary to lift one ; he laid the points of his fingers on its
edge, causing a regular pendulum-like motion of the base, and at
last the pot seemed to Jacolliot to rise off the ground, and to follow
the will of the fakir in any direction, a phenomenon that J acolliot
had often seen in broad daylight.
“SPIRIT people;”
The following review is from Public Opinion of October 23rd:—
Spirit People; a scientifically accurate account of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits. By William H. Harrison. (Spiritualist
Office).—Mr. Harrison is well known as a practical electrician, and
as the tester of the submarine cable between Wales and Ireland via
Abermawr Bay. As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to
have investigated the subject without preconceived ideas, and the
result of his examination has been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes, and Wallace,'in favour, not only
of the Absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of the genuineness
of the communications alleged to be given by the spirits of the
departed. Into the much-vexed question of d priori objections to
Mr. Harrison’s opinions we shall not now enter. We will only say
that his descriptions of facts are couched in a moderate and truly
scientific spirit; that he appears to have exhausted every reasonable
test which his experience led him to make; and that the whole tone
of the book, which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension, is
rigorously logical. It demands a much more ingenious refutation
than Dr. Carpenter attempted some years ago. We wish that the
scientific aspect of what is called “Spiritualism” could be settled
at once and for all; but so long as some Spiritualists write in an
unscientific method, and some savants shut their eyes, and ignore
patent phenomena, there appears but little chance of an explanation.
SPIRITUALISTIC SUNDAY EVENING SERVICES AT
THE CLEVELAND HALL.
As Mr. J. J. Morse’s immediate stay in London will extend
through the month of November, the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists has appointed a committee to arrange a series of evening
services for the four Sundays of the present month. The services
will begin next Sunday evening at the Cleveland Hall, the scene of
many successful and well-attended meetings with both Mrs. Emma
Hardinge Britten and Mrs. Tappan as inspirational speakers. The
numerous admirers of Mr. Morse will doubtless form an audience
for which Cleveland Hall will not be too spacious, and its proximity
to the PgrtUnd-road railway station makes it easy of access from
all parts of London. The admission to the body of the hall is free,
and the service will commence next Sunday at seven o’clock. For
further particulars see advertisement.
PULPIT ABUSE OF SPIRITUALISM.
The following extracts from a ranting sermon against Spirit¬
ualism are taken from a report in the Eastern Post of Saturday
last:—
On Sunday evening last the Rev. J. W. Atkinson preached a
sermon* on “ Modern Spiritualism,” at Latimer Chapel, Mile-end.
There was a very full chapel. The rev. gentleman took for his
text the first book of Timothy, 4th chapter and the first three
verses, and said:—
I come to-night to speak of that gigantic imposture of the age
called Spiritualism, which has fixed its roots and thrust its fibres
and well-nigh spread its poisonous branches over the whole earth.
Do not let us delude ourselves with the thought that this upas tree
is a mere upstart growth, here to-day and gone to-morrow, and
shedding no influence around. To show you the hold it has taken
on men I quote the words of Judge Edmonds, who says, “ In the
year 1867 there were in America 11 million Spiritualists, in other
words every fourth person in that land was a convert to this
strange religion.” And William Howitt stated that in 1864 there
were 20 millions of Spiritualists in the whole world. And since
then the growth has been both rapid and extensive, whilst the
papers, books, and pamphlets have poured from the press in a
ceaseless flow.
Now perhaps some of you are ready to ask whether I believe the
whole system and theory of Spiritualism is a sham, or whether
there is any spark of reality and truth connected with it—whether
Nov. 5, 1875
THE SPIRITUALIST,
219
it is a gigantic and unmitigated imposture, or whether there is any¬
thing of the supernatural in it at all. Let me commence by say¬
ing, then, that in 999 cases out of a thousand I affirm that the thing
is unmistakably a sham; a question of sleight of hand and leger¬
demain. You all know and have witnessed the marvellous decep¬
tions that can be produced by our professional tricksters, our An-
dersons, Maskylyne and Cookes, and Davenports, and others. And
if so in one case, why not in another? But you are ready to
remind me that these Spiritualistic seances and feats have been wit¬
nessed and investigated by the most eminent and honest scientific
men of the age, who have had nothing either to gain or to lose by
their verdict, and who have given it as their opinion that the
things witnessed by them could not be accounted for on scientific
grounds, or from any known laws of nature. True, I reply, you
may not be able to account for these things by any known law, but
may there not be some unknown and, as yet, undiscovered law of
nature by which we shall years hence be unable to unravel the
mystery ? It is not very long since men were unable to account for
10,000 mysterious phenomenas in nature, through the ignorance
of the law of gravitation. But what once almost amounted to a
miracle is now as simple to the scientific man as the alphabet.
I do not say for certain that in the case of modern Spiritualism
there is actual communion with the dead. I only say that on Bible
grounds the thing is possible. And I say that even if, after all, we
should fail to discover any scientific solution of the mysterious and
apparently unnatural problem, we can at any rate fall back upon
the Bible teaching, and if ultimately the world shall pronodnce it a
supernatural phenomena we shall know by the teaching of this Book
that it is supernatural in the sense of being Satanic, whilst its brow
is stamped v ith the thundery-scar of the curse of God.
But, blessed be God, whilst wo repudiate this Spiritualism, with
its seances and its falsehoods, there is a Spiritualism in which we do
believe. I invite you to-night to a Sabbath evening seance. Here
we are, a great Christian family, gathered in the light and in the
face of the world. Let us all come and place our hand on this
Bible, and then let us wait and listen till we hear what God the
Lord, the Great Spirit, shall say concerning us. Hark, the first
words He speaks are these. “ Secret things belong unto the Lord,
but things that are revealed belong unto you and your children.”
And the second message He utters, far better than the fortune¬
telling of wizards and spirits that peep and mutter, is this, “ All
things work together for good,” Ac. Insult not your departed
friends by endeavouring to summon them to scribble for you
their experience in the dark. They are gone; let them rest. We
need not the voice of the rappings now! And yet there is a voice
and there is a knocking that may be heard by us all inwardly if we
will. “ Behold, I stand at the door and knock.” That is the only
spirit-rapping in which we believe. And as fc.r a spirit voice, hero
is one with which we are content for ever, “ The Spirit and the
bride say, Come! ”
Most of the much abused spirits would know the English
language better than to speak about the “ mysterious phenomenas ”
or “ a supernatural phenomena.”
WINTER MEETINGS OF THE BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
By George King.
In a field of investigation so extended as Spiritualism, it is not
possible for any one explorer to do more by his personal efforts
than cover a very small portion, and it therefore becomes of im¬
portance that some means be adopted to make each investigator
acquainted with what is being done by others, in order that, as
far as practicable, mutual aid may be rendered, and that time and
energy may not be wasted by different individuals going over the
same ground. The proposed periodical meetings of the British
National Association of Spiritualists are intended to supply this
want. They have received the name of “ Lecture and Discussion
Meetings,” but it appears to me an unfortunate onp, for although
the papers read may sometimes take the form of a lecture, and al¬
though discussion is sure often to arise, yet the special object should
not be either the one or the other. The meetings should be similar
in character to those of some of the scientific societies, to which are
communicated the result of the private research of the members,
and not so much resemble what may be termed educational gather¬
ings, where a lecturer gives popular orations on facts which pos¬
sibly he himself has borne no part in discovering.
It is true that, as a rule, Spiritualism is not investigated by
scientific methods, and that, at the outset, there may be a scarcity
of really good original papers containing the results of careful
research, but so much the more need is there for such meetings as
those proposed. Spiritualists as a body must be educated into
rigid modes of thought and expression and scientific accuracy of
observation; and what could be better fitted to achieve this end
than the public reading of papers which display these qualities ?
Investigators must be encouraged to strike out new paths for
themselves, and how more effectually stimulate them than by en¬
suring publicity, without trouble or expense, for everything they
may have worthy of attention? When a man comes upon some¬
thing new in physics, his first thought is to communicate it to the
Royal Society, that he may receive the credit of priority, and that,
through the medium of the uProceedings" the world may become
acquainted with what he has just discovered. Now, there is no
reason why the British National Association should not perform
for spiritual science the same functions as the Royal Society for
physical. On the contrary, this was one of the chief objects for
which it was founded, and we must look forward to the time when
it will be thought as great an honour to be the first to communi¬
cate a new discovery to the National Association as it is now to do
so to the Royal Society.
It should be remembered by those who may intend to send papers
to be read at the approaching meetings, that what we want are not
new {heories, but new and well-authenticated facts. When a suffi¬
cient body of facts is collected the theories will take care of them¬
selves. Facts, however trivial, will be acceptable, because a little
fact may be just the missing link of the chain to which a tiuo
theory can be suspended. A mere statement of opinion should, I
think, scarcely be accepted, because it is of little consequence to
know what a man—be he ever so intelligent—thinks, unless we also
know the grounds for his conclusions. Further, I do not suppose
we shall care as a rule for reports of what spirits say. It may be
all very good in its way, but it will be much better for us to learn
how they say it. Under proper observation, however, the opinions
of the spirits may throw much light on the vexed question as to
how much belongs to them, and how much to the medium, a ques¬
tion of the very highest importance.
A misconception exists in some quarters as to the duties of the
National Association and its committee with regard to these meet¬
ings. For instance, in the report in The Spiritualist of the mesmeric
experiments at Brixton, it is said that the operations of the mesmerist
on the sensitive as his medium would be “a subject which the
Lectures and Discussions Committee of the National Association
of Spiritualists might take up with great advantage to the spiritual
movement, and interest to its members.” Doubtless such a subject
would be of the very highest importance, but the committee are
powerless to bring it forward. They are not an investigating or
experimenting committee. Their sole duty consists in receiving all
papers submitted to them, and sending forward those to be read
that are suitable.*
In conclusion I would say that it would not be in all cases neces¬
sary for the subject matter of a paper to have come under the
personal observation of the author. It is equally useful to apply
scientific analysis to the facts recorded by others. Mr. Robert Dale
Owen has afforded an admirable example of such a mode of pro¬
cedure in his Footfalls on the Boundary of Another World.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
A SEANCE WITH MR. WILLIAMS.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—Records of facts are always valuable, and, though there
may be no doubt of them with regard to Spiritualism, it is essential
that the history of the phenomena should be rendered as unbroken
as possible, iu order to secure the best data for future research and
theory.
This persuasion induces me to put before you the following
statement of the manifestations (by no means rare or extra¬
ordinary) which attended the meeting last Friday of the Brixton
Psychological Society, at 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton,
with Mr. Williams as medium.
We numbered about fifteen, and, seating ourselves round two
small tables pushed close together, we linked hands and joined in
singing. I held the medium’s right hand. The first indication of
movement came in about ten minutes, and was a pull from behind at
the medium’s chair, mine also being pushed slightly away from
him. Several of the sitters saw lights, but as they were not visible
to all, they may be taken to have been subjective appearances only.
I was then touched by fingers on my shoulder from behind, and soon
after the manifestations became general, and consisted of the
striking of the strings of a guitar, and the waving of a fan in the
air; finger touches, both those of children and adults; ringing a small
handbell; tappings on the head with two paper tubes, and finally
the voice of John King, who greeted many of the members by
name ; the voice was remarkably distinct and emphatic, and was
heard to pass very rapidly from one end of the tables to the other.
Though I had previously been present when this voice was heard,
it had ifever addressed itself to me personally, but on this occasion
it came close up to my face, and said, “Well, how are you getting
on with your medium? ” On my inquiring how ho knew anything
about it, he replied he had often heard me talking of it, as indeed I
had been in the early part of the evening. John conversed affably-
and earnestly with several of the members, promising assistance,
and asking by name for some who were absent. Shortly after, a
signal came, demanding the alphabet, which resulted in a request to
change or break up, John having expressed his willingness to try
and materialise himself.
During the foregoing manifestations, the manual contact between
the medium and myself was broken twice; once when his hand was
violently jerked^away, which, however, had no effect qn the mani¬
festations then proceeding, and again when my fingers were seized
* Oould not mesmerists read papers illustrated by experiments ? Are
experimental illustrations forbidden ?—En.
220
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 5, 1875,
by other glowing fingers, and were drawn up in the air to the ex¬
tent of my reach. For the rest, I can assort that the medium was
entirely passive, and neither had, nor could have had, any external
relation with the phenomena; indeed, it was interesting to note
that during the time the voice was audible, he appeared to be
sleeping or entranced, his drooping head having twice come
in contact with my shoulder, which roused him up to make an
apology.
In the second part, a black curtain, about five feet high, had been
suspended in front of a couch placed parallel with the end wall,and
the medium reclined upon the couch. Perfect darkness was again
obtained, and all hands being joined, singing was kept uf> with
great vigour, and in about ten minutes Peter’s plaintive voice was
heard, and a chair was taken from the floor and placed resting
partly on the table and partly on two of the sitters. Then a gleam
of faint light appeared above the curtain, and, after two or three
ineffectual attempts, it floated up towards the ceiling and down¬
wards over the tables between the sitters. Suddenly, as it grew
somewhat brighter, the well-known features of John King were
recognised by all those sitting nearest to the curtain. The glowing
light in his hand showed visibly between his fingers, and, as he
raised and depressed it, it illumined his head and shoulders and
threw the shadow of them upon the coiling. This was repeated
eight or ten times, with varying intensity. John explained that the
power was not very strong on this occasion, and he did not, there¬
fore, make his identity clear beyond a distance of seven or eight feet
from the curtain: those seated at the other end of the circle, six¬
teen or eighteen feet away, were thus unable to discern more than
an irregular mass of nebulous light of broken outline. Peter also,
after sadly declaring his inability, managed to show himself twice,
moving very rapidly in a space of about four feet, and crying,
“D’ye see me? d’ye see me?” Gradually the lights became
fainter and fainter, both John and Peter declared they could do no
more, and finally took their leave with the customary “ Good night,
God bless you.” During all this time, the deep breathing of the
medium was heard from behind the curtain, and it was not possible
that he—without the aid of some light-giving apparatus and of
skilled confederates—could have produced any portion of these
later manifestations.
The sitting lasted a little over an hour, and was thought to be
very satisfactory. There was no room for the slightest suspicion
of deceit or collusion; indeed, in all the phenomena that took place
there was a dry, matter-of-fact plainness, which deprived them of
any colouring derived from oneself, and impressed upon all a con¬
viction of their objective reality. W. Newton.
Mitre-court, Temple, 1st Nov., 1875.
53t*obtnctal i&etos.
ISLE OF WIGHT.
EXTRAORDINARY SEANCES AT VENTNOR AND CARISBROOK—TERROR
OP A DOG AT THE SPIRITS.
To the Editor of The Spiritualist.
Sir,—Until lately I was a confirmed sceptic regarding spiritual
phenomena, but owing to the kindness of Dr. Monck, I have had a
few experiences at his Ventnor seances, which have entirely taken
the wind out of the sails of my philosophy, and convinced me that
there really are such things as distinctly spiritual phenomena. At
the first seance, on being informed that I was an editor and a
sceptic (which, by the way, he seemed to consider synonymous
terms), Dr. Monck invited me to sit by his side and take care of his
left hand, while a friend of mine took charge of the other; we thus
had him in a net, and kept all our senses on the alert to prevent
deception. We were quickly convinced everything was straight¬
forward. In the light we saw heavy articles rise up and move
across the table without human contact. A handkerchief appeared
to be endowed with throbbing life. Eaps came in perfect showers
in all directions; we were touched by invisible hands, and thrilled
by a strange vibratory influence. On sitting in the dark, chairs
and musical instruments seemed suddenlydo become instinct with
life, for they moved about, sounded, touched us, and finally a chair
came on my arm while I held Dr. Monck’s hand, and, on releasing
his hand, I found him standing on my shoulders. Strange lights,
self-luminous hands, and .names, danced about overhead, and the
hands grasped us palpably. Many of my friends were told the
names and various particulars concerning their departed relatives.
The seance staggered me, and having since had several opportu¬
nities of witnessing the psychological phenomena that attend Dr.
Monck, not only at formal seances, but on all sorts of unlikely occa¬
sions, I am constrained to say the opposite of what Sir David
Brewster said, and just do what any other reasonable sceptic
would do under the circumstances, namely, “ give in to the spirits.”
I have seen Dr. Monck in the houses of others many times, and in
my own office, when seances were not even thought of, and yet I
have heard the raps on the floor, and all about him, in the glare of
the midday sunlight. Only last night I was enjoying a social hour
with him and a friend, when, without warning, the table frequently
went up, with all the supper things on it, none of them, however,
being disturbed by the levitations. Terrific knocks came on the
able and distant parts of the room, and a large jar jumped off the
table, and deposited itself in a far corner of the parlour. Our host
had a dog which manifested the greatest alarm from Dr. Monck’s
first entry, and hid itself under a table right away from him,
trembling violently with terror till it was removed to the kitchen.
The raps proved that some one knew the minutest details of my
most private affairs, and communications were made which I am
confident no mortal beside myself could have known or guessed.
A curious thing occurred a few days ago, which I will briefly
relate. Dr. Monck accompanied a party of gentlemen, of whom all but
the writer were absolute strangers to him, on a trip on the coach to
Carisbrook; on our arrival we. all sat down to dinner at an hotel.
Samuel, Dr. Monck’s guide, lost no time in commencing his pecu¬
liar proceedings; the company were considerably startled by
hearing loud and rapid blows on the dinner table, and while this
was occurring, some of the party looked under the table, and of
course discovered no clue to the mystery, for they only saw
Dr. Monck’s feet resting quietly on the floor, while the loud thumps
were shaking the table above. The conversation was about certain
deceased natives of the island who had made their mark in the
world, and Samuel was emphatic in knocking out his approval or
otherwise. When any mistake was made concerning the history of
any of the departed worthies, Samuel dissented with a tremendous
knock, which set the plates dancing, and put us right with authentic
information on the disputed points,—of course none but Dr. Monck
and myself understood this spirit language. Dinner over, the table
was cleared, and wine glasses and bottles crowned the festive
board ; glasses were filled all round. Now was Samuel’s oppor¬
tunity, and a vigorous use he made of it, for he tumbled glass after
glass on the table, spilling the wine and exasperating the would-be
imbibers. It was really amusing to see a thirsty soul, with
the pleasure begotten of anticipation smiling in his face,
stretch out his hand to lift to his lips the tempting
glass, and then to behqld his rueful expression of countenance, as,
like Prometheus of old, he saw the vinous receptacle recede from
him, lean gracefully at an angle of forty-five degrees, and then
pour out his coveted wine an oblation to no better god than the
table cloth. But one bon mvant was treated to a still greater surprise,
for just as he was about to take his brimming glass, the wine ob¬
liquely ejected itself on his knees, and the glass then performing a
masterly somersault stood on its mouth bottom upwards.
When it became known that Dr. Monck, the celebrated Spirit¬
ualist, was present, the mystery was cleared up so far, but no one
could “understand how fie performs” the aforesaid inconvenient
wonders, and a serious impression crept over the company that
“ there must be something in this Spiritualism after all.” We came
home at last in gallant style, and next day one of the party ex¬
pressed himself devoutly grateful “that Dr. Monck did not do any¬
thing to the horses on the way back.”
This event has set the town all in a ferment, and “ Spiritualism ”
is the theme of conversation everywhere. I was talking to a person
who “ did not believe in spirits—not he! ” I saw him next day,
when, in a dismayed sort of style, he told me that on going home
the previous night he was assailed by such frightfully loud raps in
his hitherto quiet house, that he was “ nearly frightened out of his
wits.” This is how the matter spreads, Mr. Editor, and I hope all
sensible people will catch the infection.
The Editor oe the “ Isle of Wight Express.”
Yentnor
DUBLIN.
SPIRITUALISM IN DUBLIN.
Mr. J. Coates, of Liverpool, writes:—“ What Mr. Crookes' able
researches and articles in the matter of psychic phenomena have
done towards arousing thought, scientific and theological, in
England, through the medium of the Quarterly Journal of Science,
Professor Barrett’s noble stand of impartial observation, and his
excellent contribution to the columns of the Nonconformist news¬
paper, have accomplished in Ireland, and Dublin especially. I am
happy to say, I can assure you as well, it was a great surprise to
discover during a flying visit of forty-eight hours, so much Spirit¬
ualism in the capital city of the land of Burke, Grattan, Curran,
Moore, and O’Connell. There are at present more than twenty
clergymen in Dublin, to say nothing of certain scientific and philo¬
sophic professors in connection with the leading scholastic estab¬
lishments of Ireland, who are not only willing but anxious to
investigate Spiritualism. The principal inquiry is, “ Where can we
obtain the mediums ? ” The chambers of a good physical medium
here would, I think, be continually crowded. With that impatience
and impulsiveness that seem indigenous to the soil (I beg pardon-—
I mean “ my countrymen ”), they can scarcely wait to develope
mediums among themselves. I impressed upon them the necessity
of their doing so, and did your correspondent have the time and
means, he could have set twenty circles in full swing, composed of
thoughtful individuals of the upper classes, comprising in their
rank scholars, lawyers, clergymen, men accustomed to sift evidence.
These are the people who will investigate Spiritualism in Ireland.
Less thoughtful people are either too bigoted or indifferent to give
the subject attention.
Already several trance and writing mediums have been de¬
veloped in this city, but so surrounded by secrecy that they are
difficult to get at. I may be wrong, but it is my confirmed im¬
pression that a medium of the above class, moving in the
Nov. 5, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
221
higher walks of social life had much to do with that able article in
the Nonconformist. The difficulty of ascertaining how far Spirit¬
ualism has succeeded getting a hold here I may venture to illus¬
trate. I called upon a photographer here. Various matters were
discussed comfortably, but it was not until the gentleman had dis¬
covered who I was that he considered it safe to make any observa¬
tion on the subject of Spiritualism, which, to take hold in Dublin,
will have to work upon a scientific basis. Notwithstanding
the difficulties in the way, and my short stay, as well as en¬
gagements, I had the pleasure of attending three circles here.
I formed the' acquaintance of one writing medium, three clair¬
voyants, and two tilting and rapping mediums, and it was in con¬
sequence of the communication received by the writing medium
from her husband and a spirit said to be Valentine Greatrakes
that I am indebted for the few happy hours I spent in Dublin.
Having accomplished the object of my flying visit, in obe¬
dience to the desire of friends in the flesh and out, I can
mention with pleasure as a stranger in a strange place, I was made
to feel perfectly at home, and among those who made me feel they
were Spiritualists. There is a lady who has developed into a
drawing medium, and there is something very peculiar about it;
she has no taste for drawing at all. The outline of the article or
thing to be drawn rises on the paper, and with pen and ink are then
sketched out by the medium. The variety of drawings sketched
out by this lady during the last two years is almost endless; the
gift was kindly given her during sickness, to occupy her mind in
that trial, and she has retained the power ever since. Her recovery
from that terrible disease of paralysis, affecting the lower part of
her body, rendering the use of her limbs impossible, is due to
“ spirit-mesmerism.”
NEWOASTLE-ON-TYNE.
The Newcastle Daily Chronicle of Wednesday, 27th, contained a
review of Where are the Dead, by “ Fritz.”
A TRANCE LECTURE.
On Monday evening last, at the old Freemason’s Hall, Weir’s-
court, Mr. Lambelle, the new trance medium, of South Shields,
delivered an address in the unconscious trance condition to an
audience of about 120 persons. Mr. Robson was voted to the
chair, and after a few introductory remarks, the controlling intelli¬
gence alleged himself to be Cromwell, and the medium, in a good
voice and expressive attitude, spoke for an hour and a half, giving
a brief but graphic outline of the principal events of his historical
career, from the time he sat in the Parliament of Charles I. till the
time of the Restoration, about which he spoke severely, giving at
times very minute details of circumstances and persons connected
with him; he seemed to be particular with dates also. He spoke
of being ambitious, but said that when he had to sit in the saddle for
thirty-seven hours at a stretch, it was a sense of duty and love of
the principles he had at heart; he further endeavoured to show
that he was, with others, a humble instrument in the hands of the
Almighty in a cause in which right was fighting against might,
and mind against wealth and power; fighting for a free and open
Bible and for liberty of conscience. In a fine peroration he com¬
pared the present Spiritual movement with that he was engaged in,
as Spiritual force exerting itself upon matter. He exhorted his
hearers to fight for the truth, to learn from the lessons of past
history that men must act as men, as brothers, and that truth will
prevail in the end.
Several questions were asked at the close of the address and
satisfactorily answered, after which a vote of thanks was proposed
by Mr. Robson, and seconded by Mr. Mould in an able speech
addressed chiefly to those of the audience who were not Spirit¬
ualists. On inquiry at the close of the meeting we found that this
was the longest address •that has been given through Mr. Lambelle,
and he was surprised that he had not been controlled by other
intelligences.
The medium gave his services without charge, and everybody
seemed to be pleased with the address.
IMMORTALITY.
On Sunday evening last the Rev. Alfred Payne, pastor of the
Unitarian Church, New Bridge-street, Newcastle, preached an
autumn sermon on “The Hope of Immortality,” taking two texts,
one from Ezekiel and the other from John xiv. 2nd verse.
The preacher endeavoured to unveil one of the lessons which
autumn teaches, that God acts uniformly and by unalterable
law, also that autumn is like the evening of rest, out of which
men arise with renewed vigour. In the second part of his discourse
he asked if there was any real ground for trusting in a future life ?
That there was such he endeavoured to prove by the universality
of the hope among men in every condition of existence. He said that
men cannot rest satisfied with visions, their desire for truth was
innate, and there was a longing for perfection either in this life
or a future one; he said further that all the faiths, creeds, and
religions, are SO many evidences of the faet, and that men’s holiest
and highest aspirations were prompted by this belief. The God of
infinite truth would not plant or allow such a hope of immortality
to exist in the breasts of mankind, if it were not true, for in the
words of Paul t “ If in this life only we have hope, then of all men
are we most miserable.” Where, he said, is the goodness of God
and the eternal love of the Father if no future life ? A thousand
times better we had not been brought into existence. “ In my
Father’s house are many mansions; if it were not so I would have
0ld you.”
Miss Fairlamb’s Mediumship.—On Thursday evening about
six-aud-thirty members of the Newcastle Spiritual Society met at
their rooms in Weir’s-court, when Miss Fairlamb entered the
cabinet, and was entranced by a spirit who kept up a running con¬
versation with the members for some time, and promised a good
seance. On the gas being lowered, leaving just sufficient light to see
all the company present, a female form emerged from the cabinet,
largely enveloped in white drapery, and came boldly up to some
of the company, giving her hand in some instances. As she passed
Mr. Rhodes she also gave him her hand, but he not having seen
Minnie before, was not certain whether the dark hair falling below
the drapery of the head and face was a beard or otherwise, by the
insufficient light. On telling Minnie so she bent forward and took
his hand, allowing him to feel that it was hair extending up the side
of the head and hanging down loosely. On Mr. Rhodes expressing
himself satisfied, and thanking her, she took his hand,and kissing it,
passed on to one or two others, giving some little token of recog¬
nition to each, and after remaining in view nearly half an hour
altogether, retired into the cabinet. The gas was again still
further lowered by directions from the cabinet, when another form
came out, apparently shorter than the other, with very large headgear,
but it was too dark to be able to get anything like a good view of it.
Miss Fairlamb on this occasion was not secured in any way in the
cabinet, but she wore a tightly fitting dark dress, and her hair,
which is of a light colour, was all gathered up into a neat compact
head-dress, totally dissimilar to that of Minnie in every respect.
The committee of management has set apart Wednesday evenings
for a developing circle, as there are one or two very promising
mediums in the first stages of development among the members of
the society.
LIVERPOOL.
LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Mr. John Chapman read a paper on “ Signs of the Times,” on
Sunday afternoon, and in the evening Mr. John Priest delivered an
able address on “ Gems of Thought.” Mr. J. Coates has re-opened
his public free seance on Monday evenings at the Psychopathic
Institution.
A TRANCE LECTURE IN DALSTON.
Mr. E. W. Wallis, trance medium, visited the Dalston Associa¬
tion of Inquirers into Spiritualism on Tuesday evening last, when
a special seance was held. There were present—Mrs. M. Theresa
Wood, Mr. Thomas Wilks, Mr. J. Tozeland, Mr. R. Pomeroy
Tredwen, Mr. James Joint, Mr. Edwin Dothridge, Mr. Charles Lee,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, the Misses Caroline and Mina Corner, Captain
James, Mr. Richard Cocker, Mr. George W. Forbes Playfair,'and
Mr. Thomas Blyton, honorary secretary.
The seance was held in the light, and was opened by Mr. R.
Pomeroy Tredwen reading a portion of Scripture, .followed by the
singing of a hymn by the circle. The first spirit controlling the
medium gave the name of Lighthearfr; he narrated in verse the
leading incidents of his earth-life, stating how, while out hunting,
he met with his death by a wild animal springing upon his back from
a tree. On regaining consciousness in the spirit-world, and direct¬
ing his attention to the earth, he saw 14 only his bones ” where he
had been killed, and observed that the animal had been feasting
upon his body. It was therefore a source of some mystery to
him as to where he will obtain his earthly body from when the day
of resurrection shall arrive. After a while he met a friend who
took him to a kind of school. In his new state of existence he
found there was work to be done; he was made to feel the cruelty
of his familiar sport of hunting, which he said he found opportuni¬
ties to pursue for a time after his entrance to the “ happy hunting
grounds.” At length he was met by a beautiful white woman, who
solicited his assistance, and brought him to, and taught him how
to control the medium.
Lightheart here gave an example of his manner of speaking
when he first began to control the medium, which was certainly a
remarkable specimen of 44 unintelligible utterance,” and must have
sorely perplexed those who were fortunate enough to have watched
the progress of the medium’s early development. He stated, later
on in the evening, that when on earth he was a dark-skinned South
American Indian, and lived in proximity to the Amazon river; that
he has his two children with him, but that his 44 squaw” is in a
higher sphere than himself.
The next control, after having uttered a most impressive and
beautiful invocation, spoke on the baneful influence of relying upon
false authority. In reply to questions it was, stated that he was
222
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 5, 1875.
now known by the name of the “ Standard Bearer,” but that when
on earth he was known as Benjamin George Endworthy, and that
upwards of two centuries had elapsed since his passing away.
Various questions were answered at some length in a very satis¬
factory manner, while some remarks made upon “ Educated in¬
tellect being the voice of God” were exceedingly interesting, the
conclusions of the controlling spirit being that educated conscience
is the voice of God in the heart. Some remarks were also made
upon the subject of free will, considered as an outgrowth of
Christianity.
Another control, who refused to give any name, but desired that
what was put forth should be judged purely on its own merits,
spoke forcibly upon the question—What think ye of Christ ? The
views expressed were that He was the Son of God, endowed with
great gifts, and One who lived in obedience to God’s will; that He
was inspired in His actions, and was the Saviour of men, so far as
they followed in His footsteps. If Christ were God, which the
Scriptures did not warrant our assuming, how could it be expected
that finite creatures could succeedIiNimitating His example ? The
controlling spirit directed attention to the utterances of Christ
Himself, as recorded in the Scriptures, showing that He taught us
to look to God as His Father and our Father.
In reply to a member, be remarked that he had not seen Christ.
He further observed that when on earth he (the spirit) had been a
Calvinist, but, since his birth into the spirit-world, he had out¬
grown those views, and had now entered upon a progressive stage
of life. Before releasing his control of the medium, he was careful
to impress upon the circle that the views expressed were but those
of an individual spirit, and must be accepted simply upon their
own merit.
Lightheart again controlled the medium, and, on being requested,
sang in an unknown tongue, which he afterwards translated into
English. He then made up some verses, in which he incorporated
words suggested by various members, and afterwards bade the
circle farewell, and released the medium.
A cordial vote of thanks to the medium for his visit was proposed
by Captain James, seconded by Mr. E. Cocker, and carried unani¬
mously ; after which the members dispersed with expressions of
the pleasure derived from listening to the interesting statements
thus made through Mr. E. W. Wallis.
THE 1875 CONFEBENCE OF SPIEITUALISTS.
PUBLIC RECEPTION OP MR. MORSE.
Last Wednesdaynight the Annual Conference in connection with
the British National Association of Spiritualists was held at the
Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-street, Regent-street, under the presi¬
dency of Mr. Benjamin Coleman; at the same meeting, also, a
public reception was given to Mr. J. J. Morse on his return from the
United States. The hall was crowded to the doors upon the
occasion.
During the first part of the evening refreshments were served,
after which the Misses Withall, who are both efficient musicians,
entertained the company with a duet upon the pianoforte.
PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS BY MR. COLEMAN.
Mr. Benjamin Coleman then rose and said:—
Ladies and Gentlemen,—Permit me in the first place to remind
you that this is the commencement of our Conference Meetings for
1875, and that the reading of papers and general discussion will
follow at the first session to-morrow, at the hours 3 and 7.30 p.m.,
and again on Friday at the same hours, at the rooms of the British
National Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury.
THE PROGRESS OP SPIRITUALISM DURING THE PAST YEAR.
You will naturally expect me, as president of this meeting, to
review some of the prominent incidents which have occurred in this
and other countries during the past year, and I shall do so as
briefly as possible. In the first place, allow me to say a few words
respecting the National Association of Spiritualists, which I am
happy to say is now an accomplished fact. (Applause.) It has
taken firm root, and is assuming a position of great importance in
the spiritual movement of this country. The members are daily
increasing in number, and it is recognised and supported by
about fifty honorary and corresponding members resident in most
parts of the world; and you will see in the list published every
week in The Spiritualist newspaper, that many of these honorary
members are men and women occupying high social positions in
their respective countries, which include America, India, Australia,
Turkey, Africa, and all the great continental cities of Europe. The
reading-room of the Association contains a good library of
Spiritualist literature and all the Spiritualist journals, and the
other rooms are well adapted for the various objects of the Associa¬
tion, as you, who are strangers, will have the opportunity to-morrow
of ascertaining for yourselves. Nothing is now wanting but a
hall which we may call our own, and this I have no doubt we shall
possess in due time. (Applause.)
I cannot pass away from this very satisfactory statementjwithout
paying due honour to those members who have undertaken to
discharge the onerous duties of attending regularly at the Council
meetings to watch over and direct the affairs of the Association,
and I will take leave to mention the names of Mr. Alexander
Calder, Mr. and Mrs. Everett, Mr. Dawson Rogers, Mr. Bennett,
Mr. Morell Theobald, Mr. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. George King and Mrs.
Maltby; also Mr. Martin Smith the hon. treasurer, Mr. Martheze
of Brighton, Mr. Charles Blackburn of Manchester, and many others
who are the most liberal of our supporters.
The hon. secretary, Mr. Joy, is, as you all know, a very active
and intelligent gentleman, who devoted a great deal of time to the
business of the Association during the first year of its existence.
Mr. Joy has been called away by professional duties, and he has
been absent in America for several months. The chief duties of
the secretarial department have, consequently, devolved upon the
Resident Secretary, Miss Kislingbury, who is a gentlewoman pos¬
sessing very superior qualifications for the post, which many of
our sex may envy, and who, I -think I may say, faithfully and
efficiently attends to the business of the Association under the
direct orders of the Council.
Let me further take this opportunity of stating that a committee
has been formed of several of the foremost workers in Spiritualism,
for the purpose of raising a money testimonial to be presented to
Mr. W. H. Harrison, as a mark of esteem for his unselfish devotion
during the last seven years to the cause of Spiritualism, and as a
partial compensation to him for the sacrifices he has made in esta¬
blishing The Spiritualist newspaper, which, I think you will allow,
is conducted with great care and ability. Mr. Martin Smith is the
treasurer to this testimonial fund, and Miss Kislingbury is autho¬
rised to receive subscriptions. I sincerely hope that the appeal
which has been made will meet with a hearty response from all
readers of The Spiritualist, and that as much from a sense of justice
to its editor as from goodwill to the cause it so ably advocates.
You all, no doubt, read the Spiritual journals, and you are pro¬
bably acquainted with the chief incidents which have transpired
during the past twelve months, not only in England but in America
and France.
In the latter country a gross injustice has been perpetrated
against a well-known and respected Spiritualist, M. Leymarie, and
a young American medium, Mr. Firman, who was resident in
Paris.
Edward Buguet, the photographic artist, whose mediumship jvas
undoubted, and who obtained many veritable and unmistakable
spirit-likenesses both in Paris and London, was arrested by the
police of Paris, charged with fraudulently producing the spirit-
pictures, which he admitted, and, to save himself from imprison¬
ment, he falsely accused his best friend, M. Leymaxie, as being an
accomplice in the fraud.
I know nothing of the moving cause of this man’s extraordinary
conduct, but I have no hesitation in saying that Edward Buguet
has proved himself to be a most unworthy, fellow—a traitor to the
cause, and one whom- all men will spurn from society. The trial
and condemnation of that excellent man, Leymarie, for complicity
in Buguet’s frauds, was, in the opinion of many disinterested
persons who heard the trial in Paris, a most scanddlous perversion
of justice.
Very ample details were furnished by Mr. O’Sullivan, one of the
National Association’s most intelligent correspondents, and pub¬
lished in several numbers of The Spiritualist, to which you who
may not be already acquainted with the facts can refer.
Buguet, though convicted by the French Court of Justice, was
released from imprisonment on bail, and afterwards escaped to
Belgium, where it was reported that he had confessed to having
sworn falsely against Leymarie and Firman, and this has since
been confirmed by the full confession itself, which is addressed to
the Minister of Justice in France. A translation of this document
is published in The Spiritualist of the 8th of October last, and
should be in the possession of all Spiritualists, to show to their
sceptical friends who have seen the charge of imposture, but who
may not have seen the answer which is now volunteered by that
cowardly rascal, Ed. Buguet, the spirit medium, late of Paris.
Turning with disgust from a man who has disgraced the cause
he had the power to jhelp, I invite your attention to the name of
another Spiritualist, who in his social status, his high literary re¬
putation, and his devotion to the cause of Spiritualism, commands
our highest respect and admiration. I speak of the Hon. Robert
Dale Owen, whose recent temporary affliction brought out from all
classes in every country where he is known, the1 most profound
sympathy. Happily the disease under which he laboured has dis¬
appeared, and we may offer him our hearty congratulations on his
complete restoration to health. Of this latter fact you may all be
assured by reading his letter of October 4th, published in the last
number of The Spiritualist.
Of the chief incidents which are transpiring in England, the
manifestations occurring at Newcastle-on-Tyne may be said to
take the most prominent place. It will be seen by several letters,
published in the Medium newspaper, that Mr. Barkas, a most
reliable witness, and several others in Newcastle, have had on
many occasions during the past year very wonderful manifestations
of materialised spirits, but the most important fact is that they have
proved to demonstration that the materialised spirit-form—as Mr
Crookes, I, and many others have proclaimed for two or-three year
223
Nov. 5, 1875.  ^ THE SPIRITUALIST.
past—is a distinct entity. At a recent seance at Newcastle, the
entranced medium, a young girl, was led out of the cabinet by the
spirit of a young boy, and both passed before a circle of not less
than thirty persons; and ultimately, after shaking hands with most
of them, the spirit left the medium, Miss Wood, in the centre of the
circle, and walked away alone into the cabinet. This account is
given in a letter by Mr. John Walton, of Newcastle, and published
in the Medium of Oct. 22nd, and since then I have heen assured by
M. Aksakof, who was present, that Mr. Walton’s statement is
quite correct.
The Hon. Alex. Aksakof, who is a distinguished Russian gentle¬
man, has done much for the propagation of Spiritualism in his own
country. He has been at the cost of translating some of our best
known books on the subject into his own and the German language.
He has also established a high class monthly journal, which is
published at Leipsic, under the name of Psychic Studies; and is
doing great service in many ways to the cause, not only in his own
country, but throughout the German Empire as well. M. Aksakof,
who was so lately the guest of the Association, has now returned
to Russia, taking with him two boys from Newcastle, by means of
whose mediumship he hopes to prove to the scientific committee of
the University at St. Petersburg the reality of spiritual phenomena.
Should he accomplish that, some of our learned bodies may awaken
to the necessity of imitating the example of the Russiansowcmfe; but
to us, who know how they have treated the subject hitherto, by
misinterpretation, indifference and ridicule, and seeing the present
position of Spiritualism in this country, it ought to be a matter of
supreme indifference to us what steps men of science in England
may choose to take in regard to it. (Applause.)
In the matter of Continental literature, I would remark that we
have now for the first time an opportunity of reading in English
the doctrines promulgated by Allan Kardec some years ago, of
which reincarnation is the chief point, and truly a very important
one, which differs from the Spiritualism of England and America.
Erom what little I know of the theoretical doctrine of reincarnation,
subverting as it appears to me the realities and the pleasing hopes
engendered by our own experiences, it has not made a favourable
impression upon my mind, and for myself I entirely reject it. But
at the same time, it is a strange and important fact that the doctrine
is accepted with avidity by the majority of Spiritualists—or, as
they call themselves, “ Spiritists”—residing throughout the Conti¬
nent of Europe, among whom there are many very enlightened
men and women, and none more so than my accomplished friend,
Miss Anna Blackwell, who has just translated and published the
Spirits' Book into most excellent English. And, as many of you
will be disposed to take part in the controversy which is likely to
follow on the bold efforts Miss Blackwell is making to introduce
the Kardecian theories (for so I may properly call them) in this
country, you must prepare yourselves by reading the book: already
published, and the others which may follow.
Turning to the American continent,the newest and most striking
feature to be observed there is the development of an idea started
by Col. Olcott, the author of People from Another World, written to
attest the Eddy manifestations. This idea—which I will not stop
to lay before you, but which you will find propounded in the late
numbers of the Banner of Light newspaper—has culminated in the
formation of a so-called “ Theosophical ISociety,” whose object is to
revive the study of the old art of magic as practised in the middle
ages, in the hope that the knowledge of the occultists of what are
called “Elementary Spirits,” may throw light on the manner in
which some of the present spiritual manifestations are produced.
On the subject of American Spiritualism, however, we shall presently
have more detailed and authentic information from one who has
just visited the country.
■WORDS OR 'WELCOME TO MR. MORSE.
This evening, as you are aware, we have also assembled to give
a welcome to our friend Mr. Morse on his return home after a
lengthened absence in America, where he has doubtless met with
more than one rival possessed of similar inspirational powers to
himself, but where we are told he at once secured the confidence of
his audiences, and where he has made many warm friends, who are
anxious to have him again amongst them.
I can well imagine what a source of happiness it must be to him¬
self, as it is to his numerous English friends, to find that he has
taken a foremost place in the feelings and affections of our Trans¬
atlantic brethren. I can imagine, too, the natural pride he must
feel when he contemplates the great mental change which has been
accomplished in his own person within a very few years, by the aid
of his spirit guides and trusted counsellors.
If Mr. Morse can say with truth—and I have no doubt he can—
that he is a changed man both morally and mentally, great must be
his satisfaction to find that he is gifted with unusual eloquence, and
that it is his privilege to exercise his powers in the education of the
people, by promulgating and expounding the great truths embraced
in the Spiritual philosophy.
SPIRITUALISM RINDS ITS •OWN WORKERS.
It is more than thirty years since I became a convert to a belief
in mesmerism, and to the reality of the phenomena which accom¬
pany clairvoyance; this naturally led me to receive Spiritualism
on its first introduction to this country more than twenty years ago,
since which time I have, without regard to consequences, conscien¬
tiously fulfilled a duty I owed to my honest convictions by spreading
the truth on all suitable occasions; if I have not improved my
worldly circumstances by my open advocacy of Spiritualism, I
have at least the satisfaction of knowing that I have made many
converts in all grades of society, and that I have been one among
a few—so small in number that they may almost be counted on my
fingers—who were the early pioneers in this country, who have
been the means of breaking down, to a certain extent, the prejudices
which naturally surround a subject not accepted, but opposed, by
the leaders of public opinion—and thus we have been the means of
smoothing the way for the introduction of such specially gifted
women as Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten and Mrs. Tappan, and such
men as Mr. Morse— all inspirational speakers of great power
whose utterances would not have been understood, and would pro¬
bably have fallen dead on the ear of the multitude, without that
preparation which preceded them, and no such audience as this
could have been assembled to listen to an address upon an unpopular
subject delivered by any one who claimed to be inspired by the
denizens of the spirit world.
And what else can it be, I ask, but inspiration, when you hear
men and women, who have never had any educational advantages,
speak without a moment’s preparation, learnedly and eloquently,
upon almost every subject which may be proposed to them by a
promiscuous audience ? I have often asked myself how it is that
a man of comparatively untutored mind, as mine is, with no more
than a commercial education to boast of, with no scientific acquire¬
ments whatever, not a deep reader upon philosophical subjects, with
no especial ability to command an audience,—how is it, 1 ask, that
men like Mr. Morse (who, I believe, has never had any training nor
book learning) and myself have become in our respective spheres
prominent in promulgating the great truth of Spiritualism, which
we know is now spreading throughout the world with marvellous
rapidity, and this, too, despite the opposition of the press and the
learned bodies of every country ?
It is true that there are a few honourable exceptions belonging to
these bodies—men eminent in learning and science, who have
shaken off the blunders of their early education, who have had the
courage to investigate and have proved for themselves the exist¬
ence of various phenomena which have an objective reality, and
which are accompanied by strong intelligence, yet they pause be¬
fore committing themselves to pronounce upon the cause or origin
of them; but they do not hesitate at the same time to condemn the
foolish theories by which' men of science attempt to account for
them.
There are still a few other eminent men whose minds, I am happy
to say, are made up, and who are not afraid to confess that they
can find no rational explanation of the facts, and without reser¬
vation they feel obliged to proclaim themselves Spiritualists.
Is there nothing, think you, which is designed by a higher power
to bring about the relative positions which Mr. Morse, and I, and
many others occupy in this spiritual movement ?
On reflection, you will no doubt see that there must be a reason
why the most unlikely instruments are used to bring about and to
push on a revelation which I believe will ultimately draw into its
ranks all serious thinkers.
It will give more light to the materialistic philosopher. It will
soften off and liberalise all theological dogmas; and thus it will tend
to unite science and theology, by a rational adjustment of those
differences which have hitherto kept them asunder.
You will see, therefore, that Spiritualism, like all great truths
which have gone before, is guided and directed as if by Divine
order.
You will see it does not necessarily need recognition by men of
advanced learning, who, in their several departments, have been
educated to travel on in a fixed groove, from which few will ven¬
ture to step out, even for a moment, to look at a new fact, lest it
should overturn and set at nought the labours of their lives. We,
the humble workers, on the other hand, whose minds are happily
not burdened with the accumulations of false philosophies, are not so
hampered.
• We have our common intelligence to guide our judgments, and
when we are brought face to face with an objective reality—“a
ghost” so called, or any other strange phenomenon, if we are
honest, having no scientific reputations to protect, we at once pro¬
claim the fact and take the earliest opportunity of learning more
about it.
THE ANTAGONISM OR EXCEPTIONAL SCIENTIEIC MEN.
Let Dr. Carpenter insult us by asserting that we are simpletons,
victims of a mental delusion.
Let Professor Huxley sneer at the proof we have obtained of
immortality, which he is bold enough to say does not interest him.
Let Professor Tyndall trifle with the subject, as he did at the only
seance, I believe, he ever attended, and avoid a serious inquiry, lest
his well-known honesty of character should, after a candid examina¬
tion, compel him to surrender. Let all this happen, and much
1 more which comes from various quarters to divert our attention from
the great facts which our senses have verified—it will not avail.
We know enough to make us desire to know more, and here again
Providence steps in and places in our ranks humble men and
women gifted with the power to teach us what we most desire to
know, and one of these inspired persons is he whom you have com©
this night to welcome. (Applause.)
224
THE SPIRITUALIST. *
Nov. 5, 1875.
I ask you then, ladies and gentlemen, to pay him a special mark
of honour by rising from your seats to bid him a hearty welcome
back to his home and family.
MR. J. J. MORSE ON SPIRITUALISM IN AMERICA.
Mr. J. J. Morse then rose amid loud and continued applause, and
said:—:
Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen,—"While far away from
home, the announcement that the British National Association of
Spiritualists had determined to give me a public reception upon my
return, was read by me with pleasure upon its first appearance in
The Spiritualist, and its connection with the opening of our annual
conference was a happily conceived idea, while the placing of the
pecuniary proceeds at my disposal was another evidence' of the
thoughtful consideration of the promoters of this meeting. Let me
here state, for the curious in this matter, that personally I had no
knowledge of what would be the character of tins handsome recep¬
tion, until I, in common with the public, saw the announcements in
print; and I am proud to say the entire matter is a spontaneous
expression upon the part of this Association, and my many friends
in London and elsewhere. I am most grateful to all concerned, and
trust my friends will ever judge me by my deeds ; and, on my part,
I will endeavour to so order my acts that they may ever be my
vindicators. Time heals all wounds, and rights all wrongs.
To convey an adequate idea of the progress and status of Spirit¬
ualism in the United States is simply impossible upon my part, for
the bare reason that having only come into contact with it in the
Eastern States, along the Atlantic seaboard, it would be presump¬
tion for me to attempt to give an authoritative opinion of the
movement through the entire country; but such little as I have
seen, and the conclusions drawn therefrom, and such experiences as
I have encountered, I cheerfully submit for your consideration this
evening, in answer to what I feel is but a natural expectation on the
present occasion. Whatever may have been the past condition of
American Spiritualism, its present one, so far as the world is con¬
cerned, can scarcely be considered satisfactory; but in my opinion
its position is not due to any radical defect in the movement, but is
rather traceable to the fact that it is passing through a transitional
stage, which must of necessity be a period of discord and confusion.
SPIRITUALISM IN BALTIMORE.
I only had the privilege of observing its workings in one
southern State—Maryland—in the city of Baltimore, where I filled
my first engagement, in November, 1874. I found the Spiritualists
of that city to be hearty, genial, and intelligent. The meetings
were fairly attended, increasing in numbers and interest upon every
occasion. In all respects the month’s labours were a success. In
the city itself, among the outside public, there was upon the surface
a deal of opposition, but privately the facts of Spiritualism were
readily admitted and earnestly discussed. The press either pre¬
served a severe silence, or indulged in sarcasm. Baltimore was at
one time a living centre, its Spiritualist Society a capital one, and
the meetings well attended. The workers in the cause are as zealous
as ever, and in one department their labours are certainly being
crowned with success; I refer to the Children’s Progressive Lyceum,
which in this city is a flourishing institution. The Lyceum has a
large library, which is liberally patronised by its members. On
Convention Sundays—once a month—papers are read, and questions
discussed, recitations given, and vocal and instrumental music ren¬
dered. The display of talent on such occasions reflects the greatest
credit alike upon the institution and its officers.
SPIRITUALISM IN PHILADELPHIA.
On reaching Philadelphia, in December last, I found a very much
improved condition of affairs, an old-established society, an excel¬
lent roll of membership, capital audiences at the Sunday lectures,
and an exceedingly efficient Lyceum, with that indispensable
adjunct, a good library, and a magnificent hall, capable of seating
nearly a thousand people, these constituting the external machinery
of the movement. Any number of public media, for every variety
of phenomenal manifestation, were scattered throughont the city.-.
Public sentiment was more tolerant, and the number of private
families accepting the Spiritual philosophy exceedingly great. Dr,
H. T. Child was the president of the society, and his self-sacrificing
labours in furthering the work are worthy of all praise; he is
simply indefatigable. At the time of my visit Mr. and Mrs. Holmes
were in the city, and just immediately prior to my arrival the
imbroglio they became involved in burst forth. Charges and
counter-charges were freely bandied about. The low-class journals
of the city made as much capital as they could out of the matter;
and within our own ranks the party feeling, pro and con, ran high
and strong, the consequence being my position was rendered any¬
thing but enviable. Without offering any opinion as to the merits
of that celebrated affair, there seems to have been sufficient evidence
to create a belief that'a power, inimical to Spiritualism,was seeking
to work harm to our cause through these persons. Here I met
those veteran workers, Mr. and Mrs. J. Murray Spear, who
inquired very warmly after their many friends in England, and
entrusted me with the transmission of their fraternal wishes, of
which duty I now discharge myself. The consequence of the
Holmes’s matter has been a decided weakening of public credence
with regard to Spiritualism in Philadelphia, and it will be some
time, in my judgment, ere the movement recovers its former tone.
Personally, though I entertain very warm reminiscences of my visit
to that city, as also do I of a second visit in the month of June, in
the present year, being a return engagement, in consideration of the
satisfaction previously afforded. Taking the matter altogether, I
cannot but feel that Spiritualism in Philadelphia occupies a very
favourable position, and as soon as it regains its equilibrium, will
go forward more successfully than ever. Dr. Child has resigned
his presidency, which office is how filled by Mr. W. H. Jones, one of
the city merchants, who occupies a good position commercially and
socially.
SPIRITUALISM IN BOSTON.
Leaving the State of Pensylvania, passing across the State of
New York, I finally arrived in the State of Massachusetts, finding
myself at last in New England, and ultimately coming to rest in
Boston, the “ Hub of the Universe ” as it is designated by its inha¬
bitants. This is the centre of American Spiritualism. In this city
is located the publishing office of the Banner of Light, from which
house is also issued all the leading Spiritualistic, literature pub¬
lished in America. The business department is presided over
by Mr. J. B. Eich, who, to use a Yankee phrase, is a thorough
“ smart man,” and the department that he is connected with fullv
evidences the business proclivities of its director. The editorial
department is under the superintendence of Mr. Luther Colby
whose smiling face, gray hairs, and genial manner, inspire confi¬
dence, command respect, and denote the accomplished gentleman.
Mr. Colby has held the position of editoT of the Banner of Light for
many years, and his labours on behalf of that journal will never be
fully appreciated until he ceases to wield the pen in the mortal
form. The Banner of Light has passed through many vicissitudes,
and encountered much opposition, but it has survived all, and
maintains its place and position as the best American Spiritual paper
to-day. I found in Mr. Colby a warm personal friend, to whose
kindly assistance and advice I am deeply indebted, and whose deep
interest in the progress and welfare of mediums recommend him to
the respect and esteem of every Spiritualist throughout the world.
At the time of my visit the “ Music Hall Society of Spiritualists ”
were holding their meetings. It was in their course that I was
engaged. The Music Hall Society numbers among its supporters
and adherents the wealth and position of Boston Spirituahsm. The
financial burden has been mainly borne by a few, and Mr. Lewis B.
Wilson, chairman of the Association, and also sub-editor of the
Banner of Light, has been indefatigable in his exertions to fur¬
ther the interests of the said society. The meetings held in Beethoven
Hall, Washington-street, were well attended, fully reported in the
Banner of Light, commented upon by the secular press, and afforded
general satisfaction to the audiences assembled. At that time
1 there was another society in existence under the title of the
“ Boston Spiritualist Union,” meeting in Rochester Hall, Washing¬
ton-street, holding its sessions in the evening. In the morning,
at the same hall, the Boston Children’s Progressive Lyceum assem¬
bled. I had the pleasure of attending the session during my stay
in the city, and found a very completely appointed {Lyceum in
operation. The scholars exhibited a degree of intelligence and
ability far in excess of what might be expected from their years.
The general public was admitted, and quite a large number availed
themselves of the opportunity presented. Spiritualism is decidedly
a recognised fact in Boston. The press give it respectful notice
while the pulpit contents itself with an occasional grumble. On
the houses in many of the streets, notably the most prominent
ones, Washington-street, Tremont-street, and Shawmut-avenue,
the signs of test mediums, clairvoyants, and magnetic healers are
quite humorous; while their advertisements are to be found in
several daily papers. There are several other societies in Boston—one
meeting at John A. Andrew’s hall, where Mrs. Eloyd is the speaker in
the trance. Another society, calling itself the Free Platform Spirit¬
ualists meets in the Lurline Hall; whilst still another, calling itself
the People’s Spiritual Meetings Association, holds its sessions in
the Paine Memorial Hall. An attempt was made during the last
spring to create an association under the title of the Boston
Spiritual Temple. It was a signal failure, and, considering the
elements the attempt involved, such an end was but to be expected.
To build a 30,000 dollar temple upon dollar subscriptions is rather
a hazardous experiment.
A SEANCE WITH MRS. LORD.
While in Boston I was the recipient of some pleasant spiritual
experiences through the mediumship of Mrs. Mary B. Thayer, and
Mrs. Maud E. Lord. Mr. Robert Cooper, of Eastbourne, I
must here state, was my travelling companion, having arrived in the
States about five weeks after myself, and I have much reason to be
grateful for his company, as I was a stranger amongst strangers.
He was also present at the seances. We accepted an invitation
to Mrs. Lord’s seance, forming one of a party of some sixteen or seven¬
teen. It was a dark circle. Mrs. Lord is seated in the centre, with a
guitar and tambourine. She is a clairvoyant as well as a physical
medium, sees and describes spirits, often giving names and in
nearly all cases affording tests. We all held hands, Mrs. Lord
striking tfie palms of hers together at regular intervals. Ingress
to, or egress from the room, had been previously prevented. The
light was extinguished, and almost directly, the instruments were
floated above our he^ds round the circle, laid on the lap of each
person and there played, Hands would grasp us, and play very
curious freaks. Mr. Cooper’s spectacles were removed from his
Nov. 5, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
225
face aikd very gently and deftly placed properly upon my own. A
gentleman present whose nose itched, and who had not expressed
the fact, was-suddenly told by the spirit voice to “Sit still and I
will wipe it for you,” which was accordingly done, with another
person’s handkerchief. A fan was taken from one of the visitors,
and carried round the circle, finally coming to rest on the top of my
head; I said nothing but quietly disengaged my hand from my
neighbour’s, removed the fan from my head, and after asking the
spirits to take it from me placed it between my teeth and joined my
neighbour’s hand, and ere I had hardly done so the fan was taken away
from my mouth, without any fumbling or bother, and I was fanned
therewith. Like experiments demonstrating the ability of the
operating agent to see objects, and intelligently obey requests,
either mentally or audibly expressed, were continually transpiring
during the entire evening. Prank and open, affording every facility
for investigation, thereby disarming the most sceptical, Mrs. Lord
is a medium that it is a pleasure to sit with, and her manifestations
are such as to carry the conviction of their genuineness upon their
faces.
A SEANCE WITH MES. THAYER.
Mr. Cooper and myself were favoured with a seance with Mrs.
Mary B. Thayer, who is what is styled a flower medium. Upon
that occasion, after adopting precautions to prevent trickery, and
on extinguishing the light, the table was very soon covered with a
variety of rare flowers and ferns, seventeen different sorts being
brought. A peculiar incident appertaining to the seance was the
presentation to myself, by the spirits, of a beautiful live white
pigeon, which was the admiration of the circle upon being viewed
in the light. A second seance was afforded us for the purpose of
placiug these extraordinary phenomena upon a still more satis¬
factory basis. Mrs. B. Thayer, upon her arrival, was searched by
two ladies, who mounted guard over her until the commencement of
the seance. The people present were all personally acquainted with
each other, and no inducement was presented for playing tricks. Quite
a quantity of flowers and ferns, with some fruit, was brought, and
Mr. Cooper, this time, also received a white pigeon. I regret to
say that a gentleman of the canine persuasion subsequently made
a breakfast of them both.
A TEST SEANCE.
The editor of the Banner of Light deeming the phenomena very
extraordinary, and thinking it wise to subject the matter to a
thorough scrutiny before submitting it to the public, thought it best
to have the matter carefully tested, in furtherance of which object
Mrs. Thayer gave a seance in the Banner of Light building, in the
room of Dr. H. B. Storer, to nine persons, none of whom were in¬
vited by herself, or whom she knew would be present. On her
arrival she was handed over to three ladies of the party, who took
her into an anteroom, and completely stripped her, bringing her
apparel into the circle room to be inspected by the members; this
can scarcely be considered to be one of the pleasures of physical
mediumship. After having inspected and duly certified that they
had nothing concealed about them, Mrs. Thayer was re-dressed,
brought into the seance room, and introduced into a muslin
sack, which was brought up round her neck, tightly tied,
and securely sealed. I here quote from the report in the
Banner of Light of May 1st, of the present year. “ She
was wholly in the bag, except her head; she was then seated
with the rest around the table. The light was turned off, and we
were in darkness. In about a minute a noise was heard, and one of
the party, Mr. Cooper, said: ‘ Here’s something! I guess it’s a
pigeon.’ The gas was lighted, and a white fantail was found added
to our party, flapping around, dazed with the light, and frightened.
In addition to the foregoing a canary was brought in answer to the
mental request of one of the party, and the table was covered witn
flowers and plants. The light was finally turned up, the medium
found in exactly the same condition as at the commencement of the
seance, and the test conditions intact. Besides the pigeon and the
canary there was a fresh branch of an orange tree, with a large
ripe orange adhering. Another branch of orange tree, a foot in
length, with fragrant blossoms; a white lily with four buds; two
tea-rose buds; three varieties of ferns; a sprig of cassia; a
blossom of bourgaim villier; a leaf of calla lily; a cactus leaf;
two or three varieties of green ferns; and a handful of moss.” The
pigeon mentioned is the bird that is in the cage here this evening,
and which Mr. Cooper gave into my charge, to be exhibited to the
British National Association of Spiritualists. (Applause.)
SPIRITUALISM IN MAINE, CONNECTICUT, AND MASSACHUSETTS.
From Boston I went to Greenfield, in the western part of
Massachusetts, from thence to Bangor, in the State of Maine,
returning to Lynn, in the preceding State, thence on into
New Haven, in the State of Connecticut, in each of which
places I found Spiritualism in various degrees of prosperity, but in
all cases the zeal and activity of the workers was highly commend¬
able. The position of the public towards the movement was seem¬
ingly apathetic, but privately I found it had a deep hold on the
interest and thought of the liberal and cultivated portions of the
community. My experiences at the two camp meetings, which it
was my good fortune to attend, were in one respect most satisfac¬
tory. They reveal the fact that American Spiritualists are alive to
the* important issues underlying the religious, political, and social
constitutions of society, and however wild many of the schezoea
broached may be, and to which I am not prepared to assent, they
are certainly indications of a keen appreciation of the necessity of
reform, and indicate an earnest desire to arrive at such measures as
may bring the required results.
So far as coherency is concerned, that is organic coherency, very
little can be said. The best examples in that direction have yet to
be made. In New York, where I spoke during July, I met quite a
flourishing society, one that also has its Lyceum. It engages the
most popular speakers, pays them well, and secures a good attend¬
ance ; but the existence of a federal union among the Spiritualists
throughout the States is yet to be witnessed; and whether such a
possibility is practicable, in the present phase of the movement in
America, is a matter of great question.
PAINTING MEDIUMSHIP.
I must not omit mention of one incident that transpired during
my stay in this city, and one peculiarly pleasant to myself. It arose
out of an impromptu visit to Mr. Wella Anderson, the spirit artist,
a name quite familiar to every American Spiritualist, and almost
equally to European Spiritualists. My friend Mr. Cooper was with
me, and we arrived at Mr. Anderson’s rooms a few minutes past
four p.m. Mr. Anderson remarked, “ I wish you had called a few
minutes earlier as the ‘ band ’ leave at four o’clock, and do not re¬
turn until ten a.m. next day; I am afraid I cannot show you any¬
thing.” We, however, went into his studio, and inspected many of
his wonderful drawings. Presently Mr. Anderson took up a drawing
board and a piede of cartridge paper, drew his handkerchief from his
pocket and desired us to tightly bandage his eyes. We did so.
He then commenced drawing a little circle about the size of a cent,
then next a zigzag line, which proved to be a nose outline, and
finally an entire head was drawn, the whole being done upside
down. A rough portrait of a Chinaman was thus produced.
Another portrait was drawn on the reverse of the same sheet under
exactly similar circumstances. Ere we left Mr. Anderson, he
inquired if I could give him half an hour’s quiet on the 26th of
that month—it was July. I replied, “ I should be at the Silver
Lake Camp Meeting, 270 miles distant.” Mr. Anderson’s controls
f wrote that djd not matter, all required was my passivity. I as¬
sented, and on the morning in question brother Cooper and I were
quietly enjoying ourselves in a yacht upon the bright bosom of
Silver Lake, quiet and passive enough in all conscience, for it was
too hot even to think. With regard to the picture produced through
Mr. Anderson, the following correspondence transpired, and the
picture, pronounced by competent judges as a splendid specimen
of pencil drawing, is the one on exhibition here this evening.
803, West 11th Street, New York City,
July 31st, 1875.
Dear Brother Morse,—The last touches are on the picture of
the bright 'and beautiful “ Chinese.” Completed this p.m. The
picture awaits your order. Please accept it with the kindest regards
and best wishes of most truly and fraternally thine,
Wella Anderson.
P.S.—Please remember me kindly to Mr. Cooper.—W.A.
803, West 11th Street, New York,
September 4ih, 1875.
Dear Brother Morse,—Your kind and welcome letter is before
me—came while I was ill in the country. I feel very much gratified
to learn the picture of your bright and noble guide was admired by
your many friends. In regard to the time occupied in its execution,
it was 8J days, of one sitting per day of 12 to 13 minutes each—148
minutes—taken by Baphael Sanzio, through the fingers of your
humble servant with a No. 2 Faber’s pencil, except the hair, which
was of No. 1 Faber, done while I was lost to this cold discordant
world, which I hope soon to leave. Please allow me to tender my
most heartfelt thanks for the picture I found enclosed in your last
of my much esteemed friend and genial brother J. J. Morse. My
love to Mr. Cooper and yourself, hoping you are both well and
prospering.—I am most truly and fraternally thine,
Wella Anderson.
To attempt to give a detailed description relating solely to Spirit¬
ualism, after my t welve months’ experiences, would be absolutely im¬
possible, in the scope of this address. What I have stated is the
faintest outline of what could be said; while to speak of the
country itself, its people, and its customs, would require an address
specially devoted to that purpose. And even after so brief an ac¬
quaintance as I have had, I am not sure whether it would not be
presumption to attempt it. Still, I am preparing a lecture upon
that subject, the manuscript of which I hope shortly to have com¬
pleted, and when finished shall hope for an opportunity to present
it for the consideration of our people. It is necessary now for me
to make a statement, which I do with mingled pain and pleasure; it
is to this effect—that in consequence of my success, which has
caused me to receive numerous re-engagements, and in obedience
to the monition of my spirit-guides, I return to the United States,
with my family, in the May of next year, probably remaining some
eighteen months or two years, gaining fresh experiences, gathering
deeper knowledge, benefiting myself thereby, and I trust fitting
myself to be more useful as a worker at home, when I am
permitted to return. I speak in Bangor, Maine, during June and
July, New York City in September, Philadelphia in October, Wash¬
ington in November, nextyear, and expect to winter in New Orleans
—’way down south. I intend going west to Qalifornia, and shall
226
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 5, 1875
make an attempt, all being well, to reach our Australian colonies.
I have formed a sincere respect for the American Spiritualists and
people, for on all hands I met with the greatest kindness; on
every side I met brothers and sisters, and my earnest hope is that
American and English Spiritualists may be united in the bonds of
fraternal affection, and that the Stars and Stripes and the Union
Jack, Cousin Jonathan and John Bull, may stand united for ever in
peace and goodwill, as two great, and grand nations should, and
while I heartily endorse the sentiment of Buie Britannia, at the
same time I am not oblivious of the music of Hail Columbia. (Loud
applause.)
Mr. Morse sat down amid loud applause, after which there was
an interval of ten minutes. The Misses Claxton then favoured the
company with a duet.
Mr. Morse next passed into the trance state, and an address was
given through his lips by the spirit who calls himself the ‘‘ Strolling
Player.”
Miss Sexton next favoured the company with a song.
Mr. Martin B. Smith rose and said that it was his pleasing duty
to propose a vote of thanks to their worthy chairman. He added
that the profession of a belief in Spiritualism at the present time was a
comparatively easy matter, but that when Mr. Coleman first ex¬
pressed his belief, in days when the movement was so intensely un¬
popular, it was a very different thing. Twenty-three years ago
Mr. Coleman became convinced that Spiritualism was a fact, and
from that time to this he had unflinchingly borne testimony to that
which he believed to be true. The spiritual movement owed him
thanks which no words of his (Mr. Smith’s) could express. Indeed,
he was unable to give utterance to all that he felt that Spiritualism
owed to the gentleman who had presided that evening. (Ap¬
plause.) He looked upon him with respect and reverence as
one of the fathers of this great movement. It was a great pleasure
to see him assume again that night the position lie had so often
filled in public meetings in connection with Spiritualism. Of late
Mr. Coleman had been severely afflicted in health, yet he had been
able that evening to give them an instructive, exhaustive, and inte¬
resting resume of the progress of Spiritualism during the past year.
He hoped that now Mr. Coleman’s health was restored they would
often see him assume the position he had taken that evening; he
therefore moved that the meeting tender its cordial thanks to him
for taking the chair. (Applause.)
Mr. Coleman: Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Martin Smith has
done me the honour of proposing a vote of thanks. That a man of
his position should do so, and that a response should be given by
an audience like this, is one proof that I have not been unsuccessful
in inspiring men of position and great reputation to take an
interest in our movement. The proceedings of this evening are
now at an end. .
The company then slowly separated.
Among the numerous friends present were Mr. Martin B. Smith;
Mr. and Mrs. Keningale Cook; Mr. J. 1ST. T. Martheze, and Mr.
Martheze, jun.; Miss Deekens ; Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; Mr. A.
Calder; Captain James; Messrs. John and Archibald Lament and
James Coates, of Liverpool; Mr. E. T. Bennett; Mrs. Tebb; Mr.
B. Pomeroy Tredwen; Mr. Morell Theobald; Mr. and the Misses
Withall; Mr. Alexander Tod; Mr. Crisp; Mr. and Mrs. Wood;
Mr. Harper, of Birmingham; Mr. and Miss Shorter; Mr. Thomas
Blyton; the Bev. Mr. Colley, Curate of Portsmouth; Mr. and Mrs.
Everitt; Mr. F. Everitt; Mr. and Mrs. Maltby; Mr. G. B. Tapp;
Mr. and Mrs. Farmer; Mrs. VeSey; Mr. Stack; Dr. C. Blake; Mr.
E. D. Bogers; Mr., Mrs. and Miss Fitz-Gerald; Mr. and Mrs.
Edmands; Miss Houghton; Mr. and Mrs. Earl Bird; the Misses Wil¬
liamson; Mr. E. P. Ashton ; Dr. and Miss Saxton ; Mr.B. Pearce;
Mr. and Mrs. Bassett; Mr. and Mrs. Parkes-; Mr. Barber; Mr. and
Mrs. Began; Mr. Wallis, and many others.
If the little gnomes seen by Mrs. Hardinge were anything more
than subjective impressions taking objective form in the brain of a
clairvoyant, the said gnomes seem to us so far to lead an irrational
mode of existence—all purposeless dance and “ shimmering arms.”
Black beetles lead a more useful life.
Me. and Mbs. Gustave de Veh, who have been travelling in
Switzerland, and visited Prince Wittgenstein at Yevey this week,
are about to return to their home in Paris, and expect to spend a
few weeks among London Spiritualists in January next.
Me. Beight on Funeeal Befobm.—The following letter has
been written by Mr. Bright, M.P., to a Birmingham gentleman:—
“ Bochdale, 26th October, 1875.—Dear Sir,—If your friends or any
sensible people wish to reform the funeral exhibitions and funeral
expenses, let them observe and copy the practice of the sect to
which I belong, that of the Society of Friends. Nothing can be more
simple, and nothing can be better. They would be wise, also, to
follow them in rejecting the fashion of wearing mourning, which
is always costly, and, as worn by many women, hideous. I am
sorry to say, however, that the wearing of mourning has of late
been rather increasing, with ‘Friends,’ amongst whom are many
who apparently cannot comprehend and do not value the principles
on which the practices of their forefathers were based.—I am very
respectfully yours, John Beight.—Mr. Geo. H. Phillips.”
PARDON OF MR. FIRMAN.
By Electric Telegraph.
FEOM OUB OWN COBEESPONDENT.
Paris, Wednesday night.
I have much satisfaction in announcing to jqvl that
the remainder of Mr. Pirman’s impri^onme^Bf has been
remitted this day by the President ol the Trench
Republic.
A SEANCE AT DAL ST ON.
An interesting seance was held on Monday evening, the 25th ult.,
at the residence of Mr. Thos. Wilks, in Dalston-lane, Dalston, with
Mr. William Eglington, physical medium. There were twelve
persons present in addition to the medium, namely, Miss Phillips,
Mr. J. Tozeland, a lady and gentleman (strangers), Mrs. Wilks,
Mr. Phillips, Mrs. Bradley, Mr. Large, Mr. Winn, Mrs. Sammell,
Mr. Harris, and Mr. Thomas Wilks. The light was put out, and
after sitting a few minutes, a slight movement of the articles upon
the table was observed. By not very loud raps, but which were
heard by all present, questions were answered, and the circle
directed to join in singing ; after which the influence became much
stronger, and the manifestations more marked. Several members
of the circle stated that they were touched by hands, while Mr.
Wilks was particularly favoured by a roll of paper beating time to
the singing upon his head. A pear was taken from Mr. Harris,
and placed first in the medium’s mouth, and afterwards in those of
Mr. Wilks and Mr. Harris. At this juncture the medium was
controlled by a spirit known by the name of Daisy, who suggested
that Mr. Eglington should change his seat, on account of the
influence of Miss Phillips, stating correctly tint she was a powerful
medium. After the change had been made, and some more singing
given by the circle, the loud voice of another spirit, named John
King, was heard addressing Mr. Wilks and other members of the
circle in th® usual familiar manner, but no communication of any
particular importance was made. The chief controlling spirit of
the medium, known as Joey, also spoke, but did not have sufficient
power to make himself heard above a whisper. The medium was
again directed to change his seat, this time being placed nearly
opposite to his first position, and Mrs. Sammell grasping his hand
on one side, while Mr. Winn did thg same on the other side. In the
course of some singing Mr. Wilks had his waistcoat unbuttoned.
Mrs. Wilks was then instructed to change her seat, so that in doing
so she sat opposite to the medium; and taking an apple out of her
pocket, it was taken from her hand, and thrust into the mouth of Mr.
Winn. The medium here remarked that his chair was being
withdrawn from under him, and in a short time the gas was
ordered to be lit, when the chair was discovered threaded upon the
arm of the medium. The matter was not, however, considered
sufficiently ^tested, inasmuch as, unfortunately, Mrs. Sammell had
released her grasp of the medium’s hand. The spirit, how¬
ever, agreed to try again; Mrs. Sammell this time taking care
to keep her hold of the hand of the medium as firmly as possible,
when the result was successful. The spirit Daisy explained that
they had done their best, and, as she was- spealring, the pencil was
heard writing. At the close of the seance it was found that Joey
had signed his name with Fanny Davis, the name of a spirit
unknown to the medium, but who is well known at Mr. Wilks’
seances; both names were written “ direct,” as no one was near the
table at the time. After bidding all “ Good night and God’s
blessing,” Daisy shook hands with each member of the circle, and
so terminated a very satisfactory and interesting stance.
(Signed on behalf of the circle), Thomas Wilks.
Me. Geoege Faemee will leave England in a few weeks’ time
for the West Indies.
A Hindoo Somnambulist.—A curious case of somnambulism
is reported by a correspondent at Calcutta, of which a khidmutgar
in the employ of one of his friends is the subject. A little after
midnight till nearly two o’clock in the morning this man, he says,
begins chanting verse after verse of his Koran, and of sacred
hymns, repeats the divine precepts, criticises the shortness of time
in this world and the length of eternity in the next, and finally
winds up with an unearthly howl or shriek. During all this time
he is in the soundest pf slumbers, and the only way to put a stop
to this hullabaloo is to turn the man on his side; for should any
one awake him, he will just open his eyes for a minute, and if
allowed to remain on the flat of his back, he will recommence his
howling hymns. This phenomenon suggests some interesting
questions. May not a propensity for useless metaphysics be but
the result of a similar species of somnambulism ? And is it not
but too probable that many an otherwise estimable person has
ruined his political and social reputation by imprudent utterances,
merely because his friends did not know they ought to turn him
on his side ? The experiment ought certainly to be tried in the
case of the supporters of “causes,” but for, the unfortunate fact
that they are already too exclusively attached to one side of a
question.—YAe Echo.
Nov. 5, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
227
MAD!
As in the holy garden of the Lord,
Guarded by cherubim with flaming sword,
Where I God’s beauty ever have adored,
Dwell I within this lovely house alone.
They say that I am mad because I know
That all around the heavens ebb and flow,
That all about the angels come and go,
And tabernacle here ’neath flesh and bone.
* * * * *
Oh, lovely is this life—although alone
I dwell within this silent house, where they
Have prisoned me. But glorious is God’s way,
And ever yet more glorious day by day;
And life divine I read in every stone
Of this fair mansion, and they glow like gems.
Transfigured are all outer things—the hems
And fringes of heaven’s glory through the stems
Of these old cedar-trees are broadly thrown.
I wander through the gardens, where I see
More than the marigolds and hollyhocks pied—
A thousand wonders spread on every side ;
For in each blossom fay-souls dance or hide,
Praise God in joy, or frisk with bird or bee.
I can of healing plants the virtues tell,
Of noxious weeds the evils can dispel;
Within each petal read of heaven or hell,
For nature mirroreth back man’s destiny.
Though rarely now I see a human face;
When evening sunshine floods the galleries old,
The music-room, and cinnamon-room with gold,
Sweet converse with me throngs of spirits hold.
Odours celestial spread through every place ;
Whilst pictured thought-clouds roll themselves around,
And trailing rainbow-raiment fans the ground.
Of new-born poets, bay and myrtle-crowned,
Then have I glimpses—the supernal race!
Alone! alone ! yet am I not alone;
My thoughts are messengers to human kind;
Ambassadors of spirit from the mind
Sent forth to other minds to knit and bind;
Yet oft for others' sin must I atone.
The walls of flesh dissolve, and I can flow
Into the core of human hearts, and know
How loves and hatreds blossom, bud, and grow,
To them unknown, I with them make my moan.
******
From Aurora, by AM.
Correspondence*
[Greatfreedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
GOOD AND EVIL.
Sir,—A statement in The Spiritualist of Oct. 22nd has quite
startled me, that the presence of a perfectly good man would be so
unbearable that men would have no alternative but to crucify him;
that he would have so little sympathy with human nature that we
should have no kindred feeling towards him. Now, I have known
men who seemed to be all goodness, and to have sympathy for im¬
perfect men in proportion to their own goodness; nor can I con¬
ceive how it could be otherwise, since compassion seems to be the
very essence of goodness. As for that deep and solemn question
of good and evil—a question so considered in all ages and by all
nations—in no religion or philosophy do we find evil denied except,
perhaps, with the Stoics, who denied that pain was an evil. The
Buddhist regards all life to be an evil, and his thought is to get rid
of it in Nirvana; nor can we attribute evil to man and not to
nature, since man is part of nature—human nature. The goodman no
more made his own goodness than the bad man made his own bad¬
ness; and when men have personified goodness they have been
forced to personify badness.
To say that “ there is no place for absolute evil in a universe
governed by a good and Almighty God” is a denial of a good and
Almighty God. If a man tells me that my toothache is no evil, I
can only reply that he does not know what he is talking about, and
if there is no evil—and the term “ absolute” does not alter the fact
—what is the meaning of the terms charity, benevolence, mercy,
and what is the meaning of an author of all evil, and what the
meaning of eating of the fruit of the tree of knowledge of good
and ovil ?
Can the writer really mean to say that want, and pain, and dis¬
ease, and misery are not evils ? and was Hamlet really mad to make
that wonderful utterance of “To be, or not to be?” No doubt
good and evil are for the most part but relative terms—that is,
what is good for one may be bad for another, just as one field may
want sunshine and another rain. That my loss may be another
man’s gain does not diminish the evil to me; but if I am struck
blind by lightning it is no man’s gain. As far as we can see or
know, nature is neither goodness nor badness, humanly speaking,
but simply indifference. Anyhow, God’s ways are not our ways,
or God’s disposition after the likeness of human nature. Mr. Her¬
bert Spencer’s religion of the Unconditioned Absolute is all non¬
sense, as every one sees—that is, that a religious sentiment can
only bear relation to a personal being. We may not ignore facts
to make things pleasant and sentimental, but take nature as we
find it, for better or for worse, and hold to truth above all things.
But that in a general sense “ there is a soul of goodness in things
evil,” I admit. If there was no folly there would be no farce; if
there was nothing terrible there would be no tragedy; and were
there no badness we should miss a vast deal of what art has mad#
so entertaining, and should not be looking to progress and th®
future. N o doubt pain often draws our attention to an evil, but
only by another evil; for instance, but for the pain of a burn we
might be consumed without knowing what was going on. Thus
pleasure and pain are, as it were, tests of goodness and badness ;
and hence the “ object ” in nature seems neither pleasure nor pain,
but healthy development and continued production.
Henky G. Atkinson,
Boulogne- sur-Mer.
THE FUNERAL OF THE BODY.
Sir,—The model we have looked on and loved of the soul and
spirit, claims our thoughts and affections before the atoms change
to corruption. We Spiritualists are not atheists or mere deists.
We know that there is a spiritual body, ethereal in its structure,
and therefore unseen by our ordinary eye powers. Spiritualists
know also that there is no death. We sorrow not for the annihila¬
tion of earthly life, but for the removal of the loved one from the
ordinary social life duties. Let us, therefore, bury the model with
respect, and in harmony with our convictions.
Shall I unveil my family sadness in July last, and narrate some
of the incidents connected therewith ? as suggestive of the plan to
be adopted by us as a body of thinkers, to express through our
families to the public, the need for a marked change in our funeral
arrangements. Perhaps I had better do so.
After the last breath, the body of my eldest son, Arthur, lay on
his bed, and before rigidity prevented I placed his body slightly on
his side, placed his hpad on the pillow, as if in a natural sleep, the
hands, resting on the chest, with a yellow rose. The bedding was
arranged as usual; all wa^sleeplike, and so remained, till coffined.
The coffin was plain elm wood, varnished, no black cloth; only the
handles and name plate were black. The same position of sleep
was retained in the coffin. The burial day came, the closed coffin and
body were brought into the drawing-room—the room where so many
miracles transpired in 1868, a wreath of Chinese roses was entwined
on the lid round the name-plate; and a smaller one over the feet.
The convolvulus flower and tendrils, with lilies, bordered the lid.
No black pall. When the time of removal came, one of the family
played on the harmonium “ The Dead March” in Saul. The coffin
deposited in the hearse, and the undertaker’s men in coaches, the
cemetery was reached, and the unpalled coffin, with flowers, was
carried into the church and placed before the clergyman, while he
read portions of those grand noble declarations, which include
—“ There iS' a natural body. There is a spiritual body. We are
sown in corruption, we are raised in incorruption.” In like manner,
as at home, was the coffin, uncovered except by flowers, carried to
and lowered into the family grave at Nunhead, and the fact of
earth to earth was carried out by the family—father, son, and
daughters—standing round till the grave was filled.
Deference to the national usage produced the clothing in black,
but free of scarfs and weepers. I think all things were done
decently, and so in order as to excite surprise and pleasure in the
minds of the lookers on.
I prefer personally that the usual clergyman at the cemetery read
the service, because, as a rule, no member of the family could
muster courage to make a speech and read a service; and that
plan avoids the chance of a zealous talker talking nonsense at the
grave; better far conform to the form of a national burial service,
which, though it has some drawbacks, is, on the whole, the best.
I have thus for practical purposes written, as funeral absurdities
are forcing themselves before the nation so painfully, that Spirit¬
ualists would do well to lead in producing a change, and so give
confidence to many who dread to carry out their desires for fear of
singularity. J. Elmore Jones;
Enmore Park.  
THE MEDIUMSHIP OF THE BAMFORD BROTHERS—DIRECT SPIRIT
WRITING.
Sir,—On Sunday evening seven of our friends, together with
my wife and two boys, sat for physical manifestations. We com¬
menced about half-past eight in the evening, all joining hands,
including the medium. The gas was put out, and immediately
the phenomena commenced. Hats placed on the table were put
on the heads of the mediums and some of the sitters; then taken
off and replaced upon the table. At one time one hat was placed
on the top of another on the head of the youngest boy, and on the
top of that the stove top, the latter weighing about 4 lbs. I now
give you the statement of one of the sitters:—
“A small hand bell was taken, and the handle was placed in my
mouth, so with my teeth I tried to keep it, but preferred parting
with it rather than lose a tooth or two. It was then carried over
my head, and allowed to fall to the floor.
228
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 5, 1875.
“Again, the spirits pushed the bell-handle into my mouth, then
the end of a violin stick, which I held until the gas was lit, to
the amusement of the company, and perhaps of the* spirit friends
also, for immediately the gas was put out again they presented to my
lips the violin, which with great effort I managed to hold for a
moment whilst I was again exhibited to the gaze of those present.”
We spent a very agreeable evening in a similar manner. Bells
were rung round the circle, sometimes close to our faces, at other
times over our heads ; we were touched all round with the violin
stick; some of the sitters were tapped on the head, some on the
face, with spirit hands; at one time one spirit carried the match¬
box to the middle of the table, took out some matches and rubbed
the ends together, so that we could see from the light given off by
the phosphorus the finger ends of the spirit manipulating them.
I must not forgot to tell, perhaps, the best test of the evening, as
it occurred in full light. A half sheet of Uote paper, inspected by
the sitters, and pronounced free from marks of any kind, was
placed in a book (Wallace’s) and the page noted. The youngest
boy with his right hand took the closed book with lead pencil and
held it under the table, which had simply the ordinary covering
on, and in a moment, underneath the table-top, raps were given
with the pencil, which was taken out of the boy’s hand; in another
moment the book fell to the ground. When taken up and.opened at
page noted the blank paper was gone, but was found upon the
floor. It was examined, but nothing written upon it. On further
and close examination, however, of the book at the specified page,
these words were found, “ I shan’t write.” With the exception of
the right hand of the medium, all the others were held in full
view of the sitters.
During the dark seance, every two or three minutes light was
struck, as signalled by the raps, to show us how busy the spirits
had been meanwhile. Jos. Bamfoud.
26, Pool-street, Macclesfield,
October 27th, 1875.
A NEW HYPOTHESIS.
BY COLONEL H. S. OLCOTT.
In The Spiritualist for October 8th I find the following editorial
paragraph:—
A Problem.—Colonel Olcott's book narrates how at one time the Eddy
Brothers publicly exhibited genuine spiritual manifestations as conjurors’
tricks, as has also been done by Melville Pay, Von Vleck, and some other
physical mediums. What kind of spirits are they who aid mediums in
such a career?
Rem acu tetigisti. You have hit the nail upon the head. What
kind of spirits are these ? Can any mere observer of modern
Spiritualism answer ? Can they explain the enormous disparity
between the behaviour of ruany communicating spirits—their
ignorance of natural law, their crude speculations as to spiritual
life and laws, their multifarious mutual and self-contradictions,
their frequent endorsement of absurd, not to say grossly immoral
social schemes, their despotic control of their wretched victims the
mediums, their approval of dogmatic superstition—with a theory
that our “manifestations” are solely attributable to the intervention
of disembodied human spirits ?
Since my book appeared, I have diligently read the literature of
oriental magic, and I am very much mistaken if I have not found
therein the solution for this problem which has so vexed intelligent
Spiritualists for a quarter of a century. To my mind, all that was
previously dark has become light; and I think that all unpreju¬
diced readers will agree in the opinion that the ancient Occultists
and their successors possessed the secret of the relations between
us and the departed. It is evident that, after making allowance
for natural effects, produced by physical laws not familiar to the
common people, they must be credited with many phenomena
identical with those common in the experience of the frequenters
of modern circles, which they could produce at will, and which
prove the marvellous capabilities of the human will over certain
denizens of the other world, and, indirectly, over the very elements.'
Nay, I will go so far as to say—as I have said in sundry recent
communications to the American journals—that I have personally
witnessed the demonstration of such powers as the above by adepts
of the Oriental school of theosophy: extending even to the produc¬
tion of “materialised” forms of human beings and animals, the
disintegration and reintegration of flowers and metallic substances,
the production of spectral lights, and the instantaneous production
and obliteration of writing in books, sealed letters, and upon paper,
hold by myself, and other equally wonderful effects.*
I have recently called attention to the existence and approach-
ability of elementary spirits—beings intermediate between man and
matter, without immortal souls, bilt possessed of intelligence, and
capable of being more subservient to our will-power for the accom¬
plishment of so-called miracles. These beings I have seen evoked,
and therefore I knew exactly what I was talking about when I
raised the sound of alarm. But, with incredible indiscretion, a score
of Spiritualist writers, of more or less prominence—among whom I
regret to see Mr. J. J. Morse—have raised a hue and cry at my heels,
* We think that a great assertion like this should not be put forward
without names and addresses of witnesses and full particulars being given.
The absence of such details destroys much of the weight of Ool. Olcott's
tide.—Ed.
and make the air resound with their clamour. The pity is, that not
one of my critics evinces the slightest knowledge of his subject, and
so the effect which otherwise might result from the occasional
flashes of wit which have broken through this dense bank of wind-
clouds is lost. I can afford to wait—my assailants cannot.
With a view of promoting the study of occultism, and of afford¬
ing to science and religion a neutral ground upon which, their “ ir¬
repressible conflict” may be terminated, a number of gentlemen and
ladies of character and condition have just united to form* a Theo-
sophical Society in this city. Our list embraces Hebraists, geo¬
metricians, Cabbalists, travellers, Orientalists, journalists, authors,
mediums, and men of leisure. Among them is M. De Lara, a
learned Jewish scholar; Mr. George Henry Eelt, discoverer of the
geometrical figures of the Egyptian Kabballah, and the missing
Greek Canon of Proportion; Madame H. P. Blavatsky, who is
writing a work to be called A Skeleton Key to Mysterious Gates (which
is destined to make as profound a sensation as anything that
Spencer or Huxley ever wrote); Mrs. Hardinge Britten, who is
editing a mysterious book called Art Magic; the editor of two or
three literary magazines, one of them an LL.D. of an English
university; some physicians, lawyers, and leader-writers of our
New York dailies; the president of the New York Spiritualist
Society, who also succeeded Professor John W. Draper in the
presidency of the Photographic Section of the American Institute;
sundry artists and others. Our preliminary meeting was held last
Saturday evening at a private house, and, besides ordering to be
printed a preamble and bye-laws, we listened to an extemporaneous
address by Mr. Charles C. Massey, of London, upon his observa¬
tions of the phenomena occurring in the presence of Mrs. Huutoon,
a sister of the Eddys. It is within the scope of the society to re¬
print and translate standard occultist works and papers read at its
monthly meetings. I think you will not have to wait long before
hearing its echoes across the water. My proposed # Miracle Club”
will be merged into this broader and more important organisation,
and the course of experiments I had laid out may be conducted
under its auspices.
New York, October 21,1875.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The ordinary weekly seance of the Dalston Association of In¬
quirers into Spiritualism was well attended. The circle consisted
of Mr. William Eglington, physical medium, Mrs. J. R. Cope, Cap¬
tain James, Mr. William Harris, Mr. J. R. Cope, Mrs. R. Cocker,
Mr. Thomas Wilks, Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mrs. M. Theresa Wood, Mr. R. Cocker, Mr. G. R. Tapp, Mr. Thos.
Blyton, Mr. Henry Cook, the Misses Nina and Caroline Corner.
The seance was opened by reading from the Bible, and by the
singing of a hymn. Before extinguishing the light all hands were
joined, a condition which the circle observed throughout the sitting.
Evidence of the presence of spirits was given by various members
of the circle stating that they felt the touching of hands. The bell
and concertina, which were upon the table, were manipulated, and
the pencil was heard as if some one were writing with it. A sheet
of paper was handed to Captain James, and on a light being ob¬
tained the signature of Joey, one of the manifesting spirits, was
found inscribed thereon, while the chair, upon which the medium
had been sitting, was discovered upon the table. The sitters on
each side of Mr. Eglington averred they had retained their hold of
his hands, and, as the remainder of the circle had observed the
same condition, the results obtained thus far were considered tnost
satisfactory. The chief result of the second part of the seance was
the raising of the medium and placing him upon the tabje, Mrs.
Wood stating that she retained his hand while it was being done.
A second spirit responded to the name of Daisy during the sitting,
and spoke through the medium. The seance closed shortly after
ten o’clock.
The first meeting this session of the Psychological Society of
London was held last night, under the presidency of Mr. Serjeant
Cox.
Death in the Pulpit.—The Rev. Isaac Hanks, for many years
minister of the Independent Chapel, Silver-street, Malmesbury,
fell down dead in his pulpit on Sunday night, just as he had given
out his text, which was, “But man dieth and wasteth away; yea,
man giveth up the ghost, and where is he ?’’—Daily Telegraph
26th October.
Next Sunday evening, Dr. Sexton will give a discourse at the
Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-street, Regent-street, in reply to
Professor Tyndall’s article in the last number of the Fortnightly
Review, upon Spiritualism.
The Davenport Brothers in Europe.—The Davenport
Brothers are still on the Continent, drawing large audiences.
Last Friday night they gave a public seance at the Victor Emanuel
Theatre in Turin. Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Manchester, and
two English ladies, were present on the occasion, and Mr. Black¬
burn has sent us a copy of the Turin newspaper, La Nuoua Torino,
containing some particulars relating to the proceedings. Mr.
Bldckburn will remain in Italy during a considerable portion of
the winter.
/
Nov. 5, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST
in
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. W. H. HARRISON.
Martin R. Smith, Esq.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Sir Chas. Isham, Bart.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
H. D. Jencken, Esq. M.R.I.
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq., M.S.Tel E.
N. F. Dawe, Esq.
Miss Douglas.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.
Committee.
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgenstein.
Mrs. Honywood.
Alexander Oalder, Esq.
Alexander Tod, Esq.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S.
James Wason, Esq.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
Secretary and Treasurer. '
Martin R. Smith, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Since the year 1869 Spiritualists have been indebted to Mr. Wm. H.
Harrison for the excellent journal of which he is the editor. This journal
has been a credit and strength to the movement in every respect. It has
been printed in clear type and on good paper, and has been conducted
with ability, caution, courage, and public spirit. It is hardly necessary to
say that up to the present time the paper has been by no means self-
supporting ; indeed, during the first three years of its existence it entailed
upon Mr. Harrison a very heavy loss, which he bore single-handed. This
loss was aggravated by the fact that, in order the more completely to
devote his attention to ihe Spiritualist newspaper, Mr. Harrison voluntarily
relinquished a considerable portion (estimated, upon reliable information,
at an average of not less than £200 per annum) of the income which he
was deriving from literary work on the Engineer newspaper and other
journals. Mr. Harrison has indeed done more than this, for during the
past eight years he has given up one or two evenings every week to a
practical observation of spiritual phenomena at seances. By his
unwearied and intelligent observation he has been enabled to collect
a mass of reliable information as to the facts and principles of Spiritualism,
which fits him in the highest degree to be the editor of a newspaper
devoted to the religious and scientific aspects of the subject.
It is a matter of notoriety that the Medium newspaper, which was in
augurated the year after the appearance of the Spiritualist, has been
annually subsidized by large subscriptions, which its editor, Mr. Burns,
has always called for as justly due to his exertions. Whilst we fully ac¬
knowledge the services which have been thus rendered to Spiritualism,
we would call attention to the fact that no appeal to the public for help has
ever, except upon one occasion, and that fora special purpose, appeared in
tbe pages of the Spiritualist for six years. The work was done, and the
whole expense borne for three of those years by Mr. Harrison alone;
during the last three years an annual sum of about two hundred pounds
has been privately subscribed by a few friends, which has, doubtless,
greatly relieved the burden upon the shoulders of Mr. Harrison, but this in
no way touches the fact that Mr. Harrison has for years cheerfully sub¬
mitted to a heavy pecuniary loss in order to supply to the movement a
paper in many, if not in all, respects worthy of it.
The undersigned ladies and gentlemen are of opinion that it is not
to the credit of the movement that this pecuniary loss should be borne
alone by Mr. Harrison.
' Had he appealed to the public for subscriptions, they would doubtless
have been forthcoming, as they have been for some years past in
answer to the appeals of the Medium ever since its establishment—but he
has not done so.
It is proposed, therefore, that a subscription, in addition to the existing
Guarantee Fund, shall be opened, which shall take the form of a testimonial
to Mr. Harrison, and which, it is hoped, may to some extent, relieve him
from the heavy sacrifices which he has made in mohey, time, and work in
the interests of Spiritualism.
All subscriptions to this fund will be payable on the 1st January, 1876.
Friends desiring to contribute are requested to send in their names to
Martin R. Smith, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
List op Subscriptions to October 26th.
Mr. Martin R. Smith ‘ £50 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn        50 0 0
Mr. J. N. T. Martheze         60 0 0
Mr. Alexander Calder   20 0 0
A Friend      20 0 0
Mr. Alexander Tod     20 0 0
Mr. N. F. Dawe  15 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart  10 0 0
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgenstein   ;    6 0 0
F. S. A   j  5 5 0
Mr. O. F. Varley, F.R.S  5 0 0
Mr. Eugene Crowell, M.D 5 0 0
Mrs. Louisa Lowe    5 0 0
Mr. Charles Massey  6 0 0
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald    5 0 0
Mrs. Honywood      2 2 0
Mr. M or ell Theobald  2 2 0
Mrs. Makdou£all Gregory    2 0 0
Mr. Epes Sargent    2 0 0
Dr. Baikie     2 0 0
Miss Douglas   .2 0 0
Mr. Geo. King.  110
Mr. F. A. Binney    1 1 0
Mr. J. Coates    110
Mrs. Maltby    110
Mrs. Kislingbury  110
Mr. B. W. PyCook  110
Mr. B. Coleman    110
Mr. R, Fitton  1 1 0
Major Menars....,i      110
Mr. G. W. F. Wiese  1 1 0
Rev. W. Whitear  1 1 0
MisS Whitear  110
Mr. C, E., Williams   110
Mr. W. M. Buchanan        10 0
Miss E. D. Ponder    10 0
A'Subscriber .s.  1 0 0
Mr. Geo. Lee   0 10 6
Mr. J. S. Crisp      0 10 0
MisS F. J. Theobald      0 10 0
Mr. St. George Stock   0 10 0
Mr. Geo. Blyton    0 10 0
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOG5T, MES¬
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY,
ON SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST" NEWSPAPER,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON, W.O.
(Entrance in Wobum-street).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A standard work Con¬
taining interesting and well authenticated facts, proving the reality of spirit
communion. It also contains an elaborate essay defining the author’s views
of the relationship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD,
by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorbing interest, replete with
well authenticated narratives, describing manifestations produced by spirits.
7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of the Dialec¬
tical Society. This committee consisted of literary, scientific, and other pro¬
fessional men who investigated Spiritualism for two years without engaging
the services of any professional medium, after which they published the
report. Original edition, 15s. ; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM,
by William Crookes. F.R.S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate the reality of some of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Alfred
Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly argument in reply to
Hume’s “ Essay on Miracles.” It also records a large number of interesting
spiritual manifestations, and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr.
Wallace, 6s.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE, by Epes
Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well authenticated spiritual phenomena,
information about the relationship of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is
also given. 7s. 6d.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey. A brilliant,
well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This book consists of essays on
the Social, Moral, and Scientific aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR SPIRITUALISM EX¬
PLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work for inquirers,
giving general information about English professional and non-professional
mediums, also about the periodical and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
WHAT AM I ? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant at Law. An
introduction to Psychology. This book admits the reality of some of the
Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but argues that they are produced by an
alleged Physic Force, unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of
the medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book, which deals
chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev. F. G.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts and Traditions relating
to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions, Wraiths, Warnings and Witchcraft- The
author admits the reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spirit¬
ualism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, previously unpub¬
lished, and prints the only authorised and complete account of the Apparition
seen by one of the ancestors of Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev. William
Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous thinker, and a writer of un¬
questioned ability. Contents; The Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age ;
Science1 and the Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the
Believing Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles and Science;
the Spirit-and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-Supernatural Misunderstandings;
the Last Ecstatic; Matter and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts
on Spiritualism; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and the
Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles and Pneumatoiogy;
the Spirit and the Old Testament; the Old Testament and the New; the
Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit; Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the
Spirit. 12mo. ,600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d. . ,
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN
ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important facts connected
with the early movement in this country with Which the author was identified,
and an account of some of the most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this extra¬
ordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America, employed
clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision, events connected with the early
history of geological specimens; these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and
other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they likewise saw
the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrrounded. The author
also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets, and they
gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of
each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review of
this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt as to the
integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to select
clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the
narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability of
clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever inter¬
planetary communication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers in
man. Three Yols. 24s.: or 8s. per single volume.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the medium-
ship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give life experiences, scenes,
incidents, and conditions illustrative of spirit life. The preface says:—“Experi¬
enced spirits state propositions to man in the flesh as they would state them
to each other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for granted
because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in the light of all the
reason and experience possessed by those who receive their instructions.”
6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes Sargent.
This work, by gn American author of acknowledged ability, gives an account
of the materialisation of Spirits in England and America during the past few
years in the presence of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated
witnesses of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also con¬
tains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology, morals, and religion,
and it is prefaced with a portrait of the materialised spirit Katie King, copied
from a photograph of her taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium
light. 7s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell.) 7s. 6d.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 5, 1875;
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MESMERISM,
ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY.—Continued.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
Established in 1869.
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer.''
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . ... •
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. ,,
The Seer. „ III. „ . .
The Reformer. „ IV. •
The Thinker. „ V. „ . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis .
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . " .
Approaching Crisis, or Truth v. Theology
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People .
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life .....
History and Philosophy of Evil ....
Harbinger of Health , 1
Hafmonial Man, or Thoughts for the Age .
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ...
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . ,
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life, or Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .
Tale of a Physician, or Seeds and Fruits of Crime ’ -
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . , ■ .
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology , . . ' <r.
Morning Lectures • . . . . * ,
s. d.
16 0
1 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
4 0
7 .6
6 0
7 6
2 0
4 0
4 0
7 6
4 0
7 6
3 0
4 0
8 0
6 6
7 6
7 6
6 0
6 0
2 6
3 0
7 6
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTSHalf-a-crown for
the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and sixpence for every ten
words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures count as one word. Displayed
Advertisements Five Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements, because it circu¬
lates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an advertisement
is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn
up when read, but preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper, to he
addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London; and orders intended
for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later than by the first post on the
previous Wednesday morning. All communications for the Literary Department
should he addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by a remittance.
“ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post free, to any address within the
United Kingdom on receipt of the annual subscription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C. City Pub
lishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
TO SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
™ “ The Spiritualist ” may be had by post direct from the branch office, of Mr. J.
Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O., by remitting to him the amount
for the next fitty-two numbers, with postage. To America, Australia, and New
Zealand the postage for each number is one penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two
numbers is 13s., which may be remitted by Post-office Order. The cost of a Post-
office Order for sums less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries
on the globe and London, is one shilling.
In the Press and will be shortly published in one volume, handsomely got
up, and printed on toned paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY OF THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an Angel in the
tenth state.
. Contents.
Chap. 1.—The Unity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
„ 3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences in the
Spiritual world,
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God.
„ 6.—The purpose of God in creation.
„ ' 6.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
„ 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
„ 8.—The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
„ 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
' „ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
,, 11.—The Lost Orb. Parti.
„ 12.—The Angelic Society of Aaron's Rod.
„ 13.—The Lost Orb. Part II.
,, 14:—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ 15.—The Lost Orb. Part III.
„ 16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an account of the
Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby, with her experiences in the
other life, up through the states to the tenth in which she is now in, and
communicates as the Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a full account
concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo printed, of the
Angel, the original of which was produced by the direct operation of
Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subj0’,‘’ treated of being of such a
thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense to make it a handsome
volume, and not being published with any regard to profit, it is hoped that
a large circulation may be obtained.
Price of the volume 6s., and an early application is requested in the mean¬
time, to be addressed—
MR. T. GASKELL, 69, OLDHAM-ROAD, MANCHESTER;
MR. F. PITMAN, PATERNOSTER-ROW, LONDON; AND
MR. W. H. HARRISON, 38, GREAT RUSSELL-ST., LONDON, W.O
who have kindly consented to receive orders for the same.
Mesmerism, electro - biology, fascina¬
tion.
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological phenomena.
How to know Sensitive Subjects,
How to develop Clairvoyant Media.
How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DR. MOSES RIGG can teach any person efficiently by post. Pamphlet
and testimonials gratis, or by post, Id. stamp. Address, 9, Granville-
square, London, W.O. At home daily from 10 till 5.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate description
of manifestations recently produced by spirits, and simultaneously
witnessed by the Author and other observers in London. By William H.
Harrison. Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.C.; and E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, Pater¬
noster-row, E.O.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
J- Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom, and is
the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-speaking countries
throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of readers on the Continent
of Europe,
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more experienced
Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Literature, Art, Science, and
the Peerage. Among those who have published, their names in connection with
their communications in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. Wil¬
liam Crookes, F. R. S., Editor of the ‘ ‘ Quarterly Joumal of Science ” (who admits the
reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time expressed no decided
opinion as to their cause); Mr. AlfredR. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile
de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): The CdUntess of Caithness; the Duke of
Leuchtenberg; Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isham, Bart.;
Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alex¬
andre -Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburg); the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dun-
phy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C.
Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs. Honywood; Mr. Benjamin
Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackbum; Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr.
James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe ; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White
(author of the ‘'Life of Swedenborg ”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; theRev.C. Maurice
Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C. Hall.F.S.A.; Mr. H. D.
Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A.,
LL.M. ; Mr. C. Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley;
Miss Kislingbury,; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D
(Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1875.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont,
Secretary.—Mr. J. Priest.
Treasurer,—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitehman, Messrs. John Priest.
R. Casson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslatn, E. G,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instrnction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTE
FOR the CURE OF NERVOUS AND MUSCULAR
DISEASES, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church, 74, Queen’s-road,
Everton, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Operators sent to all parts. Terms
per arrangement. - J. Coates, Principal.
rpHE ISLINGTON PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTION
X FOR THE CURE OF DISEASES, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. Mrs. Bullock and other healers in attendance daily from 11 a.m.
till 2 p.m., Sundays from 11 a.m. till 1 p.m. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, prin¬
cipals.
EVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.O.
