AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 73.—(Yol. IY.—No. 3.) LONDON: JANUARY 16j 1874. Published Weekly; Price Threepence.
OToments.
Spirit Teachings ... *    ... ‘     25
The Mystery of Edwin Drood   ...    ... ... ... '... -26
A Olairvoyant Physically Blind ' ... ... ... ... ’28
Lavater’s Letters to the Empress Marie of Russia. Letter IY.—On the
. Immortality of the Soul    ; ' 28;
Swedenborgian Views of the Doctrine of Eternal Punishment I   29
'Liverpool Psychological Society,   ... •>.. ... ... 29>
Home Experiences in Spiritualism.—Direct Spirit Writing—Spiritual
Vision—^Extraordinary Manifestations ... ... 30
The Dalston Society ...•    • . 32
Correspondence. — Spirit Lights; Mrs. Woodforde’s, Mediumship ;
Matter and Spirit; A Diplomatic Disclosure,; A Spiritual Impres¬
sion; A Seance at Hackney ...  1 88;
Five Weeks in a Trance ...    ... .L ... ^... ... 34;
Spirit Forms  ... ...     ... ... ... ... ... ... 36:
Paragraphs.— Ecclesiasticism and Spiritualism, 32; Mr. William’s
Seances,|36; Employment for Women in America ... ...    36j
Crown 8vo. pp. 126, Cloth 2s. 6d.
HINTS for the “ EVIDENCES of SPIRITUALISM.”
By M.P.
London: Triibner andCo., 67 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE
EXPLAINED.
THE DEAD? or, SPIRITUALISM
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed,"and the photograph¬
ing of spirits ; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that' Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the;literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland4 & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
Londok : Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Oogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISTS.—Sunday Evening Services are Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o’clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
R. Pearce, Hon. See.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and ’on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist.
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
-Estimates forwarded on application.
M
RS. CORA L. Y. TAPPAN’S SUNDAY EVENING
LECTURES.
Proposed New Course.
Committee:—
J. M. Gully,’Esq ,-M.D.; Chairman.
N. F. Dawe, Esq., Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
J. T. Hoskins," Esq.,'5, Connaught-square, W.
T. H; Noyes, Juh;, ’Esq.,“United University Club,’’ Suffolk-street, Pall-
mall, S.W. | -, ;
Thomas Slater,- Esq.1; 136, Eus ton-road, N. W.
Mrs. Honywood, 52,- War wick-square, S. W-, Treasurer.
Webster Glynes, Esq., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C., Hon. Secretary.
At . an influential’meeting, recently held, tie above mentioned persons
were appointed a working Committee,’with power to add to their number,
for, inaugurating a further course of ,12,;Inspirational Discourses by Mrs.
Tappan, on.Sunday evenings. The first, discourse will take place on
Sunday the 18th at 7 p.m., doors open at 6.-30.
if is estimated that the‘expense’of holding the course would be £156, or
£13 a night.
Of this amount it is expected that £60 Only will be obtainable by means
offcojlections.at the do"ors.
The balance of £96.must therefore be procured from other sources.
The Committee look for liberal donations from the general body of
friends of the movement, and to the proceeds of the sale of a limited
number of tickets for reserved seats, as the means of providing this sum,
and they make an earnest appeal for support.
At present donations have been promised to the extent of £32 14s. and
subscriptions for tickets for the series to the amount of £36 18s., leaving
a balance of £2648s.- still uncovered.
Transferable tickets, to admit one person for the whole series, will be
sold at 12s. and 24s. each. Seats, however, cannot be reserved after the
commencement of the service.
Tickets can be had On application, enclosing Post Office Order, to the
Treasurer, or to the Hon. Secretary, or to Mr. Bums, 15} Southamp ton-
row, WiC., by all of whom donations will also be thankfully received.
THE
LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1873.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Treasurer.—Mr. Joseph Dinsdale. Librarian.—Mr. John Moore.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Wm. Richardson.
Mrs. L. A. Lamont.
Mrs. Eliza Clement.
Mrs. S. A. Spring.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. Ambrose Egerton.
Mr. John Mayle.
Mrs. M. A. Richardson.
Trustees.
- Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr, George Shaw.
Mr. John Lamont.
Auditors.
Mr. Edwin Banks. | Mr. JI. J. Charlton.
Secretaries.
Financial and Recording..... ...Mr. John Chapman, 10, Dunkeld Stree
West Derby Road, Liverpool.
Corresponding... Mr. J. Y. Flannery, Momington Terrace,
Seacombe, near Liverpool.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
In connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
Dalston association of enquirers into
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members
Subscriptions:—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly; 10s. annual
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
THOMAS BLYTON, Secretary and Treasurer
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 16, 1874.
Lately published,
WHAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Mental
Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. I. The MECHANISM of MAN
By EDWABD W. 00X, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s. 6d.
Contents,
chap.
CHAP.
1. Introduction.
2. What am I?
3. The Man.
4. How we Grow.
6. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities^'
.22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Intellectual Faculties.'
25. The Mechanism of the ■ Mind
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind.
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the Will.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
31. Soul—Spirit—Anima.
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. TheNaturalandthe Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of the,Soul.
39. The Condition of thei Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery.
45. Conclusions.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.)
President.—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Council.
Mr. George Blyton, | Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mrs. Amelia Comer,
1
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Wilson.
Mr. E,
Secretary & Treasurer,—Mr. Thomas Blyton,
A DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on hear-
aA ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, and in¬
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might be
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 15th September, 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter careful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modem Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations (vide Rule IX). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordi-
ncM'y seance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month Is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on thejir«< Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Rooms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelope
should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most,useful and charming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Oox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and no
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Herald.
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I ?”—Leicester Mercury
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflective readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
i We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—LiUrary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest.—South Wales Daily Hem.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
London: Longman and Co., Paternoster-row.
In a few days,
The second volume of “ what am i ?”
A Popular Introduction to Psychology and Mental Philosophy. By
EDWARD W. OCX, Sergeant-at-Law. Price 10s. 6d.
This Volume completes the work. It treats of the Mechanism of Man in
action. The following are the
Contents :—
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
ERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
into England the subject' attracted attention in iClerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assocciatiqn.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the xhovement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, Sc. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
CHAP.
Preface.
1. Introductory.
2. OfthelntelligentMotive Forces.
3. The Conditions of Existence.
4. The Mechanism in Health.
5. Of Sleep.
6. Of Dreams.
7. Of some of the Phenomena of
Sleep and Dreams
8. Of Delirium.
9. Of Insanity.
10. Of Natural Somnambulism.
11. Of Artificial Somnambulism. I.
The Condition.
1}. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
II. Clairvoyance.
13. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
III. The Mental Phenomena.
14. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IV. Catalepsy.
15. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
V. Insensibility and Uncon¬
sciousness.
CHAP.
16. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VI. History.
17. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VII. Healing Power.
18. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VIII. Supersensuous Percep¬
tion.
• 19. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IX. Thought Reading.
20. Of Trance.
21. Of Unconscious Cerebration.
22. Of Psychic Force.
23. Of Psychic Force. I. The
Proofs.
24. Of Psychic Force. II. Its Phy-
- i I siology.
26. Of Psychic Force. III. The
Directing Inteligence.
26. Other Psychic Phenomena. I.
Communicated. ■
27. Other Psychic Phenomena. II.
Experiments 
28. The Summing Up
29. The Conclusions.
IpAD, PRICE 8s. 6d.
Go., Paternoster-row.
, VOL. E MAY BE
London: Longman &
mHE PROGRESSIVE SPIRITUALIST AND FREE
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Weekly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman.
Price Threepence. To.be had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM, (established 1870.)
The Council have much pleasure in announcing to the Public that
MBS. CORA L. V. TAPPAN
(Inspirational Spirit Medium)
WILl, DELIVER THE FOURTH ANNUAL PUBLI0 LECTURE
ON SPIRITUALISM,
ON TUESDAY EVENING, 20th JANUARY, 1874,
AT THE LUXEMBOURG HALL.
(Opposite the Dalston Junction Station, North London Railway.)
The chair will be taken by J. O. Luxmoore, Esq.
Doors open at half-past seven o’clock; the Lecture to commence at eight
precisely, previous to which the audience is respectfully requested to be
seated.
ADMISSION.
Reserved Seats .... ...   is.
Body of Hall and Balcony   6d.
Members of the Association   Free.
Tickets can be obtained of Mr. Thomas Wilks, Circulating Library,
Dalston-lane, E.; Mr. Geo. Blyton, 12, Forest-road, Dalston, E.; Mr. Sami.
Gittins, 14, Spurstowe-road, Hackney, E.; Mr. Jos. Stephens, 16, Templar
road, Hackney, E. ;; Mr. Thos. Blyton, 12, High-streeV Bow, E.; at the
Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.; and at the
Doors of the Hall on the evening of the Lecture.
VOLUJVIE FOUR. J\fUJVIBEF^ THREE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 16th, 1874
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTSThree shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words’or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements hive Shillings per inch
Beduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for hinding.
OORRESPONDENOE.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all -communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of u The Spiritualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local neiysvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lahe,
E.U., should always be informed of such impediments and imegulari-
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Bochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 883, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Eichard Boberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTBALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Bussell-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London ublisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by emitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America.
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny:
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 10s., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
NO. T.
A. communication having been given from a spirit who
had previously professed to be Plotinus, it was asTced as
to his life on earth and his philosophy.
I was |ever a foe to matter and to the body. I
never could tolerate the corporeal and the material. So
great was my dislike that I reduced feeding within the
barest limits'. I ever bent my earnest gaze on the
spiritual and eternal. I lived in regular intercourse
with the world of spirits. My taiptuv (Daimon) was
my constant guide and friend. I saw much of what ye
call spirit intercourse, in Egypt, Persia, India, and
Arabia. The Egyptian priests knew much of the ques¬
tion, but I had more powerful guides than any. My
controlling spirit was even then able to present him¬
self to the bye of sense visibly!" When my spirit
passed from the body my friend Porphyry saw a form
glide from under the bed. He described it as a dragon,
not knowing. It was in fact an attendant spirit that
stood near. I
I knew well the reality of spirit converse, and had
friends many, who knew it too. Persian, Egyptian,
Indian, Arabian, who were well versed in astrology,
magic, and the occult arts ; a few too who knew per¬
sonally of spirit intercourse.
Was magic a real art assisted by spirits 1
Yes; sometimes. Magic was an art which depended
greatly on the exercise of the will, and on sleight of
hand. Magicians at times were aided by spirits, and
were sometimes astrologers, but not always. I myself
was, as I say, wholly given to contemplation, and
therein I erred, not knowing that the life of action must
precede the life of contemplation. I speculated much
on the nature of the soul. I fancied that what ye call
soul was but an idea of spirit evolved from that which
is the basis both of being and thinking, i.e., spirit; for
every act of thought produces an idea which I held to
be an actual existence. Matter I believed to be the
TJ1EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science,
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Se cretary.
Temporary Offices—A, Fitzroy-square, W.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy 8vo ,
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel Swedenborg: his life and
WETTINGS. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the
Doctrines, and the other-world Experiences of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborg!a,n Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav¬
ings, by Mr. O.H.Jrbns—I. Jesper Svedberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80.
London; Simpkin, Marshall and Op.
boundary of being, the lowest principle of all. The body
I esteemed a drag and clog. I ate little, and slept
less, and mortified the body, not knowing that so I im¬
paired mental and intellectual power.
* In the Spiritualist of August 15th, an account was printed of some
remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-road, St. John’s-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also the extracts they gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium, free, to a large extent at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently, the “spirit teachings” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many: each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing, peculiar to the communicating intelligence, is always preserved
and the individuality remains throughout the same.—Ed.
26
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Nevertheless by constant fasting and by frequent
meditation I did so place myself in communion with the
spirit world, and with my guardian, that I realised far
more than my contemporaries the reality of spirit
guidance. Powerful spirits surrounded me. More than
once I was blessed with a sight of very high and
exalted intelligences who came to me. I was once
enabled to summon my Daimon (daipuv) in the temple
of Isis, in presence of an Egyptian priest, who was well
versed in the mysteries of spirit communion. He would
fain have terrified me by his occult arts, hut my guides
were more powerful than his, and appeared and claimed
his reverence.
I knew even then the reality of a future existence,
and of a spirit-world. After my release from the body,
which had ever been to me a clog, I presented myself
at times at the Delphic Oracle, and described my abode
in a sphere where friendship and love to the Supreme
were my perpetual joy.
My contempt for the body in one way enabled me to
rise, because I had no bodily longings to get rid of, no
bodily sins to purge away, and my habit of perpetual
meditation on the spirit and the hereafter, and the in¬
struction of my guides, enabled me to realise much that
I afterwards saw and knew. Persian, Indian philo¬
sophies helped me; and I have since helped many who
love philosophy and seek for progress.
Did you soon -find out your mistakes when you passed
from this sphere ?
No. There was no sudden change; the growth of
knowledge, like the springing of the seed, is gradual.
I found out my errors by degrees, and drank in fresh
store of knowledge. I learned by slow degrees to sub¬
stitute true views for my ignorant and blind groping
after the unknown. I learned to know the Deity whom
I had dimly pictured. But the knowledge came slowly,
and is growing yet, and will grow endlessly. No rapid
change, hut steady growth and development.
Was there any absolute cessation of consciousness at
death?
None: only a short sleep. I was conscious of no
cessation of existence. When I awoke in spirit life I
was the same individuality that I was in earth life.
But I had nearly got rid of the body long ago. With
some it is far otherwise.
I should like to hear about the spirit body.
[Writing changes from Plotinus, to that of the spirit
who gave the other teachings.]
The spirit body is the real individual; and though
for a time it is clothed with fluctuating atoms, its
identity is absolutely the same when those atoms are
dispensed with. It is preserved after the death of the
earth body in precisely similar sort as it exists now,
veiled in grosser matter. To us the spirit body is clear
and plain. Our view is not hindered, nor our move¬
ments impeded by matter as it exists on your plane.
What seems to you solid is to us pervious. The atoms
which the spirit-body attracts to itself, and which it
keeps in a state of perpetual change around it, by the
attractive power which is inherent in it, are no real
part of the personality. They are not even permanent
for the time of existence in this sphere; and when they
are replaced by others, no change is perceptible to you.
We see otherwise. To our eyes those atoms, accidents
of earth-existence, are no bar. We see the spirit-
body ; and when the earth atoms are laid aside it is but
the throwing off a veil which has shrouded, but has
not concealed, the real individuality. The magnetic
Jan. 16, 1874.
rapport which unites the spirit body with the earth
body is not severed until death. Then the cord which
unites them is broken, and the spirit body is no longer
able to resume its temporary covering.
Does the spirit body lead a separate eocistence, e.g.,
during the sleep of the body ?
Yes, at times, it may do so. Its existence is in¬
depen dent; but without the earth body it would live
under different conditions. Generally during the sleep
of the body the spirit body rests, but it does not sleep.
This is usually so. But there are seasons when the
balance which exists in a perfectly healthy state is
upset, and interfered with by some cause—by disease,
by anxiety, by overtaxing the intellect or the bodily
powers. In such cases the spirit is disturbed, and
those conditions of restlessness which accompany un¬
refreshing sleep are presented. Where perfect repose
of spirit and body are obtained, then refreshment in
sleep is found.
The confused remembrances of incidents which the
spirit does not fully recollect go to form what ye call
dreams. The spirit cannot recall all that it sees, and
the impressions left on the mind are mixed with the
impressions derived through the bodily senses, and so
make the incoherent dream.
Dreams are sometimes accurate reminiscences of
what has really occurred, and may be prophetic or
warning. Such are sometimes the suggested voice of
the guardian who cannot approach the soul when in
the'body through lack of power. It talks with the
spirit during the sleep of the body, and, by protecting
from intermixture with surrounding bodily impressions,
leaves the remembrance clear upon the mind. In such
cases the spirit can and does faithfully remember; but
usually the recollection is cloudy.
In rare cases the spirit body is endued with separate
vitality for a time. These are cases where the bodily
organisation is peculiarly amenable to spirit control;
when it has been much used by spirits for purposes of
communication, and when the spirit has by long prac¬
tice become passive under guidance. In such cases the
spirit body may be conducted to the spheres, may be
permitted to see somewhat of its future home, and
learn its duties. It may even drink in draughts of the
higher wisdom, and bring them down to earth.
In the unconscious trance the spirit is free, but it is
necessary that it be kept in a perfectly passive state
whilst manifestations are going on.
THE MYSTERY OE EDWIN DROOD.
We here give another extract from the remarkable
narrative published by Mr. J. P. James, of Brattle-
boro, Vt., United States, and stated to have been given
through his. mediumship by the spirit of Charles
Dickens, in completion of The Mystery of Edwin Drood.
It is difficult to suppose that the genius and ability
displayed in these writings, which bear such a strong
resemblance to those of Charles Dickens, should have
induced the author, whoever he may be, to come
before the world as a clever forger. The extract gives
further information about the great egotist, Mr. Sapsea,
auctioneer and valuer:—
Like all other nights, whether pleasant or stormy, this
particular one has given place to its sister day; and,
the storm having subsided, the sun is struggling to
Jan. 16, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
27
show its face through drifting masses of cloud, which
represent the rear-guard of the tempest of the pre¬
ceding night.
The very Honourable Thomas Sapsea’s Mind being
of that stupendous nature which required a vast amount
of rest, when it had any, it naturally followed that Mr.
Sapsea was a very sound sleeper. Such things as
winds, violent storms, or even hurricanes, which ordi¬
nary mortals regard with some apprehension of per¬
sonal danger, did not disturb him in the least, for the
simple reason that, in his opinion, even the Elements
would hardly dare to take liberties with mortals pos¬
sessing the intellect with which he had been gifted.
Hence the great man had slept during this fearful
night, just past, totally unconscious of the warring ele¬
ments, and slept as peacefully as if a breath of air had
not disturbed the leaves upon the trees which shaded
the windows of his sleeping apartment.
His toilet being perfected, he raises a window and
looks out upon the precincts to get a breath of pure air,
and at the same time to discover if there are any evi¬
dences to be seen of the violence of the storm in the
way of demolished chimneys or fences. Thoroughly
convinced of the inability of any storm to do him an
injury, he does not think of such a thing as looking
about his own premises for damage done, but contents
himself by examining those of his neighbours, and then
closes the window to prepare for breakfast. He has
hardly done so, when he hears a knock at his door, and
upon opening it he finds a servant-maid standing before
him, with an air of great concern upon her face, who
tells him he had better come down as soon as ever he
can, for the horrible storm has made dreadful work
with old Mr. Sapsea.
On hearing these words, which were delivered in
a frightened tone and with great rapidity, Mr. Sapsea’s
first thought was that the violence of the wind must
have tom the tenants of the churchyard from their re¬
ceptacles, and that they were lying around in various
parts of the precincts, waiting patiently for their
friends to come and put them back into their former
resting-places. But how could it be possible that the
elements would dare to take liberties with a Sapsea ?
He was positive that a live Sapsea was secure from such
liberties, and he had always believed that a dead Sapsea
would be just as sacred and secure. He could not
believe it; there must be some mistake! He did not
doubt that other departed ones had been thus dealt
with, but a Sapsea—never !
“ How do you know, girl, that my father is in the
condition you speak of?” he inquires of the servant,
who is still standing on tKe threshold.
“ Because, sir,” is the earnest reply, “ I have see’d
him, sir! His head is clean gone; likewise one arm,
sir.”
“ Great God!” exclaims Sapsea, “ you don’t mean to
tell me his head is not with the rest of his body ?” and
the great man lifts his hands in very horror.
“ But I just do, sir,” replies the servant; “ least¬
wise it’s not gone, for some one has picked it up, and
put that and the arm on the top step for safety ; but
you’d best come and see for yourself, sir.”
Ordinary minds would never have possessed a doubt
that the news he had heard bore reference to the re¬
mains of that elder Sapsea, who had lain peacefully in
the churchyard so many years ; but the great mind,
after the first shock was over, happened to think it
barely possible that the damage in question might have
occurred to the effigy of the old gentleman at the street
door, and Mr. Sapsea asks for information on that
point.
“ Bless you, sir ! you didn’t never think I meant the
ual old Mr. Sapsea, did you ?” asked the girl, laughing
at the absurdity of his mistake.
“ No • levity, miss!” ejaculates Sapsea in a stern
manner, “ you should have been more explicit in your
statement. I understand now that you have reference
to the statue of my father, and not to his flesh and
bones. It seems hardly probable that even such a
thing as this could have occurred, when I have always
said that nothing could ever possibly happen to it. This
is a grave matter. I will be down in a few moments,
and learn from observation the extent of this calamity.”
It struck the maid that Mr. Sapsea’s misunderstand¬
ing in the first instance was truly a grave matter, but
she did not dare to tell him so, and hastened below,
leaving him to follow as soon as he pleased.
The great man had said “ calamity” very much the
same as he would have said “ insult,” and regarded it
as an insult on the part of the elements thus to take
liberty with anything bearing the semblance of a
Sapsea.
He descends to his street door with slow and mea¬
sured steps, and his face wears such an air of stern
pomposity that one would be disposed to think the
identical gust of wind that had done the mischief was
still remaining at the door in a defiant attitude, and
that Mr. Sapsea was going down to order it from the
premises; or, failing that, to annihilate it on the spot.
He opens the door, and there, sure enough, he sees the
body and legs of the dead and gone auctioneer’s counter¬
part, the toga well preserved; but the head, on which
rested the curly wig, lies at the feet of his son, face
down, as though ashamed to be caught in such a pre¬
dicament.
Mr. Thomas Sapsea is not prepared, even now, to
believe such a thing possible. He re-enters the house,
closes the door so as to shut the scene from his sight,
and proceeds to pinch his arms and slap his hands to¬
gether, to be sure that he is not the victim of some
hallucination; then opens the door, and finds himself
again contemplating the humiliating scene.
Mr. Sapsea has become so engrossed with the havoc
made with his street-door ornament, that he does not
observe a second person who comes upon him at this
juncture, and who cries in a loud tone :—
“ What’s been a goin’ on here ?”
On hearing the voice, Sapsea turns and beholds
Durdles looking very much astonished, and waiting for
an answer. The stone-mason, never proverbial for
cleanliness, is uncommonly dirty this morning, and with
his hammer in his hand, looks as if he had recently
been engaged with some labour pertaining to his pro¬
fession.
The great man folds his arms across his stomach, as
though to prevent himself from bursting, and in a
dignified manner asks the stone-mason what he thinks
of that, pointing to the dismembered effigy.
“ Think ?” is Hurdles’ answer, “ that it’s d—d lucky
for the old man as this ere thing ain’t really him.”
“ It’s something I can hardly realise,” continues
Sapsea, in a mournful tone. “ I do not remember any¬
thing like it before.”
“ Thank your old shoes it ain’t you !” is the con¬
soling rejoinder of Hurdles., “That ’ere ’ead can be
put on again with a little trouble, and it’s all right.
28
THE SPIKITTJALIST.
Jan. 16, 1874.
Yourn couldn’t be put on so easy; or if it was, it
wouldn’t do you no good. Durdles has come to tell
you as the storm did more damage nor that last night.
Perhaps you’ve heefd all about it, though?’,’
I 1 don’t think I have,” says Sapsea; “ what is it,
man? Speak out.”
. “ That there moniment o’yourn had a smash-up or
a smash-down last night, and lays on the sod, there in
the churchyard, with two or three more, lookin’ like, so
many stiff ’uns as has taken a houtside passage.” He
tosses his hammer into the air and catches it so neatly
as it descends, and tells what he has just said so very
coolly, and with so little concern, that Sapsea believes
the man must be joking him. He stares at Durdles for
several moments, and, finding him to be apparently in
earnest, inquires if this is a fact, or intended as a joke.
“ Did you ever catch Durdles a-jokin’ ?,’’ returns the
stonemason,indignantly. “No, sir! his bus’ness hain’t
one as admits of jokes., When Durdles toils you a
thing is so, it’s so / Come and satisfy yourself, if you
can’t believe me”—and they proceed to the churchyard,
Durdles taking the lead and Sapsea following after.
A CLAIRYOYANT PHYSICALLY BLIND.
A letter by Mr. Henry T. Child, M.D., of Phila¬
delphia, printed a few weeks ago in The Banner of
Light, says of Samuel H. Paist, the blind medium of
Philadelphia:—“ Our young friend passed on to the
higher life from Yineland, N. J., on the 1st day of
December, in the thirty-seventh year of his age.. His
life has been a very peculiar one. "When about two
weeks old, he lost the sight of both of his eyes. He
received an education in “ The Pennsylvania Institution
for the Blind.” When about eighteen years of age,
the subject of Spiritualism claimed the attention of
some of his friends, and he became interested in it, and
soon discovered that he had medial powers; and the
spirits promised him, through his own organisation,
that in a short time they would open his vision so that
he should become clairvoyant, and this was realised in
a most wonderful manner. Pew-, if any, have ex¬
ceeded him in this beautiful faculty of soul-vision, so
far as external things were concerned. He walked
our thronged streets, drove horses, and travelled ex¬
tensively over the country. Such were the promptness
and certainty of his movements, that many persons
would not believe he was blind until they examined his
eyes, which were covered with a thick, white film. His
medial powers were excellent, and he has given thou¬
sands of tests of spirit presence and identity. It was
through him that the writer received the first narrative
of Dr. Abraham Ackley, of Cleveland, Ohio, two thou¬
sand copies of which have been circulated over the
country. The end of his checquered life came upon us
unexpectedly. He has been a great sufferer; but now
all his infirmities of body, hereditary or acquired, are
past, and we believe he has found kind and congenial
companions who will lead him onward and upward;
and while we drop a tear to his memory, we bid him
God speed in his new home.”
The importance of the above statement is very great,
since it opens the question of the desirability of mes¬
merising persons who are permanently blind, for the
purpose of developing clairvoyance in those who possess
the undeveloped gift.. Books on mesmerism state that
blind persons are more or less susceptible to mesmerism,
just the same.as other people. Our readers should
draw the attention of those who have blind persons
under their care, to the desirability of giving mesmerism
an extended experimental trial.
LAYATER’S letters to the empress marie
OF RUSSIA.
LETTER IV.—■ON THE IMMORTALITY OE THE SOUL.
In my previous letter, much venerated Empress, I
promised to send you a. communication from one who
had passed away, to his friend on earth; it will enable
you more thoroughly to comprehend my ideas on the
state of a Christian after the death of the body. I
take the liberty, therefore, to enclose it. Examine it
in the light that I have indicated, and give your at¬
tention rather to the principle than to the surrounding
details, although I have reason to suppose that the
latter also contain a germ of truth. In order that you
may clearly understand that which I am going to lay
before you, I think it is necessary to remark that I
feel almost certain that, in spite of the existence of a
general and immutable law of punishment or supreme
happiness, every spirit according to his individual
character, not only moral and religious, but even
personal and official, will have certain sufferings to
endure after his earthly demise, and will enjoy certain
bHss suited to himself alone. The general law will
be individualised for each particular person—that is to
say, it will produce in each a different personal effect
just as the same ray of light passing through a coloured
convex or concave glass derives a different effect and
colour.. I wish, then, that it could be positively believed
that, although all spirits, either happy, less happy, or
suffering, are subject to the same simple law of union
or disunion with perfect love, it must be presumed that
the individual character of every spirit will constitute
for it a state of suffering or of happiness essentially
different from that of any other spirit. Each one
suffers in a different manner from another, and feels
happiness that another would be incapable of feeling.
To both the material and the immaterial world, God and
Christ are presented under a different form, which
exists for each alone. In the eyes of each he belongs
to Him alone. To each spirit God speaks in a language
comprehensible to Him only. He communicates with
each individually, and grants him /oys which he alone
is in a state to enjoy, capable of feeling.. This idea,
which I consider a truth, will serve as a basis for all
the following communications given by disembodied
spirits to their friends on earth. I should be happy to
feel that you had understood how every one, by form¬
ing his individual character, and seeking after perfec¬
tion, may prepare for himself infinite happiness, and a
felicity appropriate to himself alone. Nothing is so
easily forgotten, or so little sought after by men as this
individual happiness, although every one possesses the
capability of procuring and enjoying it. I therefore
take the liberty, wise and respected Empress, of en¬
treating you to analyse, with all attention, this idea,
which you cannot look upon as useless, for your own
edification and elevation to God: “ God has placed
Himself and the universe in the hearts of all men.”
Every man may be looked upon as a mirror reflecting
the universe and His Creator. Let us, then, make
every effort to keep this mirror as bright as possible, in
order that God may see Himself and all His wondrously
beautiful creation reflected in it even as he would
wish.
Jan. 16, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
29
SWEDENBORGIAN VIEWS OF THE DOCTRINE OF
ETERNAL PUNISHMENT.
Thebe is a schism among American Swedenborgians
on the subject of eternal punishment, and the Rev. W.
M. Fearnald has published the following views, as
reported in the New Church Independent:—
“And now in reference to this idea of eternal selfish¬
ness, and disobedience from such a motive, let us ask
again: What is the highest ideal of God, and how is God
situated and conditioned in this matter ? God is all in
all—is in the inmost of every human soul in his purity
and sweetness; and that is the nature which must be
ultimated. Otherwise, the Divinity is closed up in hell
to eternity. The idea is repulsive and horrible. Ac¬
cording to Swedenborg, and according to all true
theology, the inmost of every human being, and the
inmost of every devil in hell, is nothing less than the
divine nature. ‘ The internal man is of the Lord and
is the Lord.’ (A.C. 1594.) It is this which enables
any of us to live. This inmost divine is never conscious
in man; his consciousness is confined to the human
degrees; but it is the divinity within which gives life
and quality to all the human, and without which man
is not man. The animals have not this inmost degree.
: “ Now consider, if this is not ultimated in anything
but filth and corruption, which is no ultimatum at all,
or if it only comes finally to a good devil—to a respect¬
able gentleman—to states of polished and refined selfish¬
ness, what an absurdity are we here presented with!
God is closed up in hell to all eternity, desiring and
willing, but never being able to effect, the deliverance
and salvation of the creature! No, this is not the
highest ideal of God. This last idea is only the resort
of some Swedenborgians, who must have an eternal hell
of some kind, to save, as they think, Swedenborg’s con¬
sistency, and so they have resorted to this most lame
and impotent conclusion. Think of it! An eternal
world of polished and refined selfishness; eternal societies
of gentlemanly, accomplished, and obedient devils, as a
finality in the divine government! The best result of
the creative power ! The last triumph of the Divine
Providence, running co-eternal with the existence of
God! It is monstrous. It is sheer folly. It is
shocking to all reverence and all faith. There is
nothing in the Deity that sustains it for a moment.
And we take the position boldly and decidedly, that
whatever there is in God must eventually be ultimated
in all men in its finite degree. Now, is there anything
in God that corresponds to this eternal selfishness ?
There is that, be it observed, which corresponds to
different degress of genuine goodness, making different
grades of angels necessary; but what is there that cor¬
responds to this eternal selfishness ? Make it ever so
good, ever so harmless, is it Godlike ?—is it the highest
divine ^will ?—is it the heaven to which He wills all His
human creatures, and, according to Swedenborg, to
which He predestinates all ? No, no ! only angelhood
oan answer to that; and as sure as God exists, all souls
shall become angels at last, for Christ shall see of the
travail of His soul and be satisfied.
“We would remark here also, that those who take this
view of the eternal iihprovement and exaltation of the
hells, still preserving their distinct existence as hells in
opposition to the heavens, find no evidence of it in the
•writings of Swedenborg. It is not progression which
he speaks of for the confirmed wicked. They go down¬
ward instead of upward, although there is a general
law recognised of non-increase in wickedness, and every
evil is said to have its limits. Wickedness, it would
seem, cannot increase in the spiritual world beyond a
limit, but it may, after that, tend to less and less.
Accordingly he saw multitudes of spirits, he says, of
various characters, reduced almost to the state of death,
sitting like dead stocks, with scarcely any life left,
having been in that way for two thousand years.
Surely this does not look much like progression; and
so there have been those in the £ New Church,’ who
from these representations have proclaimed openly that
the wicked would run lower and lower, and increase in
wickedness to all eternity. But that cannot be; rather
when the end of this inverse movement is attained then
there is progression; then the remains of goodness and
truth begin to operate, and operate successfully. Any
other theory surely does not comport with the highest
reason.”
LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
The third annual report of the Psychological Society
of Liverpool, was issued last Friday. It begins by
congratulating the members on the bright prospects of
the society, and the rapid progress of Spiritualism in
Liverpool. It states that the services, especially those
held on Sunday, have been the means, more than any¬
thing else, of enlightening the public mind upon the
teachings and philosophy of Spiritualism. The Sunday
meetings, it says, have been addressed by normal
and abnormal speakers; but the great majority have
been trance speakers, Mr. J. J. Morse, of London,
having during the past year given fifty-four lectures in
the trance state, and held sixteen seances under the
auspices of the Society. Since his first visit to Liver¬
pool he has given 105 addresses in that town.
The report further says of the National Conference
held in Liverpool on the 5th, 6th, and 7th of August,
1873, that the Council of the Society looks forward to
the time when the measures which were then so well
and carefully considered and unanimously approved and
adopted, will be put in force, 'to introduce order into
Spiritualism, and it adds : “ We are gratified to know
that Mr. Everitt, the President of the Conference, and
the then appointed Council, have inaugurated a central
committee in London to carry out what your Conference
decided upon, and that committee is, we learn, in a fair
way of bringing about a successful issue. . , , The
Society cannot say much of the progress of the
physical or phenomenal part of Spiritualism during the
past year; still, a few circles have been formed to
develope the useful phase of physical mediumship, and
some of the circles have been so far successful as to
have obtained spirit lights, the direct voice, and the
carrying of articles through the air. There are under
our notice twelve circles, more or less of this class, in
the town, and the records of their sittings have been
often read at our meetings. These circles have been
mainly established by our members.”
The report, which would have been of more histori¬
cal value had it been a little more statistical, is signed
on behalf of the managers by Mr; John Chapman, the
honorary secretary.
A gehtlematt has written to us, volunteering to form one
of a committee for the detection of the persons who stood as
sham ghosts in the early Holloway photographs. Three or
four others, spiritualist photographers, should join him. There
will be no difficulty in exposing several of the persons..
30
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 16, 1874.
HOME EXPERIENCES IN SPIRITUALISM.
No. II.
BY FBEDERIKA. SHOWERS.
Soon after Peter had announced himself, the rapping
sounds increased in violence, being no longer confined to our
evening seances in the drawing-room, but diffused all over the
house. Polkas, waltzes, sometimes whole pieces of music—
such as the overture to Zampa—were, at short intervals,
drummed out almost throughout the day, on the stairs, panels
of doors, and occasionally overhead, in such excellent time,
that the airs were perfectly distinguishable. From the first
there was evinced a marked and unmistakeable predilection
for music. Once or twice, when we were sitting together,
I was startled by a sort of gurgling sound proceeding from my
daughter’s throat, and occasionally a few bars were sung in
what struck me as being a powerful masculine voice. The
effect was most unpleasant, and used to fill me with fear, par¬
ticularly as Miss Showers was not conscious of it, and declared
she could not hear the voice. Frequently both mediums
alleged that they saw large evil-looking eyes approaching and
then receding from them, as well as a luminous hand on the
table engaged in writing out the messages that were being
delivered afl day.
DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING.
When letter-paper was no longer procurable, these messages
were scribbled on tables, book-cases, and on the sideboard,
with lead-pencils, and we have not yet been able thoroughly
to eradicate the marks from the furniture. We were desired
on one occasion to remove the piano and look under it, and on
doing so found two long letters addressed, one to Miss
Showers, and the other to Ellen, purporting to be written by
John King and Peter. It was intimated that my daughter’s
wishes were not to be thwarted in any way, as she was a most
powerful medium, and the spirits would be revenged on any
person who annoyed her. She was also to be called “ Rosy,”
that being a more favourite name with her. Altogether, the
letter struck me as being an absurd piece of bombastic
nonsense. The concluding words were, “ I have written this
through dear Rosy,” which mode of ending these communica¬
tions became habitual, and was never deviated from subse¬
quently. The rapping and writing grew gradually so intoler¬
able, that almost all the domestic work of the house was
suspended for three weeks. We took our meals when and
how we could, everything like domestic comfort seemed at an
end. Letters addressed to me were found in the most extra¬
ordinary places, and daily pinned to my daughter’s hair, and
sleeves, and dress. She was never aware of having written
one, and used to walk in the garden quite unconscious of the
decorations borne about by her, till the fluttering of the
paper in the wind, and the sheets were often two feet long—
packing-paper being used when no other could be found,—or
some other circumstance brought them to our notice.
SPIRITUAL VISION.
I must not omit to mention the apparition of Peter about
four weeks after that of John King. He was seen near the
same sofa, and described as a young and goodlooking man, of
dark complexion, with an expression so comic, that Mary
became almost hysterical with laughter, and Ellen had to run
out of the room to indulge the merriment she could not
suppress.
A few evenings later, the veiled form of a woman was seen
to glide several times towards, and then recede from the table
where we were sitting. Every movement was described simul¬
taneously, and watched with breathless interest by both girls.
The effect on my daughter was very unpleasant. “ I don’t
mind John King and Peter,” she remarked, “ but this woman
is so ghostly and unearthly, that she frightens me.” A sort
of shudder passed through her, and she complained of a heavy
weight on the brain, and an inability to put her feet to the
floor. We both led her from the room, and her eyes retained
a strange and stony look, till she fell asleep. The form
seemed ultimately to sink through the ground. We knew
nothing of the trance at the time, and were at a loss to
account for the indisposition of Miss Showers, but Peter has
since told us that it was occasioned by the attempt of a spirit
to entrance her prematurely.
EXTRAORDINARY MANIFESTATIONS.
My own experience has taught me that a good medium goes
through successive and progressive stages of development,
none of which can be anticipated without very injurious
consequences. In one case Peter took the guardianship of the
mediums entirely, and I can give no adequate idea of the care
and solicitude that were evinced . all through. The most
tender parent could not have been more watchful over a
child ; of course I am alluding only to affairs connected with
Spiritualism, a matter through which we had literally to grope
our way, under his guidance. Most unfortunately at the time
we had not the most distant acquaintance with any person
possessing the slightest knowledge of the subject. By alter¬
nate threats and entreaties, expressed at first in writing, and
later in speech, he got me to yield to his wishes in every
respect. The mediums were to bathe daily in the sea, take
exercise in the open air for several hours, and eat only a very
limited quantity of food, with an entire abstinence from pastry
and sweets of every description. The most absurdly direful
consequences were threatened if these injunctions were disre¬
garded.* We were told that for a week their food would not
exceed two ounces daily. No notice was taken at the time,
but the next day, and for six days subsequently, I doubt
whether they were able even to swallow as much. It began
to strike me now that some sort of mesmeric influence was
exercised, but who was the mesmeriser?
The young gentleman, whose name I am not at liberty to
mention, but whom I have designated as Mr. H , called
one evening to bid us farewell, preparatory to sailing for Aus¬
tralia. It had been intimated to us by Peter that he was
strongly mediumistic (a term which I by no means clearly
comprehended then), and that if we wished to see some
“ stunning manifestations,” we were to invite him. Owing to
his being almost an entire stranger, no attention was paid to
Peter’s suggestion, and we were somewhat surprised, therefore,
to hear him announced. It was a delightfully warm evening,
late in the spring, and a light gentle rain fell at intervals,
alternating with bright flashes of sunshine, which brought out
a charming intermixture of colours and shadows, and gave
the trees and neighbouring fields the appearance of being
illuminated. It was one of the most memorable days of my
life, and no circumstance connected with it, however trivial,
can ever be effaced from my mind.
After the first few words had been exchanged, my visitor
suddenly exclaimed, “ Oh i just look at this table.” It was a
large, heavy, mahogany dining-table, and was gliding over to
the opposite end of the room. I had been too long accustomed
now to startling manifestations of this nature to pay much
attention to his remark, and merely made some casual obser¬
vation, implying a hope that he had not got wet coming up
that long and tedious hill. “ My feet are very wet,” he re¬
plied, “mightI dry them at the kitchen fire?’’ He walked
towards the kitchen, which was some distance off, on the same
floor, and had hardly been absent two minutes when I heard
a loud crash. Thinking some accident had occurred, for he
was a mere boy, and seemed rather giddy, I went in hurriedly
to enquire what had happened, and found him standing near
the fire-place, looking with astonishment at a very large sauce¬
pan which was lying on the floor, with all its contents scattered
about. “ I fear you will hardly believe it,” he said, “ but I
assure you that saucepan jumped off the oven the moment I
put my foot up near the grate.’’ While we were laughing at
the picture he presented, standing in almost a pool of soup,
which, luckily, was not boiling at the time, the bells on the
wall behind me rung a joyous peal; and, turning round, I
saw two large dish-covers suspended several feet above our
heads, on the bell wire. This was not a very unusual sight, for
something of a similar nature had been happening every day
during the previous fortnight. But I thought we had better
leave the kitchen, and was telling Mr. H. so, when the dish
covers fell, breaking nearly all the glass and china which
stood on a table below. On re-entering the dining-room, I sat
down, and Mr. H. tried to do the same, but three times the
* I went into Miss Shower’s room one morning early, while she was yet
in bed, and told her that she could not bathe that day, as the tide would not
serve in the morning, and that I objected to her remaining away constantly
from school in compliance with the absurd injunctions of Peter. I spoke
irritably, for Spiritualism was not turning out the thing that I expected;
and sometimes, when dissatisfied and puzzled, I used to speak hastily to
the mediums. On turning to leave the room, there were several tremendous
raps on the wall, but I would hear nothing, and walked resolutely down
stairs. My daughter, however, began to call out the alphabet, and intimated
to me that I was to look under the drawing-room fender, where I should
find a communication from Peter. I did sof and found a pamphlet of Mr.
William Howitt’s, on the first page of which was the following, written in
a bold, masculine hand:—
“How dare you prevent either of my mediums from bathing ? 1 will take the
whole of Levey's (Ellen's) power away, and she is not over strong as it is, being
consumptive, if you do not allow her to bathe this very morning. Will you dare
to oppose me about Exeter t Well, you shall see the result. Never fear—if 1 cast
be kind, I can be harsh also, and that you will soon see, if you do not obey my
instructions. Now, repent while there is time, for toon it will be too late,—
PETER.—I have written this through dear Rosina—poor child!"
Jan. 16, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
31
chair glided away as he attempted to draw near it, throwing
him heavily on the floor. It was yen far from the hour of sun¬
set, and at times there was too much light in the rooms
to be quite agreeable; so that, whatever be the objections
urged against the value of my testimony, it cannot be
asserted that my sense of vision was in any way disqualified
for judging correctly. As soon as Mr. H had succeeded
in securing a seat, an embroidered cushion seemed to fly from
a sofa several feet off, and fall on the table, after first striking
against his head. The chairs and tables commenced gliding
about in such an extraordinary way that, apprehensive of
injury to the furniture, I proposed our standing in the passage,
which was rather a wide one. There was an incessant rap¬
ping in all directions, and polkas and snatches of overtures
were (apparently) drummed over head. The only people on
the premises were Miss Showers, Ellen, Mr. H ,• and
myself. Ellen was called and sat on one of the stairs, my
daughter sitting and occasionally standing on a step a little
above. I was at the drawing-room door, and Mr. leant
against the wall with a stick in his hand. We were all in full
view of each other. Dishcovers, pots of jam, a roll of lard,
egg cups, wine glasses, and other articles too numerous to
mention, were now flung out of the kitchen and larder (the
door of the latter having been left closed, but not locked), and
came round a wall, across the passage, rolling and sometimes
flying past me to the opposite end of the drawing-room.
Though the glasses and china were necessarily fragile, nothing
was either broken or injured. Umbrellas from the outer hall,
at the opposite end, were thrown overhead, falling on the
upper landing, and a large flower-pot was brought in from the
glass-house. Suddenly a startling sound, like a prolonged
howl, rose over our heads, and echoed through the house. I
was in a very nervous state in those days, occasioned both by
the nerve exciting demonstrations of Spiritualism, and by a
trembling hope that I would sooner or later receive a com¬
munication from the dear son who was ever in my thoughts.
It seemed to me now that the grave was indeed giving up its
dead; and rushing forward to Mr. H , I caught his arm
and tried to lead him out of the house. “ Oh, pray let me re¬
main 1” he urged. “ It is my last evening, and I shall never see
or hear anything like this again.” “ What do you think of
Spiritualism now ?” I asked. There was no time for a reply.
High up near the ceiling fluttered a paper. It seemed glued
to the wall. Mr. H tore it down with his stick, and read,
“ Go on or incur my displeasure. Death, death, death, to the
unbelievers.” Underneath there was the outline of a skeleton
head. “ We will not go on unless they are less violent,” was
my remark; “ I am getting ill through these rough manifesta¬
tions on the part of Peter.” We were re-entering the draw¬
ing-room as I uttered these words. There was a quick
postman’s knock. I saw a pencil fall, and under it lay a
small piece of paper, on which was inscribed the following
verse:—
“ Gentle spring and fragrant flowers
While away the balmy hours,
Thus will I like zephyr be,
Oyer land and over sea.’’
“ Is that Peter now?” I asked. A similar knock on the
bookcase, and on a mere scrap torn from some letter we read—
“ Not like Peter is this child,
Not so wicked, not so wild.
I live in heaven, not in hell,
There shall I for ever dwell.”
“ Oh, we are getting poetry now; there is a decided
improvement,” remarked Mr. H. “ Shall we call out the
alphabet, and ask what had better be done ? ” We agreed,
and it was intimated, by raps, that I should ask questions
from the adjoining room, the door of which was to be left
partially open, and that a candle should be placed on the
table, round which the three others were to sit, and engage in
conversation.
“ Have you ever been a mortal being like ourselves ?” was
the question put.
“ I have passed to Jordan’s tide •
I have lived, and I have died.”
u Are we doing wrong in seeking for manifestations of this
nature ?”
“ Don’t continue over long,
Else you’ll do a mighty wrong.
Stop, and seek not to disclose
The secrets of the grave’s repose.”
* ‘ To whom shall I do a wrong ? Can it affect the peace of
the dead, or injure the health of my daughter ?”
“ Not to the living, not the dead,
But to the mighty Triune head,
To God as One as well as Three.
No mortal can it harm. The sea
Laps not more gently s’ony rocks,
Than your loved daughter feels these shocks.”
“ To try for these manifestations must be sinful then ?”
“ Grand manifestations are quite right
And lawful in God’s holy sight,
But go no further, else you’ll rue—
These things are not disclosed to you.”
“ But some assert that they have come into communication
with their dead ?”
“ Those who profess to see beyond,
Through death’s dark, gloomy, awful bond,
Are false.”
“ Which religion is the true one ?”
“ True believers in any faith
Are saved.
Thus the great God saith.”
” Is it true that there are both good and evil spirits ?”
*■ Spirits there are of different grades,
In heaven and hell’s mysterious shades;
Some are false and some are true,
Seek not again to gain a view.
Some have power, though small, 'tis true,
I have none.
There, that’s all I’ll write to-night. John Kino.”
“ Oh, pray write something more. Are you a friendly
spirit ?”
“We are kind and will not harm,
So feel secure from all alarm.
Ada Evangeline. JOHN King.”
“ I’m a scaramouch, and no friend.
I’ll do you harm until the end.
“ We’ll protect you,
Nrsvfia feak. Ada.
“ Here Mr. H  asked permission to
mentally.”
“ Go on, go on, while there is time,
Seek not to loiter, rise and climb.
Of tinkling bells, beware the air,
My force is here and everywhere.”
“ True hearts are linked in iron chains,
They know no sorrow, know no pains;
Then seek not to distract their course,
For else than this there’s nothing worse.”
“Whyam I not a medium 7” I asked.
if Some are mediums, some of course
Disturb, and some obstruct the force.”
Here I very foolishly observed, “ Oh, pray say that in prose,
the poetry is not good.” The remark was caused solely by
eagerness and anxiety for information, not with any view to
give offence, but was, unfortunately, otherwise interpreted.
The next writing we got, was the following message to me—
“ How dare you judge our poetry ? No more pearls shall you
have—no more poetry. Never more. Farewell. Ada Evan¬
geline. John King.—We will vouchsafe you protection and
manifestations, but no more poetry. Never again. Ada.
John.”
They have kept their word. Never since that evening<has
John King given any manifestation at our seances. I hardly
realised the extent of the threatened deprivation at the time,
but have thought of it regretfully since, when I have had to
content myself in all moods with the witty repartee and
lively manifestations of Peter. After I had thus unfortu¬
nately disturbed the harmony of the evening, Mr. H— said he
would blow out the candle, and try to get some more of the
physical manifestations, if nothing else were to be obtained,
and he had hardly done so, when the most astounding noises
ensued. Chairs, ottomans, cushions, and books were flung
about the room, and occasionally thrown on the table ; several
notes of the piano were struck; and again there arose the
same incoherent sound of voices in the air. I was endeavour¬
ing to make my escape from , the room as usual, when an ex¬
clamation from Mr. H— arrested me. “ Oh, look, Mrs.
Showers,” he cried, “ there is a man on the sofa; see, he is
rising, he is becoming luminous—he wears a white head-dress.
Pray don’t go away—it is such a beautiful benignant counten¬
ance. I am sure he would not hurt you. Don’t you see him,
Miss Showers?” “Oh, yes,” was my daughter’s rejoinder,
“ we have seen him before. It is John King.” “ Ah ! now,
there is another man,” continued Mr. H—, starting up
excitedly. “ He wears a peculiar hat, turned up at the
sides, and a short shooting coat—he has a long silky
moustache—but I don’t like the expression of his
eyes—he is leering.” “ It is Peter, it is Peter,” cried Miss
Peter.”
John.”
put a question
32
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 16, 1874.
Showers. “ How handsome he is ! I like him far the better
of the two. Never mind John King’s taking offence—we
would much rather have you, Peter.” This was, at the time,
nothing more than a young girl’s thoughtless remark, but
I have often imagined since that the choice between the two
was really at that moment designedly offered to her.
Whether her selection had anything to do with the matter or
not, it is an undoubted fact, that Peter has seldom left us
since. He has become actually a dearly valued member of
our small domestic circle. By Sbme of my own relatives, he is
looked on as a familiar friend, and though they hardly believe
in his distinct individuality, they cannot help admitting that
the witty and amusing observations attributed to him, and the
unvarying cheerfulness manifested by the medium act, in
moments of gloom and despondency, quite like a cordial. For
my own part, I frankly admit, at the risk of being thought a
fool, that existence would hardly be endurable now without
Peter. His presence is as real as that of any other person
about me.
As Mr. H. was bidding us farewell, we rose, also, with the
intention of accompanying him to the door, and our chairs,
with several other articles in the room, were immediately
overturned. We went towards the hall-door, and on the
ceiling and surrounding walls a loud, incessant, joyous rapping
was kept up, till our visitor walked across the path to the
wicket; there the same sounds occurred. He disappeared
finally from view, and we took up our candles to go to bed ;
but my daughter and Ellen had to return more than half-a-
dozen times to relight theirs, which were blown out invariably
on the same spot on the upper floor.
Ten days, 1 think, had elapsed since the remarkable seance
just recorded, when, on leaving the dining-room, after lun¬
cheon, my attention was arrested by hearing what appeared to
me a man’s voice, singing in accompaniment to my daughter,
who had just sat down to the piano. After a few bars had
been sung, a delicate, female voice took up the melody. “ Oh,
mama, come and listen to this,” cried Mary ; and I had just
taken two or three steps towards the drawing-room, when—
“ Keep off, or you will injure the medium,” was shouted out
in tones that literally seemed to arrest the beating of my
heart. “ Stand in the hall,” continued the voice, “ and we
will sing to you ; but do not come here, or even attempt to
look, or it may cost- your child her life.” “ What is this 1
who are you ? ” I asked, in utter amazement. | Peter and
Florence,” was the rejoinder. “There is something about
you, Mrs. Showers, that is opposed to these manifestations,
and you must not come into the room ; not at least, while it
is light.” Ellen had overheard this conversation, and came
running in to inquire what was the matter. Before I had
time to tell her, the singing recommenced, and to my inexpres¬
sible astonishment, a man’s voice chimed in behind me, from
the spot where Ellen was standing. Impelled, apparently, by
some irresistible attraction, this girl walked slowly forwards
towards the spot where Miss Showers was sitting, a male and
female voice singing alternately in harmony with the voices
of Peter and Florence, as she went. For many months now
Ellen had been in my service. In a lonely, isolated house like
ours, there was every opportunity for observing her, but never
had she evinced in any way a partiality for music ; and yet,
for more than an hour on this afternoon, several melodies
were charmingly sung, each part being admirably modulated
and in exquisite tone.
It would have been utterly impossible, without long and
careful study, to have taken up the respective parts in such
perfect time and harmony. A very eminent professor of
music (who has instructed a member of the royal family), re¬
marked, when listening to the singing some weeks subse¬
quently, “ Ah, they must have practised well before they were
able to sing in unison in that manner.” He was, of course,
utterly sceptical on, the points connected with Spiritualism,
and has remained so to this day; but I am the best judge of
what happened in my own house, and I know that not only
was there no practising, but that each of these “ quartettes,”
as J may call them, was always sung with more spirit and
expression the first time of trying it, than on repetition, Peter
invariably leading off the air, and taking the entire manage¬
ment of his invisible choir.
Mbs. Tappait is about to begin a new series of Sunday
meetings, as stated in our advertising columns. The place of
meeting next Sunday will be announced in to-morrow’s daily
papers, and in the Observer of Sunday,
. THE DALSTON SOCIETY.
The seventh half-yearly general meeting of the members
of the Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism was
held on Monday evening last, the 12th inst., at their rooms,
74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London. In the absence of the
president elect, Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, the chair was taken by
Mr. Thos. Wilks.
The minutes of the last half-yearly general meeting were
read and confirmed, and the notice convening the meeting
was read. The report of the council, and balance sheet for
the half-year ending the 31st December, 1873, were brought
up and read by Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen, and unanimously
adopted. The accounts, audited by Messrs. A. M. Greene
and G. ft. Tapp, showed favourably as compared with the
previous half-year, the nett receipts being £13 4s. 5d., and the
expenditure £15 3s. 4d. A small cash balance is carried
forward to the current half-year, as well as a stock balance of
£14 2s. Id. to the credit of the Association. Nineteen new
members have been elected since the 30th June last, while
nine resignations have been accepted. The number of members
on the books on the 31st December last was fifty, which is
evidence of the Association maintaining the steady increase
of past half-years.
The report reviewed the proceedings in the usual manner,
and narrated that valuable aid had been rendered by Mr. A.
Fegan Egerton, D. Hugh McLeod, M.D., Mr. Hy. W. Howell,
Mr. Jas. J. Morse, Mr. Wm. Hy. Harrison, and others.
The report stated that the ordinary seances of the Associa¬
tion have elicited the following phases of the spirit manifesta¬
tions, viz.:—Ordinary and eccentric table movements, with in¬
telligent responses ; percussive sounds, commonly called
“ rappings lights; involuntary writings; the entrancement
of members, with discourses ; the speaking and singing in a
variety of tones of voice, by a lady member; and other minor
phenomena.
The following officers were then elected for the current
half-year:—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, president; Mrs. Geo.
Blyton, Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mrs. M. Theresia Wood, Messrs.
G. Blyton, A. M. Greene, Jos. Stephens, R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
and Thos. Wilks, as members of the council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton having resigned office as secretary and
treasurer, Mr. Tapp moved, and Mr. Tredwen seconded,
“ That the secretary pro tem (Mr. Thos. Blyton) be empowered
on behalf of the Association to canvas for a successor, that,
failing the acceptance of the post by the members invited,
Mr. A. M. Greene’s offer to act as secretary pro tern be thank¬
fully accepted until further arrangements can be made ;” the
motion was carried.
It was moved by Mr. Tredwen, and seconded by Mr.
Stephens, “Thata committee on mesmerism be appointed, to
consist of Messrs. Cresswell, Wood, G. Blyton, Mrs. F. and
Miss M. R. Showers, and Mr. Cattley, with power to add to
their number from the members of the Association, and also
power to invite the co-operation of experienced mesmerists,
and to report to the council from time to time.”
A few alterations to the rules were approved of, and, after
the usual Votes of thanks to the chairman and officers for their
past services, the meeting broke up.
In the course of last year the Dalstou Association of En¬
quirers into Spiritualism, most injudiciously, as we think,
reduced its terms for life membership to £2 2s., a sum
which enables economical persons living in the locality to gain
all the advantages of permanent membership, without paying
fair value for the same. Friends at a distance wishing to aid
the society would just as soon pay three guineas as two. At
the meeting last Monday, it was agreed that a “ minimum”
donation of £2 2s. should be required of life members,
which was but a slight improvement in the rule.
Ecclesiasticism and Spibitualism.—The Record says:
—Spiritualism is evidently meant to work upon the weakest
and the lowest. No one possessing the least idea of what is
meant by “ reason ” and “ logic ” could tolerate the trash
presented by Spiritualism for a single moment. It is sad,
indeed, to see that Sunday by Sunday, and even throughout
the week, lectures in explanation and enforcement of Spiritual¬
ism are given, and are attended, both in divers places in
London and in all the chief towns. But the people thus em¬
ployed are utterly unknown, and many of the places where
they lecture are obscure and hardly discernible. We lament
that such mischievous falsehoods should be disseminated at
all; but we do not feel much alarm at the growth of so very
transparent an imposture.
Jan. 16, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
33
(Komsponlience*
[Gh'eat freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
SPIRIT LIGHTS,
Sir,—Mr. Wm. Crookes, in his most valuable testimony to
the reality of spiritualistic phenomena, has spoken of his
experience respecting spirit lights ; and you yourself have wit¬
nessed them in my own house. I wish now to say, that on
the 3rd of this month, at a seance held here, under very fav¬
ourable atmospheric conditions ; a bright light, resembling a
cylindrical luminous cake, about three-and-a-half by two
inches in size, and surrounded by an oval-shaped luminous
envelope, made its appearance, and remained visible, without
fading, for v/prcarAs of forty minutes. It moved freely about
the room in various directions, returning invariably and re¬
maining upon the edge of the table, without (as in former
instances) disappearing under the table, for the purpose of
acquiring fresh brilliancy. It sometimes advanced, as though
walking, to the centre of the table ; rose in the air, placed
itself, drapery and all, in the palm of my hand, held up to re¬
ceive it. It then, at my request, soared upwards and struck
the ceiling three times, at the same time striking the chande¬
lier in its passage. It then darted away from the circle, and
again struck the ceiling at a distance of ten feet from the
medium, returning to its original resting place upon the edge
of the table, and remaining there, with unabated brilliancy,
until the close of the seance.
Stanhope T. Speer, M.D., Edin.
Dudley Villa, Shanklin, Isle of Wight, Jan. 8.
Sir,—I have read that the spirit of a living person having
been invoked when asleep—by the bye, a very dangerous
practice—was asked, whether any trouble to it as a spirit,
would affect the sleeping body 1 The answer was, ‘ * Yes, I
am like a balloon tied to a post—pay body is the post, the
balloon dashed about by the wind would, of course, shake the
post.’’ That which is applicable in the above case, would
probably be more so in the case of a double, and if you can
feel a double the double can probably feel you, and any hurt
to the double would probably react on the post, i.e., the sleep¬
ing body. This again would probably be equally applicable,
if : all, or almost all, the nerve aura of a sleeping medium
were borrowed for the physical manifestation of a spirit,
united as it must be to the medium by £ the silver cord” in¬
visible to our gross perception. Supposing that spirit—in¬
vested for a time with a physical body composed of its own
fluid amalgamated with that of the medium—were hurt, it
appears inevitable that the medium would be the sufferer.
The Church of Rome testifies to doubles. St. Alphonzo, of
Liquori, was canonised before the due time after his death,
because he was seen simultaneously in two different places.
The records of the Church tell that St. Anthony, of Padua,
was in Spain, and when his father was being led to death at
Padua, as he was accused of a murder, St. Anthony sud¬
denly appeared, showed his father to be innocent, and dis¬
closed the truth as to who was the real criminal. It is said to
be proved that at this time St. Anhtony had not quitted
Spain.
Tacitus reports an analogous case. He tells us that Ves¬
pasian, being in the temple at Alexandria ; “ being entirely
absorbed in what the oracle was about to pronounce, he per-
ceived.behind him one of the chiefs of the Egyptians named
Basilides, whom he knew was detained by illness some days
distance from Alexandria. He questioned the priests as to
whether Basilides had been that day in the temple ; he en¬
quired of the passers by whether they had seen him in the
town; at last he sent horsemen, and became assured through
them that at that very time he was eighty miles away. Then
he no longer doubted that the vision was supernatural, and
the name of Basilides took the place of the oracle for him.”
(Tacitus Histori. Book IV., chap. 81 and 82.J
—— . W. R. T.
MRS. woodforde’s medhjmship.
Sir,—I would fain call attention, for the benefit of your
readers, to a medium who, since I have become acquainted
with her, ! have observed, is little known, and who is so
sensitive and retiring that, unfortunately, she might remain
so, were her gifts not revealed, through the efforts of one like
myself, who has been benefitted by .them. Gratitude for the
blessings of spirit communion with beloved relations opened
to me through her impels me to this, besides the desire that
others, thirsting for the same refreshing stream, may be di¬
rected to a pure fountain. I would speak also of Mrs. Wood¬
forde’s powers of development, which are great. I am an in¬
stance of rapid advancement, having, during the course of a
fortnight, obtained writing, and trance speaking, besides ad¬
vancing in clairaudience. It is true that I have had the
advantage of almost daily sittings, but I know of many other
instances of quick development, some who have at first shown
no mediumistic power, having been enabled, after a few
sittings, to write, and from this, progressing to the exhibition
of other gifts.
Given, the possibility of communion with the spirit world,
your more thoughtful readers will admit that to have this
power opened is an inestimable blessing.
Many sit alone for months to obtain only the slightest
evidences of spirit presence. With a medium, gifted as is our
friend, it becomes a speedy and delightful process, for the
work is aided by spirits of a high class, with whom it is a
privilege to come in contact.
I would also bring before your notice, as an interesting
fact, an article entitled “ Spiritualism medically considered,”
which appeared in the Medical Review for December. The
writer, a young author, was developed for spirit writing by
Mrs. Woodforde, and the article having been ordered by the
editor of the Review, was written under spirit control in his
presence, the name of the controlling spirit—an eminent per¬
son on earth—being known. I have written this for your
columns, hoping thus to reach a wider circle than is open to
me in private, and to whom I would extend somewhat of the
happiness I have myself obtained by sittings with this medium.
I feel sure that with your usual-praiseworthy spirit of useful¬
ness and kindly helpfulness to media, you will be pleased to
insert it.   M.
MATTER AND SPIRIT.
Sir,—The letters from various correspondents on the re¬
lations of spirit and matter, in late numbers of the Spirit¬
ualist, recall some lines which were once given to me while
under an “influence” of some indescribable kind. They
struck me as curious, and I preserved them, but I do not hold
myself responsible for whatever philosophy they may seem to
express.
If you think them of interest, you are at liberty to publish
them :—
As the axis to the sphere,
Q-od in matter dothmhere;
Flesh of man the gafcment is
“Which enfolds thy soul and His.
Dwells thy soul from flesh apart,
As He is, thou also art.
Gravity, cohesion’s law,
Rules life as matter (is) love’s own power.
Nothing can he, nor have a name,
“Which owns not God and life the same.
Emily Kislingbury.
93, Olarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
A DIPLOMATIC DISCLOSURE.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—There appeared in the Medium of 26th December, a
letter headed as above, and signed “ P,” containing a series
of misstatements regarding the British National Association of
Spiritualists. Presuming that as the editor of the Medium
felt bound by his duty as an editor to give publicity to the
letter (although we have good reason to believe he knew some
of the statements contained therein to be false), he would
welcome and instantly insert a reply to the misrepresentations,
we sent him in our official capacity a reply thereto. Two
weeks have now elapsed without any notice of the same
appearing in the Medium; we fear the editor intends to sup¬
press it. We are therefore compelled to ask you to be kind
enough to put on record in your paper not only our reply to
the letter of “ P ” above referred to, but also his letter, side
by side with our reply, in order that your readers may see that
we have not misquoted “ P ” in replying to his calumnies.
Yours truly, The Hon. Secs.
To the Editor of the “ Medium."
“ Dear Sir,—It amuses me to observe that Mr. Burns
disclaims any knowledge of (what Mr. F. Everitt, : Bishop
Auckland, meant when he stated, as reported in the Medium,
No. 193, that Mr. Burns had been unmanageable, and refused
the proffered help of gentlemen who would have made matters
all right in respect to the support of the Spiritual Institution.
Perhaps I may be permitted to .enlighten Mr, Burns and
readers of the Medium, who may have been, like him, unable
34
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 16, 1874.
to interpret Mr. Everitt’s words,, Well, the facts are these.
An obscure clique, dating from the Liverpool Conference, have
arrogated to themselves the title of a “ National Association, ”
and being, no doubt, conscious of the baselessness of their
pretensions, they secretly entertain the project of ultimately
annexing or absorbing the Spiritual Institution, that its merits
as a national movement may confer nationality on their
bantling. Though Mr. Everitt, of Bishop Auckland, is the
brother of the president of this would-be national concern,
yet his statement is rather premature, when he avers that
overtures have been already made to Mr. Burns. At present
the tactics of the aggressive party are not of the nature of
business propositions. Hitherto, the work has been prose¬
cuted by the publication of unscrupulous and misrepresenting
statements, and the circulation, in private, of influences
tending to depreciate the Spiritual Institution, destroy con¬
fidence in its management, and thus impair its usefulness ;
and these men who call themselves “ National Spiritualists,”
are the determined opponents of that which has done anything
for national Spiritualism. This reminds me of the Christian
Church which, in nearly all its practices and opinions, is
directly opposed to the spiritual teachings of the Gospels.
The shameless way in which Mr. Burns has been personally
treated by the promoters of this so-called “ national ” society,
and the heartless style in which his labours and the claims of
the Spiritual Institution have been ignored, show that they are
not the men to whom the stupendous issues of Spiritualism
can be safely entrusted. Mr. Burns has gone on hitherto with
increasing success in a work which, it would seem, no other
man, or number of men, but himself is fitted to accomplish,
without the help of these ” gentlemen,”—nay, in the very face
of their libellous opposition, and he may reply to them as
Diogenes-did to Alexander, “ Stand out of my light.” With
best wishes for the continued spread of Spiritualism, and the
ever-increasing success of its true machinery, the Spiritual
Institution, I enclose my card, and am ever your sincere friend
and helper, P.
To the Editor of “ The Medium."
Sib,—Under the above heading your correspondent “ P.,” of
last week, makes certain erroneous statements with reference
to this association, which call for some reply, lest they should
mislead your readers. We are therefore instructed by the
council to correct them. This association has never enter¬
tained the idea of ” annexmg or absorbing the Spiritual
Institution.” The council is credibly informed that Mr.
Everitt, of Bishop Auckland, did not aver “that overtures
have been already made to Mr. Burns ” by the association, or
on their behalf. The association has not published any
‘ ‘ statements ” whatever, “ unscrupulous and misrepresenting,”
or the reverse; nor has it ‘ ‘ circulated in private or otherwise,
any ” influences tending to depreciate the Spiritual Institu¬
tion” (so far as the Council'can understand the latter state¬
ment). Nor is the association the determined opponent of
that which has been done for national Spiritualism, whatever
that may be. On the contrary, it recognises all workers in
the cause, claims their assistance, and hopes, tvhen duly or¬
ganised, to assist them in return. The Council are utterly at
a loss as to what “P.” refers to when he says, “ The shame¬
less way in which Mr. Burns has been personally treated by
the promoters of this society, and the heartless style in which
his labours and the claims of the Spiritual Institution have
been ignored.” The Association is not yet fully constituted.
It has taken no sort of action, direct or indirect, against Mr.
Burns, or any one else. As regards him personally, the only
step that has been taken has been unanimously to approve a
proposition that he be invited to become a member. The
Council do not think it necessary to do more than refer to the
terms used by “ P.” in speaking of this association—“ obscure
clique,” ” aggressive party,” “ libellous opposition,” &c.
I have the honour to be, sir, your obedient servant,
The Honoraby Secretaries.
British National Association of Spiritualists.
Council Chamber, Dec. 30th, 1873.
A SPIRITUAL IMPRESSION.
Sir,—I am not a medium in the ordinary sense of the
term, that is to say, cannot get manifestations of any kind,
either in a spirit circle or out of one. However, last Saturday
evening,’ whilst walking along Southampton-row, towards
Holborn, I glanced across the road, and saw a green covered
book, with gilt letters, in the midst of a mass of works in the
shop of a vendor of second-hand books. Instantly a vivid
impression flashed upon me that it was a work on supernatural
subjects, and so strong was the impression that I walked
across the road to see if the idea had any foundation. The
book was Walter Thornbury’s Haunted London, and the only
book in any way relating to supernatural matters that I could
see among the scores of others around. The whole incident
did not occupy more than half a minute ; I was walking
hastily, and my thoughts bore upon subjects in no way relat¬
ing to the incident, so I was suddenly and inexplicably turned
out of my course to go across the road. Is this coincidence,
or unconscious cerebration, or unconscious mediumship, or
what ? Perhaps Dr. Carpenter—whose understanding is so
superior to that of anybody else—will explain. H,
Jan. 13 th, 1874.
A SEANCE AT HACKNEY.
Sir,—Will you allow an outsider, but still an honest
inquirer, and a subscriber to your periodical, to draw your
attention to an article in the Lancet, in which it is asserted
that Mr. Wm. Hipp, a correspondent of the Echo, at one of
Miss Cook’s seances grasped the hand of the so-called spirit,
held it, and on a light being procured, found it to be the hand
of Miss Cook herself.
What is the answer to this ? I am inclined to believe that
one can be given, but against such a positive assertion there
cannot be given an answer too soon, or too explicitly.
Cheltenham, January 12th, 1874. M. D.
P.S.—I enclose my card, not for publication, but as a
guarantee of my good faith.
Sir,—In a recent number of the Echo l observe a letter,
signed by William Hipp, which is evidently intended as an
effort, on the part of that person, to throw discredit upon
Miss F. E. Cook, one of the truest and best of media ; and as
I was one of those present at the seance referred to, which
took place about two years ago, and remember the incidents
of the same, must, in justice to Miss Cook, ask you to insert
my protest against the accuracy of the statements made by
Mr. Hipp. That Mr. Hipp did grasp Miss Cook’s hand is un¬
doubtedly correct, but the inference of Mr. Hipp that it was
in the act of sprinkling him, as undoubtedly false. After the
water had been placed upon the table, and the light excluded,
the message “ leave it alone ” was spelt out; and each mem¬
ber of the circle, excepting Mr. Hipp, denied having moved
their hands. Mr. Hipp, on being pressed, continued to evade
the question.. Shortly after, Florrie demanded a light to be
struck, and Mr. Hipp was discovered standing up and reach¬
ing across the table, grasping the hand of the medium. Mr.
Hipp, without any explanation, thrust Miss Cook’s hand back,
and hastily withdrew from the house in the most rude
manner. The seance was continued, and it appeared that the
medium had instinctively made an effort to recover a flower
which she stated was suddenly removed from her dress, when
her hand was grasped by Mr. Hipp. Statements afterwards
made in writing by Mr. Hipp, in connection with his conduct,
most certainly justify no very high opinion of his accuracy;
and that he should thus attempt to revive what must be a
very disagreeable epoch in his life, as well as repeat his pre¬
vious ungenerous conduct, is much to be deprecated by all
lovers of truth. That Miss Cook’s mediumship has been suffi¬
ciently tested, is patent to all, so more remarks are not
necessary from me, who am proud to know her not only as
one of our truest and honourable of media, but also as a warm¬
hearted friend.—Yours faithfully, Thomas Blyton.
12, High-street, Bow, London, E.
12th January, 1874.
LITE WEEKS IN A TRANCE.
From the “ Religio-Philoso'phical Journal” (Chicago),
January 3, 1874.
The village of Avon is at present enjoying a genuine
sensation on account of a circumstance which has re¬
cently been brought to light in that place.
A reporter of the Democrat and Chronicle (Rochester,
U.S.), visited the locality yesterday and obtained all the
particulars in regard to the mysterious affair that have
as yet been known. Our reporter learned his facts
principally from the lips of John Ryan, a brother-in-
law of the woman, and other gentlemen whose honesty
THE SPIRITUALIST.
35
Jan. 16, 1874.
and veracity have been unimpeachable through many
years of active business life, and would, therefore,
hardly be supposed capable of misrepresenting the facts
in regard to so serious a matter. The circumstances of
the case are as follows:—
Several months ago an unmarried woman by the
name of Eleanor Bonney, announced to her friends with
whom she was living, that she was, at some time not
far distant, to go into a long and peculiar trance, the re¬
sult of which would be the revelation of some startling
facts—facts which would convince the sceptical world
of the truth of Spiritualism. Miss Bonney had been an
inmate of the house of L. 0. Preston, a farmer residing
about a mile and a half west of the village, for more
than eight years. She was the daughter of poor parents
who lived in the neighbourhood, and was adopted into
the family of Mr. Preston when about seventeen years
of age. She had been for some time past an acknow¬
ledged medium and clairvoyant, and had, as her friends
allege, through the instrumentality of the spirits, been
enabled to perform many wonderful things. She was
an intimate friend of a lady clairvoyant physician of
this city, Mrs. Jennie C. Dutton (of the firm of
Sprague and Dutton, 185, Power’s Block), who by the
way has been rather peculiarly connected with the
trance in which Miss Bonney is now lying. As
stated above, she—Miss Bonney—frequently gave
notice to those intimately associated with her that she
was to pass into this mysterious state, and done this so
frequently that they began to weary of it, doubting the
idea thatAthe event would ever come to pass.
She insisted, however, on the 10th day of November
that her time had come, and at once set about making
the necessary preparations. Sending for her brother-
in-law, John Ryan (a Deputy Sheriff of the village),
she informed him of what was coming, and to him and
Preston announced the course of conduct to be pursued
by them, and certain conditions necessary to be carried
out in order to make the experiment a success. She
stated that she was to prove that a person could die, the
soul being completely separated from the body, the first
stages of decomposition even set in, and then, by mira¬
culous power, be restored to life again in all respects as
she was before. To accomplish this, certain rules must
strictly be observed, and she left the matter entirely to
her friends, believing they would see that her wishes
were conscientiously carried out. She named the hour
at which she was to “ go out,” as she termed it, at two
o’clock in the morning, and lying down upon the bed
finishing the directions she wished to give. No one
was to be allowed to watch over her but Mr. and Mrs.
Preston, Mr. and Mrs. Ryan, and Mrs. Dr. Dutton.
The room where she slept was to have no stove, but
by means of one situated in an adjoining room was to
be kept at a temperature of seventy degrees. Next
followed particulars regarding certain events which
would occur, the manner in which the body would
change, mysterious sounds and phenomena, &c. Of these
predictions, many, according to the statements of her
attendants, have really come to pass, and the majority
of her fellow believers seem to be confident that the
remaining ones, even to the seeming impossibility of re¬
turning to life, will surely occur. After she had finished
what she wished to say, she lay upon the bed for some
time without speaking a word, but breathing very hard.
This grew weaker until at precisely two o’clock, with¬
out a single contortion of the body, or the movement of
a single muscle, she passed into what is called a trance,
to all appearances dead. In that state it is affirmed she
has remained ever since that time, lying upon her back,
slightly inclined to the right side. Her attendants
solemnly aver that in that time (five weeks next Mon¬
day), she has not partaken of a particle of food, had a
drop of anything to drink, nor stirred a muscle. A
mirror on several occasions has been held before her
nostrils for an hour at a time, without collecting the
slightest moisture. Among the changes which she pre¬
dicted would take place was that her tongue would
protrude from her mouth, and a slight effusion of blood
take place from her nostrils. This, we are informed,
took place some three weeks ago. She also stated that
her body would lose fifty pounds in weight, and when
that was done it would be manifested by the ringing of
bells; that when the soul had entirely separated from
the body the house would be violently shaken. Both of
these predictions, it is claimed, have come to pass. Miss
Bonney was quite a large woman—weighing 208 lbs.
the day she passed into the trance, and a medical gen¬
tleman of experience states that the body has evidently
shrunk enough to warrant the difference in weight
which was predicted. The same gentleman avers that
he was in the house at the time the bells were rung and
distinctly heard them : also that he was present on one
occasion when the house shook as if an earthquake
were prevailing. Another prophecy was that the body
of the woman would turn black, and that the eyes, in¬
stead of sinking, would protrude, and that this has
taken place is solemnly declared by both her brother-
in-law, Mr. Preston, H. B. Simmons, one of the pro¬
prietors of the United States Hotel, and the physician
above referred to. Although this has taken place, yet
we are assured that decomposition has not commenced,
and that there is no more unpleasant odour than would
naturally proceed from a sick room. This will seem
especially strange, when it is understood that a physician
of many years of experience has announced that to
the best of his knowledge and belief the woman is
undoubtedly dead, and has been for some time. Her
brother and others stronger in the faith, declare that
she will yet come to life again as perfect as before. No
one has been allowed to see her corpse, if corpse indeed
it is, save those already mentioned. There was at one
time considerable feeling existing in Avon in relation
to the matter, and the coroner was importuned to look
into the case. Those who have charge of the body declare
that no person shall enter that room, and they evidently
mean to stand firmly to what they have said. The pre¬
mises have been given into the hands of the deputy
sheriff before mentioned, and thus it would seem the
parties have the advantage.
Several strange events have occurred. Mr. Ryan told
our reporter that on one occasion while in the room
were the body lay, his breast suddenly swelled out to
such an extent as to burst all the buttons from his vest.
His right arm swelled to a large size, and his feet were
also enlarged that he was unable to draw on his boots
for several days.
One peculiar feature of the case is the condition of
the clairvoyant physician, Mrs. Dutton, who according
to her promise went to Avon and took her place be¬
side her friend on the next day after the trance began.
Two days after that she was taken sick, and for seven¬
teen days existed without food, drink or sleep. She was
perfectly conscious, and would answer when spoken to.
A few days ago she ate four bunches of grapes which
constituted all the food taken into her stomach in
36 THE SPIRITUALIST. Jan. 16, 1874,
twenty days. This would certainly seem most extraor¬
dinary. :i'
^ Miss Eleanor Bonney, the person whose case we have
described above, was a fine looking woman about twenty-
five years of age, with dark hair and eyes, weighing, as
we have stated, at the time of her “ going out,”
208 pounds. The singular fact that she predicted
months previous the trance into which she' was to
enter and the events which were to follow it, if it is
true, casts an air of awful mystery over the matter
which no one is able to dissipate. Although every
effort was made to keep the affair from becoming known,
and indeed was kept silent for a long time, yet it leaked
out little by little, and her friends were obliged to make
some disclosures to satisfy the demands of the public.
There have been many wild, foolish and wholly unfounded
stories started in the vicinity of Avon, but our reporter,
wisely discarding them, has taken the facts from the
lips of men of wealth and responsibility.
SPIRIT FORMS.
Me. Burns has printed the following heading, in large
type,' to a paragraph in last week’s Medium—“ Mr. Volck-
man’s Struggle with the Florence Cook Ghost,” which is a
remark calculated to do harm to one of our best mediums.
He further, in a short ungrammatical article, says :—
“ Mr. Yolckman’s process of investigation may be objected
to on the ground of danger to the medium, but the conduct of
the friends of the medium was such as to increase that
danger a hundredfold. Indeed, we regard the conduct of the
circle as reprehensible in every sense. If the form quietly
Clasped by Mr. Yolckman were a spirit, it had a grand oppor¬
tunity of evincing its peculiar nature under the somewhat
novel circumstances. If, on the other hand, the figure were
Miss Cook, why should her friends endeavour to hide the fact
by attacking Mr. Yolckman and turning out the gas? Such
circumstances are not incompatible with her honesty, or the
genuineness of her mediumship ? The narratives of numerous
investigators have reached us, showing that mediums are often
influenced to, act by spirits unbeknown to themselves. . . .
The absurd limitation^ imposed at the circle in question
reduced the seance to the level of an exhibition, with a desire
to force matters to a foregone conclusion. So little is known
of the nature of spirit-life, and the control of mediums, that
the utmost licence should be given to experiments, and the
honest avowal of its results.”
The limitations which were agreed to at the circle were
that nobody should grasp the forms, and that the sitters
should all hold hands when requested. These same con¬
ditions, we believe, have been imposed on the sitters at all the
face seances held in the rooms over Mr. Burns’s bookshop.
Therefore, the public now know what Mr. Burns thinks of
the conditions usually imposed in his place of business, and
always at Mr. Williams’s seances.
The Medium, & few weeks previousl}', printed a letter which
raked up from widely diffused sources, the worst features of two
or three faulty seances which have taken place at Miss Cook’s,
and were published with the good ones with her consent and
approbation. If anybody took the trouble to bring together
and print all that has been published in newspapers against
the much-abused Mr. Home, how derogatory to him it would
appear to non-Spiritualists to be, but fortunately nobody
is likely to be actuated by the painstaking malice, which
would seem to be the only inducement to undertake so much
work, or to carefully preserve such records. The Medium
says that Mr. Yolckman is about to issue a pamphlet about Miss
Cook; he can do her no more harm than he has done already.
These face and form manifestations are deeply rooted facts of
nature, which are multiplying in all directions. In one case—
that of Miss Showers—they have begun exactly the same as at
Miss Cook’s. There is the duplicate face, the white drapery,
the fine veil, and the good light. Would Mr. Burns, Mr.
Yolckman, or James Clark, like to try what Mr. Burns calls
“ experiments ” at Miss Showers’ seances ? We trust none of
them will ever be admitted by Mrs. Showers, who is a lady
who is now on a visit to London for the special purpose of
learning more about modern Spiritualism, her interest having
been so much excited by what she has witnessed in her own
house at Teignmouth.! S
Mr. Yolckman, personally, is well aware of the materiality
of the forms and hands built up by spirits ; he has shaken the
powerful muscular hand of “John King” at Mr Williams’s
seances, just as was done by about a dozen leaders of the
spiritual movement last Saturday night.
As regards the attacks upon Miss Cook, a young medium
of seventeen, of upright character and blameless life, retri¬
bution will fall where it is due ; but on the present occasion
these remarks are purposely confined strictly to comments upon
the statements in last week’s Medium.
Faint iridescent pictures have appeared on the window-
panes at Mrs. Andrews’ house, Moravia, U.S., and have been
examined by Mr. Dale Owen.
Me. Williams’s Seances.—Last Saturday about fifty
ladies and gentlemen attended Mr. Williams’s “ seance for
Spiritualists only.” Among those present‘were Mrs. Hony-
wood, Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Mrs. and Miss Showers, Dr.
Baylis, Mr. Henry Morris (of Manchester), Mr. Purdon, Mr.
Hannah, and a great many other leading friends of the mover
ment, including some inquirers from Haverfordwest. The
manifestations went on with much power, although, of course,
from the numbers present, they wore weaker than usual.
Employment eoe Women in America. — In several
large districts in the United States, according to the census
returns, the men outnumbered the women, so that in certain
States in the Union single blessedness is rare, so far as the
women are concerned. The Banner of Light says :—Over
one hundred ladies are said to be studying law in the United
States, and in less than three months more than thirty women
have been appointed post-mistresses. Dr. Chaplin, in a recent
lecture entitled “ Woman and her Works,” said : “ In woman’s
relation to man, she should be equal in society and equal
before the law, as she is equal before God. If this or that
branch of learning will develop the intelligence of the boy,
why will it not the girl ? The question of woman’s right to
the ballot has passed far beyond the reach of ridicule.” Iowa
is woman’s paradise; a majority of the State officers, and also
a majority of the State Judges of the highest State Court,
favour woman suffrage. The State Librarian is a woman, and
the enrolling and engrossing clerks in the House are women.
Women are reporters, copyists and paper-folders in the State
Capitol, and six women are serving as County Superintendents
of schools. Bishop Simpson says—“ I want the day to come
when women will vote. % Without their vote, I fear we will
never be able to put down the houses of infamy and liquor
saloons of Our country. Nothing is so ruinous to the country ,
it is true; and it is my opinion that we can’t get along without
the women voting. It is not good for man to be alone.” The
Banner of Light further states that an intelligent voter of
Burlington, Iowa, in scratching out the name of Mrs. Haga, a
candidate for school superintendent, wrote upon his ballot
paper: “ Doant want kno wummun in Mine.”
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CL AIR VO Y ANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Revealing Startling Pacts
to the public, can be consulted on either Medical or Business Affairs con¬
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 12 to 5. Terms, One Guinea.
Address, care Of Mr. Frederick Everitt, Newgate-street, Bishop Auckland.
R. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—194, Comwall-road, Notting-hill, W. (Hammersmith line).
Please write.
»R. JOHN HUNTER and DR, MESMER may be
consulted upon all forms of illness, through MR. ROBERT HARPER,
from whom Mesmeric Treatment and Eclectic Medicines may be obtained,
at 114, Wardour-street, Oxford-street, W. Fees, 10s. and upwards. Hours,
one to five o'clock daily.
RS. EMPSON, Medical Clairvoyant and Mag¬
netic HeAler, undertakes the Diagnosis and the Cure of Diseases
(if curable). Patients at a distance may obtain diagnosis and advice by
sending magnetic link and fee of 10s. Address, 114, Wardour-street,
Oxford-street, W. Hours, one to five o’clock daily.
Jan. 16, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
HUGH McLEOD, M.D., Psychometric, Impressional, and
Moling ly tM laying on of hands ; in which, departments of Medium-
ship Dr. McLeod is prepared to give the highest references. Terms, 5s
each person. Visits by arrangement. Hours 10 till 4. 53, Great Ooram-
Street, Russell-square, W.C.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bemard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—19, Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy-
square.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5.s; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A MEETING of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Association are
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
'The public meetings of this association are held, pro tem., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Richard Fitton, Secretary pro tem.
Now Beady, Price Sixpence.
rtOD AND
IMMORTALITY, viewed in relation to
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
A Discourse delivered in the City Hall Saloon, Glasgow, on Sunday
Evening, February 23rd, 1873, by
GEORGE SEXTON, M.A., M.D., LL.D., D.SO.,
Honorary Member of L'Accademia Dei Quiriti, at Borne, dbc
BY THE SAME AUTHOR—
Price Threepence,
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF MACBETH.
A Lecture delivered before the Psychological Society of Glasgow, on
May 4tn, 1869.
“ We advise all playgoers and dramatic readers to give a glance at this
pamphlet; they will be well paid for their trouble, and will see the phases
of Macbeth’s character far better than any actor of the present day can
delineate them.”—Theatrical Journal.
“The lecture is a full, careful, and philosophical treatise on the
Shakespearian tragedy. Dr. Sexton makes the most patient analysis of the
character of the Thane; and in his conclusions, generally speaking, the
student will readily acquiesce.—The Era.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS to be presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain to
Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambia, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, ’ 96, Russbll-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
Aaron franklin, preserver of birds and
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE. Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’-heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. AARON Franklin, 100, Suf-
folk-street, Birmingham.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c.,.&c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
Lohdon, E;, respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingslaud.—Information as
td Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
I
NSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance Medium).
Opinions of tM Press.
_ “ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—•Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“The prayer over he commenced an eloquent and philosophical address
on modern Spiritualism.”—Vortt- Western Daily Times.
“ The medium then passed into what is termed the trance state, and in
clear and forcible language, with a readiness of expression and fluency of
utterance delivered a discourse on Spiritualism.”—Liverpool Daily A Ibion.
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lecturer, or what
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature and its Needs’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!”—South Wales Press.
“ Those who are intellectually inclined, and desire to know what Spirit¬
ualism is as taught by the spirits, will learn more in an hour’s conversation
with Mr. Morse's guides than in months of misdirected seeking.”—Medium.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.'’—Spiritualist.
“ Mr. Morse is what is called a speaking-medium, of no mean order, for
he kept crowded audiences intently listening each evening for above an hour
and a half to his certainly most powerful and accomplished addresses.”—
Darlington and Richmond Herald.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Gtogow Herald.
MR. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
Mr. Morse holds a seance every Friday evening, at 8 o’clock, at 15, Southamp¬
ton-row, W.C., when he is in London, where letters, &c., may be addressed,
or to his private residence, Warwick Cottage, Old Ford, Bow, E.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 69 of TM Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4£d. post free. It is a number, compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER, LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &o.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (pacing the church).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Spiritualist Newspaper.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author'of “An
Idyll of the world,” and “ Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Patemoster-row.
WORK BY THE SAME AUTHOR.
An elegant little volume, bound in blue and gold, carmine edges,
Price 4s. 6d.
LYRICS AND BUCOLICS. The Eclogues of Yirgil,
a selection from the Odes of Horace, and the Legend of the Sibyll.:
“Mr. Noyes’ qualifications are of no mean order. In the first place, he
has the essential one of thoroughly entering into and (appreciating the true
spirit of his master, and even,where, as we have said, he exceeds what
we conceive to be the limits of a translation, we attribute it rather to his
being carried away by his own muse than to his misunderstanding his
author’s. And here we have a second and no less important qualifi¬
cation for success. Mr. Noyes has a genuine poetic vein of his own, and
his lines have almost always the ring of true metal.”—Standard,
April 7th, 1868.
“ There is a certain freedom and swing in these translations, which not
only more resembles the brisk spirit and ringing tone of the original, but
is truly refreshing after the stiff rendering'which had been generally made
of Horace’s choicest composition.’''—London Review, Feb. 15M, 1868.
“The Translations from Horace are spirited and musical. His light
Epicureanism and gay Stoicism are happily hit . off.”—Daily .News,
March Zd, 1868.
. “ Mr. Noyes’ Version of Virgil’s Pastorals may fairly take its place by the
side of Mr. Oonnington’s translation of the ASneid. The lovers of such
poetry have here as pleasant a bouquet as can well be set before them,”—
Speculator, March 7th, 1868.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
e SELLER, STATIONER. AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
oi TM Spiritualist, 39, Smallbrobk-street, Birmingham, Supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Statiomery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, Sc.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
IV
THE SPIKITTTALIST.
Jan. 16, 1874
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
itJias found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands, of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows
“H. G. Atkinson, Esq.'F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.'; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. VJ. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L.'Meyers, Esq:; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; C. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq. •
A “ Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs; Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
'.“George"Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Oox,jj5sq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower,. Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.;
Josiah Webber,' Esq.”
I . Alter inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee -issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
.Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
, “l. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell but coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’     
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
|s Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rathef than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch eacn other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes' it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be- given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the medium ? ” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by-the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
Capital—ONE MILLION STEELING.
Bead O^cm.-BBOWN STBEET and MABSDEN STBEET, MANCHESTEB
FIBE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates
Bonus Beturns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Coloration during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Eenewed Premiums.
FIDELITY GUAEANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against’
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
. The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STEEET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities
TO OWNEBSOF HOUSE PBOPEBTY.
E. BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
11, PABK GBOYE, SHEPHEED’S LANE, BEIXTON,
RESPECTFULLY solicits the patronage of Owners of
House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixton
Boad, and near the Bail way Station—offering special facilities for the
prompt letting of Houses of every description.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOYEE PLACE, PABK EOAD, BEGENT’S PABK.
Established 1833. -
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS. — Handsomely-printed Blue
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion, may be obtained in packets, each containing 400, price 2s. 6d. per
packet. They are especially useful for distribution at public meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, reading-roojns, clubs, and places of
public resort.
E. W. Allen, 11, Aye Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, London, E.C.
A NEW ERA IN JOURNALISM!
THE FREE SPEAKER, a High Class Family News¬
paper. Weekly—One. Penny.
SPECIAL POLITICAL AND SOCIAL ABTICLES,
BY INDEPENDENT WRITERS.
Full Beports of Home, Foreign, and General News. Law and Police.
FREEDOM OF CORRESPONDENCE.
WEEKLY TALES BY THE FIBST WBITEBS.
Publishing Office: 125, Fleet-street. Advertisement Office: 106, Shoe-lane.
LUNACY LAW REFORM.
ALL PERSONS cognisant of cases of INCARCERATION,
under a false plea of Insanity, or of MALTBEATMENT OF
LUNATICS, or who are ready to co-operate in obtaining AMENDMENT
OF THE LUNACY LAWS, are earnestly requested to communicate with
MRS. LOUISA LOWE,
97, BUBTON- EOAD, BEIXTON.
The following Extract from the “Act to Amend the Law relating to Luna¬
tics ” is a fair specimen of Lunacy Legislation :—
“ It shall be lawful for the Proprietor or Superintendent of any licensed
house with the previous assent in writing of two or more of the Commis¬
sioners, or in the Case of a House licensed by Justices, of two or more of
the Visitors to entertain and keep in such house as a Boarder for such time as
may be specified in the assent, any person who may have been within Five
Years immediately preceding the giving of such assent, a Patient in any
asylum, hospital, or licensed house, or under care as a Single Patient.”'—25
& 26 Viet., ch. iii., sec. 18.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London, E.C.
