AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD,]
No. 85.—(Yoii. IY.—No. 15.) LONDON: APRIL 10, 1874. Published Weekly; Price Threepence
Contents.
Conditions Influencing writing Mediumship     169
Lavater’s Letters to the Empress Marie of Russia  ' ... ... 169
“Threading my Way”—The Inspirational Discourses of Edward
Irving   ...    171
Objections to the Reality of Apparitions Considered  172
The St. John’s Association of Spiritualists  172
The National Association        !  173
The Soiree of the National Association  ...   174
The Sunday Services at Cleveland Hall     174
Private Seances:—Seance at Mr. Luxmoore’s—Miss Showers and
the Spirit Florence seen at the same time; Seance at Mr. Bird’s—
Spirit Identity—Trance and Clairvoyance; Seance at Mr. Crookes’
—Spirit Forms—Spirit Lights; Seance at Mr. Rogers’—Mrs.
Everitt’s mediumship; Seance at Professor Butlerow’s, St. Peters¬
burg—Mr. Home’s Mediumship—Movement of Solid Objects with¬
out Contact with Anything Visible  176
Correspondence—Spirit Forms, 177; Mr. Sergeant Cox’s Psychic
Force, 177; Mrs. Woodforde’s Mediumship, 178; The Surplus
Funds of Mrs. Tappan’s Lecture Committee, 179; Seance at Bir¬
mingham, 179; Miss Cook’s Mediumship, 179; The Liverpool
Psychological Society, 17 9; The Seances in Paris   179
The Davenports in Trouble   ;..  ~ ...   180
The Three Days’ Trance of Louis XI. of France   ...   180
Answers to Correspondents ...    180
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by'
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fkitz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London : Simpkin, Mabshall & Co.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1873.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.
Mr. John Davidson, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith,
Mr. G. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. R. Casson.
Mr. D. Gay.
Mr. T. B. Griffin.
Committee of Management.
Mrs. Gay.
Mr; Riece.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Casson.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. John Lamont.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
Mr. Bretherton. | Mr. H. J. Charlton.
T
HE object of this Associatioa is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A SOIREE will be held on Thursday, the 16th April, at the Cleveland
Hall, Gleveland-street, near Portland-road Station. S. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A,
will preside.
The Countess of Caithness.
Mrs. Hony wood.
Mrs. Tebb.
Mrs. Showers.
Mrs. Rudd.
Miss Ponder.
Miss E. Ponder.
Lady Patronesses:—
Mrs. C. L. V. Tappan.
Mrs. T. Everitt.
Mrs. Strawbridge.
Mrs. Fitzgerald.
Mrs. H. D. Jencken.
Mrs. Kislingbury,
Miss Withall.
Tea served at 6.30. Chair to be taken at 8 o’clock precisely.
Single tickets 2s. 6d.; double tickets 4s., to be had of Miss Kislingbury,
93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W., of Mr. T. Blyton,12, High-street,
Bow, George Farmer, 31, Museum-street, Bloomsbury, and at the rooms of
the Dalston Association, or of any of the members of the council.
Algernon Jot, l
E. Kislingbtjry, j
Hon. Secs.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing to
become affiliated, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. Thomas Blyton, 12, High-street, Bow, London, E., of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.)
President.—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Mrs. C. A. Blyton,
Mr. George Blyton, I
Mrs. Amelia Comer,
Mrs. Theresa Wood,
Council. ■
Mr. A. M. Greene,
Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
A. M. Greene, Secretary, pro. tem.
A DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on hear¬
ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, and in¬
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might be
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 15th September, 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter careful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modern Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations {vide Rule IX). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordi¬
nary seancehiild on the first Thursday eveningin each month, on introduction
by a Member. The tof Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on Vae first Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Rooms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stomped addressed envelope
should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
Dalston association of enquirers into
SPIRITUALISM. {Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members
Subscriptions:—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly; 6s. half-yearly; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
Mr. A. M. GREENE, Secretary pro. tem. -
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses. every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 10, 1874.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A MEETING of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Association are
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society. *
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tem., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Q-rosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
RiOHAbd Fitton, Secretary pro tem.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, 1 Mr. R. Ho worth,
Mr. "W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISTS.—Sunday Evening Servioes are Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7. o’clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
R. Pearce, Hon. Sec.
TNSPIRATIONAL
LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lecturer, or what¬
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram¬
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature and its Needs’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!”—South Wales Press.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
“ The address given'through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.1’—Spiritualist.
“ The address quite riveted the attention of the audience.?—Eastbourne
Chronicle.
“ He spoke for nearly an hour-and-a-half. Not a hitch occurred. The
address was more or less argumentative throughout, in parts it was really
eloquent.”—Brighton Guardian.
ERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
into England the subject attracted attention in jClerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers fot admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Asspcciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming -acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
Presidents.
MR. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
All letters should be addressed to his private residence, Warwick Cottage,
Old Ford, Bow, E.
Mrs. cora l. y. tappan’s inspirational
DISCOURSES.
The Committee, encouraged by the support given to their former Course,
have much pleasure in announcing that they have made arrangements for
the delivery of a further Course of SIX LECT ORES, extending from the
5th of April to the 17th of May, to be held at Cleveland Hall, as hereto¬
fore, at 7 p.m, on Sunday Evenings.
Tickets for the Reserved, Benches will be 12s. each for the Course, and
for the Chairs 6s. each for the Course. Applications for Tickets to be made
to Mrs. Honywood, 52, Warwick-square, S.W., enclosing Post-office Orders.
The Committee hope that some friends of the movement will feel dis¬
posed to assist, by forwarding small donations at the same time.
Single Tickets of Admission, or Tickets for the Course, can be purchased
at the doors.
A large portion of the. Hall is reserved for the Free Admission of In¬
quirers and the General Public.
Price 2s. 6dL
LIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND.—
Showing the harmony of things spiritual with things material.
“ The tone of the book is exceedingly pure and good.”—Christian Spiri¬
tualist.
*** A list of spiritual and mesmeric works on application.
Mr. F. Cowper. | Mr. 0. Hunt.
Treasurer.—Mr. Whitley.
Librarian.—Mr. Maynard, 103, Lisson-grove.
Secretary.
Mr. C. White, 4, Gray-street, Manchester-square, W.
The Membership Subscription is Is. per Quarter, which admits to full
fellowship, mcluding use of books from the Progressive Library. Seances
are held weekly, to afford members an opportunity of becoming acquainted
with the Phenomena. Members are assisted in the formation of new
circles. A public meeting is held every. Wednesday evening at the
Hall of Progress, 90, Church-street, Paddington, at 8 o’clock.
NEWCASTLE SOCIETY
FOR
PROMOTING ENQUIRY INTO MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
OLD FREEMASON’S HALL
(WEIR’S COURT),
NEWGATE STREET, NE WCASTLE-ON-TYNE.
President.—Mr. Armstrong.
Treasurer.—Mr. John Miller. Secretary.—Mr. F. Pickup.
Seances are held for Members and Friends on Sunday Evenings, doors
open at 6.30, to commence at 7; and on Tuesday and Thursday evenings,
doors open at 7.30,to commence at 8.
On no account will anyone be admitted after the time announced for
commencing the meetings, except on special occasions, when permission
must be obtained from the sitteis who form the circle at the time of
application.
Tickets of Admission may be had of the Committee.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
T’rawwrw’.—Herbert N. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane.
Offices.—te, BERNERS STREET.
Hon. /Sec.—Mrs. Lowe (Louisa).
London: Bailliere and Co., King William-street,'Strand.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
C. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
e SELLER, STATIONER. AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39, Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, Supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with, the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
The alleged identification of the
ENGLISH NATION WITH THE “LOST HOUSE OF ISRAEL.”
By A. L. Lewis, Honorary Secretary, London Anthropological Society.
Being a Paper read before the British Association for the Advancement of
Science (Brighton Meeting), and before the London Anthropological
Society, with the Discussions thereon. Reprinted from Anthropologia,
No. 2 (by permission of the Council of the London Anthropological Society).
With the addition of an Append on the alleged Scriptural Evidence. The
whole showiug that Englishmenare not Israelites.
London: Published by the Author, at 4, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.C. 1874.
Price Sixpence.
CHILDISH FANCIES.
Twenty short pieces in various keys for the pianoforte, composed by
CHARLTON, TEMPLEMAN SPEER (iEts. 13).
Dedicated to Mrs. Denis, Fairbrook House, Rathfarnham, Dublin.
PRICE THREE SHILLINGS.
London: Published by R. Limpus, at the College of Organists, 41, Queen-
square, Bloomsbury.
RE-ENGAGEMENT is desired by a Widow Lady as
HOUSEKEEPER or COMPANION. Practically experience, cheer¬
ful, and accustomed to polite and good society. Superior references from
a leading Spiritualist. For particulars, address, H, H., care of Mr. J.
Heywood, 141, Deansgate, Manchester.
gJAs glAs
% ilp yrxrgrm anit ft| ^jtit{ii«rfi$m+
VOiLUJVtE FOUR. JHUJWBE^ FIFTEEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, APRIL 10th, 1874.
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Beduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions^:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac-
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of '■'•The Spiritualist'n in
London or in theprovinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. TV. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and itTegulari-
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street,
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ . Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. O. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-Street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. j. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road,
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst.—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thomfeldt, Main-ttreet,
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist maybe had by post direct from the London publisher.
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny,
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 10s., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
JjlEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
CONDITIONS INFLUENCING WRITING
MEDIUMSHIP.
We have received the following very short letter,
which, however, puts questions of vital importance in
connection with writing ihediumship :—
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
Sib,—I should feel greatly obliged were you to inform me
in your next issue whether it is always necessary for those
mediums who have communications written through their
hands, to he first conscious of the ideas about to be conveyed.
I have been told it is. I have been told again it is not, but
that mediums only require further development to have the
communications written without any knowledge of the subject
written, and yet not be in the trance state. Which is correct,
please ? Mentob.
Finsbury.
If a writing medium could talk or read a hook, and
at the same time get coherent messages, it would he
evidence that the communications did not proceed from
unconscious cerebration, the brain being engaged in the
consideration of other subjects at the time. Conse¬
quently we have long given attention to this point, and
discovered that some writing mediums can get messages
while they are reading a book, whereas others cannot
do so; in the latter case meaningless motions of the
hand take the place of the orderly movements incidental
to writing. Further, those mediums who can write
independently of the action of their brains, get better
proofs of spirit identity than others ; for instance, the
gentleman through whom the Spirit Teachings occa¬
sionally published in The Spiritualist are given, can
read a book and pay attention to its contents, while the
spirits are writing through his hand upon other sub¬
jects, and most remarkable proofs of spirit identity are
given through his mediumship. When writing mediums
sit in a room by themselves for manifestations, they can
usually get better proofs of spirit identity than when
another person is present; in the latter case the
thoughts of the second individual tend to exercise an
influence which interferes with the reliability of the
messages.
LAYATER’S LETTERS TO THE EMPRESS MARIE
OF RUSSIA.
LETTER VI.
Letters from a deceased person to his friend on Earth,
upon “ The Link that Exists between Spirits, and those
whom they have Loved upon Earth f
My well beloved, I must warn you that of the many
things you desire to learn, stimulated by a noble
curiosity, and I to communicate—I hardly dare write of
one, not being a free agent. My will depends (as I
have already told you) on the will of Him who is
Supreme Wisdom. My rapport communes with you,
and is only based upon your affection. This wisdom,
this personified love, often impels me and my inhumer-
170
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 10, 1874.
able companions to approach men. still clothed in mor¬
tality, and fills us with a felicity which becomes almost
delirious as it raises us higher and higher, and urges
us on to a communion (certainly agreeable to us)
although often darkened, and not always sufficiently
pure and holy.
Try and understand these attractions, yet I scarcely
know how I can make you comprehend the great truth,
which doubtless will surprise you much, notwithstand¬
ing its reality; it is that our own felicity often depends,
relatively remember, on the moral state of those whom
we have left upon earth, and with whom we enter into
direct communication.
Their religious sentiment attracts us; and their im¬
piety repels us. We rejoice over the pure and noble;
over the spiritual and disinterested.
Affection contributes to our happiness; thus we
feel, if not actual suffering and pain, at least a decrease
of happiness, when our beloved ones allow themselves to
be darkened by their sensuality, their selfishness, by
their animal passions, or by impure desires.
All Divine thought produces a ray of light, which
radiates from the loving nature. Each kind of affection
has its own peculiar light; this ray unites itself to the
nimbus surrounding saints, and renders it more re¬
splendent and more agreeable to the sight.*
On the degree of light from this radiation often
depends the amount of our own felicity, or the happiness
we derive from our existence. With the cessation of
affection this light ceases, and with it the element of
happiness of those that we love. A man who becomes
estranged from love, who “ darkens” in the most literal
and positive meaning of the word, becomes more
material, consequently more earthly, and the dense
darkness of night envelopes him.
The life, or what is to us the same thing—the affec¬
tion of man—causes the degree of intensity of this
radiance—of this luminous purity.
These last qualities alone render our intimacy and
rapport with man possible. Spiritual light attracts
spiritual light; it is impossible for us to act on dark
souls; all unloving natures appear but dark to us.
The true life of each mortal resembles his affection,
and his light corresponds to his affection; by means of
his light our communion is effected, and thus it is we
now converse with you. This light, of which the secret
is not comprehended by any mortal, is the element in
which we live : we attract it and are attracted by it.
This garment, this vehicle, this conductor, in which the
primal force which produces all exists, is, in a word,
light, and presents to us the characteristic traits of all
natures.
We radiate light according to the measure of our
affection; we are recognised by this light, and we are
attracted by all affectionate and radiating natures. By
means of an imperceptible movement, giving a cer¬
tain direction to our rays, we can incite, in sympa¬
thetic natures, more humane ideas, excite actions,
awaken nobler and more elevated sentiments. But we
cannot force or command any one, nor impose our will
on any independent or unsympathetic mind. The free
will of man is sacred to us. It is impossible for us to
communicate one single ray of our pure light to a
nature wanting in sensibility; such a man does not
possess any sense or organ capable of being acted upon
' * This corresponds to the crowns seen by Mrs. A. (a distinguished
medium and clairvoyante; above the heads of persons in society.—
TBANSIiAIQB.
by us. On the degree of a man’s susceptibility (permit
me to repeat it in each of my letters) depends his
aptitude to receive light, his sympathy with all luminous
natures, and with their primordial prototype.
From the absence of light comes the want of power
to approach the source of the light, while millions of
luminous natures can be attracted by one sympathetic
soul. The man Jesus, resplendent in light and love,
was the luminous centre that attracted unceasingly
towards him legions of angels. Dark and selfish
natures attract sombre, gross, and evil spirits, themselves
deprived of light, and are still more poisoned by their
influence, whilst loving natures become purer and more
loving by their contact with good and loving spirits.
Jacob, in his sleep, filled with pious thoughts and
feelings, saw the angels of the Lord advance in crowds
towards him, while the darkened state of the soul of
Judas Iscariot permitted, or gave power to the chief of
dark spirits, to penetrate into the dark atmosphere of
his unloving and evil nature. Kadiant spirits abound
where they find an Elysium, whilst legions of dark
spirits gather around a sympathetic, darkened mind
and nature.
My well beloved, meditate well on what I am going
to tell you; you will find numerous illustrations of my
teachings in the Biblical books, which contain truths
still intact, also instruction of the highest importance
touching the rapport existing between mortals and
immortals—between the material world and the spiritual.
It only depends on yourself to receive the influence
of good and loving spirits, or to drive them from you.
You may attract and keep them near you, or you may
drive them from you. It depends on you alone to
render me more or less happy. You must now under¬
stand that all pure loving souls become happier when
they meet with a being as loving as themselves; that
the happiest and purest of beings becomes less happy
when he perceives a decrease of love, and that the ab¬
sence of this sentiment renders it difficult, or often
impossible, to communicate.
If you wish to make me still happier, become still
better; by this means you will make me radiant with
happiness, and you will be able to sympathise still more
intimately with all luminous and immortal natures.
They will hasten to approach you; their light will
unite itself with yours, and yours with theirs; their
presence will render you purer, more radiant, more
inspired. And—what may seem to you difficult to believe,
yet is not the less positive—they also, by the effect of
the light shining forth from within you, will become
more luminous, more joyous, and by the effect of yopr
love, still more loving.
(To be continued.)
The Maeyiebone Association.-—On Wednesday night
last, Mr. James Thornton Hoskins, M.A., made a speech
before the Marylebone Society, on “ Spiritualism and Psycho¬
logy,’’ at The Hall, 90, Church-street, Paddington, W. The
aim of the lecture was to show that while Mr. Serjeant Cox’s
psychic theory covered part of the ground, it by no means
accounted for all the facts. It was unquestionably true that
frequently the force was directed unconsciously by the intelli¬
gence of some human being in the room. Hence the necessity
for greater caution, a more stringent application of tests, and
an abstinence from hasty inferences. Various facts were given
by the lecturer in support of both the psychic and supramun-
dane theories. The relations of the psychic element to states
of ponderable or imponderable matter were expatiated upon,
and after a short discussion, the proceedings closed with a
hearty vote of thanks to both lecturer and chairman.
A!pril 10, 1874.
^HE SPIRITUALIST.
171
“ THREADING MY WAY.”
Me. Robert Dale Owen, who has done so much good
for the cause of Spiritualism by his literary labours, has
just written an autobiography entitled Threading my
Way, published by Messrs. Triibner and Co. It is a
lively, interesting book, giving much information about
men and women of literary celebrity, and recording the
experiences of Mr. Owen up to the time when he first
became acquainted with Spiritualism. The more
spiritualistic writers are known to the public, the
better will it be for the cause j hence all their works
which may be of a meritorious nature should be as
widely circulated as possible, and the present is an ex¬
cellent book for the drawing-room table. We extract
from its pages the following description of
THE INSPIRATIONAL DISCOURSES OE EDWARD IRVING.
When I come to relate, as I propose to do, the origin and
progress of my connection, many years later in life, with the
Spiritual movement, there will be means of judging whether
my opinion touching intercommunion between two phases of
human existence is based on logical premisses, or is due to a
love of the marvellous, outrunning practical experience and
sound discretion.
Here I am reminded that, some thirty years before I myself
held this opinion, I came in contact with a noted person who
suffered severely, a few years after I saw him, for entertaining
somewhat similar views. I am not sure whether it was
during the visit to London of which I am now writing, or
during a previous visit in 1823, that I accompanied my father
to hear a remarkable sermon from a very remarkable man.
Few of the present generation think of the Rev. Edward
Irving except, perhaps, as a superstitious enthusiast; yet,
with all his eccentricities, he was a man eminently worth
knowing and listening to. Educated in the Scottish Church,
his powers as a public teacher, brilliant at once and logical,
were first discovered by Dr. Chalmers, whose assistant he was
for three years. Within a few months after he was called to
the Caledonian Church, Hatton Garden, London, he became
the most popular preacher of his day. Tickets of admission,
by which alone outsiders could have a chance to hear him,
were eagerly sought after ; and the two which admitted my
father and myself were obtained as a special favour. The
highest nobility, the most eminent men of science, literary
and fashionable celebrities, famous beauties, judges, distin¬
guished barristers, noted members of Parliament, all pressed
in crowds to his weekly services. We found every street that
led to his church literally encumbered with stylish equipages;
and though we had gone early, it was with great exertions
that we penetrated the excited throng, barely in time to get
seats.
But we were rewarded. The personal appearance of the
speaker at once arrested my attention. Over six feet high,
limbs and body finely proportioned, the ample forehead sur¬
mounted by a mass of jet-black hair parted in the centre and
dropping in curls on his shoulders : the features regular and
expressive, especially the piercing dark eyes (their effect
somewhat marred, however, by a squint) ; a stately bearing,
and a majestic style of eloquence, such as might befit an
apostle, conscious of a mission from on high ; gestures some¬
times, indeed, outre, even fantastic, yet often startmgly
emphatic,—everything about him was strange, strong, telling.
The man himself and his weird aspect at first engrossed one’s
thoughts; yet when he fairly warmed to his subject, and the
stirring tones of a voice at once persuasive and commanding
gradually asserted their magnetic power, one forgot the
speaker and all his peculiarities, listening, not to the words,
but to the thoughts, fiery and earnest,—thoughts, one instinc¬
tively felt, that had their origin down in the depths of con¬
scientious conviction.
Wedlock was the theme ; and it was treated by comparing
with the true marriage of soul and spirit, the fashionable
espousals, based on mercenary motive and worldly calculation.
First, he portrayed, in terms which lost none of their force
by quaint old terms of expression, the self-forgetting devotion
of two faithful hearts.—“ They see through a sweet glamour,”
he said, “ yet what they see is more real than all other sub¬
lunary things. How fair and pleasant are they to each other,
yea, altogether lovely I All that is blithe and beautiful upon
earth is the interpreter of their love. The voice of birds
echoes it. The flowers, fresh with heaven’s dew, are its
expounders. ‘ I am my beloved’s,* the virgin saith, * and my
beloved is mine.’ Her desire is unto him by day and night;
in dream her soul waketh to his image. He counts his life as
nothing for her sake : the world of happiness is where she is;
he has none other. Everthing about her has an unutterable
charm. Her eyes are dove’s eyes, and they overcome him ;
her breath is like the zephyr that has swept the spices of
Araby. Yet there is between them a mutual enchantment
far deeper, more holy, than any idolatry of person. When
they stand up at God’s altar, invoking on their young affection
ecclesiastical blessing, the inner cry is, ‘ O thou whom my
soul loveth!’ It is a mating of the spiritual and the eternal.
The Church but records vows long since plighted in the heart
of hearts ; and there is a transcript of the record in Heaven’s
chancery. God looks down, well pleased, for His children
have fulfilled His law.”
Much more in the same strain he said, and then he paused.
I awoke from the spell which his words had cast over me to a
consciousness of the breathless silence that h*i settled down
on that vast, dense audience. Every eye was strained on the
speaker, and for the moment I realised what I had heard said,
that Irving’s face, in some of his moods of benignant majesty,
recalled certain ideals of Christ, as rendered by the old
masters. But the moment after, the likeness had vanished.
The benignity was gone, replaced by a glance of scorn and
reprobation. When he first resumed, his tones were passion¬
less and stern, kindling, however, as he went on:—
“ Sometimes God has to look down on feelings and doings
far other than these. I see two men, hard-eyed, parchment¬
faced, seated over a table in a large, dingy office, amid dusty
tomes and time-stained documents. They are doctors of the
law. I hear them debating of moneys, stocks, securities,
estates in tail, messuages, settlements. Each is driving a
hard bargain with the other. They dispute, they wrangle,
they recriminate. Of a surety their clients must be adver¬
saries, disposed to sue each other at the law and take coat and
cloak and whatever else they can clutch. Nay, I am deceived 1
They seem to be gambling agents, adventuring heavy stakes ;
for I hear the advocate of one party casting birth and station
into the scale as weighty considerations; while the counsel
for the other offsets these with cash in bank and great expec¬
tations contingent on a life that has already stretched out to
threescore years and ten.
“ What is it all about ? Ah 1 it is a terrible desecration of
sacred things. It is a laying of sacrilegious hands on that
which is holy as the ark of the covenant, even upon human
love,—love, brighter than hope, greater than faith—love that
is more precious than rubies, fairer in its purity than the rose
of Sharon or the lily of the valley. Two immortal souls are
waiting, ere they decide the greatest of all life-questions, the
issue of that miserable squabble over earthly hoards. If the
hagglers who represent them can only agree, two young
hearts may be allowed to set about trying whether they can
manage to take a fancy for each other; or whether, dispensing
with fancy as a vain thing, they will suffer to be uttered the
solemn declaration that God Himself has joined them together
until death. Have they forgotten that He hears and sees
them ?
“ Let rank and fashion take thought, ere it is too late 1 Is
not the heart of every creature God has made a little temple
dedicate to Him, consecrate to His worship 1 But what shall
be done unto those who profane the dwelling of the Most
High,—money-changers in the Holy of Holies ? When God’s
Son walked the earth, what was the fate of such, at His hands 1
They were cast out,—cast out t Christ drove forth, as male¬
factors, those who bought and sold in the Temple, saying: ‘It
is written, My Father’s house shall be called the house of
prayer, but ye have made it a den of thieves.’ ”
Some of the words, as they linger in my memory, I have
given; but the voice, the gesture, the ardent, fearless bearing,
as of one having authority, cannot be transferred to paper. I
heard, through the death-like stillness with which the closing
denunciation was received, the rustle of rich silks, as if their
owners stirred uneasily on their seats.
Irving’s hold on the public mind was afterwards lost almost
as suddenly as it had been won. Certain remarkable pheno¬
mena, purporting to be words spoken under supernatual influ¬
ence, sometimes in English, sometimes in forms of language
unknown, appeared in his congregation, were accepted as real
and reported by Irving himself to Frazer's Magazine. They
were, doubtless, similar in character to what are now termed
Spiritual manifestations.
Thereupon this once celebrated preacher not only forfeited
' 172
THE SPIRITUALIST.
his popularity, but was deposed ou a charge of heresy, by the
Presbytery of Annan, his native place. Yet so sound a thinker
as Baden Powell expresses, in his paper among the Oxford
Essays, his conviction that the phenomena in question, though
not miraculous, were genuine.
OBJECTIONS TO THE EEALITY OF APPARITIONS
CONSIDERED.
Mr. George Harris, F.S.A., who first brought
Spiritualism formally under the notice of the new
London Anthropological Society by reading a paper
before it entitled, Tests Adapted to Determine the Truth
of Supernatural Phenomena, has since had the memoir
printed, and it may be obtained of the publishers,
Messrs. Balliere, Tindall, and Cox. The tests Mr.
Harris proposes for adoption to separate real from false
or inconclusive spiritual manifestations, are fair and
reasonable enough; the principles he lays down may
be used with advantage to separate the wheat from
the chaff. The following is an extract from the
pamphlet:—
With regard to the conclusions to be drawn from the whole,
and an impartial examination of a variety of cases of each
kind of the several descriptions alluded to best deserving of a
careful consideration, and applying to them the principles for
testing them which I have laid down, it appears to me that
the great majority of the instances of supposed ghosts and
apparitions, and visitations by voices or noises, as also by
dreams of a supernatural order, arise either from disease or
delusion of the senses, disordered imagination, superstitious
feeling, or imposture ; but that, after making a large and
liberal allowance for the occurrence of cases of this descrip¬
tion, there are, nevertheless, if these may be determined by
the tests which 1 have proposed, unquestionably some actual,
undoubted, and well-established cases of real ghosts aud appa¬
ritions, and of supernatural visitations and commlmications
by means of voices and dreams, the souls of departed persons
being permitted (for what purposes and on what occasions it
is vain for us to (attempt to discover) to present themselves
before certain individuals living upon the earth, and to com¬
municate to them certain facts of importance with which it is
desirable that they should be acquainted.
We should, moreover, here bear in mind that, although a
hundred cases of delusion or imposture will not serve to prove
that there are no real cases of supernatural visitations, one
case actually and conclusively proved of a supernatural visi¬
tation will serve absolutely to establish the existence of the
order.
The ingenious author of “ The History and Reality of Appa¬
ritions,” which has been ascribed to De Foe, concludes,
however, that the spirits of the departed are never permitted
to appear on earth ; but that whenever an apparition is seen,
the possibility of which he quite admits, he supposes it must
be either an angel or a devil assuming the shape of such de¬
parted person. Such a theory as this is, however, surely far
more improbable than the supposition of the real appearance
of the spirits themselves.
One person who contended against the reality of ghosts,
urged that the accounts given of them describe them as very
unreasonable in their conduct; and he suggests that, instead
of troubling private persons about their afiairs, they ought to
go at once to the magistrate of the district and lay their com¬
plaints before him. But, if such a course were to be followed,
I fear that very few persons would like to be in the Commission
of the Peace. The unpleasantness of being liable to be con¬
stantly disturbed at night, to say nothing of the disagreeable
character of the disturber, would effectually deter all timid,
nervous persons from acting as justices. Some complain of
the sudden, unceremonious manner in which it is the habit of
ghosts to disappear, without any formal leave-taking. But this
is surely a little unreasonable in those who object to their ap¬
pearance at all, and who ought, in all fairness, to be the better
pleased the quicker they part company. As ghosts do not re¬
quire to be shown down stairs, or even to have the door
opened for them, but are able to vanish through the wall, I
see no reason why they should not go away as abruptly as
they do.I'
Be Foe, too, is, I think, rather hard upon the poor ghosts—
April 10,1874
who would find it a difficult task to satisfy everybody—when
he says that, if they reveal some treasure occasionally, they
ought at once to discover all the treasure which they know is
lying hidden ; in fact, that they are morally bound to make a
clean breast of it, as regards the secrets of this nature
of which they are in possession. Surely, however, if they
felt called upon to undertake so vast a work, they
would have enough upon their hands, and nobody offers to
pay them the smallest trifle for all their labour. It seems
to me, indeed, that the ghosts have acted, on the whole, very
fairly and creditably in the matter. They have generally dis¬
covered treasure when some good or important object was to
be attained by doing so; and, when this was not the case,
they have very properly and judiciously let the treasure lie,
so that, at least, it will do no harm, if it does not do any good
to any one.
Among the early fathers of the Church, Origen conceived
that souls tainted with the guilt of flagrant crimes, and
not purged from their impurity, were either confined in a
species of limbo, or attached to particular parts, where,
within certain limits, they might ramble about at will.
Athanasius maintained that souls, when they were once re¬
leased from their bodies, held no more communion with mortal
men. Augustine, however, remarked, that if souls did actually
walk and visit their friends, he was convinced that his
mother, who had followed him by land and by sea, would have
shown herself to him, in order to inform him what she had
learned in another state, as well as to give him much useful
advice. But surely her not doing so was no conclusive argu¬
ment against the reality of apparitions. The good old lady
might naturally, perhaps, have thought that she had done
enough already for her son in the way of attending upon him,
or she may have considered that he did not require her ad-
dice. Possibly she may have found something better to
do, or she may not have been permitted to visit, him as he
expected.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Mr. R. Pearce, who for five years has been honorary
secretary to the St. John’s Association of Spiritualists,
Clerkenwell, recently sent in his resignation to the society,
but has since fortunately been induced to withdraw it, he
being one of the most active of its workers and supporters.
Having explained the personal reasons for sending in his
resignation, Mr. Pearce commented in his letter upon the past
and future of the St. John’s Association, as follows :—
I feel considerable pleasure in reviewing the work the
Association has done during the period it has existed, and
some pride in knowing that I have, in some degree, contributed
to what has been accomplished. These feelings, and the
knowledge that the Association was never in a better position
to enlarge its operations than at present, are my sufficient
reward for any trouble I have taken. I certainly do not
estimate at any slight value our past operations, but I feel
conscious that much more good could have been effected with
a little more zeal and energy.
I am reluctant to say any word at this time which should
appear to savour of fault-finding, but my anxiety for the
future welfare of the Association urges me to point out diffi¬
culties—or rather one great difficulty we have had in the past.
I refer to the apathy shown by many members to the affairs of
the society. It , is not sufficient that members should allow
their names to be on the books and pay a trifling subscription ;
it is requisite that they should take an active interest in the
welfare of the Association, and seek every opportunity of
assisting and sustaining the efforts of the committee. The
Association is based on the principles of co-operation, and
will only prosper in proportion as each individual member
strives to carry out its objects. More than once all responsi¬
bility and all the work has devolved on one or two individuals,
and even members of the committee have failed to devote
that attention to the Association which their position as its
officers should have made it incumbent on them to do. I
trust no difficulties of this kind will impede the work of the
society in future.
I have said that the Association is in a better position at
present to enlarge its work than it has ever before been, and
I need only refer to the success of the Sunday services, and
state that we have more members at present than there have
been at any previous time, to prove the truth of this state-
April 10, 1874.
THU SPIRITUALIST.
173
ment. I would therefore earnestly urge on the members to
bind themselves more firmly together, and to strengthen the
foundation of the Association in such a manner that you may
still be the foremost and most useful, as you are the oldest,
and in the past have not, at any rate, been the least of the
London local societies. This can only be effected by each
member doing his individual part, and by the members col¬
lectively working in that harmony which can only result from
mutual forbearance as regards all minor matters, in the pre¬
sence of the great field of work open to you and the noble
ends to be attained.
Our Rule 2 states that the Association seeks in the first
place to work for the outside world—the sceptics and seekers
after the truth of Spiritualism; and secondly, the mutual
benefit of the members. It seems to me that these objects
can best be attained by three separate modes of operation.
1st. Public Sunday services are most important in awaken¬
ing the thought and interest of outsiders, as well as having a
good educational result on members themselves. I trust,
therefore, that these meetings, carried on so successfully at
present, will be permanently continued.
2nd. Weekly meetings for members only are essential for
the attainment of the second object stated in the rule I have
referred to. These I think should be strictly confined to
members, and should be entirely for the educational culture
and mutual improvement of the members. I have always sug¬
gested that our week night meetings should consist of lectures,
discussions, conferences, reading of papers, narrations of ex¬
perience, and friendly conversation. They might perhaps be
occasionally varied by seances with good developed and estab¬
lished mediums. Nor should the resources the members
have in their own library be overlooked under this head.
3rd. A branch of work that has not hitherto been taken
up in the manner it deserves, appears to me to be well worthy
of your attention. I refer to the founding of new private
circles in the immediate neighbourhood of your sphere of
work, and the holding of seances at the houses of members
with & mutual interchange of attendance at the same. As to
the former, a sub-committee might be appointed—not to force
the phenomena on strangers, but to seek out such as are de¬
sirous to investigate the facts at their own homes but do not
know how to set about it, or are perhaps unacquainted
with the necessary number of persons willing to join them
in forming a circle. Taking the names and addresses of
such strangers the sub-committee could bring together
those living nearest each other, or such as appeared most
fitted to form a successful circle, and if required to do so, a
member of the sub-committee might assist them in the initia¬
tory stage of their investigation. With respect -to the
members’ seances, -onv might be for developing, one for
healing, and another a physical circle. Thus all those higher
phenomena heard of elsewhere might be obtained by you, and
all that is worth seeking after be found amongst yourselves.
The sub-committee before referred to might, at their discretion,
admit inquirers at any new circle formed by them, to the
members’ circles, or the mediums developed at members’
circles could give occasional aid to the circles of investigators.
I am quite convinced that the only way to satisfy strangers
of the truths of Spiritualism is for them to be convinced of
the genuineness of spirit manifestations at their own homes
and with their own friends. I think that the holding of
public seances by the Association can do very little if any
good, in this direction.
I have noticed a great desire expressed by some of you to
make the Thursday meetings consist entirely of seances, and
to admit strangers thereto. All our previous experience points
to the futility of this. Using no discretion as to the persons
present,—and indeed, if seances are made free you can have no
check on the influences brought together,—you at once open the
door for your own failure. There is also a desire to encourage
the attendance of undeveloped mediums at such meetings with
an idea of developing their incipient mediumship. Surely this is
a great mistake. If free seances sxq held, and advertised as it
is suggested yours should be, they ought, at least, to be placed
under the care of a well developed and thoroughly reliable
medium, and carried out under more strict regulations than
any I have heard proposed. I also think that partially deve¬
loped mediums should be strictly excluded, or invited to
absent themselves from such public seances. I have seen
more harm done by the ridiculous antics and frivolous mani¬
festations given through an undeveloped medium at a mixed
public seance than could be compensated for by many good
seances., , For the sake of young mediums themselves, I would
ask them to be careful of such meetings. Their mediumship
cannot be improved, but may be much injured by attendance
thereat.
Another suggestion I have heard mooted is that our Sunday
platform should be occupied by mediums only. I cannot say
a word in disparagement of the addresses we have had at
G-oswell Hall from mediums under [spirit influence. Those
addresses have been admirable ones ; but I certainly think it
desirable to vary such addresses by lectures from some of the
gentlemen who so ably occupy the field in the cause of
Spiritualism. To some of these gentlemen we are under great
obligations for their past aid, and others are as willing to give
their services to us. I do not think you would exclude from
your platform those of whose ability and usefulness we have
had good proof.
Lastly, I would urge on you to make the Association a more
local one, both as regards its work and its members. It should
be advertised more effectually in its immediate neighbourhood,
and new members should be sought within the sphere of its
legitimate work. Its officers, especially, should be residents
of the district, so that in deed, as well as in name, the society
may be a local association of Spiritualists.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
At a meeting of the British National Association of
Spiritualists held on Monday, 30th March, Mr. and Mrs.
George Nelson Strawbridge, Annandale, Upper Norwood,
and Mrs. Fitzgerald, 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park,
were elected members of the Council.
The Prince Emile von Sayn Wittgenstein sent a
courteous acceptance of honorary membership.
Miss Anna Blackwell, in a letter dated March 7th,
writes thus to the secretaries:—“ I beg you to be good
enough to transmit to the Council of the Association my
thanks for the honour they have done me, and to assure
them of my cordial good wishes for the success of their
endeavour to secure for the furtherance of the all un¬
important aim they have in view, the strength that comes
of union ’'
The Association now numbers 107 members, ten of
whom are honorary and corresponding members in
various parts of the world.
Applications are continually made to the secretaries
for copies of the constitution and rules; and inquiries
are coming in from all quarters.
Those who are desirous of learning what are the ob¬
jects and aims of this Association will do well to attend
the soiree ; tickets are obtainable by all, and are by no
means especially reserved for members or their friends.
Death-bed Ciaibatjdience.—The following incident,
which took place only a week or two ago, is authentic, and the
details may be relied upon as accurate, although we cannot get
permission to publish names :—About a week ago Mrs. M.
passed away. She awoke from a tranquil sleep and said, “ I
have been listening to most beautiful singing—the most
beautiful I ever heard.” Her daughter said, “ Who was sing¬
ing, mother ?” She replied, “ Maria L.,” who was a young
girl who had paid a visit to her three years before, and who
sang beautifully; she afterwards left the county, and married.
A letter has since reached the f ^un y, stating M. L. passed
away from earth a week before Mrs. M., and previous to dying
expressed an anxious wish to see her father. On his arrival,
as he entered the room, she exclaimed, “ Oh, father, I only
waited to see you ere I die.” Her father gave her a rose from
her own garden. As she took it in her hand she burst into
song, and continued singing song after song until she expired.
A warm discussion on Spiritualism is going on in the
English Mechanic, a journal which has a wide circulation
among thinking artizans, and the editor is giving a fair
hearing to both sides of the question. Mr. Fitz-Gerald, Mr.
T. Slater, Dr. Hitchman, and others, are taking part in the
debate. Mr. Yarley’s article, from The Spiritualist, has been
republished in the English Mechanic.
174
THE SPIBITTJALIST.
April 10, 1874,
THE SOIREE OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
Preparations for the soiree of the British National
Association of Spiritualists, to be held next Thursday
at the Cleveland Hall, are going on with great activity.
A gentleman, who has a valuable collection of photo¬
graphs of persons and places, has kindly placed them
at the service of the committee for decorating or laying
on the tables.
The musical arrangements are in the hands of some
amateur ladies and gentlemen of distinguished ability,
who have kindly volunteered their services.
There will be ample time for tea and friendly con¬
versation before the President for the evening takes the
chair.
Yarious opinions will be represented on the platform,
as the National Association knows no distinction of sect
or creed.
The committee will be grateful to any friends who
will assist by sending ferns or plants in pots to Cleve¬
land Hall, on the morning of Thursday, 16th, previous
notice being given' to Mrs. T. Everitt, Lilian Yilla,
Holder’s Hill, Hendon, or to Miss Kislingbury, 93,
Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
There will be a cloak room for ladies to lay aside
their bonnets, but evening dress is not de rigueur.
THE SUNDAY SERYICES AT CLEVELAND HALL.
Last Sunday evening, Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan delivered
another inspirational discourse at the Cleveland-hall, Cleve¬
land-street, Portland-road, under the presidency of Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe. There was a large attendance.
Mr. Thomas Slater said a few words before the proceed¬
ings began, to the effect that it was six months since Mrs.
Tappan began the delivery of inspirational lectures in Lon¬
don ; her addresses had been of good quality, and of con¬
siderable value to the movement, so he hoped that Spiritualists
would take action, and enable the committee of managers to
secure her assistance for another year.
Mrs. Tappan, after the delivery of an inspirational prayer,
said that on that evening (Easter Sunday) there was rejoicing
throughout all Christian lands, at the termination of the
season of fasting and prayer observed by devout believers.
These customs had their origin in the far East, in very ancient
times, for Easter was the end of the winter months, the end
of a period of darkness, the end of the season of sacrifices to
those gods who had no particular love for humanity; the time
of fasting which is now observed in Christian churches, had
been also previously observed in the rites of pagan
nations. The similarity of religious observances at the
same period among various nations, seemed to show that
many of the great religions of the earth derived their
inspiration and spiritual life from the same source,
and at the present time the English were using sym¬
bols in worship, although they condemned the worship of
symbols in Pagan lands. She then went on to condemn the
materialism of the age, which she described as a glittering
temple, as a magnificent temple of power built of man’s intel¬
lect, as the Antichrist which threatened to usurp the place of
the living loving spirit. Beneath all the grandeur of the mag¬
nificent city of London, there were caverns in which young
lives were held in both physical and spiritual darkness,
crushed down in the haunts of poverty and shame. Many
also who walk the earth freely were immured in sepulchres
and tombs in spirit; misdirected intellect after building up its
glittering palaces of materialism, and giving to man the con¬
sciousness of individual strength, made him cold and lifeless,
devoid of soul, a spectacle of spiritual starvation. The spirits
above were looking down in compassion upon the scene, long¬
ing to communicate some of the impulses of that love which
was their very life.
Some more hymns were sung, and Mrs. Tappan delivered
an inspirational poem.
Mr. Dawe then announced that the Sunday evening lectures
at the Cleveland Hall would be continued as heretofore.
Mrs. H. D. Jencken (Kate Fox) was present, and now and
then her spirits emphasised some of Mrs. Tappan’s remarks by
triple raps, which could be heard nine or ten yards away.
PRIYATE SEANCES.
SEANCE AT MB. LITXMOOBE’s—MISS SHOWERS AND THE
SPIRIT FLORENCE SEEN AT THE SAME TIME.
Several weeks ago Mrs. Showers, of Teignmouth,
put on record in several articles in this journal some
very remarkable spiritual manifestations which she had
witnessed in the privacy of her own home, through the
mediumship of her daughter. Her remarkable experi¬
ences awakened so deep an interest in her mind in the
subject of Spiritualism, that during the past two or
three months Mrs. and Miss Showers have been in
London for the sole purpose of seeing what they could
of spiritual phenomena, and they return home this
week. Miss Showers, who is seventeen years of age, is
the daughter of Colonel Charles Lionel Showers, late
political agent at the Courts of Odeypoor and Gwalior,
which offices are among the highest connected with
the Government of India. Colonel Showers is ex¬
pected back in England very shortly, and for some time
past he has remained in India for the purpose of trying
experiments in connection with the cultivation of
cotton in that country. He is the brother of the late
General Showers, C.B., who distinguished himself
during the Indian mutiny, more especially in several
engagements before Delhi, in one of which engage¬
ments he was wounded. He commanded Fort William,
at Calcutta, for some years before his death. As
already stated, Mrs. Showers is at present residing in
Devonshire, and the seance described in the following
letter took place in the town house of one of the
Justices of the Peace for that county, Mr. J. C. Lux-
moore:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sib,—On Sunday, the 29th of March last, I had the pleasure
of being present at the memorable seance at Hackney, when
Mr. Crookes obtained the “absolute proof”—so dear to the
scientific mind—of the identity of the spirit Katie apart from
that of her medium, Miss Cook. Mr. Crookes has duly re¬
corded the result of his interesting experiments in your pages,
and I need only say that myself and the others present were
gratified at his success, as his outspoken testimony will go far
to establish the validity of the “ materialisations,” and tend to
the discomfiture of certain unscrupulous persons, who for some
time past have sedulously endeavoured by word and deed to
injure the character of an amiable young lady, and throw dis¬
credit upon the wonderful manifestations obtained through
her mediumship.
I did not think, that so soon afterwards, I should myself
receive similar corroborative proof through another gifted
medium; but as I have been so fortunate,.a short narrative of
the circumstances may interest your readers.
The day after the seance above referred to, Mr. Luxmoore
kindly invited me to his residence, 16, Gloucester-square,
Hyde Park, W., to meet Mrs. and Miss Showers, who in ful¬
filment of a long-standing promise paid him a first visit that
evening. Miss Showers, after dinner, kindly offered to give a
seance, and we adjourned to the drawing-room upstairs.
The ladies not having been in the house before, we thought it
right to ask the spirits what manifestations we should sit for.
We sat round a table in the back drawing-room, and were
immediately directed by loud raps, which came alternately on
the table, the floor, and the back of the medium’s chair—to
sit for the “ full form. ” Accordingly, the back drawing-room
was made a cabinet in the usual way (as minutely described
by Mr. Yarley in his recent article) by half closing the folding
doors, and hanging a curtain over the space left open. Mr.
Luxmoore then locked all the other doors, and placed the
medium in an easy chair inside the back room close to the
curtain. Miss Showers was dressed in a high black silk
gown, with white lace round the sleeves and throat, and
having seen her comfortably seated, we went into the outer
room and sat just outside the curtain. The large solar lamp
was burning brightly, and there was a blazing fire in the
grate. There was excellent light during the whole of the
seance which followed, and it is worthy of remark that we
THE SPIRITUALIST
175
April 10, 1874.
were only directed to lower the lamp a little once—for about
five minutes space—during the whole time.
Almost directly we sat down, the plaintive voice of the
spirit Florence was heard. On asking her if conditions were
good, she said they were very good, and stepped out at once
before us. She was dressed in the usual flowing white robes,
with a long veil over her head and shoulders, but not over
her face. She had a small white covering over her head, but
no hair was visible, except just across the forehead. (Miss
Showers wears her hair long, and it comes below her
shoulders.) There was the usual resemblance in features to
her medium, which, however, became less perceptible as the
seance progressed. The eyes of the spirit were much larger,
and remained open and fixed. After greeting us all, Florence
went back to her cabinet, and an amusing and voluble dis¬
cussion took place between her and the spirit Peter inside.
Peter evidently wished to show himself, but at length, after
some comical grumbling, gave way to Florence, who then
came out again, and in answer to Mr. Luxmoore, said that
shortly we should see her and her medium together. Mrs.
Showers then went to the piano and played a slow march, to
which Florence and Peter sang together, and in alternate bars.
The voices were very fine, and harmonised beautifully. We
then resumed our seats, and Florence, raising the curtain,
asked me to go inside and look at her medium, at the same
time directing me to hold up the curtain to let in the light.
I did so, and stood just before Miss Showers, who was lying
back entranced in her easy chair, in her black dress, with the
white lace round the sleeves and throat. Florence, in her
white robes, stood’close to my left hand, in the full light from
the outer room, that came in as I stood with the curtain
raised in my right hand. I asked that I might throw the cur¬
tain quite back, so that I might distinctly see the medium’s
features. Florence said it would be dangerous to do so then,
but that at a future seance I should be allowed to bring a
lamp or candle into the cabinet with me for that purpose.
I carefully looked at the medium and Florence, and satisfied
myself, beyond a doubt, as to their separate identity. After
scrutinising both for about five minutes, Florence took my
left arm with her right hand, and raising with her left hand
the left arm of Miss Showers from her lap, touched my hand
against that of the medium, and held them together for about
six seconds. The medium then gave a slight start and moaned.
Florence told me to go outside, and I did so, and resumed my
seat. During the whole time I was in the cabinet, I held back
the curtain to admit as much light as was permitted.
Florence and Peter repeatedly spoke to me. Peter was not
visible, but his deep voice appeared to come from behind the
medium, some distance above her. Peter said that I should
be able to get still further tests in the future, and that I was
to testify to what I had witnessed, which I promised to do.
Florence was rather indignant with me for saying that I could
not see the features of the medium clearly without more light,
and rated me in no measured terms, but at length was
pacified, and also gave me the promise I have referred to
above.
Mr. Luxmoore then went into the cabinet for about three
minutes, and wishes me to state that his experiences were
similar to mine. A like promise as to future seances was also
given to him, and he was instructed what kind of lamp to
procure for further experiments.
We were then told to go and sit on the sofa'at the other
side of the room. We did so, Florence walking out after us.
She expressed great delight at the size of the room, and said
she felt quite at home. I walked up to her, and was permitted
to kiss her hand. She then started on a tour of inspection
round the room, examining the furniture, pictures, and the
albums and books on the tables. She took a cup of tea from
the side table and put it to her lips, saying that it was “ cold
and very nasty.” Finally, she came and sat down on the
sofa by the side of Mr. Luxmoore, but complained of our
staring too fixedly at her, and said we were to turn away our
gaze. Florence then told us to lower the lamp a little and
place it on the piano, and she sat down and played with great
feeling and exquisite touch some music that was strange to
me., It is no disparagement to say that Miss Showers, who is
a fair pianiste, is completely surpassed by her wonderful
familiar. Florence then made a further tour round the room,
and at last retired to the curtain, where, at my request, she
stood to be measured against the folding-door. Her height
exceeded that of the medium by fully three inches. She
seemed loath to leave, but said she must, at length, as the
power was fast diminishing. We thanked her and Peter
(who during the whole seance had joined in, the conversation,
and expressed his opinions very freely); and Florence, wishing
us all adieu, walked behind her curtain. After an interval of
five or six minutes the medium awoke and came out of the
cabinet. She said she had been asleep the whole time, and
was quite unconscious of what had taken place. This excel¬
lent seance lasted one hour and ten minutes.
The above account is abbreviated from my shorthand notes
made immediately after the seance, as indeed are all the
accounts of the kind that I send for publication; as I consider
it desirable, for the sake of accuracy in these important
matters, to trust to memory as little as possible.
In conversation with the spirits Peter and Florence, I have
been told—with the usual vagueness of detail—that the mani¬
festations through Miss Showers are produced in the same
way as those given through Miss Cook. Asking Peter why I
could not yet bring a light with me into the cabinet to see
the medium fully, he replied—“ The light destroys the pecu¬
liar trance condition in which we have to place the medium
during these manifestations ; it causes a sudden shock, which
undoes all our work, and injures her.”
I also asked him what the result would be if the mate¬
rialised form were seized or detained by the sitters 1 Peter’s
reply was—“ It would kill my medium; whoever did such a
thing would be her murderer.” George Robert Tapp.
18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, London, N.
SEANCE AT MR. BIRD’S—SPIRIT IDENTITY—TRANCE AND
CLAIRVOYANCE.
The seance about to be described took place at the
house of Mr. Earl Bird, 11, Park-grove, Shepherd’s-
lane, Brixton, S.W., through the non-professional
mediumship of Mrs; Bird, who for some years has been
a good trance and clairvoyant medium. During her
seances she does not entirely lose consciousness; at the
moment of waking up she does not remember what
she has seen and said, but in the course of an hour or
two the memory of it all comes back to her. When
symbolical and other visions are presented to her, she
criticises what she sees while it is before her eyes j
pften when she thinks that unreliable visions or com¬
munications are given to her, or that they may be in
some way the product of her own mind, she battles
against the influence, and sometimes flatly refuses to
state what she is urged to reveal. Yet in not a few
instances coming events have been accurately revealed
to her; she has also sometimes clairvoyantly seen and
accurately described events taking place many scores of
miles away.
Of the following seance Mr. W. H. Harrison, of
Wilmin Yilla, Chaucer-road, Herne-hill, S.E., says
On Thursday, March 26th, a lady well known to leading
London Spiritualists, and who had long been suffering from
consumption, passed to the higher life. A few days previously
she had purchased an album as a present to Mrs. Bird, and on
the Monday after her death I took the album to Brixton and pre¬
sented it to Mrs. Bird. Mrs. Bird asked in a serious tone
after the health of the donor, and when I told her that her
friend had departed from earth life, she seemed in no way sur¬
prised, but [immediately opened a drawer and placed in my
hands some pencil notes taken by one of the sitters at her
seance on the preceding Sunday evening, March 29th. At
that seance the departed one professed to communicate, and
Mrs. Bird—who did not believe thatjshe had quitted the body,
for she thought that she would last for some weeks longer—
imagined the message to be a deceptive one, and for
some time she fought with all her might against the influence
controlling her, whereby the seance was considerably shortened,
and the intended revelations abridged. Both Mr. and Mrs.
Bird state that they had no knowledge of the death of the lady
until it was revealed at the semce, and then they were afraid
that the revelation was not true ; as Mr. and Mrs. Bird are per¬
sonally well-known and respected as truthful upright people
by all the leading Spiritualists in Brixton, their testimony on
this point is all that is necessary. Mrs. Bird said that she
was so afraid that the message was all false, that she dreaded
when I entered the house to put the question as to the state
of the health of the lady.
The following are the statements made at the seance
176
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 10, 1874.
held on Sunday, March 29th, and which were written
down by Mr. Stephens as Mrs. Bird uttered them :—
I cannot get any further; they stop my way completely;
they cluster about me like bees. What am I to do ? It rings
in my ears everywhere, and yet I cannot be fully convinced
that it is so. I cannot understand it sufficiently to be sure. I
wish they would take it away, but there it is, and nothing
else. Why am I compelled, and who is it that forces me to
speak ? I must either talk about this or there is nothing else
for me.
I’ll tell you what I see, and then perhaps that will satisfy
the importunate spirit who commands me to say what I do
not believe, and what I don’t think is right.
A beautiful— [Here Mrs. Bird broke, off; a feeling of faint¬
ness came over Tier and pains in the throat and chest. After the
lapse of about five minutes, she continued—]
I have seen the spirit of a friend of mine taken away. I
Wish I could tell what it is that stops me. I saw the beautiful
ones descend upon what looked to me a silvery cloud, and
they stood clustering about me in white and shining raiment;
they lifted what appeared to be a silvery veil, and I found
they were waiting to bear somebody away, for each of them
held a part. The faint and deathlike feeling that comes over
me prevents me from describing this vision.
I have no doubt the spirit influencing me was a friend of
Mrs. , who wished me to describe the scene of her death.
The air is filled with voices telling me she has passed away
into rest; still I doubt it myself, and I want the thing
taken away from me, and I have resisted its coming all the
time.
I see her very plainly now, standing out from the rest at
the foot of a hill, with a bright light falling down upon her
and surrounding her, and that which I thought to be a silver
cloud is thrown about her, draping her from head to foot,
falling in ample folds, and having a kind of train behind.
Her head is thrown back, and with a joyous look upon her
face she beckons me to follow her up this hill, but I cannot
do that, so I shall leave her there and ask what it all means.
Looking at her as I do, she seems to me to be released from
the body, and clothed upon with a spiritual garment, standing
in the light of a new sphere, and ready to go away higher,
when those bright ones shall close around her again, for they
fell back so that I might see who it was they wished me to look
upon.
I’ll give you in a few words now what I have seen and felt,
and then I think they will take it from me. I first saw this
appearance of a silver cloud. Descending and floating down
with it, and wrapped about by it I saw those lovely guides of
whom I spoke just now. They came very close to me, sur¬
rounding me, and with the pressure upon me came the im¬
pression that Mrs. was here at my left shoulder; voices
everywhere told me so, and urged me to speak it. I refused;
and in consequence became very uncomfortable, the bright
spirits going further from me, and the feeling of faintness and
death creeping over me, so that I struggled with it for a while,
trying to put it aside, thinking it to be something in the future.
But with all the effort to put it from me, I saw the spirit of
her I named standing there beckoning me, and I knew no
more.
That is gone.
The importunate spirit 1 spoke of was her son. I am
confused whether or not it has actually taken place; the spirit
says she has passed away.
SEANCE AT MR. CROOKES’—SPIRIT FORMS—SPIRIT LIGHTS.
Mr.'William Crookes, F.R.S., of 20, Mornington-road,
London, N.W., writes to ns as follows about some
recent seances in his house:—
“ You can mention that Miss Cook’s ‘Katie’ has been
walking about in my laboratory along with the Miss
Showers’ f Florence,’ with their^ arms entwined school¬
girl fashion, and in a strong light. Katie has also
materialised and spoken when I have been in the cabi¬
net with Miss Cook, holding her hand; but, being dark,
I could see nothing except lights here and there, one of
which settled on my coat-sleeve.”
SEANCE AT MR. ROGERS’—MRS. EVERITT’S MEDIUM SHIP.
Mrs. T. Everitt, of Holder’s-hill, Hendon, K.W.,
has for years been known as a good and reliable non¬
professional medium in connection with Spiritualism.
Mr. E. D. Rogers, of Dalyell-road, Stockwell, has
favoured us with the following account of a seance
through her mediumship:—
To the Editor ofil The Spiritualist.”
Sir,—Last Sunday I had the honour and gratification of a
visit from Mr. and Mrs. Everitt, and as Mrs. Everitt was so
kind as to give me a seance, you will not be surprised to learn
that I had a very enjoyable time of it. The sitters included
Mr. and Mrs. Everitt, my wife and self, and our two sons and
two daughters. We had no new phenomena, but such as we
had were given us in perfection. The perfumes, borne on cool
refreshing breezes, were exquisite—sometimes almost over¬
powering. The lights were abundant and very brilliant—
several frequently appearing at the same moment—and, in
reply to questions they gave affirmative answers, sometimes
by twinkling thrice, sometimes by dividing themselves into
three. The spirit John Watt talked with us for half an hour
with the direct voice ; so did Znippy; and a dear daughter of
mine in the other life addressed a few words to us very clearly
and distinctly. During the singing of a hymn Znippy took
the bass part admirably, the medium’s voice being audible at
the same time. Mrs. Everitt, indeed, was awake all the
evening, and joined freely in the conversation with John and
Znippy. The raps often came in showers, and for several
minutes the whole room quivered, shaking the floor, chairs,
tables, and sitters. I know of no greater treat than a sitting
with Mrs. Everitt, as her spirit friend John Watt is not only
genial, but intellectual, and apparently enjoys most
thoroughly a chat on deep and sacred subjects.
Of course your readers are pretty generally aware that Mr.
Everitt has kindly lectured in many places, very acceptably,
on the interesting topic of his wonderful Spiritual experiences.
I am happy to tell you that in conversation with him I ascer¬
tained his readiness to accept invitations to lecture in any
part of London, gratuitously, where an audience can be got
together. I shall be glad to join any friends in this district
in securing his valuable services for a lecture in Stockwell or
Brixton. E. DAWSON ROGERS.
29, Dalyell-road, Stockwell.
April 4, 1874.
SEANCE AT PROFESSOR BHTLEROW’S, ST. PETERSBURG—
MR. HOME’S MEDITJMSHIP—MOVEMENT OF SOLID OBJECTS
WITHOUT CONTACT WITH ANYTHING VISIBLE.
Two or three years ago, and a few days after the
Emperor of Russia had seen a spirit hand through Mr.
Home’s mediumship, Mr. D. D. Home delivered a lec¬
ture on Spiritualism at St. Petersburg, which nobody
could have been permitted 'to do without the direct or
indirect sanction of the highest political authorities.
At that lecture, Professor Butlerow, carried away by
the excitement of the moment, rose, and publicly stated
that he himself had witnessed some of the unbelievable
phenomena described by Mr. Home. All these inte¬
resting details were immediately placed on record in
the Spiritualist, in an article written by the Hon. Alex¬
andre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor at St.
Petersburg, and Chevalier of the Order of S. Stanislas:
But in a country like Russia, where there is so little
freedom, those who publicly testify that Spiritualism
is true, probably do not find life to be a bed of roses.
M. Aksakof, however, works steadily and imperturbably
for the cause in the midst of external unfavourable
conditions; year by year almost, he translates and pub¬
lishes in Germany some standard English or American
work on Spiritualism, for the press censorship will not
allow him to do all that he desires to do in Russia; he is
also the editor of a monthly journal on the subject, called
Psychic Studies, and published at Leipsig. A man of
science in the midst of such an adverse atmosphere is in a
much more disagreeable position than a gentleman like
M. Aksakof; the former, having a scientific reputation
to maintain, cannot so well afford to snap his fingers at
the opinions of his colleagues, nor so easily escape that
April 10, 1874.
HI SPIRITUALIST?.
177
biting unspiritual sarcasm which hard materialists and
mathematicians of a low order of mind are able to
throw, backed by all the force of intellect. Hence, it
is easy to imagine that Professor Butlerow’s experiences
may not have been of a pleasant description of late. In
fact, a stiff-necked unbeliever, one Professor Czermak,
has attacked Spiritualism in general and Professor
Butlerow in particular, in a recent lecture on Eypnotis-
mus, to which the latter has just replied in a long
letter in Psychic /Studies; the reply is of the usual
stereotyped nature of answers to such attacks, and Pro¬
fessor Butlerow appeals again and again to the testi¬
mony of three or four eminent physicists in support of
his views. At the request of M. Aksakof, Mr. H. D.
Jencken, Barrister-at-Law, of Goldsmith-buildings,
Temple, E.C., has kindly translated Professor Butle¬
row’s letter for us, but we quote only that part which
is of more more than local interest, namely, an account
of a seance held in the presence of, and described by,
M. Butlerow, who is a professor of chemistry at the
University of St. Petersburg, and a member of the
Imperial Bussian Academy of Sciences:—
. The sea/nce, through, the mediumship of Mr. D. D. Home,
was held in my own house, and in my study ; hence I was
sure that no mechanical means had been used. All present
were well known to me ; we were seated round a small square
table covered with a woollen table-cloth, two lighted stearine
candles being placed on the table ; the room was thus well
illuminated. No other persons, save those seated at the table,
were in the room at the time. After several minor manifesta¬
tions had occurred, which, however, I will not describe, a
piece of furniture which stood isolated at the other end of the
room, all of a sudden moved; it was a large arm-chair, on four
castors. It stood at a distance of from one and a-half to two
metres from the table at which we were seated. The two
forelegs of the chair raised themselves without contact with
any living being, and in this inclined position the arm¬
chair rolled up to our table. After its arrival it made several
irregular movements, and then quieted down, taking the open
space between Mr. Home and another gentleman, and all but
touching the corner of our table.
A little later on Mr. Home took a hand-bell which had been
placed on the table we were seated at, and held the bell close
to the edge and on a level with the table—both the bell and
Mr. Home’s hands were clearly visible by the light of the
candles. After a few seconds the bell left Mr. Home’s hand,
and remained suspended in space without coming into contact
with the table, the woollen cloth, or the arm-chair. The
gentleman sitting next the arm-chair was able to observe the
bell closely as it remained suspended in space. I may state
that this gentleman is a man advanced in years, and well
known as a Russian author. He only made Mr. Home’s ac¬
quaintance a short time previously, being anxious to avail
himself of the opportunity of witnessing these singular
phenomena.
I was seated at the time on the opposite side of the table.
Whilst the bell was thus suspended1,1 stood up and saw the
upper portion of the bell as it rested suspended without con¬
tact, in space. After a short pause the bell lowered itself
down upon Mr. Home’s knee, remaining for a short time
motionless; it then rose in the air a second time, finally
settling down upon the arm of the arm-chair. During the
whole of the time, the bell remained within the area of the
well lighted space near the table. While all this was taking
place, Mr. Home’s handsjwere at some distance from the bell,
and the bell was not touched by anybody.
The Banner of Light of March 21st contains a very long
and careful summary of the facts relating to spirit forms in
England. It gives full particulars about Miss Cook’s medium-
ship, including the recent outrage at one of her seances, and
quotes some of the writings of Prince Wittgenstein, Mr.
Dunphy, Mr. Luxmoore, Mr, Crookes, Mr. Tapp, Mr. Earl
Bird, and others.
Me. Seejeant Cox made a speech, a few days ago, at
the Anthropological. Institute, on Woman’s Rights, and the
difference between the brains of men and women.
arawspniTettce.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.']
SPIEII POEMS.
SlE,—The Royal Society of England is to be congratulated
on the fact that it has at least two members of its body who
have had the courage to look into spiritual phenomena, and,
after an elaborate investigation, scientifically conducted, they
have the manliness to declare they are true, and that they are
not to be attributed to trickery, or a delusion of the senses.
To the careful experiments of Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.,
and Mr. Cromwell Yarley, F.R.S., as explained in their
articles in your journal, the Royal Society is indebted for its
rescue, thus late in the day, from the opprobrium which is
attached to it for refusing to listen to what might be said for
the great truth of Spiritualism, whilst Faraday and Carpenter
from within its halls, and Brewster from without, have been
encouraged to go on promulgating error, not one of these
acknowledged savans having ever spent one serious hour in
investigating the demonstrable facts of modern Spiritualism.
It will, however, be now admitted by all who are capable of
forming a fair and unbiassed judgment, that to Mr. Crookes,
the eminent chemist, and to Mr. Cromwell Yarley, the eminent
electrician, we are indebted for the verification of a fact in
which I and many others believed, of incalculable importance
to the science of Spiritualism, and these are the men I had in
view when I said some few years ago,—“ That the leading
authorities of this day are too deeply committed to the
erroneous theories and dogmatic assumptions they have
already promulgated upon this subject. To the new genera¬
tion, therefore, of thinking men, some of whom we know are
now at work, we may hopefully look forward for a fair and
candid examination of the claims of Spiritualism so soon as
the rule of the savans who have led the public astray shall be
a thing of the past.’’
That time has now come, and now I will venture on another
prediction, viz., that the example of these two men, to whom
all honour is due, will lead others of the Royal Society to
look into the subject as none of them have hitherto dared to
do, and the result will be, as a matter of course, their con¬
viction, and the triumph of a great truth, which has been
derided and carped at by men who could not be induced
to put aside their learning for awhile, to give place to
the exercise of their natural senses, which would at once
have revealed the truth to any candid investigator. Mr.
Crookes’ most valuable article on “ Spirit Forms ” in your
number of the 3rd of April, tends to negative mypiypothesis
of the spirit form of Katie being as I thought the “double”
of the medium, which, however, the spirit always said she was
not. Mr. Crookes also settles the hypothesis of “psychic
force,” on which so much has been written by men who either
would not admit, or did not know one half the actual facts
which had been seen and attested by thousands of credible
men.
Those persons who have allowed themselves to be influenced
by the jealousy of an ill-regulated mind to the prejudice of
Miss Cook, will also have an opportunity of admitting their
error, when the self-evident fabrications against Miss Cook’s
integrity are proved as they now are. To Mr. Charles
Blackburn, in the first instance, for his most liberal conduct
in saving this remarkably gifted young lady from the necessity
of becoming a public medium, the thanks of all Spiritualists are
due. To Mr. Luxmoore, Mrs. Corner, Dr. Gully, Mr.
Harrison, Mr. Tapp, and Mr. Dunphy, who have surrounded
Miss Cook and her family during the processes of her develop¬
ment, we must all feel greatly indebted, and finally Miss Cook
herself must be congratulated upon the brave way in which
she has deported herself, and proved that she is one of the
most reliable and best of living mediums.
Upper Norwood, April 4,1874. Benj. COLEMAN.
MB. SEBJEANT COX’S PSYCHIC EOECE.
Sie,—Mr. Serjeant Cox’s idea—for I will not dignify it by the
name of theory—is that all the phenomena of Spiritualism
may be explained by supposing the emanation of a force from
“ the soul or spirit ” of the medium; but whether there be a
soul, or spirit, or not, is the very matter in question. Serjeant
Cox’s notion is based upon the mere assumption of a something
unexplained, which he calls “ a soul or spirit” exercising a
force “in the direction of the bodily organs, but which, in
certain abnormal conditions, can do without the body What,
in the normal condition of relationship, it can do only through
178
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 10, 1874.
the body.” Now, unless the facts of Spiritualism afford proof
of the independent existence of the spirits of the dead, I, as a
scientific man who have devoted my life to the study of human
nature, beg to tell Serjeant Cox that there does not exist a
tittle of scientific evidence as to the existence of a soul or
spirit using the body as an instrument; or let us have the
positive evidence of the fact, such as “ would be accepted in a
court of justice,” or rather such as might be satisfactorily
demonstrated in the Royal Institution, because the evidence
required in a court of justice already exists in the persons of
the numerous respectable and learned witnesses, and many
learned in the law, who know perfectly well what evidence
means both as to the questioning of witnesses in a court of
law and the questioning of the phenomena of nature in the
chambers of science. I had the pleasure to be on the same
sub-committee with Serjeant Cox in the investigation insti¬
tuted by the Dialectical Society, and we are both witnesses to
certain remarkable facts not yet generally believed, but
I should be sorry to set myself lip as a model investigator to
the disparagement of others.
The living encaged spirit, as well as the spirit or psychic
force, and its ability and tendencies, is all the Serjeant’s
fancy ; at any rate, if such matters do exist, they must first
be proved to exist and be explained before being put into
the witness box to explain something else. I am ready to
refer to Professor Huxley or Dr. Tyndall as to whether I am
in the right or mot in what I say, and I ask the more scientific
and sensible of the Spiritualists whether it is not the proofs
they have of the spirits of the dead that satisfy them in
respect to the existence of souls or spirits with the living.
If my good friend Mr. Serjeant Cox will forgive me, I think
he might gain by the perusal of Mr. G. H. Lewes’ new work
on The Problems of Life and Mind before he decides as to
“ What am I” and what I am not. Henby G. Atkinson.
Boulogne-sur-Mer, April 6th, 1874.
MBS. WOODBOBDE’S MEDIUMSHIP.
Sib,—After reading over your report of the paper by Mr.
Staniland Wake, read at a recent meeting of the Anthro¬
pological Society, upon “Spiritualism among Uncultured
Peoples compared with Modern Spiritualism,” I solicited the
favour of some answer from my spirit guides. The following
communication was afterwards given through my hand. It
is, perhaps, needless to state that of myself I am unable to
handle such a subject. Cathebine Woodfobde.
41, Bernard-street, Russel 1-square.
Diabolic and Angelic Spiritualism.
As there is diabolic worship, so can there be diabolic Spiri¬
tualism. Diabolic worship is the worship of idols, with self-
torture, murder, lascivious games, orgies, and other soul¬
degrading ceremonies, which appertain to such worship.
Diabolic Spiritualism, as it may be called, has always accom¬
panied such worship, and is the practice of incantations, or
the use of magical arts to bring back the souls of the departed
for selfish purposes. Idolatrous worship, which we style
diabolic, has always existed on the earth in the infancy of the
races, in their states of ignorance and darkness; and, as they
have progressed, the character and forms of their worship
have become more elevated, and purified of grossness and
bestiality. As there has always been an influx from the
spirit-world into the souls or minds of men on earth, and as
the spirits nearest the earth always resemble those inhabi¬
tants whom they surround in their states of mental progres¬
sion, so we find that the forms of Spiritualism in those periods
of darkness and ignorance were gross, depraved, and diabolic.
Those races of the earth which are still plunged in ignorance
exhibit all these grosser forms of Spiritualism. The savage
races of Africa and America; the ignorant peoples of
Siberia, Greenland, Lapland, &c. With all these the medium,
sorcery-doctor, or medicine-man, as he may be called, under¬
goes mesmerising at the hands of some attendant spirit,
this being a necessary process to effect a partial emancipation
of the spirit from the thraldom of the flesh. Self-mesmerisa-
tion is not possible. The attendant spirit assumes the proper
control in a variety of ways, sometimes by exhausting the
physical strength of the medium through violent exercise,
sometimes by compelling states of abstraction, concentration,
even sleep. These are necessary processes intuitively known
to spirits. An evil spirit takes delight in the exercise of such
power for evil ends, and becomes in that case a tormenting
demon. But such power can be, and has been etercised by
wicked men on earth over their mesmeric subjects. With
many of these simple races the power of clairvoyance, which
is nothing more than the opening of the spiritual sight inherent
in all men, is wonderfully clear.
In following the history of different nations we shall find
that as the worship advances to greater truth, and higher
expression, the form of their Spiritualism becomes higher,
purerj and is drawn into the privacy and seclusion of the
temples, becoming the prerogative of the priest, who at
length used it as a means of power, to enslave the people,
making even their kings bow before its authority. The lower
classes were forbidden to practise it under penalty, and with
them it degenerated into forms of evil, becoming the instru¬
ment of magicians, and conjurors for gain, or for the carrying
out of malicious designs.
In the life of Christ we see the practice of angelic
Spiritualism, united with the highest form of worship ever
yet exhibited on the earth,-—the worship of the Father in
spirit and in truth. After the departure of Christ to the
world of spirits, we see Spiritualism, and the exercise of its
sublime gifts, withdrawn once more into the bosom of the
churches, and at length suppressed almost entirely as men
advanced more and more into, the fields of pure science,
which they separated from religion and worship. The prac¬
tice of Spiritualism then began to be looked upon as an
evidence of gross ignorance and superstition, and even to be
persecuted. The higher angels, however, who have this
planet under their charge, forbore to press the advance of the
knowledge which they now permit to flood the earth with its
light. They are coming down in phalanxes of glory, dispell¬
ing the clouds of ignorance and materialism, dispersing the
hordes of lower spirits, who have so long reigned over the
earth, into realms where they will themselves obtain instruc¬
tion; and training those who are capable of being so trained,
to become the watchers, guides, and helpers of men on earth.
It is, however, so stupendous a work to marshal and place in
order this vast assemblage of human souls, and the influx
from earth is so great, that ages will elapse before this planet
will have been rid of evil, and the state of the spirits nearest
the earth become angelic. Besides that many of the nations
are still plunged in the darkness of idolatry, to say nothing of
the fact that the worship of some of the most refined peoples
is in some of its forms idolatrous; for to give to any of God’s
creatures the worship that is due to Him alone, is idolatry.
All enlightened beings will understand our meaning.
Spiritualism, in few words, is the communion of men on
earth with their human brethren raised to the higher life of
the spirit divested of flesh. It is the thick darkness of the
present day, induced by the pursuit of material science alone,
unenlightened by spiritual science, which makes this most
natural, orderly, and indeed, owing to the nature of man,
inevitable communion, strange, fearful, or a subject of doubt,
inquiry, and mistrust. The communion between the two
worlds has always existed, and could not fail to exist without
the utter destruction of humanity.
As man’s worship becomes purified from grossness and
darkness, and becomes more spiritual, so will the form of his
Spiritualism be raised and purified. At length advanced to
angel-hood hipaself, whilst still in the flesh, his soul-com¬
panions will be angels, and he will enjoy highest spiritual re¬
freshment and happiness, and receive from heaven even
higher teachings of wisdom. In short he will sip, like the
angels, the ambrosial stream of life as it flows from the
Divine fountain of all life: he will know of the spirit of
God, and will become His image and likeness ; he will be in
accord with the Divine mind, the music of whose being flows
through all creation, seeking a response in harmony with
itself, and never resting until that response be obtained.
Whenever man is uplifted by his own efforts, co-operating
with angel brethren, into such states, he is in the full practice
and enjoyment of angelic Spiritualism. To so teach and
raise him, is the effort of the world of angels at the present
day, acting under the guidance of the Divine'mind.
Old forms of worship, idolatries of all kinds, which are but
a form of diabolism; and a debased and ignorant practice of
Spiritualism, another form of deviltry,—must all pass away.
Man will know his true life is in the spirit, and he will seek
to perfect it by every means in his power. He will have
completed the circle of creation, and returned unto his
Creator, one with Him, an angelic spirit in the flesh.
Such is the Divine condition to be attained, as the proper,
and only proper, mode of life for man, in the acceptance and
pursuit of angelic Spiritualism.
Communicated by the Spirit “Sciros,”
April 10, 1874,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
179
THE SUBPLTTS FUNDS OF MBS. TA-PPAN’S LECTUBE COMMITTEE.
Sir,—I am desired by the committee for Mrs. Cora L. Y.
Tappan’s Sunday evening discourses to state that they have
sent out circulars to all the subscribers, in order to ascertain
their wishes respecting the surplus fund in hand, over and
above the expenses of the course just closed, and the answers
received have been almost unanimous—to appropriate it for
the continuance of the lectures—which course the committee
have decided to adopt. N. Fabvan Dawe.
Portman Chambers, Portman-square, Hyde Park, W.
April 6th, 1874.
SEANCE AT BIRMINGHAM.
Sir,—-At our Monday evening circle of the 2nd instant, we
had brought (under our usual test conditions) a beautiful speci¬
men of the scarlet rhododendron, and a small sprig of a plant
very much resembl ing the sensitive plant. The following persons
who were present have given permission for their names to
be appended to the above:—Mr. Aaron Franklin, Mrs. Aaron
Franklin, Mr. B. Yalter, Miss E, A. Wildy, Mr. Weston.
John Watson.
Midland Spiritual Institute, 58, Suffolk-street,
March 3rd, 1874.
MISS cook’s mediumship.
Sir,—A reference to my name some months ago in your
published correspondence on the subject of the bona fide
character of Miss Cook’s mediumship, left me no alternative
but to state frankly the impressions which the manifestations
I witnessed in her presence produced on my mind. That
impression—for I declined giving any positive opinion—was
an unfavourable one ; but I thought at the time, and think
still, that it was a fair deduction from the suspicious circum¬
stances and incomplete evidence which were presented to me,
as detailed in the communication referred to.
These grounds of suspicion were, however, principally of a
negative character only, and as such have no weight when
balanced against the positive testimony adduced by Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S., in his letter of the 30th ult. Mr.
Crookes has been good enough to supplement the proofs men¬
tioned in that communication by a note to myself, in which he
states, that whenl he saw Katie and Miss Cook at the same
time, he repeatedly scrutinised the faces of both, so as to iden¬
tify them beyond all question or doubt, and thus disposes of
the notion * that he might possibly have been misled by a lay
figure representing Miss Cook, or by an accomplice person¬
ating Katie.
Mr. Crookes writes to me :—“ At the time of the occurrence
1 felt its importance too mueh to neglect any test which
I thought would be likely to add to its completeness. As
I held one of Miss Cook’s hands all the time and knelt by her,
held the light close to her face, and watched her breathing,
I have abundant reason to know that I was not deceived by a
lay figure or by a bundle of clothes. As regards the identity
of Katie, I have the same positive conviction. Height,
figure, features, complexion, dress, and pleasant smile of recog¬
nition, were all the same as I have seen there dozens of times ;
and as I have repeatedly stood for many minutes within a few
inches of her face, in a good light, Katie’s appearance is
to me as familiar as is that of Miss Cook herself.”
When we remember that the circumstance above described
—this great fact, as I must call it, in the history of Spiri¬
tualism—occurred, as Mr. Crookes tells us, not in his own
house, or, as before, in the “ cabinet,” but in” a room” in
the house of the medium, it will at once be seen how all-
important a link in the chain of proof is this question of
identity. Happily, Mr. Crookes’ presence of mind and fore¬
thought have put him in a position to afford us the most
complete and unanswerable evidence on this crucial point.
Nothing can be more satisfactory and conclusive than the
above statement; and as, in common, I am sure I may say,
with all who have the privilege of being acquainted with
Mr. Crookes, I have the fullest confidence, not only in his
truthfulness and honour, but also in his high scientific ability
and capacity for critical observation, I cannot but dismiss my
own preconceived impressions in presence of his direct and
absolute testimony. If, in fact, any evidence is to be admitted
in matters spiritual, no candid and impartial mind can desire
or expect proof more conclusive, nr authority more unim¬
* The daughter of Mr. Pennell’s host being of unimpeachable integrity
and good character, only persons of a particular order of mind could frame
and foster a notion like that which Mr. Pennell here places on record.—En.
peachable, than that which has been furnished in the present
case.
To my judgment, as I have said, it carries conviction ; and
it follows, therefore, that my former adverse opinion, however
honestly held, did unintentionally a great injustice to Miss
Florence Cook. Permit me, sir, through your columns, to
express my sincere regret at whatever annoyance the publica¬
tion of my letter may have occasioned, and also to beg Miss
Cook to believe that the reluctance and pain with which I
originally expressed my opinion could only be equalled by
the pleasure and alacrity with which, on sufficient grounds, I
now retract it. H. Cholmondeley Pennell.
3, Searsdale-villa, Kensington, W.
April 4, 1874.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Sir,—A number of circulars, &e. (of which the enclosed are
specimens), have recently been sent to many Spiritualists both
here and in London, and I regret that in some instances it has
been thought (from the similarity of the name) that they
emanated from the Liverpool Psychological Society, which
treats the matter with the silent contempt which perhaps it
deserves; but I think it only fair to inform you that the
Liverpool Psychological Society has no sympathy and
nothing whatever to do with the work of the “Liverpool
Psychological Association,” alias the “ Free and Unconditional
Spiritualists,” the nature of whose proceedings I leave you to
judge from the matter enclosed. John Davisson.
[Our correspondent encloses some printed weak burlesques. These
things advertise the movement and do no harm to it, because Spiritualism
is true; it is to be regretted that any persons should injure themselves by
passing a portion of their lives in the active dissemination of error.—Ed.]
THE SEANCES IN FABIS.
Sib,—The insertion of Mr. Chinnery’s letter in your last,
encourages me, in accordance with the clearly established
principle of your valuable paper—strict impartiality and fair¬
ness—to add a few more remarks on behalf of the grievously
wronged medium. When I felt, after several seances under
very severe test conditions, fully convinced of the remarkable
power, I pointed out to this lady my intention to assist her, to
the best of my abilities, in improving her position, but in the
meantime expressed my firm resolution, in case of discover¬
ing any trace of fraud, to cut short any further connection.
This pledge I repeated openly at every newly formed circle,
and feel bound to state that in no instance did my confidence
suffer any change whatever. Nevertheless reports of scanda¬
lous deceptions reached my ear, but in sifting matters care¬
fully, they resolved into vague conjectures and sometimes
showed marks of malicious design. In one such case I have
sufficient proof that, before the highest tribunal of justice,
the accuser would change into the accused.
On the other hand, there is no doubt that constant mishaps
and worrying have influenced this medium sadly, and left her
general tone in a state which would easily mislead people who
have dispensed with Christian charity in dealing with their
fellow creatures. How far self neglect may have aided in
bringing about. these deplorable circumstances, I do not
venture to suggest, but I feel persuaded that this medium, if
surrounded with kind-hearted friends, who will unite for the
love of truth, in supporting her in such a manner as to relieve
the mind from pressing anxiety, would be of great value in
the most important phase in the manifestations, the material¬
isations. Christian Reimers.
2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-street, Manchester, April 3, 1874.
The Countess of Caithness has written to us expressing
her satisfaction at the general results of the exciting seance
at Hackney, at which she was present a few months since.
The remarkable letters from Lavater to the Empress
Marie of Russia, which have not been published in England
until their translation for this journal by Mrs. Honywood, are
drawing towards a close. Lavater does not state how he re¬
ceived the messages; had he done so probably nobody would
have believed him; but they contain internal evidence that
they were given through genuine mediumship, since they say
so much about spirits living in an atmosphere of love, and
communicating by means of affinity with mortals of an
affectionate disposition. Moreover, they inculcate many of
the leading principles of Spiritualism. Like the writings of
Swedenborg, these revelations have had to wait for two or
three generations to be appreciated at their true yalue.
180
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 10,1874,
THE DAYENPOKTS IN TROUBLE.
The Banner of Light of March 28th states that a
seance was given hy the Davenport Brothers at the
Yarieties Theatre, New Orleans, on the evening of the
26 th of February last, and at which Professor Housah
was to tie the Brothers so that they could not get
loose.
A large audience filled the theatre, estimated at
about 1,600 persons; there were but few Spiritualists.
At eight o’clock in the evening the Brothers stepped
upon the stage, and it was announced that they were
ready to be tied by Professor Housah. The Professor
stepped forward, with a friend, and in his usual bland
and innocent manner, suggested that perhaps the
audience would prefer a committee of their own choos¬
ing to tie the Brothers. The audience then screamed
for Mr. J. B. Gautreaux, who is well known, and a
gentleman of veracity, and one worthy of respect, who
had attended two of the Brothers’ seances, and had
tied them and been into the cabinet with them; he had
been practising rope-tying for a day or two with his
friend who went on the stage with him for the purpose
of tying the Brothers, so they could scarcely be released
by himself. Mr. Gautreaux and his friend announced,
after they had tied the Brothers, that the latter were
secure. It took him and his friend one half hour to
tie the Brothers. In exactly twelve minutes from the
time the cabinet was shut by Mr. Gautreaux the cabi¬
net door was opened, and the Brothers stepped out.
Such shouts and applause were never heard before;
and an observer could at once discover a great change
in the audience in their feelings towards the Brothers.
The Brothers then continued the seance, altogether
lasting about two hours, and as they stepped out of the
cabinet on the stage, Mr. Housah announced his readi¬
ness to tie them, and drawing from his pocket a ball or
bolt of twine, stepped toward the Brothers, who refused
to be tied with the twine, and were astonished he
should want to tie them after they had been tied by
Mr. Gautreaux, and were tired and exhausted during
the evening. They consented, however, to be tied with
their own ropes; and the audience shouted, “ Tie them
with their own ropes,” but the Professor would not.
Thus the seance ended—a complete victory for the
Brothers. Now to thej^waZe.
On the morning of the 27th of February, as Ira E.
Davenport was walking along the street, he was ar¬
rested and taken to prison on the affidavit of an attache
of the New Orleans Picayune newspaper, for the debt
due to said paper by the Brothers, which they knew
nothing of, as all such matters were entrusted to their
agents, as will be fully explained in the following
circular of the Brothers:—
New Orleans, Feb. 28th, 1874.
To the Citizens of New Orleans :
In the month of October last we engaged the services of
Messrs. Starr Morrissey and Turnbull, in their capacity of
manager and agent, to travel with us and manage our business
affairs, thus paying no attention to our business beyond
requiring a settlement from our manager and agent. On last
Thursday night, after our entertainment at the Yarieties
Theatre, we requested Mr. Morrissey tp settle all our bills,
feeling sure he had sufficient funds to do so, and also to
defray bur expenses to Havana.
Supposing Mr. Morrissey was settling up our business, on
Friday morning we were informed that he had not been seen
by any person to whom we were indebted, nor was he found
until about three o’clock in the afternoon, at which time he
promised to go immediately and settle with our creditors—
which he did not do—and we did not hear of him again until
seven o’clock in the evening, and then he had been seen
getting on the cars to leave the city. "William Davenport then
called on the police authorities to have him stopped by a tele¬
gram, but not having money enough to pay for the despatch,
we could do nothing.
According to the bills we have seen, and have reason to
believe correct, we are indebted to persons in this city in the
sum of three hundred and forty dollars, which we will pay.
We will have to remain here until we can make arrangements
satisfactory to our creditors. We regret exceedingly the
embarrassment, as [it is the first time in our experience of
twenty years’ travel that we have failed to pay every farthing
we ever owed and had any knowledge of; and we ask the pub¬
lic at this time to suspend their opinion until we can arrange
our affairs, and find out the amount of money we have been
wronged of. Davenport Brothers.
As soon as William Davenport learned of tbe arrest
of his brother, he at once called on Mr. George W. Ken¬
dall, a lawyer of New Orleans, and stated to him what
he knew of the arrest. Mr. Kendall immediately set to
work to have Ira released, but did not succeed until the
next day.
Then the Brothers learned that their cabinet and in¬
struments had been seized, and Mr. Kendall went to
work to have them released; he is making it very
warm and interesting for those persons who took pos¬
session of the cabinet, as they have all been committed
for trial before the Criminal Court for making an illegal
seizui e, a late law of the legislature making it a criminal
offence to do so. The Brothers are stopping with
Mr. Kendall, who has two little girl mediums, Mabel
and Carrie. To enable the Brothers to proceed on their
trip to Havana, a series of private seances will be given
at Mr. Kendall’s house for the purpose of raising funds.
THE THREE DAYS’ TRANCE OF LOUIS XI. OF
FRANCE.
On the evening of the 18th March, 1480, as the royal dinner
was all but concluded (and it is only fair to Louis’s memory
to say that he had done full justice to the meal), he let fall
his spoon (the “sweets” were on) and an exclamation, in
Norman-French, which, as a father of a family, I dare not
repeat, and fell into a kind of fit. Such a tight fit was it that
his attendants immediately cut his waist-belt and burnt the
greater portion of a pet flamingo’s tail beneath his royal
nostrils.
Thqir efforts to induce reanimation were, however, quite
ineffectual; and, convinced that Louis was dead, they took
him to his chamber, and held noisy wassail all that night.
Had Sir Henry Thompson been the court physician, the king
would probably have been cremated the following day, and
there would have been an end of him; but as it was, he
was duly laid out in state, and, much to the surprise of the
guards on duty, jumped up at the end of the third day,
querulously asked why they were burning such a lot of ozo-
kerit candles, and why there was so much lace and ruffle
about his voluminous night-shirt; and then, running down¬
stairs, discovered his courtiers dining heavily, and wrangling
as to who should be the regent of the young king.
The apparition of the monarch they fancied dead rather
upset the assembled gentlemen, and not one had the presence
of mind to offer him a chair.
They never had a chance to do so afterward, for the soured
Louis banished them to a man.—Figaro.
ANSWERS TO COBBESPONDENTS.
H. G. A.—Most of • your letters are illegible, and it is not possible
to give the time necessary to guess what words are intended.
R. F.—The communication is of no scientific value, but simply
trash.
F. G.—The alleged completed Edwin Brood is not obtainable in
England; it contains the first part also of Edwin Drood, and
if the American publishers have “ pirated ” the same, the whole
work cannot be sold in England without infringement of copy¬
right law, unless the owners of the copyright sanction the
introduction of the book.
April 10, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTS, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Revealing Startling Facts
to the public, can be consulted on either Medical or Business Affairs con¬
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 12 to 5. Terms, One Guinea.
Address, “ Crown Hotel,” George-square, Glasgow, Scotland.
'RS.WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bernard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o'clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Campden-hill, Kensington.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
fi.s; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
'R. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush,
W. Please write.
kR. JOHN HUNTER and DR. MESMER may be
consulted upon all forms of illness, through MR. ROBERT HARPER,
from whom Mesmeric Treatment and Eclectic Medicines may be obtained,
at 114, Wardour-street, Oxford-street, W. Fees, 10s. and upwards. Hours,
one to five o’clock daily.
MRS. EMPSON, Medical Clairvoyant and Mag-
netic Healer, undertakes the Diagnosis and the Cure of Diseases
(if curable). Patients at a distance may obtain diagnosis and advice by
sending magnetic link and fee of 10s. Address, 114, Wardour-street,
Oxford-street, W. Hours, one to five o’clock daily.
Recently published, in Crown Svo., price 2s.
"YMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “An
Idyll of the world," and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
WORK BY THE SAME AUTHOR.
An elegant little volume, bound in blue and gold, carmine edges,
Price 4s. 6d.
LYRICS AND BUCOLICS. The Eclogues of Yirgil,
a selection from the Odes of Horace, and the Legend of the Sibyll.
“Mr. Noyes’ qualifications are of no mean order. In the first place, he
has the essential one of thoroughly entering into and appreciating the true
spirit of his master, and even where, as we have said, he exceeds what
we conceive to be the limits of a translation, we attribute it rather to his
being carried away by his own muse than to his misunderstanding his
author’s. And here we have a second and no less important qualifi¬
cation for success. Mr. Noyes has a genuine poetic vein of his own, and
his lines have almost always the ring of true metal.”—Standard,
April 7th, 1868.
“There is a certain freedom and swing in these translations, which not
only more resembles the brisk spirit and ringing tone of the original, but
is truly refreshing after the stiff rendering which had been generally made
of Horace’s choicest composition.’ —London Review, Feb. 15th, 1868.
“The Translations from Horace are spirited and musical. His light
Epicureanism and gay Stoicism are happily hit off.”—Daily News,
March Zd, 1868.
“ Mr. Noyes’ Version of Virgil’s Pastorals may fairly take its place by the
side of Mr. Connington’s translation of the JEneid: The lovers of such
poetry have here as pleasant a bouquet as can well be set before them,”—
Speculator March 7th, 1868.
TO THE READERS OF “ THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
or Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.”) Printed and published
by T. Scott, 1, Warwick-court, Holborn. Price One Penny.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82, St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. Jam&s’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery.
Bookbindiog, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingslaud.—Information as
to Local Associations, ■ Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
Lately published,
HAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Mental
Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. L The MECHANISM of MAN
By EDWARD W. COS, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s. 6d.
Contents.
chap.
1. Introduction. .
2. What am I?
3. The Man.
4. How we Grow.
5. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind.
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the Will. .
30. The Sdul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
31. Soul—Spirit—Anima.
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. TheNaturalandthe Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul,
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery,
45. Conclusions.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and charming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and no
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Herald.
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I ?”—Leicester Mercury
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflectiv readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily 'telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest.—South Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
London: Longman and Co., Patemoster-row.
Just published,
The second yolume of « what am i p”
A Popular Introduction to Psychology and Mental Philosophy. By
EDWARD W. COX, Sergeant-at-Law. Brice 10s. 6d.
This Volume completes the work. It treats of the Mechanism of Man in
action. The following are the
Contents
CHAP.
16. Of Artificial Somnambulism
VI. History.
17. Of Artificial Somnambulismi
VII. Healing Power.
18. Of Artificial Somnambulism
VIII. Supersensuous Percep
tion.
19. Of Artificial Somnambulism
IX. Thought Reading.
20. Of Trance.
21. Of Unconscious Cerebration.
22. Of Psychic Force.
23. Of Psychic Force. I. The*
Proofs.
24. Of Psychic Force. II. Its Phy¬
siology.
25. Of Psychic Force. III. The
Directing Inteligence.
26. Other Psychic Phenomena. I
Communicated.
27. Other Psychic Phenomena. II
Experiments.
28. The Summing Up
29. The Conclusions.
VOL. L MAY BE HAD, PRICE 8s. 6d.
London: Longman & Co., Patemoster-row.
The progressiye spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Weekly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman.
Price Threepence. Tojbe had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
CHAP.
Preface.
1. Introductory.
2. Of the Intelligent Motive Forces.
3. The Conditions of Existence.
4. The Mechanism in Health.
5. Of Sleep.
6. Of Dreams.
7. Of sOme of the Phenomena of
Sleep and Dreams
8. Of Delirium.
9. Of Insanity.
10. Of Natural Somnambulism.
11. Of Artificial Somnambulism. I.
The Condition.
12. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
H. Clairvoyance.
13. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
* III. The Mental Phenomena.
14. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IV. Catalepsy.
15. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
V. Insensibility and Uncon¬
sciousness.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April IQ, 1874,
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years:
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands .of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves-'
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. "J. G, Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;'
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; C. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.'
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Coinmittee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq.,- Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,1
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G-.S;;.
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the .Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported"
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are ofteii distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“8. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code:
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social;
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’ • & -  - - —
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into-Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with Other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.-
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same,
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the'
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually Of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently-accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving-the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins,- place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same Circle; for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-,
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief:
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
A weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feelirig Among the members of the circle ;gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping oyer the'hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to-an.
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”;
one means “ No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
’to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put,. “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask,' “Who is the medium?’’/-When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle, symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STEELING.
Read Ojfte.-BBOWN STREET and MAESDEN STBEET, MANCHESTER
- FIRE.
Insurances against Logs 6r Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates s
Bonus Eeturns.—In all cases where no'claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a; Bonus of ten Per Cent, will he
returned on the payment of -Renewed Premiums;
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.C. '
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and. Agents of influence
^standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign,. and. Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to/ ,/ ./ /
FRANCIS EAYENSCEOFT,-Manager.
H E N R Y B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDEB, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER, LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Spiritualist N e wspaper.
A CIRCLE is in Process of Formation : Sitters of Re¬
fined, Intellectual, Harmonious Natures are required: present
Members Ladies and Geililemen of good standing. Manifestations of a
high order are promised by the Guardian Spirite for regular, faithful
attendance. Each Applicant will be submitted to the Spirit Guardians for
approval, and it is hoped offence will not be taken upon rejection. Address
by letter, with stanjped envelope for reply, to C. W., 41, Bernard-street,
Bussell-square. Applicants may call, if preferable.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS to be presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain to
Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is,
TO OWNERS OF HOUSE PROPERTY.
E. BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
■ . 11, PARK- GROVE, SHEPHERD’S LANE, BRIXTON,
T> ESPECTFULLY solicits the patronage of Owners of
JLV) House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixton
-Road, .and. near the Railway Station—offering special facilities for the
prompt letting of Houses of every description, r
_ All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Aye Maria-lane London, E.O,
