A RECORD OF
THE PROQI\E{3j3 OF THE ^CIEJ^CE AND ETHIC3 Of gPII\ITUAEIj3M.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 57.—(Vol. III.—No. 18.)
LONDON: AUGUST 1, 1873.
Published on the 1st and 15th of every
Month; Price Fourpence.
(ttontentg.
SPIRITUAL CONFERENCE OF 1873.
The Sequestration of Alleged Lunatics     ... 274
Spiritualism and Anthropology   ... si  275
Other World Order       276
Maori Spiritualism   ...   ... M>. ...    277
The Lunacy Laws         276
Spiritualism in Australia     280
Spirit Forms and Lights ... ... ... ... ... j    280
Organisation    281
Poetry:—Resignation... ... '  ¥  282
Correspondence:—Spirit Faces in Manchester; Spirit Identity; Food;
Dr. Dee’s Crystal; Blind Faith and Blind Scepticism; Physical
Manifestations; Spiritual Vision; Purity of Thought; The Clai¬
mant; Psychic Force on the Slate  283
Sapia Padalino’s Case    286
Paragraphs:—Spiritualism in Dalston, 281; The Dialectical Report,
281; Spiritualism in Pimlico, 286; Spiritual Evidence Society ... 286
Answers to Correspondents   286
The Best Book for Enquirers.
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
HE COMMITTEE beg to call attention to the COMING-
CONFERENCE, which appears in this week’s issue of the Spiritualist’,
and all those interested in advancing the cause of Spiritualism or investigat¬
ing these questions are earnestly rf quested to aid the Conference by for¬
warding subscriptions to defray the expenses necessary for carrying outthe
project, to Mr. John Chapman, 10, Dunkeld-street, off West Derby-road,
Liverpool. Receipt of the subscriptions will appear in the next issue of
this paper. DAVID B. RAMSAY,
Secretary to the Conference Committee.
16, South Castle-street, Liverpool.
30th June, 1873.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF LIVERPOOL.
AT A MEETING of the Conference Committee of the
Psychological Society of Liverpool, held on Monday, June 23rd,
Mr. D. Gay in the chair, the following programme was considered and
adopted as the business of the forthcoming Conference, and while the
Committee earnestly desire Delegates to prepare papers on these questions,
they are anxious to receive the titles of any other papers which the Delegates
may wish to read, providing that the substance of such papers is forwarded
to the Secretary on or before the 18th of July, so that the reading may be
arranged for in a business-like way.
ORGANISATION.
National.
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A, Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion. London : Sihpkin, Marshall & Co.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks,
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
AHA Ready to he ADVANCED by the TEM-
PERANCE permanent land and building
SOCIETY on Freehold and Leasehold Property, for any period of years
not exceeding fifteen, the Mortgage being redeemable by equal Monthly
Instalments. Interest (in addition to a small premium) 5 per cent, on the
balance each year.
Apply to HENRY J. PHILLIPS, Secretary.
Offices: 4, Ludgate Hill, London, E.O.
' Note.—More than One Million and a Half Pounds Sterling have been
advanced upon House Property alone.
THE LIVERPOOL CONFERENCE.—This Conference
will be held in the Islington Assembly Rooms, Liverpool, on
Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday next, being the 5th, 6th and 7th of
August. The daily sittings will be from ten to twelve o’clock, and will be
resumed at two o’clock. On Tuesday evening a spiritual seance will be held
in the same place, commencing at eight o’clock, and on Wednesday even¬
ing a public lecture will be delivered in Hope Hall, Hope-street, Liverpool,
by Mr. George Sexton, M.A., M.D., LL.D., subject, “ The Philosophy of
Spiritualism, with criticism of adverse theories regarding the phenomena.”
Doors open at seven; Lecture to commence at eight o’clock. Admission:
reserved seats, 2s.; body of the hall, Is.; gallery, 6d. Tickets may be
obtained of Mr. W. Pullen, stationer, Castle-street, and Brunswick-road;
Mr. J ohn Chapman, 10, Dunkeld-street; Mr. A. Lamont, confectioner,
85, Islington; Mr. John Lament, confeciioner, London-road; at Wall’s
Temperance Hotel, 1, Islington Flags; and the Rooms of the Liverpool
Psychological (Society, Islington, Liverpool.—J. Chapman, Secretary to the
Liverpool Psychological Society.
1st.—The advisability and practicability (financial, &c.) of a National
Union.
2nd.—The best means of securing in future Annual National Conferences.
Local.
1st.—The advisability of Sunday Services and Week-day Meetings.
2nd.—The advantages of special buildings for Spiritual Meetings.
SPIRITUALISM IN ITS RELIGIOUS AND SCIENTIFIC ASPECTS.
1st.—The harmony existing between the Bible and the Teachings of
Spiritualism.
2nd.—Spiritualism in accordance with Natural Laws.
3rd.—The benefit of Physical Manifestations to the Community.
MEDIUMSHIP.
1st.—The peculiar temperaments of different mediums.
2nd.—The arrangement of different mediums in a given circle for the
production of desired results.
3rd.—The duality of mediums.
4th.—Can any tests be applied to distinguish genuine mediumship.
5th.—The best method of developing mediums.
6th.—The utility of private circles.
EVENINGS.
1st.—Seance. 2nd.—Lecture. 3rd.—Conversazione.
DAVID B. RAMSAY,
Secretary to the Conference Committee.
16, South Castle-street, Liverpool,
June 24th, 1873.
THE ANNUAL NATIONAL CONFERENCE.—At a
general meeting of the Liverpool Psychological Society held on the
29th May last, it was decided to hold the ANNUAL NATIONAL CON¬
FERENCE of Spiritualists in the above town this year on the 5th, 6th, and
7th of August, and in order to facilitate the operations of the Committee
appointed to carry out the project, I would be glad if the secretaries of
societies would communicate with me at their earliest convenience, in order
that some idea may be formed as to the number of delegates likely to be
present. David B. Rams at,
Secretary of the Conference Committee.
16, South Castle-street,Liverpool.
June 12th, 1873. -
East London spiritual meetings.—lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
Dalston association of enouirers into
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membei'ship, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
THOMAS BLYTON, Secretary and Treasurer.
274
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 1, 1873.
Cjre Spintalist
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word-
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who writ^ letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
, All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 4s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or m'egulanty in the supply of “ The Spiritualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
. . Denver, Colorado.—S A Grant and Co., 383. Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee street.
i San Francisco —Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny;
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 12s. 6d., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
‘ is one shilling.
THE SEQUESTRATION OF ALLEGED LUNATICS.
Mrs. Louisa Lowe, who recently applied to the
; Court of Queen’s Bench for a criminal information
against all the Commissioners in Lunacy, because she
had been imprisoned as a lunatic without just cause,
has at all events had the satisfaction of drawing an
unusually large amount of public attention to her parti¬
cular grievance, her ex 'parte version of the circum¬
stances having obtained such wide publicity by means
of the newspapers. Although the other side has not
been heard, it is easy to conceive that ignorance on the
part' of the Commissioners of the nature of writing
mediumship, and the inspection of eccentric messages
given by automatic writing, may have unduly biassed
their judgment for a considerable time. Mrs. Lowe’s
recent address at the Cavendish Rooms was clear, logi¬
cal, and delivered in a ladylike manner, betraying no
trace of insanity.
Apart from the individual case put by Mrs. Lowe,
the difficulties besetting the enaction of perfect lunacy
laws should in fairness be considered from all sides.
“ Let the alleged lunatic have trial by jury,” say Mrs.
Lowe and Dr. Pearce. “ No,” says the physician, “ a
man in the stage of incipient insanity would be so much
excited by a jury trial, that the cure of his disease might
thereby be rendered impossible; he should no more be
taken into a public court than a patient sick of the
cholera should be taken there, instead of to a hos¬
pital.” Mrs. Lowe suggests that proof of lunacy
shall “ lie solely in actions.” Suppose, however, that
an insane man were to avow to Mrs. Lowe that he
intended to cut her throat on the first convenient op¬
portunity, would she then argue that he should be
allowed to commit the act first, and to be locked up
afterwards, and that laws were wicked which incarcer¬
ated him before his thoughts nltimated in action?
Alleged lunatics, says Mrs. Lowe, should be allowed to
send letters to anybody they please; there should be
no power of suppression. But as the majority of the
insane were driven mad by anti-rational theological
teaching, not a few of them have peculiar ideas of
their own on the subject of the “ beast,” or the scarlet
lady mentioned in Revelations, or upon the approaching
end of the world, and they often labour to disburden
their opinions upon these weighty topics in letters to
the Archbishop of Canterbury, or the Queen, or the
Pope, or Mr. Whalley, or to Mr. Gladstone. Is it an
act of justice that these eminent personages should
be allowed to receive such an exclusive supply of valu¬
able theological literature ? We recently heard a good
story about a gentleman who sent a vast number of
telegrams to eminent personages, announcing that
“ Christ was coming,” the “ Lord was the God of
Israel,” and giving similar useful information. When
he had spent all his money, the clerks refused to send
more messages unless he paid for them, and the
story goes that he telegraphed to Mr. Scudamore
—“ The Lord is the God of Israel. Your clerks
will not send my telegrams unless I pay for
them,” and that Mr. Scudamore replied—“ What
you • say is very true, but you must pay for
your telegrams.” Still, in this matter of the detention
of letters, Mrs. Lowe seems to have made out a very
good case, and the difficulty we have mentioned might
be partially obviated, if the patients were authorised to
write only to individuals to whom they are personally
known. Mr. Isaac Hall, the gentleman who seconded
the resolution at the Cavendish Rooms, has written, as
he said, things which persons did not understand; but
that is not necessarily a reason why he should be
treated as a lunatic. He has written a pamphlet in
which he calls himself The First Beast; had the Com¬
missioners in Lunacy called him by that name, he
might have thought it offensive. The title of the
pamphlet is, “ The Mystery of the Conception of the Child
Jesus Revealed. Author: ^The First Beast, to whom
the Lord hath appeared in the Burning Bush.” The
first paragraph in the pamphlet runs completely through
one whole page and into the next one, before the first
full stop is reached. Street preachers are proverbially
long-winded. Mr. Hall, however, spoke quietly and
sensibly at the Cavendish Rooms, and it would scarcely
be fair to say that he deserved incarceration if he has
exhibited only these and similar signs of eccentricity.
It is rather to be regretted that the speeches at the
meeting were all on one side, since the subject should
be considered in all its bearings. But Mrs. Lowe and
the members of the committee will do good if they
cause the Commissioners to visit the asylums at short
intervals, if they secure less suppression of letters
written by the patients, if they throw much more legal
responsibility upon the medical men and relatives who
first take away the freedom of an alleged lunatic, and
if they keep a close watch upon all abuses connected
with the lunacy laws. The Statute Book proves that
the landowners, lawyers, and ecclesiastics, who, in trades
union assembled, make our national laws, have a very
keen eye to their own class interests, as opposed to the
Am 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
275
welfare of the nation. But in the matter of making
good lunacy laws, their own interests do not induce
opposition to beneficial legislation, so it is probable that
the lunacy laws have been well considered, and that
imperfections in them may be readily remedied.
SPIRITUALISM AND ANTHROPOLOGY.
BY WILLIAM: HITCHMAN, M.D., LL.D., F.L.S., PRESIDENT OP
THE ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF LIYERPOOL.
In the initial process of phenomenal evolution, re¬
vealed to us by the splendid discoveries of organic
science, we cannot but observe in the free light of
catholic, impartial inquiry, that there is, and must be,
the primal cause in spirit, or potential factor of Supreme
"Will, in which, and of which, chemico-physical forces
are—so to speak—but molecular means to the Divine
end. Possessed of free light, each unbiassed truth-
seeker shall hereafter be privileged to deal with psychic
phenomena of modern Spiritualism, altogether trans¬
cending those of mere animal existence, as those of
organic life transcend those of chemistry and material
attractions, or as the natural laws of chemical affinity,
in their turn, rise superior to others, in the department
of mechanical philosophy. On a prima facie view, for
example, of the scientific relations of brain and mind,
the resemblance between the genus homo, and the an¬
thropoid mammalia, is extremely close. Inter alia, the
chimpanzee, by cranial and dental structure, the orang
by its details of cerebral organisation, the gorilla by
anatomical and physiological conformation of upper and
lower extremities, and the like. Nevertheless, as we
advance in the study of organic nature, we find- that
quite independently of the vast difference that exists
between them, universally, in attitude, gestures, move¬
ments, profuse clothing of hair, and facial diagnosis—
which relegates the most human-looting ape, at once
and for ever, to the fixed, inexorable brute creation, or
animal kingdom proper, there are other positive and
negative characters which pertain to the science of our¬
selves and, as it were, zoology in common. Each
animal, being duly considered, is fundamentally co-ordi¬
nated with an exclusive sphere of natural action,
whereas, man—the spirit—an organic outcome from
the same causation as regards mere physical basi§ of
life and mind is, himself, adequate to the analysis of
his own sensations, emotions, passions, will, choice, and
character, and their present connection with proto¬
plasmic matter, as well as absolute totality, spiritually,
mentally, physically. Combining together physiological
and psychological studies, in the wide domain of natural
history of man, with a view to their advancement by
reciprocal illustration, we find organic philosophy has
an interest, or magic charm, peculiarly its own, in life,
death, or resurrection. Mental actions, biologically,
are the vital actions of living germinal matter, but not
the exclusive product, as affirmed by Dr. Tyndall, of
“ a molecular condition of brain ! ”
Animals low in the scale of organisation, as Planaria,
Polypi, and Annelida—for instance, the Ndides and
Nereides—propagate their species by spontaneous divi¬
sion ; and, moreover, each portion of such animal may
be divided and subdivided over and over again, mean¬
while, continuing to evince a separate will and special
desires ; and that, too, be it remembered, without any
definite molecular condition of brain at all. Cells them¬
selves are merely protoplasm, yet differ materially, in a
scientific sense, as may be judged from the fact that
some contain glycogen, some cholesterine; others are
endowed with protagon,'myosin, &c., &c. The atomic
composition of organic principles may be enumerated as
follows :—Starch, C12 Hin O10; gum, C12 Hu On ; sugar
from the sugar-cane, C12Hl20 ; sugar of milk, C,2H120|2;
sugar of grapes, C12 Hu Ou; thus showing that they all
consist of carbon and the elements of water, but in dif¬
ferent proportions. The juices of vegetable nutriments
of animal bodies contain only three nitrogenised sub-
stances-*—viz., fibrine, albumen, and caseine, precisely
identical, too, in their natural composition, and proper¬
ties, with the fibrine, albumen, and casein derived
from each organic structure of the animal kingdom,
whose fleshly soul, like that of man himself, is mole-
cularly constituted of C18 H36N6Ou. Withal, such is the
everlasting phasis of organic matter that even sugar, to
go no farther in this direction, the crystallisable substance
most widely distributed in organised nature, may be at
once changed by nitric acid into a deadly irritant poison,
whose action on the human stomach, heart and nervous
system, is so fatal in its influence that, unless immedi¬
ately removed from the body by means of the stomach-
pump, the unfortunate recipient, whether monarch or
mendicant, will be speedily converted into water* car¬
bonic acid, and ammonia.
Again, falling back, by way of recapitulation, upon
the higher department of organic philosophy, and
with entire independence, as it appears to me, of
the vexed question, whether the different brains
of mankind derive their material origin from
one primordial germ or several primordial germs,
I have seen in the negro exalted aberrations, in form
of talent, allied to genius, flying off, as it were, at a
tangent, from the general organic type, like unto dis¬
tinguished Europeans themselves. Individuals, more¬
over, of the Caucasian variety, have hair as crisp and
woolly as that of “ G-od’s image, though carved in
ebony.” The negro conformation of both head and face,
likewise, occurs amongst true Europeans. Besides the
ordinary oval form of the human cranium may be
found, in each large town at home and abroad, skulls
of purest elongated and quadrangular forms—examples,
in truth, of close sporadic approximation to the special
Ethiopian and Mongolian types. We know, too, that
the capacity of the cerebral cavity of the cranium is
often exactly the same in different kinds or races of
men, how vastly different soever the mere external
forms of skulls may be, osteologically. And, what is
more, as a matter of medical observation or surgical
experience, this alleged molecular origin, and physical
identity of brain and mind, is altogether untrue, as
belonging exclusively to the attraction of cohesion,
exhibited by solids, and chemical affinity. The death¬
less spirit of Man is not unfrequently awake, nay active,
within its own nature, amidst suppurative disorganisa¬
tion, and, it may he, putrid decomposition of hemisphe¬
rical ganglia, sensory and motor. I affirm, therefore,
that mental science proves, by these very immaterial
operations, that all thought, sense, and emotion, yea,
every fact of human self-consciousness, are not “ in¬
variably ” dependent, for spiritual existence, on the
physical phenomena of organised cerebral fatty matter.
Were “ the things of the spirit ” ordained otherwise
than modern Spiritualism demonstrates, how could wo
explain, scientifically or rationally, the magneto-spi¬
ritual sense of vision, for example, by virtue of which
have been seen clearly the minutest details of our com¬
mon humanity, in time and space, even when distant
276
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aud. 1, 1873.
more than 3,000 miles, as now proved demonstratively
by photologic relations ? Yerily, psychic force and
modern Spiritualism are matters of highest and pro-
foundest import, and mightily concern the best interests
of all mankind,—alike the white intellectual Caucasian,
with large cranial cavity and small face, the jet-black
African, the red man of America, the yellow Mongolian,
the brown South-Sea Islander, the gigantic Patago¬
nian, the dwarfish Laplander, or finest Grecian forms
of rarest beauty and most exquisite proportion, as well
as fairest colour, whose peripheric sensibility, arising
from the peculiar conformation of outward integument,
and tactile papilla, are the physical equivalents of the
sense geometrique—and scarcely less, the flat nose, thick
lips, retreating forehead, and advancing jaws of the
Austral Negro, or “ Sidney Bull-Dog.” Surely, such
scenes and foretaste of spiritual life, liberty, and love,
as are now witnessed in the Metropolitan and Pro¬
vincial seances, cannot prove false to the yearning
aspirations of each anxious inquirer after another and
a better world. JRes rebus quantum distant! Things
molecular, I say, philosophy tells us, are but the pre¬
liminary steps from matter to spirit; they may con¬
dition it for the temporary purposes, or passing
materiality of this our planet—from a genetic stand¬
point—but Spirit conditions them, teleologically. Yes,
majestically does spiritual philosophy now look upon
the furious storms yet gathering in the gloomy horizon
of ex parte physical or materialistic science (and its
causative fragments of molecular genesis or meteoric
stones, as sole-origin and nature of mankind), and can¬
not be shaken. And serenely she will look, as a
heaven-born angel of purest light, nay, calmer and
ealmer, as looked Schiller on death, when, swan-like in
dying, he sang his last song, Truth lighting up the
brilliant vista of yon spirit-shores, new heavens to scan,
brighter and more beautiful worlds to see and know, in
the endless harmony of God’s loving Providence:—
Buhig und ruhiger. Yieles wird clar und verstandlich l
OTHER WORLD ORDER.
BY WILLIAM WHITE, AUTHOR OE THE “LIFE OF
SWEDENBORG-.”
“You say you are persuaded,” writes a friend, “that
God wants souls of just as many patterns as there are
men, women, and children in this wide world. So
comfortable a persuasion is one that I would gladly
share with you, if only I knew on what authority or
evidence it is founded.”
The inquiry is pertinent and requires an explicit
answer. As for authority, I have none to offer apart
from evidence. What is not credible in itself, I would
not attempt to enforce by Bible, Church, or Pope.
Carlyle’s adjuration is to me irresistible—“ what the
light of your mind, which is the direct inspiration of
the Almighty, pronounces incredible,—that, in God’s
name, leave uncredited; at your peril- do not try be¬
lieving that.” Not that I profess indifference to what
is commonly known as authority in matters of faith.
On the contrary, what many men, wise and good, have
found credible and useful is a strong recommendation to
attention; and if we have to dissent from Catholic
opinion, our dissent is quite as likely to proceed from
deficiency as from supremacy of understanding. Yet
in either case, a man is bound to be true to himself. If
he is blind, or purblind, or is “ deaf to heavenly voices,”
let him not pretend to see or hear; and (which is much
harder) let him not despise those who see or hear where
he only recognises darkness or silence.
Dispensing therefore with authority, where is my
evidence ? and here, I daresay, some will think that I
have been dexterously run aground. But let me
observe that such evidence as we have in the sim¬
plicities of outward or natural science cannot be com¬
manded in the complexities of social and spiritual
relations. If I say that the angles of every triangle
are equal to two right angles, or that so much alkali
will neutralise so much acid, I can place my assertions
beyond question by ocular demonstration; but if I say,
“ Honesty is the best policy,” I may be checked with
the qualification that it is so generally, but not invari¬
ably ; or if I affirm, “ Death is birth into another
world,” I may be repulsed with, “ Nonsense ; death is
just what it appears, namely, cessation of life;” and it
is plain that I might struggle for weeks over such points
and leave an antagonist unconquered.
Yet because incontrovertible evidence is unattainable
are we therefore delivered over to scepticism ? Surely
not. Exact evidence is desirable and strict logic is
admirable, but every day we draw conclusions, form
judgments, and commit actions with little of either.
Indeed it must be said, much illusion exists under the
name of “ inductive philosophy.” It assumes to rise
from evidence to hypothesis, when the fact is that hy¬
pothesis commonly anticipates and predicts evidence;
and it is questionable whether any great discovery or
invention was ever achieved on the Baconian method.
The sagacious man is he who perceives a principle of
order—the key to the position, where others see nothing
or are bewildered in the confusion of details. As I
read lately in the Pall Mall Gazette, “ The one talent,
which is worth all other talents put together, is the
talent of judging rightly on imperfect materials.” It is
a talent which is innate, which no rules will ever teach,
and which we may describe as Alice in Sylvia’s Lovers
describes mother-wit and sexual fascination, “ Lad! it’s
not schooling, nor knowledge, nor book-learning as
carries a man through t’ world. It’s mother-wit. And
it’s noan schooling, nor knowledge, nor book-learning as
takes a young woman. It’s summat as canna be put
into words.”
How then do I propose to justify the assertion that
“ God wants souls of just as many patterns as there are
men, women and children in this wide world?” No
otherwise than by presenting a variety of considerations
that tend to that conclusion in my own judgment with
the hope that they may tend likewise in the judgments
of others. Some will, of course, be unaffected, some
contemptuous, some dissentient, more or less, whilst a
few may wonder why I waste so many words in the
fortification of an assertion which is to them axiomatic,
“ Many men many minds : ” we can do no more than
state our opinions and leave them with equanimity to
the indiscriminate verdict.
In the line of such considerations, I may adduce an
observation of Swedenborg. He, it may be remem¬
bered, teaches that all mankind constitute one Grand
Man wherein every individual has place and function
according to the specialty of his character; and he
meets the inquiry as to the use of tribes and nations
ignorant of Christianity or any religion with the
remark, that as the Grand Man is perfect at all points,
internally and externally,' such tribes and nations form
what corresponds to skin and bone and cartilage in the
said Grand Man.
Aug. 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
277
“ Ridiculous ! ” exclaims a reader; but why ridicu¬
lous ? What out of man can be made but man ?
What is a community but a large man ? and what is a
nation but a larger man? and what can universal
mankind be but Humanity, that is, a Grand Man ?
There are many of Swedenborg’s sayings that appear
wild on first acquaintance, which develop into divine
matter-of-fact after reasonable familiarity; and this
statement about the Grand Man is one of them.
Indeed it has been to me a most fruitful and com¬
fortable idea, explaining much and reconciling me to
much. For with even a slight acquaintance with the
world we discover in no individual perfect manhood,
but only a section of perfection, or, to be accurate, a
section of possible perfection; and this discovery is apt
to beget dissatisfaction and cynicism. In the fervour
and ignorance of youth we look for much, and expe¬
rience disappoints us with little, or with something
widely different from our expectations. But why
should we demand so much of human nature, and be
offended with its inadequate response ? “ Blessed,”
said Swift, “ is he that expecteth nothing, for he shall
not be disappointedbut we may expect, and expect
bounteously, if only we shape our expectations ration¬
ally, that is to say, in accordance with the order of the
universe, otherwise the Divine Will.
Looking, therefore, upon individuals as fractions of
Humanity, we find ourselves in that attitude which is
generally recognised as catholicity, charity, tolerance,
liberality. We are content to take men for what they
are, just as we take plants or animals. We are not
distressed because we do not find roses on apple-trees,
or peaches on butter-cups, nor angry because horses
are not likewise cows, or cats sheep, or pigs larks, or
nightingales poultry. Each creature satisfies us for
what it is, and why not men and women ? We are too
exacting, and are miserable because our demands are
unfulfilled. We require of individual human nature
what individuals never can supply. Aurelia, in
Wilhelm Meister, says, “ My brother, who had under¬
taken to conduct the theatre, wished much to have a
helper, and lighted on a young man who wanted all
that, my brother had—genius, vivacity, spirit and [im¬
petuosity of mind.; but who also in return had all that
my brother wanted—love of order, diligence, and pre¬
cious gifts in housekeeping and the management of
money. Enough, our affairs went prosperously for¬
ward.” Examples of this kind, where efficiency on
one side makes up for deficiency on the other, we may
see everywhere if we look about us ; and what I have
to say is, that if we could so organise society as to post
special capacity at every point we should have a per¬
fect Man. In this world, as I remarked on a former
occasion, such organisation is not possible. Our con¬
tinuance here is too brief, too uncertain, and too dis¬
turbed for more than rough and provisional arrange¬
ments. Our earth is a place of birth, not of abode,
and of it we may say with St. Paul, “The whole
creation groaneth and travaileth in pain.” But the
very disorder wherein we are begotten has its purpose.
Out of our misery and anarchy is bred a sense of the
value and sweetness of the harmony of righteousness;
so that we may again write with St. Paul in the asser¬
tion, “ I reckon that the sufferings of this present time
are not worthy to be compared with the glory that
shall be revealed in us.” Many, like Hamlet, are called
to offices for which they are unequal, and feel, if they
do not say—
“ The time is out of joint: 0 cursed spite
That ever I was born to set it right; ”—
whilst others are bound to petty drudgeries,—
“ Hands that the rod of empire might have swayed,”—
with abilities in vast excess of their circumstances.
“ Poor souls! they pass away, wasted, and without
chance. - Ever such is the cruel irony of life and fate.”
Nay, not so : they pass away to enter into the joy and
fruition of opportunity. Why should we be so faith¬
less ? "Why shut our eyes and proclaim darkness ?
The Maker and Sustainer of the universe is a con¬
summate economist, who turns the most insignificant
matters to account, and is it likely that He should
be lavish or careless where His handiwork is most
excellent ?
“ I might allow so much concerning good people,”
my friend may say; “ for it is reasonable to suppose
that in Heaven there will be endless gradations of affec¬
tion and intellect; and it may be as you assert, that
the celestial organisation is in the human form; but
my difficulty is not with good people but with bad.
Now, you have not said a word about bad people; and
what I want to know is, how God disposes of thieves,
murderers, adulterers, liars, and such like.”
Just so. It is well to be brought face to face with
the worst at once; and the question I shall try to
answer in another article.
MAORI SPIRITUALISM.*
BY J. M. PEEBLES.
Accobding to Tasman, Cook, D’Surville, and other
navigators. New Zealand, when discovered, was thickly
inhabited by a most interesting people—one hundred
thousand or more in number. In colour they were of
a yellow brown, or olive. Those I have seen on camp
grounds or strolling along the streets were of a light
copper hue. Blood in many of them is strangely mixed
with that of Europeans. In height they are above
middle stature, erect, well-proportioned, and muscular.
Their countenances are open, eyes dark, foreheads finely
developed, noses large, broad at the base, and often
aquiline, and their hair black, waving, and often in¬
clined to curl. Some of them have as fine heavy
beards as Americans. Their hair never falls off
from their heads, but gradually turns grey. 1 he old
natives affirm that their ancestors lived to be very aged,
and then died by slowly wasting away, as a lamp goes
out for lack of oil. The ancient Maoris, as museum
relics demonstrate, were certainly semi-civilised. Those
yet living are degenerate specimens of their fathers,
who, in social life, were industrious, good-natured, tem¬
perate, and cleanly. They dwelt together in large fenced
villages. When these Maoris met, they did not shake.
hands, but affectionately rubbed their noses together,
and this is the present practice. While some American
women carry poodles for pets, these natives carry little
pigs. They are very hospitable to strangers. Canni¬
balism was unknown in their earlier traditionary times.
Their decline commenced with the advent of the mis¬
sionaries. The last Wanganui Herald, in an able
editorial upon the “decline of the native race,” says:—
Let one get into conversation with any of the old settlers,
principally whalers, whose recollections date back some forty
years, and he will be astonished to learn how these tribes
have disappeared off the face of the earth, and how that the
present representatives of these departed races, noble speci¬
mens of civilised savages, as some of them are, bear com-
* From the Banner of Light, Boston, TJ.S.
278
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 1, 1873.
parison in stature, appearance, mental qualifications, or social
influence among their respective tribes, with their departed
ancestors. It is almost saddening to watch the gradual
though certain diminution among those once powerful
hapus.; and it is no less humiliating to have to acknowledge
that in the majority of instances death and disease can be
unerringly traced to their intercourse with the (in many
cases) less civilised pakeha. In Oiaki, the centre of mis
sionary influence on this part of the coast, will be found the
greatest immorality, the most degraded mental and physical
condition, and consequently the most rapid and certain
decline among the natives as a people. . , . Yearly statistics
unerringly state that so far from the natives being benefited
by their religious, political, and social intercourse with our¬
selves, the reverse is the case. Disease and death are on the
increase, and crimes, often of a heinous nature, are committed
more frequently in proportion to the progress of their
acquaintance with our manners and our customs, our habits
and our views, our treachery and our falsehood. This seems
an appalling picture, but nevertheless it is a true bill.
Men, civilised and savage alike, are naturally reli¬
gious. These New Zealand Maoris believed in a plu¬
rality of invisible gods, and a future existence, although
the tapu took the place of religious observances. They
had priests and “ sorcerers,” and held intercourse with
their “ ancestral dead.” They were troubled with
demons. The heads of the chiefs were tabooed (tapu),
no one being allowed to touch them, or hardly allude
to them, under fearful penalties. They believed in
charms, and wore them. Death, to them, was the
passage to the Reinga—the unseen world, or place of
departed spirits. They did not fear to die, yet pre¬
ferred living in their mortal bodies. They believed
that individuals occupied different apartments in
Reinga, according as their earthly lives had been
good or ill. Messages were frequently given to dying
persons to take to deceased relatives in this shadow-
land of soulsi All of their funeral wails over their
recent dead ended with, “ Go! go dear one, away to
thy people! ” It is a singular coincidence that the
Fijians, Tahitians. Tongans,' and Samoans, as well as
the New Zealanders, consider the places of departure
of the spirits on their way to the unseen world as the
western extremities of their islands.
Relation to and communion with a world of spirits
are beliefs almost, if not completely, universal. The
native tribes and clans of these islands are not only
aware of the method of holding intercourse with the
so-called dead, but they understand its abuse, often
using their medial privileges for selfish ends. During
their wars with the English, they were uniformly made
acquainted by vision, clairvoyance, or clairaudience,
with the movements of the British troops before action
in battle. Not a plan of her Majesty’s officers could
be kept from them. The leading chief of the Han
Hans was a noted medium and medicine-man. He
distinctly said that the “ spirits of the dead ” guided
him to his victories. The Maoris in the north island
still own much territory, have their king, and hold but
little intercourse with pakeha—the white man.
The medium-priest in a tribe is called Tohunga. The
Maoris meet in close apartments, and chant their songs
till the flickering fire fades away, when the Tohunga
goes into his ecstatic state, and the spirit controlling
tenders counsel, describes his new habitation in spirit-
life, gives the names of those whom he has met, and bears
messages in return to kindred in the higher life. That
these Maoris of New Zealand talk with immortals, no
intelligent man having lived among them disputes.
Are they Spiritualists, then, or spiritists'! Spiritualism
is the synonym of the harmonial philosophy ; Spiritism
is the bare fact of spirit converse.
In travelling by railway, the conductor is the
“guard,” car is “carriage,” baggage is “luggage,”
the depot is a “ station,” and all aboard is “ take your
seats.” The forest is a “ bush,” and a field a “ pad-
dock.” A shilling is a “ bob,” a pound a “ quid,” and
fifty pounds a “ pony.” A drink is a “ nobbier,” row¬
dies are “ larrikins,” candies are “ lollies,” intellectual
men are “ clever a miner with his pack is a “ swag,”
a glass of liquor is a “ smile,” a man drunk is said to be
“ screwed,” and if robbed he is “ stuck up.” These terms
and phrases sound exceedingly odd to an American. There
are two corners of the mouth to laugh from ; and, fur¬
ther, all the impudence in the world is not fruiting in
Yankeelands. No fleet steed on Western prairies could
become more accustomed to gnats and flies than I to
the jeers of lads and “ larrikins,” both in Melbourne
and Dunedin. Christians should teach their Sunday-
school weaklings good manners, if nothing more.
When the Melbourne Daily Telegraph called me a
“long-haired apostate,” I said,-“ By the gods (putting
it in the plural makes it no swearing), shears shall not
touch my locks so long as I tarry in the Colonies.
Earth and hell combined can neither alarm nor drive
me.” Something is out of joint. I am either a long
way ahead of the times here, or lagging far in the rear.
Spiritualism occupies much the position in these islands
that it did in America fifteen years ago. Do the
scheming, worldly, business masses care to hear of
the spiritual phenomena, of the spiritual life, self-
denial, and purity of heart ? Not they. In my next
I will speak of the closing up of our work in New Zea¬
land. On Tuesday we sail for Hong Kong, China.
Dunedin, New Zealand, March 22nd, 1873.
THE LUNACY LAWS.
On Thursday evening, July 17th, a public meeting was held
at the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-street, Regenf-rtreet,
London, to consider the question of Lunacy Law Reform.
Mrs. Louisa Lowe, the writing medium, who had been incar-
cerated in an asylum for some months as a lunatic, read an
able, logical paper on the subject. Mr. George Sexton, M.D.,
M.A., presided.
The Chairman said that the lunacy laws were very objec¬
tionable, since they could be put in force at any moment by a
few private individuals, to deprive English men and women
of their liberty. Any two medical men may, by signing a
certificate, deprive a British subject of liberty; nay, he might
say that one medical certificate was enough, since the second
signature was easily obtained, and most of the responsibility
rested on the doctor who signed first. It might be said that
the Lunacy Commissioners went round to hear what the
patients had to say, but how difficult it was f'<rany individual
to prove himself sane; if he were locked up. and then asked
to prove his sanity, his first impulse would be to knock the
speaker down (laughter), and would therefore, perhaps, be
locked up for the rest of Ins life. Most lunatic asylums were
little better than prisons, and, in some cases, the patients were
treated worse than felons; there were grievous cases of injustice
in connection with these places, but he would call on Mrs. Lowe,
who herself had been locked up, to give her own narrative.
Mrs. Louisa Lowe then read a long paper on the subject,
saying that for fifteen dreary months she had endured that
most horrible of moral tortures, imprisonment among maniacs,
in four proprietary madhouses, because she was a writing me¬
dium. After stating that the certificates given by two doctors,
did not give sufficient security from wrongful incarceration,
she said that she thought that the preliminary proceedings
in alleged lunacy should be conformed to those in alleged in¬
fractions of the law as much as possible, but to secure the
necessary despatch a statement in writing should be accepted
as adequately proved; but then every falsehood in such
statement should rank as perjury to defeat the ends of
justice, be invariably prosecuted by the Grown as such, and
visited with the heaviest penalty attached to that crime. In
the metropolitan district the Lunacy Commissioners must pay
Aug. Jj 1873.
THE SPIEITUALIST.
279
at least six visits of inspection annually to each madhouse.
The dates of such visits are left entirely to their own dis¬
cretion, consequently four or five months often elapse with¬
out any inspection at all; the legal number being on these
occasions made up by a very rapid succession of visits at the
close of the year. Patients should have perfect liberty to
communicate with their friends by letter. The nation’s will
in this particular was expressed in 25 and 26 Vic., c. 100, and
runs thus :—“Every letter written by a private patient shall
be forwarded to the person to whom it is addressed, unless
the superintendent prohibit the forwarding of such letter by
endorsement thereon, and every letter so endorsed must be
laid before the visitors or Commissioners at their next visit
Any superintendent failing to lay such letters before Com¬
missioners or visitors, or being privy to the detention by any
other person of any letter detained in contravention of this
section, is to incur a penalty not exceeding £20.” The
intention of Parliament, then, evidently was that, as a rule,
patients should not be gagged^ but allowed to tell their own
tale, and get help and comfort from without. It was deeply
to be regretted any discretionary power of suppression was
vested in any one, for no communication from a real lunatic
could carry much weight or do much harm, whereas this license
of suppression was fraught with danger to the whole commu¬
nity. Severalof her own letters, including one addressed to her
London solicitor, containing lists of witnesses to sanity, and
instructions how to proceed for her liberation, were suppressed.
All the time that her letters were being tampered with, she
had no suspicion thereof. The superintendents allowed her to
write, they cited the Act as proof that her letters must go as
directed, and artfully implied that the absence of answers was
due to her position ; in fact, that friends might hear from but
not write to restrained persons without special permission. So
in November, 1870, about midway between two inspections,
she wrote a letter which it was of vital importance to her
should reach its destination untampered with. She sealed it.
and herself delivered it to the posting agent; yet with n a week
its contents were known to a person unacquainted with him to
whom the letter was addressed, and who, she believed, never
received it. Here, she argued, was a clear case of infraction of
the letter of the law. With reference to measures of reform,
she proposed that a small asylum, close to the county town,
and with court-house attached, would greatly facilitate a jury
trial for all alleged lunatics. Each should be committed
thereunto in the first instance, and lunacy assizes should be
held there at short stated intervals for the trial of new cases
and the revision of others. After condemnation as insane,
the patient should be removed to the place selected for his
permanent detention, but only for a definite time named by
hisjudges. at the expiration of which he should be entitled to
reappear before the nearest lunacy court; he would thus go
into captivity with hope in his heart, and the strongest incen¬
tive to exert whatever will-power remained in co-operating
with his guardians for his own recovery. The time for such
reappearance would, of course, be fixed in accordance with
medical estimates of the probable course of the disease 5 but
as such estimate can never be certain, the superintendents
should be strictly enjoined to produce a patient at the
lunacy assizes next after his recovery, whenever teat might
occur. On such occasions reasonable facilities for defence
should be allowed the patient, and all evidence given in his
hearing. As to remedial measures, Mrs. Lowe said that when
once it is conceded that allegations of lunacy shall be based
on actions alone, and that men shall no longer be incarcerated
on account of their opinions, or because their eyes do not
move according to scientific rules, it will probably also be
thought that the fittest person to grant lunacy commitments,
and direct the preliminary coercive measures, would be the
nearest stipendiary magistate, or other law officer. Such
matters, however, would become of very secondary importance.
So long as men secured (1) presumption or proof of lunacy to
lie solely in actions ; (2) those actions to be stated in writing,
and falsehood to be felony ; (8) care of lunatics to be vested
exclusively in the state ; (4) trial by jury soon after incar¬
ceration, and again before enlargement, with improved and
public supervision ; so long as these points were secured,
much would have been done—more, she thought, than had
ever yet been achieved—to protect society from the curse and
the crime of false lunacy warrants on the one hand, and the
danger of unrestrained lunatics on the other. It was for the
glorious creed of Spiritualism that she had ostensibly suffered ;
it was the mere belief in “ the action of mind apart from hu¬
manly material brain,” that the Commissioners did, in 1871,
adjudicate to be insanity. They had thus debarred them¬
selves from ever commanding the liberation of anyone holding
the belief.*
The Chairman said that the lunacy law was in several
respects iniquitous, and was much abused. Besides, it was
very hard sometimes for the cleverest man to draw the line
between sanity and insanity. An article in a recent number
of The Globe newspaper, stated that lunacy had for many
years been on the increase, and that at the present time one
person in every hundred and fifty was mad and under the
charge of keepers. The writer jocularly calculated that in
fifty or sixty years the lunatics would be in the majority,
when they would probably put all the sane people in asylums.
Very large money interests were often at stake in connection
with patients imprisoned in proprietary madhouses. He did
not say ti at those influences had an effect upon any of the
officials, but he did say that the temptation ought not to be
there. Proprietary lunatic asylums would be difficult to
abolish, huge interests were at stake in connection with them,
and their medical officers received high salaries.
Mr. C. T. Pearce, M.D., said that he was a stranger to Mrs.
Lowe until a few days previously, when he met her acci¬
dentally. Fourteen years ago his attention had been called
to the working of the lunacy laws, for he had some difficulty
in getting a sane man out of a madhouse. The medical officer
said that he had no power to let him out. The patient, who
had been brought up and educated as a gentleman, had been
locked up in the county asylum for open-air preaching. The
second medical certificate had been obtained without diffi¬
culty, for the doctor who signed the first one drove off with
the patient to a friendly surgeon, and said to him, “ I have a
lunatic in the carriage, and want you to sign another certifi¬
cate,” and the surgeon accordingly gave the second certificate.
Another case came under his notice in Northampton. He
succeeded in aiding to draw public attention to the incarce¬
ration of several sane persons, consequently, in December,
1858, a very large meeting took the matter into consideration.
The Lord Chancellor sent somebody down to inquire into the
facts, when several of the officers were dismissed and the
persons liberated. The Daily Telegraph had recently pointed
out how the wife of a tradesman in Tottenham-court-road
had obtained a certificate and shut up her sane husband.
He would move—“ That this meeting considers the state of
the lunacy laws to be subversive of the rights and liberties of
the subject, and will endeavour to take such steps as may be
necessary to bring about an alteration of the law.” He
suggested that a committee should be formed of such of the
listeners as would come forward and volunteer to take part
in the work.
Mr. Isaac Hall seconded the motion, adding that he had
been locked up in the county asylum at Lancaster for sixteen
weeks, because he put forth statements which people did not
understand. He was an open-air preacher in the town of
Southport, near Liverpool.
Mr. Burns advocated organisation. He said that the people
interested in lunacy law abuses should be confronted by an
organisation of men and women, their equals or superiors in
social position. He had known Mrs. Lowe for years, and
when he lost sight of her, wondered where she had gone to ;
and when she came back after her liberation he saw no dif¬
ference in her; she was the same courteous, intelligent lady
she had ever been.
Mr. Harper said that he was ready to take down the names
of those who were willing to act upon the committee.
Several ladies and gentlemen then entered their names.
Mrs. Lowe put her name down for a subscription of £25 at
once, and £5 5s. annually, and other subscriptions were pro¬
mised.
The proceedings then closed.
Me. J. C. Ltjxmooke is now cruising off the south coast of
England in his schooner yacht the Ariadne, and will return
to London for the winter, when it is to be hoped he will work
as actively as in former years for toe benefit of Spiritualism.
The Hong Kong Times published the following - para¬
graph about the arrival of Mr. Peebles on May 27th:—11 The
Hon. J. M. Peebles, late United States Consul in Turkey,
arrived on Saturday from New Zealand. To-morrow he goes
to Canton. He is on a tour round the world, gathering
materials for a volume on the customs of religions of
Polynesia and Asia. He is accompanied by Dr. Dunn.”
* Mrs. Lowe’s paper is printed in full in th.a last number of The Medium
newspaper; she entered into the details of her own case, and stated much
about the internal management of lunatic asylums.
280
tse spiritualist;
Aug. 1, 187
SPIRITUALISM IN AUSTRALIA.
Last Sunday evening Dr. Richardson, who has just arrived
from, Australia, gave an address at the Cavendish Rooms,
Mortimer-street, Regent-street, London, on the growth and
position of Spiritualism in that colony. Mr. Bums presided,
and the services commenced in the usual way by the singing
of a hymn, and the reading of a chapter from the Bible, con¬
taining a description of spiritual manifestations.
Dr. Richardson, in the course of his address, said that he
came from that country where, according to Mr. Gathorne
Hardy, the State Church having been abolished, no man
speaks without swearing, and every man gets drunk. He
came from a land where every labourer had reasonable hours
for work and recreation, and where every honest man could
sit under his own vine and his own fig-tree; from a land
where Spiritualism had taken root, and was fast undermining
ecclesiastical authority. Australia was in advance of England
in beneficial legislation and the carrying out of democratic
principles; executions took place there in private before the
same practice was adopted in England; vote by ballot WdS
established there years ago; there the State favours no
religious sect; and in Australia marriage with a deceased
wife’s sister is already legalised., (Applause.) Spiritualism
was introduced into Australia about ten years ago, but some
few advanced minds were prepared to receive it, in conse¬
quence of having given attention to mesmerism, and
studied the contents of the Zoist and other psychological
publications. In October, 1870, eleven persons, including
one lady, met together in Melbourne, and formed a
Spiritual Association, which grew apace, and at the present
time has 150 members, under the presidency of Mr. John
Ross; it has also a children’s lyceum, which in April last,
when he left Melbourne, had 120 members. Apart from the
association in Melbourne, a clergyman, who is a Spiritualist,
the Rev. Mr. Tyerman, is doing good work. Mr. Tyerman
once had an orthodox church at Kangaroo Flat near Sandhurst,
and when Spiritualism broke out among the members of his
flock, instead of denouncing the manifestations without en¬
quiry, he thought it merely honest to gain some knowledge
of their nature first, so he attended seances and discovered
himself to be a powerful physical medium, or “ motive ”
medium as it is styled in Australia. Accordingly one day the
venerable Archdeacon Crawford called upon him, and asked
him ‘4 If he believed in Spiritualism? ’’ Mr. Tyerman replied
that “ If by Spiritualism was meant that the departed had the
power to communicate with mortals, he certainly did believe
in Spiritualism.” The Archdeacon suspended Mr. Tyerman
at once, and in one month’s time he was turned out of his
parsonage. The Spiritualists of Melbourne at once subscribed
more than three hundred pounds, and presented the amount
to the victim of ecclesiastical persecution, who is now working
energetically in Melbourne for the good of the cause. At
Sandhurst, a mining town of some 30,000 people, Mr. Denovan,
an independent gentleman, lectures every Sunday upon Spiritu¬
alism, and his listeners number several hundreds. Mr. Leech, a
barrister, lectures at Castlemaine, another large mining town
of some 25,000 people. Mr. J. M. Peebles recently visited
Australia, and lectured in its principal cities. The Spiritual
newspaper there is The Harbinger of Light, very well man¬
aged by Mr. Terry. He must not omit to mention the work of
Mr. B. S. Nayler, a gentleman seventy-eight years of age, who,
after arriving in Australia from New Milford, South Wales,
investigated Spiritualism, discovered it to be true, and for
some time started and conducted at his own expense The
Glowworm,, the first spiritual periodical ever published at the
Antipodes. Mr. Nayler now holds an appointment for a year,
as lecturer to the Spiritualists at Stawell. Many stances are
held in the colony, and a Mr. P. at Castlemaine, who holds a
government situation, and who professes not to be a
Spiritualist, obtains every kind of manifestation through the
mediumship of his wife and daughter. The members of one
circle there brought much discredit upon rational and scien¬
tific Spiritualists, by believing everything in the shape of a
message which they obtained, without applying common
sense to it; they acted upon blind faith, superstition, and
fetishism, and promulgated the most ridiculous statements,
including one to the effect that the world wpuld come to an
end before the year 1878. Dr. Richardson closed his lecture
by very ably reviewing the scientific and theological aspects
of Spiritualism.
Mr. H. Cholmondeley-Pennell asked if he might be
allowed to say a few words.
Mr. Burns said that it was not the custom, nor wa it de¬
sired, to introduce discussions' at the Sunday evening services,
but if Mr. Pennell particularly desired to speak, perhaps the
rule might be waived for once.
Mr. Pennell said that he thought the cause of Spiritualism
suffered generally by the prominent way in which leading
Spiritualists quietly assumed in their remarks, that the people
who came to that hall on Sunday evenings were Unitarians.
He thought that Spiritualism was like a silver cord running
through a chain of beads, uniting many people otherwise differ¬
ing in opinion. He was what is called an ‘ ‘ orthodox Christian,”
and with him, if it came to the question, should he let the
Bible go, or let Spiritualism go, he should say, ” In the name
of God, let Spiritualism go.’’ Spiritualism undoubtedly had
a tendency to attract freethinkers, but he did not think that
the terms “ Spiritualism’’and “Anti-Christianity” were neces¬
sarily synonymous. He was much pleased with the part of
the lecture relating to Australia, and for one had much plea¬
sure in returning thanks for the same.
Mr. Burns said that that was a meeting of Spiritualists, and
that he and the other speakers stood upon that platform, to
utter what they believed to be true, and were not to be put
down, or to have their remarks modified, to please any living
man whatever. If Mr. Pennell and others hanging upon the
outskirts of Spiritualism, did not like what they heard, they
were at liberty to set up a tabernacle at home or elsewhere,
but in that hall none but truthseekers were asked to darken
the threshold. He should not put the vote of thanks, it was
contrary to custom, and the attention the listeners paid to the
words of Dr. Richardson was a proof of the interest they felt
in his address. , Applause, by making a noise with the hands,
was not an intelligent way of expressing approbation.
Mr. Pennell rose to reply, but Mr. Burns proceeded steadily
to read the concluding hymn, which was sung, and the pro¬
ceedings closed.
SPIRIT FORMS AND LIGHTS.
On Saturday evenings, semi-public seances, advertised “ for
Spiritualists only,” are given by the professional medium, Mr.
0. E. Williams, at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, Holborn. There
is usually much spiritual harmony among the sitters on these
occasions; the medium feels at ease in consequence of having
several of his friends present; the rooms and cabinet are
well charged with those imponderable emanations from the
medium which enable spirits to control common matter; where¬
fore the manifestations at these seances are usually powerful.
Last Saturday week, after an ordinary dark seance, at which
the manifestations were good, a cabinet sitting took place.
The medium was bound with cord to one end of the cabinet,
and the room and cabinet were placed in darkness. In a short
time a light began to shine through the cracks of the cabinet,
and the spirit, John King, came out, robed in white drapery,
holding the light in both hands in front of his breast so as to
illuminate his face. His hands and the light were covered
with the gauzy white drapery. He came out several times
about a yard from the cabinet, and on two or three occasions
withdrew the light from the drapery and held it up for inspec¬
tion. It was like a flattened cake of wax, nearly circular in
form, about four inches in diameter, and glowing with a
strongly phosphorescent light, which clearly lit up his breast
and features. The light was steady at all points, and emitted
no smoke or smell, in which respects it was unlike common
phosphorus, being, moreover, of double the brilliancy. In
steadiness of glow it resembled Bologna phosphorus, but then at
times it steadily increased and decreased in brilliancy .^equally
at all points, while the observers were looking at it; in short,
it resembled no light at present producible by students of
physical science.
A gentleman from Shropshire stretched out his legs, and
moved them about under the spirit form, where John King’s
legs ought to have been. He said that there was nothing
there.
Once John King left the cabinet about a yard, then rose up
till his head was perhaps eight feet from the foor, from which
height he steadily and vertically sank, talking all the time,
till his chin nearly touched the floor, between Mr. Harrison’s
feet, who with his hands on his knees, was gazing downwards
at the sinking form. As John King’s head neared the ground,
the light slowly faded out. This took place in the presence of,
perhaps, about a dozen spectators.
Last Saturday evening, at another seance for Spiritualists
only, Mr. H. Cholmondeley-Pennell was among the spectators
who attended.
There was a want of harmony in the circle, and the mani¬
festations were poor.
Aug. 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
281
In America there are now very many mediums in whose
presence spirits can materialise themselves, and the manifes¬
tations take place under very good* test conditions. For
instance, Mr. J. E. Buell writes in the Banner of Light (Boston,
U.S.) of July 12th:—
Mrs. Stewart, who has been holding seances at Dr. Pence’s building for
several months past, is a similar medium to Mrs. Andrews, of Moravia,
N.Y. She uses a cabinet, at an opening in which appear materialisations of
various persons, including whites, Indians, and negroes. Mrs. Stewart
wears dark clothing altogether at her seances, and is usually examined by a
committee of ladies, stimulated by a standing offer of five hundred dollars,
should they find any masks, spectacles, rings, bracelets, white clothing, &c.,
which are shown from time to time, adorning the spirits who appear at the
window of the cabinet.
The other medium is a young girl of some eleven years of age, by the
name of Laura Morgan. Her seances consist mainly in playing instruments
of music and making various noises in a cabinet, while the medium is
secured by small chains which are locked around her ankles, wrists, and
neck, and securely fastened and locked to the cabinet.
For the genuineness of the manifestations of either Mrs. Stewart or Miss
Morgan I am willing to risk my reputation as a man of judgment; and all
persons wishing for tests in these directions should not fail to attend their
seances, which are given regularly each week.
ORGANISATION.
That organisation would be as good for London as for
Liverpool Spiritualists, probably nobody will dispute, and it
is scarcely probable that anybody adverse to organisation will
recommend, as a necessary consequence, the disbanding of all
those Spiritual societies throughout the country, which are
doing so much good.
As organisation among London Spiritualists is necessarily
only a question of time, the principles on which a metropo¬
litan society should be framed should be well considered be¬
forehand. Like the existing societies, it should not deal in
any way with theological matters, or a firebrand of discord
would be introduced; it should be formed for purely business
purposes. It also should not interfere with private enter¬
prise, but rather strengthen the hands of all individuals who
may be carrying on work for the good of Spiritualism in a
reasonable manner. We think that no member of the organi¬
sation having any direct or indirect commercial interest in Spi¬
ritualism should be eligible either to vote, or to occupy a seat
on the council, which should be composed of a dozen or more
elected ladies and gentlemen, and all the proceedings of the
council should be published regularly.
What would be the first work of an organisation ? Perhaps
to establish Sunday evening lectures in London, and to re¬
compense the lecturers, who as a general rule, with a few
exceptions, have hitherto given their services gratuitously.
Lecturers of ability, such as Mr. Morse, Dr. Sexton, or Dr.
M'Leod, can draw good audiences, and on such occasions the
collections at the doors much more than clear the expenses of
the use of the Cavendish Booms. An organisation could
secure the assistance in turn of these best lecturers regularly,
and the least it could do would be to pay them, say £3 per
lecture, involving a total expense of about £150 a-year.
Also, energetic publishing business in connection with
Spiritualism ought to he supported. Six years ago spiritual
publishing in London cleared its expenses, and as there is still
no opposition or competition, presumably it does so now, espe¬
cially as the movement is trebled in extent. Still, energy in
this work might legitimately be encouraged by an organisa¬
tion, and the spiritual bookseller be awarded, say £100 a year
(which means a good place of business rent-free), so as to be
secured against all possible loss.
There are some who think that by public subsidies a weekly
newspaper should be kept going in Spiritualism before its
natural time, while the movement is yet too small for one.
This advantage is readily obtainable by an annual grant of
£150 for two years, if desired.
On adding these items up, it will seen that they amount in
all to £400 a year, and secure energetic publishing, weekly news,
and remunerated weekly lecturing in connection with the
movement. If, as at present, the lecturing item be struck
out, £250 a year in the hands of an organisation is enough for
the other two purposes. But as the present influx of subscrip¬
tions, with no organisation, amounts certainly to much more
than that, and probably to £400 a year, an organisation would
have the power of properly remunerating Sunday evening
lecturers all the year round, as well as of carrying out the
other two objects.
Moreover, as very many Spiritualists do not now subscribe
towards public work in London, because there is no organisa¬
tion to control expenditure, an organisation would have a much
larger income than £400 a year, consequently a surplus avail¬
able for other beneficial purposes. We have often thought
that one of the greatest losses caused by absence of organisa¬
tion is, that Mr. Gerald Massey’s great literary and elocutionary
talents have not been permanently and constantly engaged on
behalf of Spiritualism during the last few years.
The Liverpool Conference may very possibly consider the
subject of public income and expenditure in connection with
Spiritualism; and, if- the members deal with each of the three
great items of expenditure separately, and fix the exact amount,
they may gain much useful information; whereas, if they con¬
sider the expenditure as a whole, excluding leading details, all
may be mystery and fog.
Possibly an organisation might decide that other objects
than any of the above were more worthy of support, and should
take priority; in such case, the discovery of any better methods
of aiding the cause would be welcomed by all true Spiritualists.
The governing body of the organisation should consist of duly-
elected independent Spiritualists, free from commercial inte¬
rests, with no bias in favour of this or that lecturer, this or
that publisher, this or that newspaper, or this or that medium.
It should have a strong sense of justice, tempered by kindli¬
ness, and do its work with a single eye to the benefit of
Spiritualism.
Mh. John Heywood, publisher, of 143, Deansgate,
Manchester, is about to make special efforts to push the sale
of The Spiritualist in that town. As we have many subscribers
in Manchester, who for the most part receive this journalfrom
London by post, we shall feel obliged if they will order extra
copies now and then of Mr. Heywood, and give him general
encouragement.
Spieithalism in DAlston.—Last Saturday week Mr.
A. Fegan Egerton, of Liverpool, gave a seance to the Dalston
Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism, at their rooms, 74,
Navarino-road, Dalston. It was a dark seance, given under
stringent test conditions, the hands of the medium being held
by members of the association all through the seance ; in fact,
everybody joined hands with his neighbour, and there was
not a free hand in the room. Under these circumstances a
piano was played, a chair was floated over the heads of the
sitters and placed on the table, all the sitters were gently
touched on the head or hands, and a chair was strung upon
the arm of Mrs. Corner, while she held the hand of the
medium, the phenemenon being thus presented of matter
passing through matter. The direct spirit voice was heard,
but not strongly. Mr. Egerton obtains manifestations much
resembling those through the mediumship of Mr. Williams,
but with not so much power as yet, his mediumship being less
completely developed.
The Dialectical Report.—The cheap edition of the Report
of the Committee of the Dialectical Society on Spiritualism has
just been issued. It is neatly bound, and is an excellent book
at the price. It also has been much improved by the abridg¬
ments. A massive portion of the advertising matter, how¬
ever, at the end of the volume, tends greatly to impair its
usefulness, for the public are therein told, at great length,
that there is a “Spiritual Institution” in England, with a
“ Central Office,” at 15, Southampton-row, supported by a
“system of organisation;” that “travelling representatives”
of this Institution visit circles and societies, and that there is
a “ deficiency of £500 per annum,” in connection with the
Institution, which “ has been in no single year met by sub¬
scriptions from other Spiritualists, hence a very heavy amount
of responsibility has devolved upon the managing representa¬
tive.” It is further stated that “ honorary deputations from
the Central Institution visit localities and assist in the work
of organisationSo British Spiritualists are charged with
starting an Institution, and leaving the manager to meet a
deficiency of £500 a-year,—a shabby line of action which
will doubtless draw the censure of newspaper editors who
review the Dialectical Report. The real truth of the matter
is that there is no Spiritual Institution at all in London, but
that a publisher calls his private place of business by that
name. There is no organisation of London or Metropolitan
Spiritualists ; and the only deputation ever sent from the
alleged “Institution” is the publisher himself. Instead of
Spiritualists having left a manager in the lurch, they have
given a private individual hundreds upon hundreds of pounds
annually (because he says he works energetically), and have
asked for nothing in return, so the charges cannot be sub¬
stantiated. There is much very strong feeling in London,
though less in the provinces, about these misrepresentations.
So far as our experience goes, Spiritualists are, on the
average, far more liberal, financially, than non-Spiritualists.
282
THE SPIEITUALIST.
Aug. 1, 1873J
EESIG-N A.TION.
Shook and trembled in the winds,
With the blast of coming winter,
A sturdy oak, the forest king.
Beavily sighed the leaves,
Heavier sighed the branches,
Talked they among themselves—
Talked together leaves and branches.
This is what the branches said:
“ We are bare when leaves are gone,
Naked to the wintry winds,
Chilled at e we when leafless.
Follow not the call of winds,
Stay with us for ever.”
Said the leaves unto the branches:
“We must follow when the winds call,
’Tis our fate and we must leave you,
Yellow, sere, all autumn tinted,
We must go whene'er our time comes,
When the murmuring breezes call.”
Sighed now heavier, deeper
Sighed the forest oak king,
Through the night till morning,
Till the sun’s rays thrilled it,
Till the sun awoke its hopes.
The hopes that faded with its leaves.
Then sang loud in gladness,
Sang the oak, the forest king:
“ Beautiful fallen or falling leaves,
I’ll not weep for falling leaves,
But wait patiently wait, without fear,
Till the storm time goes,
Till the spring time comes,
To bring me a mantle of leaves,
Of beautiful, new, green leaves.”
Arbol L. BrbAY.
(ftflmsipontjence.
[Oreat freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.']
SPIBIT FACES IN MANCHESTER.
Sib,—On Friday evening last, I went to a* seance given by
a married lady acquaintance of mine, who has never been to
any other seances, and knows next to nothing of Spiritua¬
lism, except through reading your paper and the paper called
the Medium and Daybreak, for the past seven or eight weeks;
she was thus tempted to try for manifestations. The lady’s name
I give to you herewith, but I desire you not to publish it, be¬
cause her husband will not sanction it, their p sition in life
being altogether beyond doubt as to respectability.
There were seven of us—viz., three gentlemen and four
ladies. The room was darkened, except one gas-light, and
after the lady had sat at the piano, and one of the gentlemen
played most delightfully on the violincello by way of drawing
us into a harmonious condition of mind, the medium went
into a summarily formed cabinet in one corner of the room,
merely partitioned from us by two yards broad of black, glazed
calico, with a hole about one foot square for faces, and about
five feet two o.r three inches from the floor, in the usual way.
She sat upon a chair placed inside ; we then reduced the
light a little more, and sang “ Sweet Home,” and other airs,
accompanied by the musical-box, which we made to play.
The medium soon became entranced, for two faces—small, like
children’s—appeared at the square hole, with white drapery on
their heads and on their shoulders; after a little time they
seemed to float about, then sunk out of our view. I instantly
asked them to come outside amongst us ; in obedience to this
they both made the attempt, one peeped out at my side of the
loose calico exactly at the same moment that the other did on
the further side, but could not do more. Then I heard a
whispering voice from inside the cabinet say, “ Come and
look inside.” I quickly looked through the square hole, and
saw the medium in dfeep trance, and one of the white figures
apparently sat,upon her left shoulder. The voice again spoke,
and said, “ My sister has gone.” Then it said, “ The other
company may come, you go away! Go away!" I did so,
and all the others went up and saw what I have stated.
Directly we had got seated I stated that the voice came from
the medium, who was in black attire, and not from the white
form. Then the medium spoke loud, and said, “ I must come
out, or I shall be suffocated.” and out she came amongst us.
I leave you and your readers to form their own conclusions,
full well knowing this subject is much ridiculed. I write
you what myself and others have witnessed, and not at any
paid medium’s residence. Charles Blackbubn,
Parkfield, Didsbury, near Manchester.
Sib,—Mr. Blackburn informed me that he sent you a report
of our last seance, so, perhaps, a sketch of the development of
our private seances from the beginning may be of interest.
About four months ago, my friend, the husband, of our
medium, expressed his astonishment at my believing in
Spiritualism, and his battery of objections drew from me the
question, “Have you seen anything?” “No.” “Well,
then, go and investigate, and let us drop the subject until
afterwards.” After some weeks, he informed me, with marked
interest, that his views were undergoing a change. Out of
fun he had tried table-moving in his house with surprising
results. “Well,” I replied, “may be it is simply nervous
excitement.” “ Nay,” said he, “ but the raps ? ” “ The table
is perhaps creaky, send it to the joiners.” “ No, no ! the raps
give decided and intelligent answers, and said that my wife
would be a very powerful medium.”
Now we arranged a sitting, a lady friend and myself
making four for the circle. I at once detected unmistakable
signs of power. Messages by raps, tiltings, &c., increased
with each sitting (twice weekly), and at the third, knocks
came on the floor and wall. At the fourth seance, 1 proposed
total darkness, and the furniture around us began to move
and toss about. The effect of this on the husband—a firm
sceptic u-p to this time.—was remarkable. Bapidly we pro¬
gressed now in successive sittings to our increasing delight
and wonder. About this time a powerful professional me¬
dium, noted for face manifestations, arrived in Manchester.
We invited her to a seance, and expected something extra by
the presence of two mediums, but the result was very unsatis¬
factory. After this professional medium left, all except myself
shouted out, “ Humbug! shameful imposture ! ” all were
raging with indignation ! A few days after, when 1 came to
our seance, I found a cabinet arranged for faces, and, sur¬
prised, I said, “Hallo! what is this?” “Well,” said our
medium, “ I shall try faces to-night.” “ You are rather san¬
guine.” “Nevermind.” Our seance began, and after sun¬
dry marks of spirit presence, I asked, “ Has our spirit friend
power to materialise and show herself to-night P ” Three
very loud raps on the floor. We arranged the cabinet, and
certainly a spirit form was seen several times, but not dis¬
tinctly. We were, of course, deeply impressed with this
unexpected success, and, going to supper, a lively conversa¬
tion followed. The most remarkable and amusing turn in the
development of our circle must here be noted. With a hearty
laugh, Mr.  stated, that “ his wife intended to play a
trick on us by producing sham faces,” but the three very
positive knocks made her drop that plan. Thus began her
debut in this phase. From this time the faces improved with
each sitting, but the first distinct appearance of features and
head-dress we shall never forget, the impression being stu¬
pendous. Long before (I forgot to mention) our spirit gave
her name, and stated she lived in the sixteenth century ; and
imagine our astonishment when the form came in the head¬
dress of that time. In spite of our glorious progress, our
medium, being annoyed by foul slander and quite down¬
hearted, expressed her intention of giving up the se<z«c<?s, and
with much persuasion only she consented to go on.
After this painful conversation, we sat for a seance, and my
indignation about the stupid slanders gave vent to many
sharp remarks, which were responded to by raps, increasing
in loudness, and when I raised my voice and shouted out, “ Is
it not downright shame to listen to silly talk while in the face
of glorious truth,” three tremendous blows, as if from a
sledge-hammer, almost terrified us. “ Well,” I said, “ these
blows must have stamped out the last doubts about your
mission, madame.” To this the medium said, “ Yes I ” and
since then we have been going on faithfully. 0. Reimebs.
Manchester, July 27th, 1873.
spirit identity.
Sir,—In your favour of the 23rd ult., you ask to be fur¬
nished with the evidence we have of John Watt’s separate and
distinct mental individuality, apart from the mental indi¬
viduality of Mrs. Everitt. The request will strike many of
your readers as superfluous, especially after what has already
been published in most of the spiritual periodicals, showing
his intelligence and mental powers to be superior to those of
his medium.
You must have been very unfortunate if, with all your
experience, you have never had any information given or in¬
telligence manifested beyond the natural ability and acquire¬
ments of the medium.
* Mr. Everitt is in error in supposing that we ever made any each
statement,—-En.
Aug. 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
'283
I hope to show John’s separate and distinct existence and
recognisable identity, and also superior mental powers, by the
following facts. At the secmce referred to by Mr. Hinde in
your last issue, conversation was carried on by medium and
spirit. The medium’s voice always came from the same
spot where we knew she was sitting, but the spirit’s
voice came from different elevations and various parts
of the room, sometimes not less than six or seven feet
above us, and the next instant it was close to the table
at which we were sitting, nor could it be said from what
part the voice would next be heard. When anybody asked a
question, it could not be foretold from what part of the sphere
surrounding the medium the voice would sound. When the
medium was spoken to her voice always came from the same
place, and while she was answering a question or talking to
us, John Watt was knocking at the ceiling, or perhaps tapping
some of us on the head ; and, as Mr. Hinde truly says, he
answered her questions while she was asking them, he also
gave her information on the subject of her inquiries for which
she thanked him. In listening to the two voices in conversa¬
tion, no one could fail to perceive a marked distinction
between them, John’s being a deeper toned voice, and his
sentences uttered with more force and power, implying a
broader chest and more powerful lungs than Mrs. Everitt’s.
As another proof of his individuality, we have observed his
language is peculiarly unique and polished, especially when
the conditions are such that he can enter freely into conversa¬
tion ; so much is this the case, that one of our greatest
critics, on hearing him, said, “ That certainly was the voice of
a gentleman, and an educated gentleman, and a voice
I should like to hear again.” Another of our great savans,
scarcely less distinguished in the literary world, said, ” The
voice is certainly that of an educated gentleman.” Many
such observations have been made by persons moving in the
best society.
John has been seen by several seers at different times, who
have always recognised him by the name of John Watt, and
their accounts agree in the main with Mrs. Everitt’s descrip¬
tions of his personal appearance and characteristics. She has
not only seen and conversed with him in her normal state, but
when entranced has frequently met and conversed with him in
the spirit world,
Many persons can testify that his voice has been heard at
the same time and recognised as distinct from hers. He has
sometimes brought the tube down upon her head with con¬
siderable force, and sharply insisted^ upon her being quiet.
She, displeased and mortified at such a peremptory request,
has claimed and insisted upon her right to talk, if she thought
proper. John has said, “ Then I must leave,’’ and has thrown
down the tube and left us.
Much more might be said on this head, but we will now
proceed to prove his superior intellectuality.
Quite recently he gave us, by request, a number of words
from which to choose a name for our new. home, and among
them were a Hebrew and a Greek word. He gave their signi¬
fication, and pronunciation, and told us how lo spell them,
neither Mrs. Everitt, myself, nor son, who were present, ever
heard the words before; this fact proves the presence of an
intelligence beyond our united attainments. On one occasion
John gave in direct writing a sentence in the Japanese lan¬
guage, phonetically. He has several times given the pronun¬
ciation with a beautiful euphony and ready utterance, while
Mis. Everitt’s attempts to pronounce it correctly have utterly
failed. He told us it was an answer to a question put by him
to a Japanese gentleman, when in Japan, during his earth
life. He has also given us, in the audible voice, an account of
the manners and customs of the Chinese, which Mrs. Everitt,
with myself and others, heard. We were so amused and de¬
lighted with it that we tried to remember it, and wrote down
as much as we could think of it, but felt certain it was not
more than half of what John had said, and that not in the
order in which he had said it, so we asked him the next day
to give it us in writing, which he did through Mrs. Everitt s
hand. She being in her normal state, it was given with great
rapidity, but she did not know a word she was writing.
It was afterwards stated that this had appeared in the
Times newspaper some years before. Still, whether this was
the case or not, it does not alter the fact that she had not
heard it before in her life, and could not remember it after
she had listened to it, although she was pleased and amused,
and anxious that he should give it us in writing. This also
proves the existence of a distinct intelligent being, possessing
knowledge that had never entered the mind of Mrs. Everitt.
Again, John has a knowledge of psychology and metaphysics,
and when conversing on these subjects—which he does readily
and freely—he knows how to clothe his ideas with the most
suitable and beautiful language, expresses sentiments of a
refined and elevated character, and displays a knowledge of
and experimental acquaintance with these subjects far beyond
the capacity of Vlrs. Everitt. I have never known her to read
any works on abstruse subjects, or take any interest in them.
I believe her to be utterly incapable of entering into conversa¬
tion on these subjects, in which respect she is dissimilar to
John. We have shown by these facts that John Watt, who
has been seen, heard, felt, and conversed with, and who has
been acknowledged by persons competent to form a correct
judgment to be an “ educated gentleman ” (certainly the
mother of a family of children, whatever her attainments, can
never be called an “educated gentleman’’), who has a know¬
ledge of things, places, and subjects far beyond the compass
of Mrs. Everitt’s capabilities, is as distinct an entity as Mrs.
Everitt herself.
Had you extended your request to communications in gene¬
ral, I should have referred to the style, composition, and sub¬
ject matter of those papers in direct writing, containing Latin
quotations, matters of ancient history, short metaphysical
essays, &c., which could never have been produced by the
united efforts or talents of any circles sitting especially for the
purpose, in so short a time as has sufficed for their production.
No ordinary Latin scholar who may have occasionally been
present, has been able to translate quotations given, but
which have been subsequently translated by Latin professors,
who have pronbunced them genuine, and in some instances
such as must have come from a highly educated Latin
scholar.
In reference to John’s earth-life, he has given us some par¬
ticulars which have been already published, but I am not
aware that any one has attempted to verify them.
Hendon, N.W. July 24th, 1873. T. Everitt.
[Mr. Everitt begins by speaking of the separate physical individuality of
the voice spirit and his medium, which we admitted in our last issue, so it
was not necessary to recur to that point. There is very much in this letter
about the superior intelligence of John Watt, but as mesmeric sensitives,
when entranced, sometimes have their normal intelligence doubled, and
some of their spiritual powers developed for the time being, distinct mental
individuality is not thereby proved. Towards the middle of his letter Mr.
Everitt gives evidence directly bearing on the question, telling how John
Watt gave a Hebrew and Greek word not known to.Mrs. Everitt. Did he
do this by the direct voice, or were the words given in writing under cir¬
cumstances rendering it possible that the writing was done by one of those
other spirits, who appear to have much more power of proving separate
identity than the spirits allied to the medium in the manner which ex¬
clusively forms the subject of this discussion ? What wore the two words ?
What is the evidence that it was John who wrote the sentence in the Japa¬
nese language, and who has verified and translated the communication, cer¬
tifying it to be Japanese ? We have also me. with two or three rare cases of
the voice-spirits speaking Hindustani German, and languages not known
to the medium, but in one case the spirit said the words were obtained in
consequence of the presence of a sitter who could speak German, and in
all cases somebody was present who understood the language spoken. Mr.
Everitt has had many messages in languages unknown to the medium and
to all the sitters present, but the point is, has John Watt ever given one
under those conditions ? If Mr. Everitt gave the details of a good instance
of the kind, with the names of the witnesses, and full particulars shutting
out all loopholes for cavil, it would be a valuable addition to the general
stock of spiritual knowledge. Altogether Mr. Everitt seems to have con¬
tributed the elements of a rather good "case,” but deficient in details,
which should fully prove that Johu Watt gave the foreign communications,
and not one of the other spirits the consideration of whose powers are ex¬
cluded from this discussion.—Ed.]
» FOOD.
r Sir,—One of the most attractive features of Spiritualism
i to many persons is the circumstance that it teaches its
i followers to improve the body in every way, to make it a fit
F dwelling-place for the soul. The body acts upon the mind,
, and if bodily pains prevent a certain course of study during
■ earth-life, the freed spirit is to that extent made more igno-
i rant by the state of the body, the man being the same man
t still, after passing through the death-change. Thus the subject
5 of food is intimately connected with that branch of Spiritual-
T ism which teaches the cultivation of perfect human bodies,
a Moreover, food has a temporary psychological influence, since
t heavy suppers cause some people to dream unpleasant
dreams.
3 Having thus pointed out that food and psychology have a
3 certain amount of relation to each other, I wish to raise the
t question as to the relative value of animal and vegetable
r food, and to receive instructions from those of your readers
, who can give information upon the subject. I have never
J read much on the point, and my knowledge thereof is
l altogether superficial.
Some three or four years ago, one bright summer’s day, a
i, little lamb ran up to me in the fields, and rubbed its head
284
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 1, 1873.
against my legs in perfect happiness and glee, whilst its
mother, who had had more experience of the world as it is,
though perhaps not as it may hereafter be, bleated in terror.
I at once thought about that lamb—“Well, if I had to cut
your throat for a dinner, I would not do it, and would
certainly turn vegetarian rather than kill my- own meat.
I like lamb, but is it not cowardly to put another man—a
butcher—to do what I would not do myself ? ”
Shortly afterwards I narrated this to a venerable friend,
who laughed at my sentimentality. He was a materialist
—that is to say, he was a communicant of the Church of
England, and believed all her forms, and ceremonies, and
dogmas, to be spirituality ; the very idea of opening up com¬
munication with the angel world he would regard with
horror, and the normal spiritual inspiration of Shakespeare
and Goethe he would regard with suspicion, either as
“ dangerous,” or not inspiration at all. He laughed at the
story about the lamb, said it was another new mental freak of
mine; he, however, a few days previously, had passed a
slaughter-house, and heard a pole-axe crashing into the head
of a bullock; he heard the animal sink to the ground with a
groan. As he finished his narration, beef was put on the
table for supper. Although no vegetarians, we did not eat
much that night.
Thoughts like these led me to make occasional inquiries as
to the health of the few people in this country who never
touch animal food. There is one gentleman in the General
Post Office who never touches animal food, and looks twenty
years younger than he really is. One cf your contributors, the
author of a “ Life of Swedenborg,” is a vegetarian ; his men¬
tal condition is certainly good, so also, I am told, is his
general health. The proprietor of a spiritual book shop in
London is a vegetarian, together with his children, and all
have excellent health. In short, from the casual inquiries I
have made, nobody seems to be the worse for vegetable diet.
During the last three years I have eaten, on an average, but
half the quantity of meat I once did, and feel all the better
for it; in fact, nothing prevents me from breaking it off alto¬
gether, but the force of habit, which has implanted a dislike
to a purely vegetable diet.
Have the vegetarians in England an organised society ? If
they ever meet in public, one would like to attend and look at
them, besides hearing what they have to say. What does a
vegetarian think of a public dinner ? Does he consider it a
cemetery connected with the Zoological Gardens, and that the
guests are feeding off an unusual number of dead bodies?
One day I asked an eminent chemist what he considered to
be the chief objection to a purely vegetable diet. He replied,
“ I do not see where vegetarians can get a sufficient supply of
phosphorus.”
The general result of such slight attention as I have given
to the subject now proposed for discussion, is the opinion that
if the English people, as a body, would eat much less meat,
and much more pies and puddings, the public health would be
improved. At present we are the greatest meat-eaters, per¬
haps, in the world.
The psychological question as to the influence of food upon
dreams also deserves consideration. If I have meat for supper
and go to bed directly I always dream, but never do if I take
no meat at that time. It is impossible to generalise from the
experiences of one individual; perhaps others may add their
testimony. X.
July 13th, 1873. —
DR. DEE’S CRYSTAL.
Sir,—It may interest the readers of the excellent article in
the last number of the Spiritualist, upon Dr. Dee and his do¬
ings, to know that the identical crystal in which the “ skyrer ”
Kelley saw such wonders, is now in the British Museum col¬
lection.
When I saw it there, some four or five years ago, it was
placed in an out of the way case in a room then partly empty.
It is an irregularly shaped sphere, the size of a large cricket
ball, apparently of cloudy rock crystal. The accompanying
label described it as “ Dr. Dee’s Show Stone,” and, if I re¬
member rightly, some few words indicating the mode in which
it was used were added.
Possibly the rapid growth of Spiritualism, and the great
increase of public interest in psychological phenomena, may
have induced the museum authorities to exhibit this interest¬
ing relic of the early English seances more conspicuously ;
but, if not, the curious will no doubt be able to find it out with
the aid of the catalogue, and patience.
Another noted seeing crystal, once the property of the un¬
fortunate Countess of Blessington, is now in possession of
some private collector. It was exhibited at the farewell soiree
given to Mr. Peebles, at the Cavendish Booms, a few years
ago.
It would indeed be interesting if, as suggested in the article
in your journal, the original papers written by Dr. Dee were
edited and published. Interpreted by the better knowledge
of modern Spiritualism, much useful information might be
obtained from them. There are several eminent literary
Spiritualists who could probably undertake this work with
credit to themselves and advantage to the cause—Mr. Howitt,
for instance, whose “ History of the Supernatural” is a stan¬
dard text book; or Mr. Shorter, whose abilities as a chronicler
of the Spiritual movement are so widely known and appre¬
ciated. *G. R. Tapp.
18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.,
July 19th, 1873.
BLIND EAITH AND BLIND SCEPTICISM.
Sir,—In the article on Dr. Dee, you say,—“ The life of
Dr. Dee is a warning to the few exceptional Spiritualists
who yield to the authority of spirit messages, and allow
themselves to be governed thereby.” Yes, if people would
only take the warnings and experience of the wise, what a
deal of sorrow and suffering they might escape ! But will
they ? Can they ? Was it the intention of their Creator
that they should ? Do you, the writer, believe in the atone¬
ment, or vicarious suffering of one for another ? Must we
not, one and all, go through our personal and necessary dis¬
cipline? Can we judge what sort of discipline is best for
ourselves and others ? Have we any power to alter people
and make them other than they are, except to a limited
extent by education ?
The Honourable Mrs. Norton sang,—
“Love not, love not,”
Very good advice, if anyone would take it, perhaps; but she
wisely added,—
“ Oh warning vainly said!
In present hours as in years gone by.”.
Does not everyone, I ask, take Spiritualism—as he takes
love—according to his temperament ? Can a man help it if
he is an enthusiast, born full of faith, and hope, and love,
into this cold, calculating world. He cannot see with the
eyes of our more worldly natures, nor avail himself of our
good advice and caution. Do the “children of light” ever
take the right course for commercial or social success in this
life ? No, they are born martyrs and will fulfil their destiny
like the rest of us. If scepticism be the highest virtue, how
is it to be attained, or how is faith to be acquired ? I have
often been blamed for a want of faith, but I have yet to
learn that either belief or unbelief is a virtue or a vice, since
I do not think we can command either. If I could I would
gladly acquire more faith in spirits. I am too sceptical, or
too virtuous—which you please—for my own happiness, and
would thank anyone who would give me more faith or belief.
Brixton, July 23rd, 1873. Hope.
[The many questions put by our correspondent are intimately connected
with the subject of the philosophy of pain; wherever there is a want of
balance in the mind, pain with its experiences steps, in exerting its cor¬
rective influence. Where a cause of sorrow is seen, and efforts combined
with desire attempt ils abolition, relief is probably only a question of time.
How many of our bodily and mental defects are hereditary, quite beyond
the power of the individual to completely remove in this life! The study
of these questions, and prompt action when accurate knowledge is gained,
should be leading characteristics of Spiritualists.—Ed.]
PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS.
Sir,—An interesting dark seance was held on Tuesday,
July 15th, at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s, 21, Green-street,
Grosvenor-square, W. There were present, besides the hostess,
the Bev. Maurice Davies, D.D., Mr. F. Percival, Miss
Poyntz, Mr. Herbert Noyes, .Mr. John Bouse, Mr. Williams
being the medium.
The circle was arranged by spirit direction, and the
medium was placed between Mrs. Gregory and Mr. Bouse,
who held his hands continuously during the seance. A large
and heavy musical box was placed on the table ; and all
hands being joined, was wound up by the invisibles. Mes¬
sages were rapped out by the novel method of opening and
slamming its lid. The box itself was frequently taken up,
and floated round the room, keeping time to the music in a
very remarkable way, and moving with great velocity when¬
ever a certain run occurred in one of the tunes. It was
THE SPIRITUALIST.
285
Aug. 1, 1873.
brought and placed on the head of one of the sitters (who
sat opposite the medium) immediately on his wish to that
effect being silently formed. Spirit lights, too, floated about
like fire-flies, and Mr. Rouse distinctly saw a spirit hand
which guided them. But John King said he was unable to
make his spirit-lamp that evening, so no cabinet seance was
held, and the materialised form was not seen. ■’But all the
sitters were frequently handled by spirit hands, and Miss
Poyntz was lifted on to the table by a hand which continued
to grasp the fingers while her arm was raised at full stretch
towards the ceiling, as she stood on the table. John King
and Peter conversed freely with the circle in their usual tones,
and several other spirits were visible to Mr. Rouse, who is
clairvoyant. He was powerfully mesmerised by them, con¬
trolled to write, and apparently almost entranced ; and he
was informed that he would develop into a fine trance
medium. It was the general opinion that no sceptic who
had had the good fortune to be present could have failed to
be convinced of the genuineness of the remarkable phe¬
nomena which occurred. Z.
July 16th, 1873.
SPIBITTTAL VISION-.
Sir,—My beloved grandpapa was a well-known Indepen¬
dent minister, who occupied one pulpit for fifty-six years.
Possessed of a cultivated intellect, and well balanced mind,
I am sure I may truly say that not one of his numerous circle
of friends, who loved and respected him deeply, would have
doubted his word, even had he asserted anything most un¬
likely or apparently extravagant. It is therefore to be re¬
gretted that he did not let it be more generally known that
he was in frequent communication with the spirit of his
eldest son, who was the first of four of his children who in
early manhood were taken from him, in rapid succession, by
consumption. My knowledge of this interesting fact came
about in this way. My beloved mama had recently passed on
to her spirit home, and shortly afterwards her spirit had ap¬
peared and spoken to dear papa.*
I was alone with grandpapa, driving slowly along a lovely
country lane, and in reference to this circumstance, I said to
him. “ Grandpapa, do you believe in spirits ? ”
“ Oh yes! i he answered ; “ indeed I do I ’’
“ Have you ever seen one ? ” I asked, quite startled by his
earnest look, and tone of reply.
h Yes,’’ he replied ; “ I often see your Uncle S. He comes to
me at night, after you are all in bed, and stays for an hour or
more talking.”
“What do you talk about ? ” I said.
“ That I must not tell to you, or to anyone. But he often
suggests subjects for sermons.”
” Have you seen any of the others ? ” I asked.
“ Yes, I’ve seen M— a few times, not often, but your uncle
I often see.” F. J. Theobald.
St. John’s-road, Lewisham, S.E.
PURITY op thought.
Sir,—The following thoughts on the subject of prayer, were
penned by a lady after reading Heaven Opened:—
It seems to methat all earnest, pure-souled thought is prayer
—such an unutterable yearning to be possessed of a Divine power
that should enable us to carry strength to the feeble, noble
aspiration to the mean of-mind, broad charity to the cen¬
sorious, sweet-eyed hope to the despairing—in short, to free
the souls of the thousands by letting in the light of Heavenly
sympathy.
“ If only they could be brought to comprehend even a little
of the joy of that sympathy, how different would their daily
lives be 1 It is such a terrible thing for people to go on year
after year indulging in cruel, wicked murderous thoughts—
all the time blindly ignorant of the sad fact that each succes¬
sive moment' of such indulgence is adding hardness to the
already hard crust that shuts in their foolish hearts against all
sweet and healthful influences. Ah ! isn’t it sad 1 What
would even they say if they were told that a man—looked
upon as sane—deliberately chose to have some horrible can¬
cerous disease in his face that all the world might gaze and
wonder at ? They would be sure to think him mad. Yet they
quite as deliberately encourage a fearful and most unsightly
disease in their souls, for (not man) but God and the angels
to gaze and wonder at. It is very, very sad ! The dear minis¬
tering spirits had need have patience and depths of pity.”
Manchester, July 23rd, 1873. A. B. C.
* Full particulars of this are given in Heaven Opened, part 2.—F. J. T.
THE CLAIMANT.
Sir,—It may not at first seem very clear what on earth
that mass of flesh we know of as ” the Claimant ” can have
to do with Spiritualism. Well, Spiritualists have to do with
a good many claimants, and the trial going on shows the
difficulty of proving identity, and that it is not quite so easy
a matter as some seem to think, though, in regard to the
Claimant, we know how most persons jumped to a conclusion
one way or the other. The object of my writing is to illus¬
trate method. Deduction is the leaping to a conclusion, be it
right or wrong; anyhow it must be verified before being
accepted. Induction arrives at its results by a slower process,
step by step, and by exclusions leaving a residue. Bacon has
well exemplified this in his instance as to the nature of
heat, which was a really very important discovery, now
acknowledged. Bacon was a lawyer, and his method is simply
what occurs in a court of law, which you may study in the
law reports in any newspaper. Bacon would accept nothing
until it had been put upon its trial. He did not ignore
inference or deduction, but insisted on verification. “ We
must not be content,” he said, “ with anticipation but only
with true interpretation.” Like Newton, he was not content-
with an hypothesis, and he ignored metaphysics or idealism
such as Professor Huxley has been overmuch indulging in of
late, in experimental {science. With Faraday suggestion
must anticipate or direct an experiment or test. Questions
in abstract mathematics, of course, are, different, as being
more subjective, but Descartes likening man to a machine
was not a very subjective view. Henry G. Atkinson.
18, Quai de la Douane, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
PSYCHIC FORCE ON THE SLATE.
To the Editor of the “Scientific American'*
Sir,—I wish to invite the attention of scientific men to the
phenomenon called Spiritualism, as it has lately been de¬
veloped here. Although somewhat ridiculous, yet it is won¬
derful; and if intelligent people will investigate it thoroughly
and discover the source of the mysterious power which some
mediums possess, they will confer a boon upon mankind. I
am not credulous, I do not believe it to be spirits, but I am
at a loss to explain it. I will describe the apparatus so that
all may experiment, but I understand that the medium
power is possessed but by few; yet the reader of this, or per¬
haps some of his friends may possess the power. Try it.
Cover a table with some fabric that will exclude the light
from underneath, as it seems that darkness is necessary to
success. Then provide an ordinary school slate with a lot of
short pencils. Place a chair so that you can hold the slate
under the table. Take the slate in one hand, hold it by the
frame horizontally under the table. After having placed a
piece of pencil on the slate, be sure the curtain is down to
exclude the light. If you possess the right medium power, it
will soon make itself evident by raps, or you will hear the
piece of pencil fall on the floor, sometimes striking the table
violently. When the pencil falls, replace it with another. -If
there is any demonstration, ask“ if there is a spirit present; if
so, make it known by rapping on the slate.” Three taps signify
^ Yes,” two “no,” one “ don’t know.” If the answer is “yes,”
ask if it can write. If “ yes,” then ask any question you wish,
and an answer will be written on the bottom of the slate.
The pencil falls as soon as it has done writing. You can dis¬
tinctly hear it writing, dotting the i’s and crossing the t’s. I
have seen the above performance, and have been allowed to
hold one corner of the slate, and could detect nothing unfair
on the part of the medium. I have held his arm just below
the elbow, where I could detect the slightest movement of the
fingers, and could discover none except when the pencils
would fly violently off ; then there was a slight twitter of one
of the muscles, but I cannot see any possible way for that to
be fraud. Place a piece of pencil on a slate and hold it hori¬
zontally in one hand, and try to throw it upwards without
much effort.
Now the problem is “ how is the writing done ? ” If you
have never seen this mystery, I advise you to do so and satisfy
yourself before you express an opinion. The whole thing is
ridiculous, I must confess, but the charm is the mystery, and
the wonderful writing is in different styles of penmanship. If
a lady spirit writes, the writing is peculiarly correct, punc¬
tuated, &c., &c. Each individual spirit writes in its own
peculiar handwriting, differing from others as we mortals
differ in our writing. I could continue this communication to
some length, but my object is not to relate my experiments,
but to have others experiment for themselves.
Chattanooga, Conn. S. C. Dodge.
286
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Ana 1,1873.
SAPIA PADALINO’S CASE.
Recently we were present with a medium in whom
clairvoyant powers were developed, for the first time, and
her statements, which were recbrded as follows by a
gentleman present, appear to refer toSapia Padalino. We
should be glad to hear from Signor Damiani, Naples,
whether the description is accurate. There is no doubt
as to the integrity of the medium, but the question at
issue is the reliability of the clairvoyance :—
I am a long way from home. Such a curious place, tall,
heavy houses; the streets are narrow, so very narrow; I can
just see the sky at the top—it is blue, bright blue, so clear and
beautiful. Now, I am in a low room, right up above in one
of these houses; such a strange place, so dirty; there is a
bed in one corner, no curtains to it, or on the window. Oh 1
there’s a girl here in the room. She is very plain and rather
stout; she is not clean. I don’t like to touch her. Now, she
goes downstairs, and I am going after her. Ohl what a
number of stairs—down, down, now we are out in the street.
She walks along, stopping every now and then, as if wishing
to go back. Ah ! she can’t go back. There’s a man following
her. Oh 1 what a bad man. He’s dark and sneering. Wears
a black cloak. Oh! how I dislike him. The girl don’t see
him, hut he makes her do what he pleases. Now she is off
again, and he follows her.
How is the girl dressed ?
She wears a short red gown, very dirty, and a curious thing
on her head and hanging down her neck at the back. She has
no shoes or stockings, and her hair is all untidy like.
She is .walking along quicker now. That man is making
her do it. They go on, on, on. I am going after them. He
sees me now ; he don’t like me; but he can’t come near me.
Now, we are in a wider street, such fine white buildings—
columns like marble. What grand houses 1 Now we are in
an open place; oh! how lovely. There’s water; it is quiet;
it can’t be the sea, it is such a pretty blue colour; there’s a
walk along one side of it, like half a circle, and the lamps all
round it. It is beautiful, and the sky is so bright and blue,
with thousands of stars. What a number of strange-looking
people! What curious carriages! The folks are all strolling
about enjoying themselves and talking. I can’t understand
what they say, it is so strange.
Do you see the girl still ?
Oh, yes. I am following them. She goes on. She must
go on; now she stops at a stall—such a curious one—a man
is cooking something at a stove. She buys something, and
lets it drop into her mouth. She eats with her fingers. She
is not a clean girl at all!
Now she is off again—the man after her. They leave the
open place and go into a street, then another, and another.
Oh, what a horrible place she is in now! The houses are all
nearly in ruins, and heaps of filth are lying all over the path.
She still goes on, and that man after her. I won’t go after
her any more. I am afraid. It is such an awful place 1
That man can make her do just what he likes. She must
do it. Her friends should take that girl away—a long way off.
He can’t follow her out of that part. She would get better
then, and they could teach her what is right; but so long as
she remains where she is now, he will always torment her.
I am coming back now; don’t speak to me for a little while.
Who am I? I don’t know. [You are .] No, I am not. I
can see  , and I can see you all sitting there. Isn’t it
curious. Now 1 can see myself. I will be back presently.
In the course of the vision she also found herself
alone in a room with a marble floor; all the people in
the house appeared to have gone to bed, it was so still.
Some birds were in one corner, covered over. She said,
“Poor little things! They will be smothered; it is so
hot.”
Mb. T. Eveeitt will preside over the conference of
Spiritualists to be held at Liverpool.
Mbs. Lowe and her friends are forming a Lunacy Law
Reform Association, and a letter from her on the subject has
reached us too late for insertion in this number. About £40
have already been subscribed in support of the Association.
All communications on the subject should, for the present, be
addressed to Mrs. L. Lowe, care of Mr. Burns, 15, Southamp¬
ton-row, Holborn, W.C.
Mr. C. E. Williams, the medium, will shortly pay another
visit to Holland.
The present address of Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, is
care of Mr. Thomas Ranney, 251, Washington-street, Boston,
U.S.
The announcement of the prospect of the early weekly
publication of The Spiritualist is hailed with general satisfac¬
tion, and promises of support are flowing in daily.
“ Zetetes,” Dublin, has kindly forwarded £2, and Mr.
J. S. Crisp, Camberwell, 10s., towards The Spiritualist sub¬
scription list, which is now closed.
Miss Cook, the medium, left London about two months
since with several ladies and gentlemen on a yachting excur¬
sion in the Ariadne, and is now visiting friends in the Isle of
Wight.
The article forwarded to us by Dr. Hitohman, and
printed in this issue of The Spiritualist, formed a portion of a
lecture on “ The Spiritual Nature of Man,” which he recently
delivered in thev Theatre of Anthropology, Liverpool.
The Spiritual leaflets are doing good work. As they are
the cheapest things printed for disseminating information
about Spiritualism among the general public, they are exceed¬
ingly useful for distribution. They should be well 'circu¬
lated in country districts and in fashionable watering
places.
Spiritualism in Pimlico.—The “Pimlico Association
for the Investigation of Spiritualism,” .47, Charlwood-street,
Belgrave-road, S.W., is in course of formation; rules have
been drawn up, rooms taken, and seances are held on Mondays
and Thursdays at eight o’clock. Direct spirit-writing and
somewhat powerful physical manifestations, have already been
obtained. The planting of Spiritualism in the locality has
created some little opposition and excitement, and as the
secretary, upon whom, as in every case, much of the real
work falls, performs his duties in a business-like way, and
seems, with several of the other members, to be determined
to fight through all the early difficulties of establishing a new
society, public support should be given to the undertaking. It
will be advantageous to the cause of Spiritualism in London
to establish a good working organisation in such a good neigh¬
bourhood. The rooms are within ten minutes’ walk of the
Victoria or Grosvenor-road Railway Stations, so can be reached
very quickly from Brixton. As so many Spiritualists in
Brixton have been in want of a local society, they may do
much good by joining the Pimlico society for a time, if not
permanently.
Spiritual Evidence Society. — The second seance of
this society was held on Tuesday, the 22nd July last, at the
society’s rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end-road, E., Mr.
Snelling, President of the Society, in the chair. After some
routine business had been transacted, the circle, consisting of
sixteen members and one visitor, was formed. Owing to the
intense heat of the weather, some time elapsed before the
spirits could manifest their presence ; but at last a lady
member was entranced by the spirit of a deceased relative,
who delivered an address upon the difficulties of inquiry into
spiritual phenomena, and recommended the sitters to be
patient, and not to form a hasty judgment upon what they
saw or heard. A gentleman was then entranced and con¬
trolled by a spirit who, when on earth, was an army corporal.
This spirit spoke in short sententious phrases, like one
accustomed to military life; and the medium, under this
influence, assumed the stiff manner and appearance of a
soldier in a very striking way. “ Corporal Norris ” declared
his intention of interfering to prevent a certain undeveloped
spirit from influencing a lady member. Notwithstanding, this
spirit, on the retirement of the corporal, took possession of his
medium, but behaved more reasonably than was his wont, and
after a short control, during which he only answered such
questions as he chose, he withdrew, to manifest, as he stated,
at a circle held the same evening, some few miles away.
Shortly afterwards, the circle broke up, the spirits evidently
being unable to do their work under the conditions. No
physical manifestations took place.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Letters on Spiritualism and Christianity, and Robert Schuman’s
Mediumship, kept over for want of space in this number.
R. F.—Periodicals in connection with any movement, to be trusted,
should be free from trade interests, and have no bias in favour of
any lecturers, or of the books issued by any publisher, but should
survey all workers with an impartial eye.
Atjg. 1, 1873,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
287
Lady Caithness has been unwell for some time, but we are
glad to hear from Mr. Blackburn that he has had a letter from
her. stating that her health is rapidly improving at the seaside.
Members of any of the Spiritual societies in the United
Kingdom, will be admitted to the morning meetings of the
Liverpool Conference, on presentation of the ircard of member¬
ship.
M. Alexandre Aksakof has left St. Petersburgh for Ger¬
many, and intends to visit England in September. He has done
so very much to diffuse a knowledge of Spiritualism on the Con¬
tinent, that we hope English Spiritualists will take care to
give him a warm reception.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, Clairvoyant Examination and complete Diagnosis,
One Guinea. Mesmerising or Rubbing, One Guinea per week, and travelling
expenses.
Miss Godfrey may be seen, by appointment, at 161, Hampstead-road, N.W,
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 6 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s
Conduit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings,
6s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s,; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
MR. J. J. MORSE, TRANCE-MEDIUM, IS OPEN TO
receive engagements in London or the provinces, to attend Seances,
or address public meetings. Mr. Morse holds a Seance every Friday even¬
ing at 8 o’clock, at 15, Southampton-row, W.O., when he is in London,
where letters, &c., may be addressed, or to his private residence, Warwick
Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
MISS HUDSON, Normal Clairvoyant and Prophetic
Medium, is at Home daily (Sundays excepted) between Twelve
and Six o'clock, to hold Private Seances. Terms—Five Shillings each
visitor. 46, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury (directly opposite the British
Museum).
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—19, Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy-
square.
Price 6d. Cloth, 9d. Post free.
HEAVEN OPENED.—Part II. being further descrip¬
tions of, and advanced teachings from, the Spirit Land. Given
through the mediumship of F. J. T. With an Appendix containing the
Scripture proofs of Spiritualism.
J. Burns, is, Southampton-row, W.C.; E. W. Allen, 11, Ave-Maria lane, E.C.
Also Part L, price 6d. Cloth, 9d.
Now Ready, Price Sixpence.
GOD AND IMMORTALITY, viewed in relation to
Modern Spiritualism. A discourse delivered in the City Hall Saloon,
Glasgow, on Sunday evening, February 23rd, 1873, by George Sexton, M A.,
M.D., LL.D., D.Sc., Honorary Member of D’Accademia Dei Quiriti, at Rome,
&c., &c., &c.
London: J. Bums, 15, Southampton-row, W.O.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS. — Handsomely-printed Blue
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion, may be obtained in packets, each containing 400, price 2s. 6d. per
packet. They are especially useful for distribution at public meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, reading-rooms, clubs, and places of
public resort
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, London, E.O.
W RUSSELL, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER,- &o.,
• 238, STAFFORD-SIREET, WALSALL. T/ie Spiritualist and
other Spiritual Publications kept on sale. Bookbinding in all its branches
at London Prices. Machine Ruling with accuracy and despatch. Sta¬
tionery—Superfine Note, 6d. per quarter ream; ditto Envelopes, IJd. per
packet, 4s 6d. per 1,000. Albums, scraps, ladies’ satchels, &c., in great
variety. Printing.—W. R. having entered into partnership with Mr.
Cooper in the printing department, is prepared to execute orders at a few
hours’ notice. Taste and Style guaranteed. Fifty Visiting cards (without
expense of plate) 2s.; per post 2s. 2d. Country Ox-ders promptly attended to.
Aaron frajsklin, preserver of birds and
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE, Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-sbins, stags’ heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. T/ie Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. Aaron Franklin, 100, SuSolk-
street, Birmingham.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
• SELLER. STATIONER, AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39, Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, Supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals; &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
Lately published,
w
HAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Mental
Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. I. The MECHANISM of MAN.
By EDWARD W. COX, 8erjeant-at-Law. Price 8s. 6d.
Contents.
chap.
1. Introduction.
2. What am I?
3. The Man.
4. How we Grow.
5. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the Will.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
31 Soul—Spirit—Anima.
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. TheNaturalandthe Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery.
45. Conclusions.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and charming boob.—Standard.
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and not
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Herald.
A remarkable boob.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I?”—Leicester Mercury.
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflective readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest—South Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
London: Lon gman and Co., Patemoster-row.
DR. HUGH McLEOD (duly qualified in Medicine and
Surgery), HEALS BY SPIRIT POWER, and with very great suc¬
cess. He visits patients in London or suburbs, and at his temporary re¬
sidence,
4, ALMA COTTAGES, CHESNUT ROAD, TOTTENHAM, N.
Fees: London or Suburbs, 21s.; Tottenham, 10s. 6d. The poor, who
can come to the latter place, free. Cases which present extraordinary fear
tures submitted to a thoroughly trained clairvoyante, and without additional
charge.
Dr. McLeod is prepared to make arrangements for the delivery of ad¬
dresses on the Logic and Science of Spiritualism. His lectures are original,
and delivered extempore. Terms (easy) on application.
SPECIAL NUMBER OF THE SPIRITUALIST.
ON THE FIRST OF SEPTEMBER next a handsomely
printed number of The Spiritualist will be issued, suitable for pre¬
sentation to enquirers, full of evidence from beginning to end, that
Spiritualism is true.
Subscribers who desire.to disseminate copies of this special number, will
be supplied with them at ten shillings per hundred, or six shillings for fifty,
on the understanding that the number is supplied at this rate for distribu¬
tion and not for sale, and that the orders for copies shall reach Mr. Allen,
our publisher, at least a week before the paper is printed. Smaller quanti¬
ties than fifty cannot be supplied at the reduced rate. Many orders have
already been received.
Thus a mass of evidence in favour of Spiritualism may be obtained, well
printed on good paper, at a little over a penny per copy. Great care will be
taken in the selection of the contents of the number, to interest the outside
public in the subject, without raising prejudices. Friends would oblige by
sending in their orders without delay to Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-
lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard. London, E.C.
WANTED.—The First Number of the First Volume of
the Spiritual Magazine, to complete six volumes for binding.
Address—Secretary of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiri¬
tualism, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
288
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 1, 1873.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H. GK Atkinson, Esq., F.Q-.S., Q-. Wheatley Bennett, Esq,; J. S. Bergheim,
Esq., O.E.; H. It. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.O.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.Q.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq ; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; 0. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following .names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ I, That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con-
ri vance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for. by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’  
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch eacli other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should -be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the medium ? ” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms' Of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
British imperial insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
Incorporated pursuant to Act of Parliament.
CAPITAL—£200,000 IN 200,000 SHARKS OF £1 EACH.
Head Offices: BROWN STREET AND MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
Chief London Offices: 20, KING WILLIAM STREET, E.O.
Central Trustees:
Augustus Frederick Bayford, LL.D., Senior Registrar, Court of Probate,
j Doctors’ Commons, London; and Chancellor of the Diocese of Man
Chester.
William Gimber Goodliffe, Accountant General, India Office, Westminste
London.
Charles Oppenheim (S. Oppenheim & Sons), Director of the Union Bank
of London, Austin Friars, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Christopher Weguelin (Thomson, Bonar & Co.), Director of the Bank of
England, 574, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Auditor: Dr. William Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., London, and Southlands,
Bromley, Kent.
The system of Insurance carried out by the “British Imperial”
(originally devised by Dr. Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., of Somerset House, and
adopted with some modifications by her Majesty’s Government), is perfect
in Security, Equity, and Convenience.
In Security, because every With Profit, and Self-Insurance Policy, is
issued upon English Government Securities, held in Trust, away from the
control of the Directors, for the sole purpose of meeting policy claims, the
amount invested (80 per cent, of the whole premium) being shown by the
National English Life Table, compiled by the Registrar-General for the
Government to be more than sufficient to provide the sum insured under
the policy.
IN Equity, because in the event of an Insurant failing to continue the
payment of his premiums, only sufficient thereof is retained by the Corpora¬
tion to profitably cover the risk incurred upon the life during the time it
was covered by the insurance; the remainder being returned to the Insurant.
The amount returned varies according to the Table under which the
Insurance is effected, between nearly one-half and three-quarters of all the
premiums.
In Convenience, because the “ Surrender Value ” is endorsed on every '
Policy, and is made payable at three days’ sight. It can also be used to its
full amount, by payment of 5 per cent, per annum interest on the sum with¬
drawn, without invalidating the Policy.
JOHN A. FEIGAN, General Manager.
WILLIAM DAVIES, Secretary.
British imperial life, and British
NATIONAL (FIRE AND GUARANTEE) INSURANCE COR¬
PORATIONS.
Applications for Agencies to either of the above Corporations can be
made to C. W. Pearce, at the Chief London Offices, 20, King William-street,
E.O., from whom Prospectuses, Proposal Forms, and all other information,
can be obtained.
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STERLING.
Head Otftoa.-BROWN STREET AND MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
FIRE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates
Bonus Returns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Renewed Premiums.
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
. Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
BEYERIDOE & FRASER, Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Fraser, at the Holbom Printing
' Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
