A RECORD
OF
THE PROQ^E^ OF THE {SCIENCE
AND ETHICS
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
Of 3PIf\ITUAEIj3M,
No. 70.—(Vol. III.—No. 81.) LONDON: DECEMBER 26, 1873. Published Weekly; Price Threepence.
tontems.
Lavater’s Letters to the Empress Marie of Russia.—Letter II.: On
the Immortality of the Soul        483
“ Glimpses of a Brighter Land”      484
The Grave of Michael Scott      485
Miss Lottie Fowler in Darlington  487
Home Experiences in Spiritualism. No. I.—A Haunted House—The
Development of Mediumship at Home—Spirit Lights and Forms—
The Religious Influence of a Knowledge of Spiritualism—Materialised
Spirit Hands—John King in Tt 'gnmouth—Direct Spirit Writing—
Spirit Raps and Noises—A Mess: ge from India—“Peter ” at Teign-
mouth ... ... ... ...      487
Appearance of “John King” without a Cabinet ...    490
The Outrage at a Spirit Circle...    ...   491
Sir E. B. Lytton and Spiritualism      491
Lecture at Gower-stfeet          492
The Vikram and the Vampire.—The Mesmeric State of Hindu De¬
votees     492
Correspondence.—Spirit Identity; The Outrage at Mr. Cook’s; “ Grasp¬
ing a Spirit” .:  494
Answers to Correspondents       494
Paragraphs.—Dr. Gumming on Spirits, 493; Legal Persecution of
American Mediums  ...     494
Crown 8vo. pp. 126, Cloth 2s. 6d.
HINTS for the “EVIDENCES of SPIRITUALISM.,,
By M.P.
London: Triibner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits ; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science andcommonsense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London: Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
East London spiritual meetinos. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISTS.—Sunday Evening Services are Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o’clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
R. Pearce, Hon. Sec.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRV, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
A NEW ERA IN JOURNALISM!
THE FREE SPEAKER, a High Class Family News¬
paper. Weekly—One Penny.
SPECIAL POLITICAL AND SOCIAL ARTICLES,
BY INDEFENDENT WRITERS.
Full Reports of Home, Foreign, and General News. Law and Police.
FREEDOM OF CORRESPONDENCE.
WEEKLY TALES BY THE FIRST. WRITERS.
Publishing Office: 125, Fleet-street. Advertisement Office: 106, Shoe-lane.
Lately published,
"OTTHAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Mental
V V Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. I. The MECHANISM of MAN
By EDWARD W. COX, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s. 6d.
Contents.
chap.
1. Introduction.
2. What am I?
3. The Man.
4. How we Grow.
5. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
.. 8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to.
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind.
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the Will.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
31. Soul—Spirit—Anima.
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. TheNaturalandthe Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the,Soul.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery.
45. Conclusions.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and charming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and no
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and ill such a popular and entertaining
style.-—Ox/orHerald.
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I?”—Leicester Mercury.
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflective readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest.—South Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
London: Longman and Co., Paternoster-row.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kepi
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds', Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
fnom 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary. 3s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation ot £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
THOMAS BLYTON, Secretary and Treasurer.
482
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 26, 1873.
Cjr.e Sphitolisf MitemrMr.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or. figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch
Beduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually tom up when read, but preserved for binding.
Cobrespondenoe.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders, for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. fid.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of '•'•The Spiritualist'" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsveivdor w his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always he informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then he ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the followin dealers in Spiritua
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Bochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Bichard Boberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTBALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Bussell-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London ublisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, byr emitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny;
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 10s., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
D ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO'
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.)
President.—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Council.
Mr. George Blyton, I Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mrs. Amelia Comer, | Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mr. E.J. Wilson.
Secretary & Treasurer.—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
A DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on hear¬
ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, and in¬
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might be
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 15th September, 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter careful .enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modem Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations (vide Buie IX). Strangers' can only be admitted to the ordi-
nary seanceh.6\d.on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month Is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on Vac first Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Booms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelope
should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
SPIRITUALISM AND SCIENCE. .
THE SERIES OF LECTURES as above, by MRS.
COBA L. V. TAPPAN—so successfully inaugurated on the evening
of the 23rd October—at Westbourne Hall,
ARB NOW BEING DELIVERED
EVERY WEDNESDAY EVENING AT LAWSON’S ROOMS,
145, GOWEB-STREET.
Doors open at 7. 30. Admission, Is. and 6d. each.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President'.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs, Barber, I Mr. E. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Banger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
VERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
into England the subject attracted attention in iClerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assocciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Booms, 30, Parkfield-street, Islington.
THE
LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1873.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Treasurer.—Mr. Joseph Dinsdale. Librarian.—Mr. John Moore.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Archibald Lambnt. I Mr. Wm. Richardson.
Mr. William Meredith. f Mrs. L. A. Lamont.
Mr. Ambrose Egerton. Mrs. Eliza Clement.
Mr. John Mayle. | Mrs. S. A. Spring.
Mrs. M. A. Richardson.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. George Shaw.
Mr. John Lamont.
Auditors.
Mr. Edwin Banks. | Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Secretaries.
Financial and Recording Mr. John Chapman, 10, Dunkeld Stree
West Derby Road, Liverpool.
Corresponding Mr. J. Y. Flannery, Momington Terrace,
Seacombe, near Liverpool,
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A MEETING of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Association are:—
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
-application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tern., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Richard Fitton, Secretary pro tern.
A MOST comfortably FURNISHED HOUSE, at
HENDON, to be LET for Six Months or more, or the FREEHOLD
would be SOLD. It stands on high ground in a large well-stocked and
ornamental garden, contains three reception rooms, six bedrooins, bath
room and necessary domestic offices, piano, plate, linen, &c. Unusual ad¬
vantages for a Spirit Circle. Address Morell Theobald, Esq., Fernside,
Hendon, N.W.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
483
Dec. 26, 1873.
LAYATER’S LETTERS TO THE EMPRESS MARIE
OF RUSSIA.
LETTER n.—OIT THE IMMORTALITY OE THE SOUL.
The wants of a human soul during its exile in the
material body, remain the same after quitting it.
Supreme felicity consists in the power of satisfying
spiritual desires—damnation is the impossibility of
gratifying carnal appetites in a less material world. I
would say to every man, “ Analyse the nature of your
desires ; give them their true name ; then ask yourself,
* Are they admissible in a less material world ? Can
they be gratified there ? And if they could be really
satisfied are they such as an intellectual and immortal
spirit durst avow without shame before other intellec¬
tual and immortal beings like himself?’”
The wish that the soul feels to satisfy the spiritual
aspirations of other immortal souls, to procure for them
the pure joys of life, to assure them of the continu¬
ance of their existence after death, and thus to co¬
operate in the grand plan of supreme love and wisdom,
the progress gained by this noble activity, so worthy of
man, also the disinterested desire for all that is good;
all these things make human souls fit for—and, in so
far, give them a right to—a place among more elevated,
more pure, and more holy spirits.
"When, most revered Empress, we have the firm con¬
viction that the most natural, though very rare, want
that can arise in an immortal soul—the want of a God
—the craving to approach nearer and nearer, and to en¬
deavour to resemble the invisible Father of all creatures
in every respect: that once become predominant in us;
then need we verily feel no fear, whatever concerning
our future state, when death shall have freed each of
us from his body, that thick wall that hides God from
us. The material body that kept us from Him is de¬
stroyed, and the veil that shut out from our sight the
Holy of Holies is rent asunder. The adorable Being
that we loved above all else will then enter freely, and
in all the splendour of His graciousness into our thirst¬
ing souls, and be received in all joy and love. When
illimitable love for God shall have filled our soul, in
consequence of the efforts it has made to approach Him,
and to imitate Him in His life-giving love of mankind,
and by all the means in its power—this soul then, as
soon as it is out of its body, necessarily passes through
many degrees in order to be perfected more and more,
and rises with wondrous rapidity and facility towards
the object of its most profound veneration and boundless
love, towards the inexhaustible and only sufiicient
source for the satisfaction of all its wants and aspirations.
Even as no feeble or diseased eye can look straight
at the sun, neither can any unpurified spirit, still
wrapped in the fog of materialism created by its life
materialistic, even up to the moment of its separation
from the body, endure the sight of the pure spiritual
sun in its resplendent brightness, its highest type, its
focus, whence radiate such floods of light as penetrate
even finite beings with a sense of their infinity.
Who knows better than you, Madame, that only the
good are attracted by the good, that only noble souls
can find pleasure in the society of other chosen souls ?
Every man who knows life and men, who has often mixed
perforce with flatterers, impertinent, weak-minded, and
effeminate, scheming sycophants, ever seeking to curry
favour, and with hypocrites seeking cunningly to pene¬
trate the ideas and designs of others, in order to misin¬
terpret them; such a one also knows how these vile
and base minds are suddenly confounded by a simple
word uttered with firmness and dignity, or merely by
one look of severity, which tells them plainly that
they are unmasked and appreciated at their true value.
How irksome the presence of an honest man then be¬
comes to them. Ho false and hypocritical soul can be
happy when in contact with an energetic and upright
soul, who sees through his schemes. Every impure
spirit that has quitted its material body must, from its
very nature (urged on by an unseen but invincible
force) fly the presence of every pure and bright spirit,
to conceal, if it were possible, its numerous imperfec¬
tions, but which it can neither hide from itself nor
others.
Even were it not written, Ct Without holiness no man
shall see the Lord” (Heb. xii. 14), it would be perfectly
natural that it should be.so. It is absolutely impos¬
sible that an impure soul and a pure one.should have
any point of contact, or that any sympathy should
exist between them. A soul that fears the light cannot
for this very reason be attracted by the source of light.
Unclouded light must scorch such a spirit as if it
were a consuming fire. And what, Madame, do we
mean by impure souls ? I think they are those into
which the desire to be purified, corrected, and perfected
has never entered. I think they are those who have
not been guided in all things by the most disinterested
principles; those who have made themselves the sole
centre of all their thoughts and wishes; those who
regard themselves as the motive of all that exists, who
only seek the means of satisfying their senses and
passions; those in whom egotism, pride, and self-love
reign supreme, and who endeavour to serve two con¬
flicting masters at once.
Such souls must, I think, after their separation from
their bodies, be in a miserable and horrible state of in¬
trospection, or, in other words, of deepest self-loathing,
and must be dragged down by an irresistible force, to
the hideous company of other selfish souls who never
cease to chant their own damnation.
Selfishness produces impurity in the soul and makes
it suffer. In every human soul there is, however, a
moral sense, a something pure and divine, which com¬
bats this selfishness. Without this sense man is in¬
capable of any moral enjoyment, of any self-respect or
self-contempt, or of comprehending heaven or hell.
This divine light renders all darkness within insupport¬
able, and this is why sensitive souls, possessed of the
moral sense, suffer more cruelly where self pre¬
dominates and conquers this feeling. On the con¬
cord and harmony existing within a man, between
his will and his conscience, depend his purity
and aptitude to receive the light, his happiness,
his heaven, his God. His God appears to him in the
likeness of Himself. To Him who knows what love is,
God appears as supreme love, amidst many loving
forms. His degree of felicity and aptitude of rendering
others happy, are proportionate to the principle of love
within him. Hb who loves unselfishly remains in ever¬
lasting harmony with the spring of all love, and with
those who derive their happiness therefrom. Let us
try to maintain within us a perfectly pure love, and we
shall be always drawn thereby towards the most loving
souls. Let us purge ourselves daily from all taint of
self, and then, were we to quit this world to-day or to¬
morrow, our soul on rendering to earth its mortal coil
would fly like lightning to the type of all who love, and
join the blessed in their bliss unspeakable. None can know
484
THE SPIRITUALIST.
what becomes of the soul after the death of the body,
and yet I am fully persuaded that purified love must
necessarily give to our spirits, once freed from the body,
a boundless liberty, an existence intensified a hundred¬
fold, a continual enjoyment of God, and an unlimited
power of giving pleasure to all who are capable of
supreme happiness. Ah ! how unapproachable is the
moral liberty of the spirit freed from the body! How
lightly the soul of the loving being rises, clothed in
shining light! What infinite knowledge, what power
of expression become its own ! What light flows from
it! What life animates all the atoms of which it is
formed ! Waves of bliss approach from every side the
pure and lofty spirit to satisfy all his wants ! Innu¬
merable legions of loving spirits open their arms to
him ! Harmonious voices in innumerable choirs are
heard singing joyously, and saying, “ Spirit of our
spirit! heart of our heart! love drawn from the
fountain of all love 1 loving soul, thou belongest to all
of us, and we to thee ! God is love and God is ours.
We are all full of God, and love finds its consummation
in the happiness of all.” I desire ardently, most revered
Empress, that you and your noble and generous hus¬
band the Emperor, so disposed both of you to all that
is good, and 1 with you, may never become strangers to
the love that is at once God and man, and that jt may
he permitted us to prepare ourselves for the enjoyment
of love by our actions, our prayers, and our sufferings,
thereby drawing near to Him who allowed Himself to
he nailed to the cross at Golgotha.
(To he continued shortly, God willing.)
Zurich, 18. viii., 1798. Jean Gaspab, Lavatek.
“ GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND.”*
Attention' was called in these pages some time ago
to a very interesting little hook with the above title.
Among the messages in the hook given through
writing mediumship, is the following on the symbolical
nature of most spirit messages, due to the incapacity
of man while in his mortal frame, to fully understand
spiritual conditions :
We are permitted to tell you that all that has been
written on passing away is true, though mostly typical;
imagery of things unseen, of which we will in a measure
give you the key hereafter.
Water is emblematic of purity, cleansing, and bap¬
tism ; therefore spirits frequently speak of water, and
tell us of newly-born spirits passing over lakes or
rivers in boats. This is emblematical. Boats are a
means by which mortals or spirits are conveyed through
life to their destiny or dwelling-place. Do you not
traverse ocean in search of new scenes, for business, or
for pleasure, while you are in the body; and are not
the waters oft treacherous and turbulent? Are not
many yearly swallowed up by the great mighty deep ?
Do not others traverse the sea in soft gentle repose, and
arrive safely and happily at their destination ? So, in
allegorical terms, spirits are conveyed over the water to
their eternal resting-place or home, mansion, or sphere.
Jewels also are spoken of as signs and types. What
is a diamond hut a beautiful creation valued for its
rarity, or a pearl but the deposit or formation of an
insect acting on the oyster; pretty to the eye, and
* Glimpses of a Brighter Land, given through a Writing Medium. Lon¬
don: Baihiere, Tindall, and Cox.
Dec. 26, 1873.
valuable on account of the difficulty of its attainment ?
To the eye of the ignorant are not pieces of glass the
same ? Remember, God created all things, and that
beyond the material world nothing is of value save for
its meaning and symbolism. From God emanates all
things; He created the world and all that therein is.
From God cometh all wisdom, light, and knowledge:
the truth flashes from God even as the colours scintil¬
late, sparkle, and radiate from the pure diamond;
therefore high, good, and pure spirits wear diamonds
not for their beauty or intrinsic value, but as typical of
their inner minds and interior states. Some wear
pearls, to denote their purity and love of goodness and
truth, and others sapphires, to show their love for
celestial truths and of tenderness.
We love to show our affection towards each other by
making presents, and as these can be of no intrinsic
value, they are only valued as tokens of love, thought,
and feeling. We delight in exercising our taste in
devising quaint or elegant designs to ornament the
covers of books, or to adorn a friend’s garment; or in
representing scenes of past or of future life to embel¬
lish the walls of a friend’s house during his absence.
We use neither brushes nor paints; hut we combine,
condense, and use the elements to form colours and
produce effects. The higher spirits can draw and paint,
and play on many instruments, and they love to return
to earth and assist those who have receptive minds and
frames organised to receive impressions.
The great majority of the physical manifestations are
produced by the lower spirits, for, as a general rule,
the lower the spirit the greater is its direct power over
common matter. The following message from Glimpses
of a Brighter Land, hears upon this point:—
My dear Friend,—I am permitted to tell you that
where we live all is sunshine and happiness—for sun¬
shine is emblematic of celestial wisdom, and he who
hath celestial wisdom and holdeth it fast is happy.
On the spirit quitting the flesh, it assumes a form
similar to the earthly, but not composed of flesh, blood,
and bone; it is firm and substantial, yet not material,
and therefore can pass through material substances.
There can be no obstacle to the progress of a spirit
form any more than to thought. A spirit is free to
come and go wheresoever it pleaseth, even as “ the
wind bloweth where it listeth, and you know not
whence it cometh, nor whither it goethyou feel it,
yet it cannot be seen—still its effects are visible in
swaying branches and agitating leaves. So is our
spirit influence felt, yet unseen by any eye save of those
who have the power, or rather gift, of clairvoyance.
They see us, while others see nothing. No obstacle
impedes our progress; we have but to will, and like
the electric shock passing through the telegraphic wire,
we traverse space ; but those whose minds, vHshes, and
desires are low, grovelling, and earthy, are heavy and
torpid, and cannot rise; these are spirits not yet
spiritualised, and the materialism clinging to them
weighs them down. They cannot occupy themselves.
They hang about their earthly dwellings, and, desiring
to communicate, often seek by noises and foolish means
to attract attention.
Some are aroused by these means, and thought be¬
gets action. Much then depends on those who receive
these manifestations. If good, serious, and kind, their
example helps to rouse the poor spirit, and to develope
its progress; while those who ridicule and only use the
THE SPIRITUALIST.
485
Dec. 26, 1873.
communications and manifestations as idle jokes and
sport, pain and irritate the already unhappy spirit, and
goad it on to prove its powders. Then do many become
mad and violent, and endeavour to revenge the insult
received by hideous noises, and throwing about furni¬
ture to terrify those who at first they simply wished to
converse with.
If people could only be induced to consider the mani¬
festations as a means of conversation used by those who
have no other, they would no longer consider them trivial
and ridiculous ; many would be soothed by being per¬
mitted to converse, and would be sooner able to rise
and leave earth. Remember, a clever child, if idle,
may be long in learning a lesson, because his mind is
not given to acquiring information, but wanders about
to the waving trees, and the sunshine, and cool babbling
brooks with shining pebbles and blue myosotis; yet
when aroused, and his attention fixed, the lesson is
speedily learnt and the knowledge is drawn in. Thus
do many poor dull spirits wander on, unthinking, not
acting, but clinging to old memories and old well
known spots on earth ; their earthliness and material¬
ism make it easier for them to take in facts from those
still on earth, than from the bright beings who seek to
instruct them. They shrink from the light, and prefer
darkness—wandering on wearily and drearily—some
for months, some for years, some longer. Many,
various, and innumerable are the means through which
eventually they are roused and enlightened, and finally
rise to greater happiness.
THE GRAVE OF MICHAEL SCOTT.
Tales of the supernatural are always welcome at
Christmas time, and on the principle that an old nar¬
rative of good quality is better than a modern one of
lower quality, we quote from Sir Walter Scott’s Lay of
the Last Minstrel, one of the most beautiful wierd-like
pieces of fiction ever penned upon other world
subjects:—
I.
If thou would’st view fair Melrose aright,
Go visit it by the pale moonlight;
For the gay beams of lightsome day
Gild, but to flout, the ruins grey.
When the broken arches are black in night,
And each shafted oriel glimmers white;
When the cold light’s uncertain shower
Streams on the ruin’d central tower;
When buttress and buttress, alternately,
Seem framed of ebon and ivory;
When silver edges the imagery,
And the scrolls that teach thee to live and die;
When distant Tweed is heard to rave,
And the owlet to hoot o’er the dead man’s grave,
Then go—but go alone the while—
Then view St. David’s ruin’d pile;
And, home returning, soothly swear,
Was never scene so sad and fair!
n.
Short halt did Deloraine make there;
Little reck’d he of the scene so fair:
With dagger’s hilt, on the wicket strong,
He struck fall loud, and struck full long.
The porter hurried to the gate—
“ Who knocks so loud, and knocks so late? ”
“ From Branksome I,” the warrior cried;
And straight the wicket open’d wide:
For Branksome’s Chiefs had in battle stood,
To fence the rights of fair Melrose;
And lands and livings, many a rood,
Had gifted the shrine for their souls’ repose.
HI.
Bold Deloraine his errand said;
The porter bent his humble head;
With torch in hand, and feet unshod,
And noiseless step, the path he trod;
The arched cloister, far and wide,
Bang to the warrior’s clanking stride,
Till, stooping low his lofty crest,
He enter’d the cell of the ancient priest,
And lifted his barred aventayle,
To hail the Monk of St. Mary’s aisle.
IV.
“ The Ladye of Branksome greets thee by me,
Says, that the fated hour is come,
And that to-night I shall watch with thee,
To win the treasure of the tomb.”
From sackcloth couch the Monk arose,
With toil his stiffen’d limbs he reared ;
A hundred years had flung their snows
On his thin locks and floating beard.
V.
And strangely on the Knight look’d he,
And his blue eyes gleam’d wild and wide;
” And, darest thou, Warrior! seek tp see
What heaven and hell alike would hide ?
My breast, in belt of iron pent,
With shirt of hair and scourge of thorn;
For threescore years, in penance spent?,
My knees those flinty stones have worn:
Yet all too little to atone
For knowing what should ne’er be known.
Would’st thou thy every future year
In ceaseless prayer and penance drie,
Yet wait thy latter end with fear—
Then, daring Warrior, follow me! ”—
VI.
“ Penance, father, will I none;
Prayer know I hardly one;
For mass or prayer can I rarely tarry,
Save to patter an Ave Mary,
When I ride on a Border foray.
Other prayer can I none;
So speed me my errand, and let me be gone.”
VII.
Again on the Knight look’d the Churchman old,
And again he sighed heavily;
For he had himself been a warrior bold,
And fought in Spain and Italy.
And he thought on the days that were long since by,
When his limbs were strong, and his courage was
high:—
Now, slow and faint, he led the way,
Where, cloister’d round, the garden lay;
The pillar’d arches were over their head,
And beneath their feet were the bones of the dead.
VIII.
Spreading herbs, and flowerets bright,
Glisten’d with the dew of night;
Nor herb, nor floweret, glisten’d'there,
But was carved in the cloister-arches as fair.
The Monk gazed long on the lovely moon,
Then into the night he looked forth;
And red and bright the streamers light
Were dancing in the glowing north.
So had he seen, in fair Castile,
The youth in glittering squadrons start;
Sudden the flying jennet wheel,
And hurl the unexpected dart.
He knew, by the streamers that shot so bright,
That spirits were riding the northern light.
IX.
By a steel-clenched postern door,
They enter’d now the chancel tall;
The darken’d roof rose high aloof
On pillars lofty and light and small:
The key-stone, that dock’d each ribbed aisle,
Was a fleur-de-lys, or quatre feuille;
486
THE SPIRITUALIST. Dec. 26, 1873.
The corbells were carved, grotesque and grim;
And the pillars, with cluster’d shafts so trim,
"With base and with capital flourish’d around,
Seem’d bundles of lances which garlands had bound.
X.
Full many a ’scutcheon and banner riven,
Shook to the cold night-wind of heaven,
Around the screen’d altar’s pale;
And there the dying lamps did burn,
Before thy low and lowly urn,
0 gallant chief of Otterburne !
And thine, dark night of Liddesdale!
0 fading honours of the dead !
0 high ambition, lowly laid !
XI.
The moon on the east oriel shone
Through slender shafts of shapely stone,
By foliaged tracery combined ;
Thou would’st have thought some fairy’s hand
’Twixt poplars straight the ozier wand,
In many a freakish knot, had twined;
Then framed a spell, when the work was done,
And changed the willow-wreaths to stone.
The silver light, so pale and faint,
Shew’d many a prophet, and many a saint,
Whose image on the glass was dyed;
Full in the midst, his Cross of Bed
Triumphant Michael brandished,
And trampled the Apostate’s pride.
The moon-beam kiss’d the holy pane,
And threw on the pavement a bloody stain.
XII.
They sate them down on a marble stone,—
(A Scottish monarch slept below;)
Thus spoke the Monk, in solemn tone :—
“ I was not always a man of woe ;
For Paynim countries I have trod,
And fought beneath the Cross of God :
Now, strange to my eyes thine arms appear,
And their iron clang sounds strange to my ear.
XIII.
“ In these far climes it was my lot
To meet the wondrous Michael Scott;
A wizard, of such dreaded fame,
That when, in Salamanca’s cave,
Him listed his magic wand to wave,
The bells would ring in Notre Dame
Some of his skill he taught to me ;
And, Warrior, I could say to tbee
The words that cleft Eildon hills in three,
And bridled the Tweed with a curb of stone :
But to speak them were a deadly sin ;
And for having but thought them my heart within,
A treble penance must be done.
XIV.
“ When Michael lay on his dying bed,
His conscience was awakened :
He bethought him of his sinful deed,
And he gave me a sign to come with speed.
I was in Spain when the morning rose,
But I stood by his bed ere evening close.
The words may not again be said,
That he spoke to me, on death-bed laid ;
They would rend this Abbaye’s massy nave,
And pile it in heaps above his grave.
XV.
“ I swore to bury his Mighty Book,
That never mortal might therein look;
And never to tell where it was hid,
Save at his Chief of Branksome’s need :
And when that need was past and o’er,
Again the volume to restore.
I buried him on St. Michael’s night,
When the bell tolled one, and the moon was bright,
And I dug his chamber among the dead,
When the floor of the chancel was stained red,
That his patron’s cross might over him wave,
And scare the fiends from the Wizard’s grave.
XVI.
“ It was a night of woe and dread,
When Michael in the tomb I laid!
Strange sounds along the chancel pass’d,
The banners waved without a bla'st ”—
—Still spoke the Monk, when the bell toll’d one !—
I tell you that a braver man
Than William of Deloraine, good at need,
Against a foe ne’er spurr’d a steed;
Yet somewhat was he chill’d with dread,
And his hair did bristle upon his head.
XVII.
“ Lo, Warrior! now, the Cross of Bed
Points to the grave of the mighty dead;
Within it burns a wondrous light,
To chase the spirits that love the night:
That lamp shall burn unquenchably,
Until the eternal doom shall be.”
Slow moved the Monk to the broad flag-stone,
Which the bloody Cross was traced upon:
He pointed to a secret nook ;
An iron bar the Warrior took ;
And the Monk made a sign with his wither’d hand,
The grave’s huge portal to expand.
XVIH.
With beating heart to the task he went;
His sinewy frame o’er the grave-stone bent;
With bar of iron heaved amain,
Till the toil-drops fell from his brows, like rain.
It was by dint of passing strength,
That he moved the massy stone at length.
T would you had been there, to see
How the light broke forth so gloriously,
Stream’d upward to the chancel roof,
And through the galleries far aloof!
No earthly flame blazed e’er so bright:
It shone like heaven’s own blessed light,
And, issuing from the tomb,
Show’d the Monk’s cowl, and visage pale.
Danced on the dark-brow’d Warrior’s mail,
And kiss’d his waving plume.
XIX.
Before their eyes the Wizard lay,
As if he had not been dead a day.
His hoary beard in silver roll’d,
He seem’d some seventy winters old;
A palmer’s amice wrapp’d him round,
With a wrought Spanish baldric bound,
Like a pilgrim from beyond the sea :
His left hand held his Book of Might;
A silver cross was in his right;
The lamp was placed beside his knee :
High and majestic was his look,
At which the fellest fiends had shook,
And all unruffled was his face :
They trusted his soul had gotten grace.
XX.
Often had William of Deloraine
Bode through the battle’s bloody plain,
And trampled down the warriors slain,
And neither known remorse nor awe ;
Yet now remorse and awe he own’d ;
His breath came thick, his head swam round,
When this strange scene of death he saw.
Bewilder’d and unnerved he stood,
And the priest prayed fervently and loud :
With eyes averted prayed he;
He might not endure the sight to see,
Of the man he had loved so brotherly.
XXI.
And when the priest his death-prayer had pray'd,
Thus unto Deloraine he said :—
“ Now, speed thee what thou hast to do,
Or, Warrior, we may dearly rue;
For those, thou may’st not look upon,
Are gathering fast round the yawning stone!”
Then Deloraine, in terror, took
From the cold hand the Mighty Book,
With iron clasp’d, and with iron bound:
Dec. 26, 1873. THE SPIRITUALIST. 487
He thought, as he took it, the dead man frown’d;
But the glare of the sepulchral light,
Perchance, had dazzled the warrior’s sight.
XXII.
When the huge stone sunk o’er the tomb,
The night return’d in double gloom ;
For the moon had gone down, and the stars were few ;
And, as the Knight and Priest withdrew,
With wavering steps and dizzy brain,
They hardly might the postern gain.
’Tis said, as through the aisles they pass’d,
They heard strange noises on the blast;
And through the cloister-galleries small,
Which at mid-height thread the chancel wall,
Loud sobs, and laughter louder, ran,
And voices unlike the voice of man;
As if the fiends kept holiday,
Because these spells were brought to day.
I cannot tell how the truth may be;
I say the tale as ’twas said to me.
XXIII.
“ Now, hie thee hence,” the Father said,
” And when we are on death-bed laid,
0 may our dear Ladye, and sweet St. John,
Forgive our souls for the deed we have done!”—
The Monk return’d him to his cell,
And many a prayer and penance sped;
When the convent met at the noontide bell—
The Monk of St. Mary’s aisle was dead!
Before the cross was the body laid, •
With hands clasp’d fast, as if still he pray’d.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER IN DARLINGTON.
The advent of Miss Lottie Fowler at Darlington has been
quite an event in the local annals of Spiritualism. The
Spiritualists of Darlington have been rather bare, if not
entirely so, of test mediums, hence the cause there has had to
struggle against difficulties. The value of a medium like
Miss Fowler, under these circumstances, cannot therefore be
overrated. The writer of this was invited, along with local
members of the press, ministers, and public educators, to a
free seance with Miss Fowler, through the courtesy of the
Messrs. Hinde.
A lady was told, to her amazement, the particulars of a
dream she had had within a few days regarding some very
near relative deceased, whose name and other matters equally
satisfactory to the person concerned were given. The same
lady wished to get a reply from a deceased friend to a mental
question she would propound. The answer came shortly
afterwards, through the medium, who said that a spirit (which
she described), was present and held up a certain flower. The
lady who propounded the test declared that that was the cor¬
rect answer. The most striking instance probably during the
whole evening, however, was that of the case of a middle-
aged gentleman, who lived outside Darlington a few miles,
but who was not known apparently to anyone present. The
medium commenced by' describing the appearance of the
mother of the gentleman, who she further said had passed
away a few months since. The sufferings of the deceased
were described, and the, nature of the disease, which
were both admitted to be true. “Who is that lady ? ”
said the medium, “who was standing beside you at the
time of the death ? I see some one. Was it a relative ?”
“ No,” was the reply, “ id was a neighbour.” “ Well,” said
the medium, “ I see only one there.” The period of the ill¬
ness was also mentioned, and the fact that the deceased was
insensible for two days before she died. “ Then,’’ said the
medium, “I see a will. Your mother shows me it,’’ Some
curious particulars were given about this will which the party
concerned acknowledged to be correct. Then a “ scapegrace”
nephew, as the.medium called him, was described. His habits
of life and disposition, and the fact of his being far away were
mentioned. He had been across the sea, the medium said,
but had returned. All this was also admitted to be true.
Then a sister who had passed away many years was spoken of,
how she had left two children, one being still living, and the
other dead. A brother was also described, and an account
given of his family. He lived at a good distance. Many more
intricate matters were given, which the astonished gentleman
also admitted to be correct. Then a peculiar complaint, from
which the gentleman himself had suffered for some years,
though only known to himself, was stated, and a recipe given
for its alleviation. Many more matters quite as apt and con¬
vincing were told to this individual; indeed, for a whole
hour a perfect string of “ tests” were given. The medium
then passed to another gentleman who seemed to be of a
somewhat more self-assertive character. At any rate the
medium, as was asserted, had a difficulty in getting en rapport
with him on this account. Most of the descriptions given he
failed to recognise, except one or two. One very remarkable
test, was, however, afforded him. The medium was engaged
for several minutes in giving a most minute description of a
spirit of commanding mien and appearance, who it was
stated was at the back of this gentleman’s chair. The
peculiarities of the said spirit were described, his gait was
mimicked. Such was the completeness of the description
that no one could have failed to recognise it, had it applied to
a person with whom they had been familiar. The identity
was thoroughly established in the gentleman’s mind as that of
his father, who had been for some years deceased. He was
Iso given the name of a sister.
The seance soon after terminated, the whole of those present
without exception expressing their gratification, although
most were sceptics at the outset, to the remarkable psycho¬
logical phenomena they had witnessed. Whilst it may be said
that in some of the instances narrated, there was a possibility
of collusion, the circumstances almost entirely preclude such a
solution. The gathering, it must be remembered, was a pro¬
miscuous one of parties who had never met before, and who,
previous to assembling, were unaware who was to be present.
They were also nearly all strangers to each other, and to the
medium. Still more conclusive evidence is afforded of the
genuineness of the proceedings, by the fact that in nearly
every case some of the most striking information given could
by no possibility have been known to Miss Fowler.—The
Darlington and Stockton Times.
HOME EXPERIENCES IN SPIRITUALISM.
No. I.
BY PBEDERICKA SHOWERS.
In compliance with your request, I will endeavour to
furnish you with an account of the spiritual manifestations
that have occurred recently in my house at Teignmouth, in
Devonshire. My acquaintance with Spiritualism dates only
from the month of April, 1872. For more than a year previ¬
ously, I had ceased to believe in the absolute truth of Chris¬
tianity, and, outside of Christianity, could see nothing to rely
on in proof of the immortality of the soul. The consequence
was, that I was in a fair way of becoming an Athiest.
The severest of domestic afflictions had already befallen
me. I have been twice married, and my son’s name was
Manby Nightingale. He was a grandson of the late Sir Charles
Ethelstone Nightingale, Bart., of Kneesworth Hall, in Cam¬
bridgeshire. I mention this, because the name of Nightingale
occurs in the course of the manifestations. My beloved eldest
son, who held an appointment in the “ Woods and Forests,”
in Burmah, had fallen a victim to the climate in the very
flower of his youth, and his early death so intensified the
anxiety that I had never been able to suppress, on the sub¬
ject of a future state of existence, that I withdrew from all
society, and tried to deaden the sense of my bereavement by
constant mental occupation. I was incessantly engaged in
reading arguments both on the Christian and materialistic
sides of the question, and in translating1 extracts from German
writers, sometimes for publication, and more frequently for
distribution among relatives and friends. By most of these
authors the direct proofs of supernatural action were treated
as belonging solely to the domain of legend and myth, and in
time the energy of my early faith in God, and in the efficacy
of prayer became completely sapped.
A HAUNTED HOUSE.
In the spring of 1872, a gentleman who is well known among
Secularists, paid us a long and agreeable visit, and in the cir¬
cumstances in which I was placed, his society was particularly
congenial. We passed much of our time in discussing sub¬
jects of religious and superstitious belief, being, I think,
mutually of opinion that most of those who differed from us
in this respect, were people dwarfed in intelligence, and in¬
capable of fundamental thought. Among instances of credulity
and hallucination, I one day alluded to some rather extra¬
ordinary things that had occurred in my own house, and had
come under my own observation ; in fact, even I had, in a
488
THE SPIRITUALIST. Dec. 26, 1873.
particular instance, been the subject of an optical delusion !
Three times during my occupancy of that house, at intervals
of two and three years, we had all been aroused at night by
shrieks and cries of terror, occasioned by the alleged appear¬
ance of a female form ; and so great was the consequent
panic, that we invariably preferred sitting up to going again
to bed. However, convinced that it could only be a creation
of the brain, in time the impression used gradually to wear off.
In the month of October, 1871, contrary to my usual custom,
I occupied the room in which this phantom was said to put in
an appearance. It was an apartment generally avoided by the
family, and reserved for the use of visitors. There had been
a time when the thought of sleeping there might possibly have
made me a little uncomfortable, but I was an enlightened
infidel now, and ghosts and spectres had vanished, with my
faith in the traditional and contradictory character of the
testimony adduced for them. It was the first anniversary of
my dear child’s death ; and unable to close my eyes, I was
mentally calculating the difference of time between India and
England, when, on turning to speak to our large dog, who
had just entered the room, my eyes encountered the figure of
a woman standing not far from the foot of the bed. It was
more like a beautiful illuminated statue, and did not in the
least realise the common terrifying idea of a ghost. Never¬
theless I sprang up, exclaiming, “ Is this, then, indeed true?”
Almost before I had time to utter the words, she had disap¬
peared.
I related this to my visitor, who then asked whether I
knew anything about Spiritualism. “No,” was my reply;
for the word, as connected with any particular phase of mani¬
festations, had never attracted my notice, and, indeed, con¬
veyed no definite meaning to me. I felt interested though,
in some measure, in even the small jamount of information
that he could give ; and, somewhat amused at my curiosity,
he promised, on returning to town, to forward some Spiritual¬
istic paper or pamphlet, a promise which was duly fulfilled.
I looked at it with interest, and a yearning desire that some
of its wonderful statements might be true; but the spirits
seemed to me to talk such arrant nonsense, and the vffiole
thing was so entirely opposed to the views I then entertained
on the subject of death, that the paper was ultimately laid
aside with no very friendly feeling towards those who were
(as I thought) trifling with the most sacred feelings of the
heart—an impression which was strengthened when, a few
months later, I attended a seance at which John King was
said to appear.
However, I began to take in a paper, and in one of the
numbers there was said to be a likeness of the aforesaid spirit.
Nobody was more incredulous than my daughter, who used
frequently to say, ” Oh, mama, how can you look at such
nonsense ?” But though I could not help admitting that a
great deal of it seemed nonsense, there was one difficulty that
always perplexed me—“How come men, of high literary
attainments, and good social position, to endorse such palp¬
able falsehoods and absurdities?” Had they suddenly lost
their senses on this one topic alone? I could not explain the
matter so satisfactorily and easily as some of my friends did,
not having the same faith which they had, in the baseness
and credulity of human nature.
THE DEVELOPMENT OE MEDIDMSHIP AT HOME.
My daughter Mary was the only one of my children who
was with me in England, the others, all older, having gone
out to India. She had always been peculiar, and had
from earliest childhood the habit of (as we thought) talk¬
ing to herself. Whenever left in a room alone, she could be
heard carrying on an imaginary conversation in a loud tone
of voice, in the form of question and answer. This was com¬
monly observed by visitors, and constantly by servants, who
used to interrupt and call her away, saying that the practice
foreboded an early or violent death. About the age of
thirteen, however, this peculiarity ceased. Mr. Burns had at
my request forwarded me some pamphlets, and I was much
impressed with one or two by Mr. William Howitt,who spoke
so confidently of the possibility of communion with spirits.
Anxious to test, if possible, some of his statements for myself,
I purchased a very light small table, and with some difficulty
got Miss Showers, then but sixteen years old, occasionally to
place her hands on it, and sit with me in a darkened room,
but the evenings were beginning to be so pleasant (for it was
late in the spring of this year) that she did not at all like
giving up her walks for such a purpose. Very frequently, I
made a young servant, whom we had recently engaged, join
ps also, under the impression that it was necessary to form a
complete circle with the hands, which two of us could not
of course have done.
For some days we got nothing but a few uncertain move¬
ments, and these were hardly satisfactory enough to encourage
us to go on, but one night we were suddenly startled by find¬
ing the table glide altogether away, and then follow my
daughter, who ran with mingled feelings of amusement and
fear to the opposite side of the room. We tried to sit round
it again, but it became so utterly unmanageable, that I
brought in a candle, under the impression that manifesta¬
tions could not occur in the light. We all stood around,
and Miss Showers merely placed a thumb and finger
on the surface. The table jerked about violently; at
last there was a crash, and the leg broke. Subsequently we
sat round a massive rosewood table, and it heaved up several
times like a wave.
This was something so unexpected and startling, that my
rest that night was much disturbed, and I looked forward
anxiously to the close of the next day, in order that our sit¬
tings might re-commence. A strongly-made four-legged
deal table was brought into the room, and a sort of tramping
movement, like that of a horse, commenced almost immediately
we touched it. My daughter sang an air called “ The Prussian
March,” and the wood moved, vibrated, thrilled, as if imbued
with life. She sat far away, and I placed my hands over
those of Ellen the servant, in order to make sure that-she was
not causing the movement, but the precaution was really un¬
necessary, since no touch could have produced the same
vibration. It was totally unlike anything I had ever felt.
SPIKIT LIGHTS AND POEMS.
While thus engaged I glanced towards the book-case, and
saw two vivid patches of light flickering on the wall above.
The only earthly light in the house was far away in the
kitchen, for we have no gas so high up the hill at Teign-
mouth, and, puzzled to account for what I saw, I drew the
attention of my daughter and the servant towards them, but
they could see nothing.
Leaving the room I closed the door, but was almost imme¬
diately recalled by loud exclamations of surprise and alarm.
A crescent moon was said to be suspended over the sofa, large
round lights were floating about the room, a luminous arm
shot across the apartment, and finally the shadow, apparently
of a slight young man, had passed over the blind before the
window, the shutters of which were fastened; but though
both girls were trembling with fear, and started simultaneously
as they described each of these appearances, to me all was
darkness. I could not discern a single object.
I may mention here, that our house is a perfectly isolated
one, a mile from the town of Teignmouth. The only neigh¬
bours we have are the people who have charge of the Exeter-
road, and we keep a very large and sagacious watch-dog.
THE EELIGIOITS INFLUENCE OP A KNOWLEDGE OP
SPIKITUALISM.
It became evident to me now that some at least of the state¬
ments of Spiritualists were certainly true. Who could tell
whither these manifestations might lead ? Perhaps I might
even get a message from the dead, or at least something to
prove that death was not annihilation ? The subject com¬
pletely absorbed my thoughts, and at last, by a strong effort, I
resumed a practice that had been long despairingly abandoned,
and began to utter a short prayer night and morning. It was
not an orthodox one, and consisted solely of a verse of Lord
Byron’s that I had read in girlhood, and had never for¬
gotten :—
“Father of Light, on Thee I call,
My soul is dark within;
■ Thou who canst mark the sparrow’s fall,
Avert the death of sin.
Thou who canst guide the wandering star,
Who calmest the elemental war,
Whose mantle is yon boundless sky,
My thoughts, my words, my crimes forgive,
And since 1 soon must cease to live,
Oh teach me how to die.”
I enter thus minutely into a description of my feelings at
the time, because it is not possible in putting all the circum¬
stances together, to doubt that the spiritual manifestations we
got were given in answer to prayer, and I believe that any
person who enters into an enquiry of this nature in something
of the same frame of mind, will get evidence enough of a
similar nature to prove unmistakeably that there is a future
existence, and that the spirit world is near to and around us.
MATEEIALISED SPIKIT HANDS.
On one or two subsequent evenings the lights were again
seen and described by Miss Showers and Ellen, and I was
THE SPIRITUALIST.
489
Dec. 26, 1873.
straining my eyes in the hope of being able to discern them
also, when Ellen startled us by exclaiming, “ Oh! who touched
me ? did you, Miss Mary ? ” She said a cold finger had been
passed three times over her hand. We were both even more
surprised than herself, and our first impulse was to grope for
the handle of the door, and run away. Returning after a
little while, we were resuming our places, when the door was
suddenly violently slammed, and the servant’s cap pulled off
her head. We had not courage enough to continue that even¬
ing, and were glad to call dear old Lion in from the verandah
preparatory to going to bed. Before retiring, however, Miss
Showers came into my room and told me she did not quite
believe in Ellen’s having been touched by an invisible hand.
“ What an idea, mama,” she said! “how could her cap be
pulled off in that way ? I am sure she did it herself.”
“Why, Mary,” I asked, “ did you not see and describe the
lights, and the arm, and the figure? Surely they were even
more extraordinary than this?” “ Oh, yes,” was the answer,
“but touching is a different thing—nobody touched me.”
Well, I did not wish to enter into any argument, but the re¬
mark made me uncomfortable and suspicious, and I resolved
on watching Ellen more carefully. However, Mary had good
reason to repent of her incredulity on the following night.
Her hair was repeatedly pulled down, her hands severely
pinched, and she received several loud stinging slaps on the
face. Ellen’s chair was as close as possible to mine, and the
slightest movement on her part would have been perceptible
to me. My daughter was on my left hand, and the servant on
my right. The manifestations were too violent to allow of
our keeping up a circle.
Our small seances grew daily more interesting. I told
several people of the extraordinary circumstances that had
occurred, and invited a lady with her husband and children to
spend the evening, in the hope of their witnessing them.
There were six of us in all. The room was darkened, and we
formed a circle round a heavy table. None of my guests
knew anything whatever about Spiritualism, and were greatly
astonished at the movements and the amusing answers given
through the alphabet to their questions. Two of them also saw
lights and circlets of stars after we had sat about half-an-hour.
JOHN KING IN TEIGNMOUTH.
1 was carrying on a conversation in a subdued tone with Mr.
W., and relating the single instance in which I had attended
a seance in London, expressing my disbelief'in the spirit forms,
and my contempt for the people who could attempt to palm off
on an mcredulous public such an imposition as John King, We
all joined in laughing at the absurdity of calling a spirit by that
name, and our amusement had not altogether subsided, when
Ellen, in rather a husky voice, addressed my daughter, saying,
“Miss Mary, will you look, please?” She did not indicate
where or at what, but Miss Showers instinctively turned
towards the window, the shutters of which were carefully
closed, and shrieked, “Oh! there is a man on the sofa!
He has got on a white turban ! It is John
King 1” The shrieks were re-echoed by Ellen, and were
so startling, so unmistakeably genuine, that a general rush
was made towards the door, the handle of which was almost
wrenched off, and the panels in peril of being broken by the
efforts made to escape.
We had no desire to sit any more that night. I forced my
guests to swallow a little wine, but eating was out of the
question for any of us. I heard afterwards that they did not
get much sleep, and I was quite ill from agitation and want of
rest the next day. It was consequently about ten in the
morning when I went down stairs.
DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING.
In walking listlessly about the room which had been the
scene of so much excitement on the previous evening, my eyes
fell on a piece of paper that was lying on the bookcase stand¬
ing close to the sofa ; I took it up, and saw some writing,
but not a single word could be deciphered, so the paper was
thrown away into the fireplace. When my daughter returned
from school in the afternoon, I found fault with her for
scribbling on Indian letter paper, remarking that I had Indian
letters to write, and should have to send to Teignmouth for
paper before they could be finished. “I have not been
scribbling,” was her reply. “ I never came into the room
this morning before going to school ; the shutters were not
even opened then.” The paper was still lying where it had
been thrown, and she picked it up, and after a short examina¬
tion, replaced it on the book-case. The next morning there it
still lay. Almost mechanically I took it up, and being near a
window, held it to a pane of glass, but accidentally the reverse
way. What was my astonishment then when the following
words became distinctly legible : “ All wrong; John King js a
nobleman. Three hundred years ago he entered the spirit
world.” It now came forcibly to my recollection that just
before the apparition of John King. I was expressing my dis¬
belief in his existence, and the writing was apparently done at
that moment in reference to our conversation.
It is impossible to convey an adequate idea of the delight
that this communication afforded me. I was almost giddy
with happiness. There was a spirit world then after all, and
Spiritualism was true. My dear son had not gone from me
for ever ; he had only preceded me to a more advanced, a
happier existence. Others had had to grope their way through
difficulties and perplexing doubts to the knowledge that had
been so blessedly vouchsafed me.
Some may imagine I believed too easily, but I knew my own
child ; I knew every inflection of her voice. What mother
does not ? Doubt was for ever over for me, and as time went
on, and the manifestations progressed, my convictions were
daily strengthened, though I had reason to alter some of my
first impressions. Both life and death seemed now to wear a
different aspect. Even as an ardent orthodox Christian, it
would have been impossible for me to have derived the same
consolation from the gloomy theology which taught that
“All worldly shapes must melt in gloom,
The Sun himself must die,
Before this mortal shall assume
Its immortality.”
This appalling picture of a shattered universe preceding a
resurrection, must surely be more a source of terror than of
solace to any bereaved mourner, however firm his faith.
SPIRIT RAPS AND NOISES.
Our seances now became a nightly occurrence, though we
could not continue long at a time, owing to the absence of a
fire in weather which was still keen and cold. Rapping
sounds became very marked and clear ; books, cushions, and
other objects were constantly thrown, and with such accurate
aim that no one was ever hurt, though the side of the head,
or ear, or shoulder, was invariably touched. For two or three
nights there occurred a ticking sound, as of a telegraphic
needle, accompanied by stamping movements, and occa¬
sionally a postman’s knock, given with such vigour as to make
our dog leave his favourite lounge in the verandah, and run
from one gate to another, barking excitedly. We were very
nervous at first, and used to leave the room, for it never
occurred to us to ask what the sounds implied ; but, after two
tables had been pulled away and broken, I laid down a piece of
paper, and the noise of writing soon became distinctly
audible.
A MESSAGE EROM INDIA.
My daughter, Miss Nightingale, was in India, and had
been rather unwell, though not so much so, by the latest
accounts, as to occasion any anxiety. However, on taking up
the paper, the apparent signal for which was a loud postman’s
knock and falling of a pencil in a distant part of the room,
I read a short message, which made me feel rather nervous
on her account. There had not, apparently, been a good
point to the pencil, and the writing was not very distinct;
but we made out the following :—
Over of earth
And ocean’s waves
Appears very ill.
John King.
The name of John King was written from right to left.
1 was so certain of the genuineness of this communication, and
so frightened at the idea of hearing some unfavourable news
regarding my absent children, that it was more than a week
before we sat again ; and we would not have done so then,
had it not been that two gentlemen called, and expressed
a great wish to see some of the manifestations, which
I decided on restricting solely to movements of the table
and rapping. These became so uncontrollable, however, that,
apprehensive of damage to my drawing-room table, I sent
upstairs for a strong ifour-legged deal table. It was one
of Gillow’s, and very stoutly made. This table literally
rose at one of these gentlemen, who was obliged to retreat
into a corner.” In a short time one of the legs was broken
completely off, as neatly as if done with a saw. I am
certain no person, however strong, could, under any circum¬
stances, have broken it in the same way. The wood was not
split in the least; it was broken off as one would break a piece
of sealing-wax, and in this instance no human force had been
used, for all hands were on the table. Mr. H , to whom a
most marked dislike had been evinced all through the mani-
490
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Deo. 26, 1873.
festations, was very roughly treated, and pulled off his chair
several times, or rather his chair was pulled away from him,
and he fell on the floor. Later in the evening (I am not
certain though whether it was not on a subsequent evening),
on getting up to open the door, he was hit a very severe blow
on the mouth, and sat down evidently in extreme pain, saying
he feared his teeth had been loosened.
After the table had been removed, the ticking sound, as of
a telegraphic needle working, commenced again, and it was
notified, through raps, that there was a message for me.
The first hint of such a thing made me get up to leave the
room, but the raps became more and more imperative, and I
was prevailed upon to resume my seat. Soon the sound of
the writing was heard, and the postman’s knock and the
noise of the falling pencil announced that the message was
finished. I took it up with a beating heart, and saw the fol¬
lowing :—
“Ethel Nightinga—Horrid.—Cheer, up, all is well across the sea.—John
King.’’
The word “ horrid ” under the name made me feel ill and
uneasy, and I asked my visitors to be kind enough to leave
the house, but as I spoke there were the same, but imperative
raps, and another message was written :—
“ Horrid means Mr. H .”
I may remark here that my daughter in India was very ill
at the time I got the first message, and recovered in a few
days in a manner totally unexpected. The two gentlemen
who were present on the evening just alluded to, did not even
know of Miss Nightingale’s existence, and I am not sure that
the servant was aware of her name. Mr. H  had pre¬
viously made a remark as to the genuineness of the manifesta¬
tions in a manner to offend Miss Showers, which accounts, I
think, for the marked animosity shown to him.
B PETEK ” AT TEIGHMOTTTH.
At our next sitting, the rapping assumed a totally different
sound. With a number of loud, clear, ringing raps, an intelli¬
gence, styling himself “ Peter,” seemed literally to spring up
in the space between the chairs occupied by Mary and myself.
There was something so marked and lively here, that we
could, from the first, distinguish the control from that of John
King. If we had ever heard the name of “Peter,” we cer¬
tainly had no recollection of any such spirit at the time of his
appearance, and I cannot be too positive in affirming that the
spirit manifestations spoken of in connection with “ John
King ” were regarded by us both as something beneath our
contempt—that was, of course, before he showed himself in
the drawing-room. After that, doubt would simply have been
impossible. I had one object, and one alone, in investigating
Spiritualism, which was to get a communication (if such a
thing were possible) from the dead, and over the portal of the
grave there hung such a pall of grief, and gloom, and solem¬
nity, that any attempt to raise it seemed almost like an act of
desecration.
APPEARANCE OF “ JOHN KINO” WITHOUT A
CABINET.
BY THE EDITOB.
Last Saturday night I called at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-
street, Holborn, to attend the usual Saturday evening
seance given by Mr. C. E. Williams, the medium, to
Spiritualists only. Only three other spectators were
present, the attendance being much smaller than usual.
I remarked that we had seen enough of the ordinary
manifestations—could not the spirits try something
new ?
We sat round a table in the dark, holding each other’s
hands, with nobody besides our five selves in the room.
I had hold of one of the hands of Mr. Williams, who
sat next to me.
After a short time a strong light flashed up, gradu¬
ally acquired full intensity, then died out, the total
duration of the flash being about three seconds. It
revealed the upper part of the large, powerful form of
John King over the centre of the table, clad in his
white robes and white turban, with beard and mous¬
tache ; the lower part of his bust was inclined in the
direction of the medium, who was leaning back in his
chair in a trance, breathing heavily whenever extra
power was drawn from his body. The light did not
reveal the medium, and came from a point about
eighteen inches in front of John King. There was
something dark between the observers and the source
of the light, soThat John King’s bust was illuminated,
and nothing else. The bust- was high up over the
table, the bottom of the visible part of the form being
higher than the top of Mr. Williams’ head would have
been, had he been sitting upright in his chair.
After the lapse of five or ten minutes, John King
showed himself a second time in the same way. He
asked, “Did you see me?” NI replied, “Yes, but I
did not see your eyes or lips move. Can you try
again ? ” This remark was made because I knew
spirits to have the power of manufacturing forms with
no life in them, and it was desirable to learn whether
this was the same active living John King who mani¬
fests at the cabinet seances.
After the lapse of more time, he showed himself
once again, looked at me, and said, “ Do you see me
now 2 ” I replied, “ Yes, and I see your eyes and lips
moving.”
All three manifestations were sharp, clear, and deci¬
sive, in a good light of short duration.
Afterwards, a light held by a hand and arm appeared
over the table. If a bladder, one-third full of air, and
about nine inches long, were held at the upper end by
a hand, so as to hang downwards in form something
like a pear, with vertical large wrinkles or folds in it,
it would much resemble in shape the luminous object
we saw over and over again, for two or three minutes
each time. The light was brightly phosphorescent,
and illuminated objects within a radius of five or
six inches from its centre; it gave off no smoke
or smell. The arm carrying it, so far as it
could be seen, came from the direction of the centre
of the breast of Mr. Williams. The light was
hard. I asked them to beat the table with it; the hand
did so gently, and the lower part of the luminous object
made such a noise as a cake of wax would have done
had it been used in the same way. The luminous
substance appeared to be hard ; it was not thrown into
waves, and did not appear to yield at all when the blows
were made.
Afterwards tfie ordinary “ ring test ” was given.
The iron ring was rubbed against my face and arm,
then upon the knuckles of the hand by which I held
the hand of Mr. Williams. The instant afterwards it
ran up my hand and arm, and remained threaded upon
the latter. I felt it come on, and the position of the
two hands was such that either the welded ring must
have opened and permitted Mr. Williams’s wrist to pass
through it, or Mr. Williams’s wrist must have opened
to permit the ring to pass.
In showing the ordinary dark circle manifestations
the spirits put phosporescent lights upon the musical
instruments, which flew about freely all over the room,
and round the circle outside the sitters, tapping each
member of the circle on the back. The musical box
was a very large and heavy one, yet it flew about like
the other instruments. “Peter” tuned the violin in
one corner of the room, and the noises were the same
as if a strong, powerful man were handling it and
vigorously turning the screws. Then, suddenly, up it
flew over our heads to the opposite side of the room,
and began .flying about like a bat.
The other spectators remarked that it was one of the
Dec. 26, 1873.
THE SPIJRITUALIST.
491
finest seances they had ever attended. Mr. Williams
had had no previous sitting that day, consequently was
not exhausted when the seance began; the circle also
was a small and harmonious one.
The sitters held each other’s hands, and the hands of
the medium the whole time.
THE OUTRAGE AT A SPIRIT CIRCLE.
The following letter has been sent us by the perpe¬
trator of the outrage at Mr. Cook’s house. As he tries
to exculpate himself by throwing not a little dirt at
an innocent person, in strict justice his communication
ought not to be published, and he should he made to
confine his remarks to himself. Nevertheless, here is
his letter:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sir,—In the report which appears in your journal of a
seance lately held at Mr. Cook’s, I am accused of seizing
the ghost, thereby breaking the conditions by which the mem¬
bers of the circle were bound.
In reply I have to state, that having for forty minutes care¬
fully observed and scrutinised the face, features, gestures, size,
style, and peculiarities of utterance of the so-called spirit, the
conviction irresistibly forced itself upon me that no ghost, but
the medium, Miss Florence Cook, herself, was before the
circle. I perceived also an occasional tip-toeing by the young
lady as if to alter her stature, and was much struck by the
utter puerility of her remarks throughout the seance. I am
confirmed in my conviction, as above stated, by the facts that
the struggling ghost had to be forcibly extricated from my
grasp, and afterwards to be “ aided ” into her cabinet by a
Justice of the Peace.
I may add that no third parties had any knowledge of my
invitation to, or presence at, the seance in question.
Dec. 16th, 1873. Wm. Volckman.
Mr. Corner and Mr. Tapp, who seized Yolckman,
state that' they did not touch Katie, but grasped
the aggressor by the neck chiefly. This probably made
him let go, and Katie was back in the cabinet in an in¬
stant—Mr. Luxmoore’s letter describes under what con¬
ditions. . The whole proceeding only occupied a few
seconds.
The writer of the foregoing letter implies in his
remarks that the outrage was not a predetermined
thing. But it so happens that his uneasy looks and his
abrupt remarks had been the subject of comment in the
early part of the evening; he was himself told of his
unusual manner. He afterwards broke the conditions
on which he was admitted. The Earl of Caithness,
though no Spiritualist, strictly adhered to the con¬
ditions.
The following is a letter from Mr. Luxmoore on the
subject:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sir,—From tbe observations I have heard, it appears to me
that there is, at least in some portion of the public mind, a
misapprehension of the part I took when the figure purporting
to be Katie was grasped at Miss Cook’s seance. I must first
say that I do not believe that the time occupied, from the
moment the figure was grasped until it was in the cabinet, was
more than six seconds, as the moment I saw what was taking
place, I sprung from my chair, caught the figure in my arm,
and put it—or I might almost say threw it—into the cabinet.
I was prepared for much resistance, as I thought there would
be .a great struggle to get it away from the person clasping it,
but to my great surprise there appeared to me to be no resist¬
ance, and very much less weight than if it had been Miss Cook,
who, I am informed, weighs about 8st. 51bs. I am told the
notion has been formed by those supposing it to be Miss Cook,
that she was too exhausted from the struggle to get back to the
cabinet. This, however, could not be the case, for if there were
any struggle, it did not last, as I have said, more than six
seconds. I, knowing from experience in mesmerism the
danger the medium was in, had but one object, that was, to
get the figure back to her medium with the least possible
delay. People seem to forget that Miss Cook is not a public
medium, and that persons are admitted to her seance as a
favour, all being required to give their word, and abide by the
conditions which I lay down before the seance begins ; and,
according to my views of honour, are as much bound to
adhere to those conditions as they would be bound to tell, the
truth when examined on oath ; it is no excuse their specially
pleading that they believe there is imposition. If they
thought that, why earnestly beg to come ? Why give presents,
and then say they had bought themselves into Mr. Cook’s
house ? One would almost be induced to think that breaking
a solemn promise at a spiritual seance is quite a different
thing from doing so under any other circumstances. What
may be the standard of morality of those holding such an
opinion I leave your readers to judge. Some imagine that if
Katie is a spirit she should not have required assistance to
get out of the grasp of any one taking hold of her, but they
forget that, even if a spirit, she is clothed in a natural form,
and subject to what I term, for want of a better word, the
inconveniences of materialisation.
I am fully aware that by writing in this style I subject my¬
self to ridicule, and to be considered either a fool or an im¬
postor, but having gone through this and even more when
promulgating the truth of mesmerism—some twenty-five years
since—that gives me not one moment’s pain. It has been in one
way or another the lot of such men as Harvey (the discoverer of
the circulation of the blood), Jenner (the discoverer of vaccina¬
tion), Elliotson (who was one of the first to use the stetho¬
scope), and many others. I, a mej’e when contrasted
with such nanSes, ought perhaps to consider it an honour to
undergo the same treatment. I must, however, hold hard, as
I find I am writing far too much about self. -
One correspondent, in another journal, says :—“ This letter
is not written in any carping or cavilling spirit, and must not
be taken to imply doubt in the honesty of the medium, for I
hold that it is quite impossible for any unbiassed person to
read the numerous accounts of the seances held by Miss Cook
without arriving at the conclusion that she is a real and
genuine medium. Such, at any rate, I emphatically hold her
to be ; but in the light of reports like the above, every excuse
must be made for the action taken by the gentleman—a lead¬
ing member of the Dialectical Society—who committed what
Miss Cook’s friends have termed a ‘ gross outrage,’ but for
which they themselves alone are to blame, on account of the
way in which these seances have apparently been conducted.”
I quite admit that Miss Cook’s friends were to blame, but my
reason for saying this, and the writer’s above quoted, may be
different. The error was ever admitting the person into the
seance. I long resisted, but allowed my better judgment to
be overruled. I promise never to do so again.
On reperusal I find I have omitted one especial reason for my
so hastily getting the figurp back into the cabinet—it is that
both Katie herself, when communicating with us, and also
Mrs. Tappan, in answer to a question after a lecture, have
stated that grasping and retaining the figure from her
medium, while that medium is entranced, would be attended
with great danger, so that to my mind the safety of the
medium os paramount to all other considerations. My own
mesmeric experience with very sensitive clairvoyants is per¬
fectly in accordance with this view (see Zoist, Yo\. iv., page
517. Mrs. Bird’s case, written by me). J. C. Luxmoore.
16, Gloster-square, 20th Dec., 1873.
SIR E. B. LYTTON AND SPIRITUALISM.
The following is a portion of an article from the New
Yorlc Era:—
The man Foster, himself, is the most unspiritual looking
personage imaginable—there is nothing at all ascetic or
aesthetic about him. He is of this world, worldly, and is full-
formed, full-faced, muscular, handsome ; a good-looking
blonde-brunette of the order that takes life easily. He loves
wine and tobacco, horses and social excitements, and vehe¬
mently insists that a man’s spiritual gifts have nothing to do
with a man’s spiritual character, but are essentially fortuitous
and accidental. Pope “ lisped in numbers, for the numbers
came and so Foster became a medium simply because, as
he phrases it, “ the spirits came to him”—he did not go out of
his way or change his habits to seek them.
He is a Yankee by birth, having seen the light first in
Salem, Mass. He is about thirty-five years of age, and has
been a clairvoyant and a medium since his tenth year. His
492
THE SPIRITUALIST.
spiritual gifts attracted some attention in New England, and
subsequently visiting London, he became quite a lion. During
this portion of his career he became quite intimate with the
great novelist and romancist, Bulwer, and this episode in his
life is worthy of attention..
He was introduced to Bulwer, then Sir Edward only, in
London, by Mrs. Frederick Barnes, an intimate friend and
warm admirer of the distinguished author. Bulwer at that
time was undertaking a new novel, and was likewise in¬
vestigating Spiritualism, and thus meeting Foster at such a
period his mind was still more strongly directed to this sub¬
ject. He invited Mr. Foster to call and see him at Kneb-
worth, an invitation of which Mr. Foster availed himself on
several occasions, and for several days at a time. His
reminiscences of Bulwer at his ancestral home, are decidedly
interesting, and throw considerable light upon the character
of that prince of letters.
According to Foster, Bulwer was a man very haughty and
self-assertive in the company of his equals or his rivals, in
rank or literature. He was reserved with Palmerston, on his
guard with Disraeli, and rather unfriendly with Earl Bussell:
but with those who did not come into competition with him
in any sense, he was very courteous and affable. To Foster he
was the pink of politeness, a perfect host; and he was beloved
by all the servants of his elegant establishment. He was
given to hospitality, and was in the habit of entertaining the
best men in the kingdom. He was a great worker, also a
great dandy, full of pet affectations—a mixture of Beau
Brummel and N. P. Willis. He was not a man of sincere
convictions, and devoutly believed in only'one thing—himself.
As for Spiritualism he studied its phenomena, and never
suffered himself or others to rail at it. Yet he was not a con¬
vert to Spiritualism, as then (or now) understood. He had
trained himself always to look at both sides of every question,
so that when others attacked Spiritualism he would guardedly
defend it; and when others enthusiastically supported it he
would attack its abuses—so that neither side of the argument
could fairly claim having his countenance.
During Foster’s visit to Bulwer the latter was engaged in
constructing that wonderful novel called A Strange Story,
in which certain spiritual phenomena are discussed and illus¬
trated in a manner as yet unsurpassed for originality and
interest. Certain points in the hero of this novel were taken
from the personell and history of Foster, and Bulwer often
alluded to the fact that Foster was the model upon which he
had based his Margrave.
On several occasions Bulwer, who evidently regarded
A Strange Story as his greatest book, would read passages
from it to Foster. The two, author and medium, would sit in
the library at Knebworth, side by side, and there, after the
reading, the author would become a disciple and Foster would
hold a seance.
On one occasion, Bulwe-r advised Foster confidentially not
to call himself “a Spiritualist” so that the name should not
excite popular prejudice against him, but to give his exhi¬
bitions merely as scientific phenomena ; but this advice was
unpalatable to Foster, and Bulwer taking some offence
that it was not adopted a coolness arose between the two
men.
Kemaining for some time in London, and then travelling
.through Europe, Foster returned to this country, and has now
temporarily located himself at No. 19, West Twenty-second-
street, en route for Australia.
LECTURE AT GOWER STREET.
On Wednesday last week Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan delivered
the last of her series of lectures on “ Spiritualism and Science,”
at Lawson’s Rooms, Gower-street.
Mr., J. C. Luxmoore, who presided, made a few remarks
about an interruption to the proceedings which he had been
informed had taken place at the previous meeting. He stated
his intention of keeping order so long as he remained in the
chair, and expressed the hope that in so doing, he would be
supported by the audience. He said that it was the duty of
the audience in the first place to select a proper chairman, and
after doing so, to support him fully in carrying out the rules
and regulations.
Mrs. Tappan then passed into the trance state, and said
she would give a resume that evening of the chief points of
her past lectures upon the same subject, which had heen de¬
livered in that place. She then proceeded to sp^ak on the
relation between spirit and matter. She spoke of thought as
being, in a sense, material to spirits. Perhaps the most im¬
Dec. 26, 1873.
portant part of her remarks related to the over-consumption
of nervous energy, induced by too much brainwork, incidental
to the manners and customs of the educated section of English
society. She said that it threw too great a strain upon the
vital powers, that it was the cause of many diseases, that it
tended to the deterioration of the race, and that throwing too
much strain upon the nervous system, was analogous to draw¬
ing upon capital in business.
At the close of the lecture, questions were put, and one of
the speakers stated that last summer, in the Midland Coun¬
ties, a miner dreamt that he would be suffocated, and was so
impressed by the dream, that he refused to go to work in the
morning. His wife, however, at last persuaded him to go,
and in the mine a stone fell upon him and killed him. His
cousin was working five miles off. He had been on the night
shift, and at half past six in the morning, when returning
home, he saw his cousin coming along the road, and he ad¬
dressed him by name, but the figure disappeared. He hurried
off at once to the village, and arrived there just in time to see
the corpse of his cousin brought into the house. The narrator
said he should like to ask Mrs. Tappan how all that was
brought about ?
Mrs. Tappan said there were several kinds of spiritual
vision; sometimes spirits were materialised, and could be
seen by natural vision, but in this instance there was no proof
that what was seen was really a materialised form, and it was
probably seen by clairvoyance or spiritual vision.
Another speaker said he could understand how a spirit
might be seen by clairvoyance, but not how his clothes could
also be seen. Could Mrs. Tappan explain that ?
Mrs. Tappan replied that a mesmerist, by psychological im¬
pression, could make his sensitive see whatever he pleased,
and if a' spirit could similarly act upon a sensitive by im¬
pression, she saw no reason why that spirit should have any
difficulty in showing his clothes as well as himself. (Applause.)
Prince E. de Sajm Wittgenstein, at Mrs. Tappan’s request,
selected the subject of a poem for her. He chose for the
subject, Miss Cook’s spirit, “ Katie King,” because of his
delight at her manifestations at a seance at which he had
been present the night before at Mr. Luxmoore’s house. Mrs.
Tappan at once, in the trance, gave an extemporaneous poem
on the subject.
Mr. Harrison proposed a vote of thanks to Mrs. Tappan for
the interesting series of lectures she had delivered in that
place; and he spoke more especially in favour of the manner
in which she handled mental and spiritual subjects.
Mr. Pearson seconded the vote of thanks, which was carried
unanimously.
Mr. Cowper proposed a vote of thanks to Mr. T. Slater, for
the energy he had displayed in getting up the meetings, and
undertaking the general management. If it had not been for
Mr. Slater, the meetings would never have been held..
This was seconded and carried unanimously. A warm vote
of thanks to Mr. Luxmoore for presiding, closed the pro¬
ceedings.
THE YIKRAM AND THE YAMPIRE.
Captain R. F. Burton, who, it will be remembered,
has borne public testimony to the reality of the pheno¬
mena witnessed by him, in the presence of the Davenport
Brothers, wrote a book not long since entitled Vilcram
and the Vampire; or, Tales of Hindu Devilry, published
by Messrs. Longmans, and illustrated with many gro¬
tesque and comical engravings by Ernest Griset. The
book is now out of print, but we believe that Messrs. W.
H. Smith and Son have still a stock upon hand.
The volume is a curious one. It is a remarkably
free translation of the Baital-Pachisi; or, Twenty-five
Tales of a Baital. The Baital is a Vampire, or evil
spirit,- which animates dead bodies. The story is the
rude beginning of that factitious history, which ripened
to the Arabian Nights Entertainments, originally com¬
posed in Sanskrit, “ the language of the gods.” It has
been translated into all the modern dialects of India.
It cannot be said there is much instruction in the book,
nor will it please many. But those who have a taste
for wild tales of the supernatural and the grotesque,
will be delighted with it, as it is well written, full
Dec. 26, 1873.
THE SElHlTtTALlST.
493
of fun and a suitable book for reading at Christmastime,
■when ghost stories are the fashion and goblins in
season.
One Raja Yikram, owing to circumstances which it is
unnecessary to repeat, found it necessary to consult a
gentleman of the name of Shanta Shil, the jogi, who
was a somewhat powerful magician. Shanta Shil was
clad in the ochre-coloured loin-wrap of his class; from
his head streamed long tangled locks of hair, like horse¬
hair ; his black body was striped with lines of chalk,
and a girdle of thigh-bones encircled his waist. His face
was smeared with ashes from a funeral pyre, and his
eyes, fixed as those of a statue, gleamed from this mask
with an infernal light of hate. His cheeks were shaven,
and he had not forgotten to draw the horizontal citron-
mark, but this was of blood; and Yikram, as he drew
near, saw that he was playing upon a human skull with
two shank-bones, making music for the horrid revelry.
Spectres and goblins danced around to this unearthly
music.
Shanta Shil sent Raja Yikram to a mimosa tree,
about five miles off, on which a body was hanging, and
directed him to bring it to him at once.
Spectres and the horrible scenes of revelry beset the
Raja on his way to the mimosa tree, in company with
his son. He found a grotesque creature hanging to
the tree by its legs, and on examination discovered
it to be a Baital or vampire, and every time the
Raja and his son pulled it off one branch, it slipped
from their grasp, shot upwards, and hung on again
by its legs to another. Still, with praiseworthy
perseverance they endeavoured to secure it, and at
last managed to get it into a sack, although its
legs required a good bit of screwing to force them in.
The Baital told Raja Yikram that it was of a loquacious
disposition, and that it was an hour’s walk back to the
jogi, who sat favouring his friends with the peculiar
music which they loved; therefore he (the Baital afore¬
said) intended to beguile the way with tales of the most
pleasing nature ; and he stated that if ever he beguiled
or entreated the Raja into answering any of his questions,
he (the Baital) would return to his tree. The conse¬
quence was that the Baital proceeded to tell a number
of tales which worked upon the feelings of the Raja
and his son, and every time he aggravated them into
asking a question he shot out of his bag, back to his
tree, and they had all their work over again.
After being outwitted many times in this way, the
Raja, after bagging the Baital once more, sat down
on the ground and said he would listen to the
story there. This annoyed the Baital, who told
Yikram that he was bound to walk, but the Raja ex¬
plained that no bargain had been made in the agree¬
ment as to the time in which he should perform the
journey to the jogi, consequently the Baital was obliged
to put up with this evasion of the spirit of the original
arrangement.
The book can only be recommended to those who
appreciate well written tales, of a grotesque, and not
very useful kind, but the following extract, of a
slightly satirical nature, about the methods whereby
Indian devotees reach the state of “ inner-breathing,”
and work themselves into a curious mesmeric condition
by contemplation and abstinence from .food, is of
interest:—
THE MESMERIC STATE OP HIHDtT DEVOTEES.
Meanwhile, Madhusadan the Third, having taken a wallet
and neckband, became a jogi, and began to wander far and
wide, living on nothing bat chaff, and practising his devotions.
In order to see Bramha, he attended to the following duties:—
1. Hearing; 2. Meditation ; 3. Fixing the mind; 4. Absorbing
the mind. He combated the three evils, restlessness, in¬
juriousness, voluptuousness, by settling the Deity in his spirit,
by subjecting his senses, and by destroying desire. Thus he
would do away with the illusion (Maya) which conceals all
true knowledge. He repeated the name of the Deity till it
appeared to him in the form of a dry light, or glory. Though
connected with the affairs of life—that is, with affairs belonging
to a body containing blood, bones, and impurities; to organs
which are blind, palsied, and full of weakness and error; to a
mind filled with thirst, hunger, sorrow, infatuation ; to con¬
firmed habits, and to the fruits of former births ; still he strove
not to view these things as realities. He made a companion
of a dog, honouring it with his own food, so as the
better to think on spirit. He practised all the five
operations connected with the vital air, or air collected
in the body. He attended much to Pranayama, or
the gradual suppression of breathing, and he secured fixedness
of mind as follows:—By placing his sight and thoughts
on the tip of his nose, he perceived smell; on the tip of his
tongue,he realised taste ; on the root of his tongue, he knew
sound, and so forth. He practised the eighty-four Asana or
posters, raising his hand to the winders of the heavens, till he
felt no longer the inconvenience of heat or cold, hunger or
thirst. He particularly preferred the Padma or Lotus-posture,
which consists of bringing the feet to the sides, holding the
right foot in the left hand, and the left in the right. In the
work of suppressing his breath, he permitted its respiration
to reach, at farthest, twelve fingers’ breath, and gradually
diminished the distance from his nostrils till he could confine
it to the length of twelve fingers from his nose, and, even after
restraining it for some time, he would draw it from no greater
distance than from his heart.
As respects time, he began by retaining inspiration for twenty-
six seconds, and he enlarged this period gradually till he
became perfect. He sat cross-legged, closing with his fingers
all the avenues of inspiration, and he practised Prityahara, or
the power of restraining the members of tfie body and mind,
with meditation and concentration, to which there are four
enemies, viz., a sleepy heart, human passions, a confused
mind, and attachment to anything but the one Bramha. He
also cultivated Yama, that is,inoffensiveness, truth, honesty,
the forsaking of all evil in the world, and the refusal of gifts
except for sacrifice, and Nihama, i.e., purity relative to the use
of water after defilement, pleasure in everything whether in
prosperity or adversity, renouncing food when hungry, and
keeping down the body. Thus delivered from these four
enemies of the flesh, he resembled the unruffled flame of the
lamp, and by Bramhagnana, or meditating on the Deity,
placing his mind on the sun, moon, fire, or any other lumin¬
ous body, or within his heart, or at the bottom of his throat,
or in the centre of his skpll, he ‘was enabled to ascend from
gross images of omnipotence to the works and the divine
wisdom of the glorious original.
Mrs. Emma Hardihge has been lecturing in Boston on
Physiology.
The English testimonial to Judge Edmonds, of New
York, was started from Liverpool by mail steamer last week.
Mr. C. E. Williams will hold no more public seances
this week at Lamb’s Conduit-street, but will resume them
next week as usual.
Miss Anna Blackwell is translating Kardec’s Livres
des Esprits into English; a work which has raised so much
controversy in France, is sure to be read with interest in this
country.
A weekly spiritual newspaper, price threepence, has just
been started in Australia, under the editorship of the Rev.
Mr. Tyerman, Melbourne. The first two numbers contain
many unorthodox articles, and very little Australian news.
Dr. Gumming on Spirits.—The Daily Telegraph of
last Monday says :—“Dr. Gumming, in a sermon which he
preached at the Scotch National Church, Covent-garden, last
night, related an instance of the interest manifested by the
Queen in the sermons which are preached before her Majesty.
Sometime since he delivered a discourse before the Queen
upon the cognisance of the departed dead of what transpires
in the world. The sermon being over, her Majesty came up
and thanked him for the discourse, remarking that from it
she had received great consolation.”
494
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 26, 1873.
(Emespontience.
\Qriat freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
Sir,—Knowing the interest you take in all cases of proof of
spirit identity, the following instance maybe of interest.
Recently I was present at a seance at Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory’s, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, at which Mr.
Rouse was the medium. Previous to going there I called on
some friends, one of whom was a medium, and a message was
given me that an Indian spirit who is often with me, would
show himself to the medium at the coming seance as a test
to me.'
When the seance was about half over, Mr. Rouse remarked
that an Indian spirit had been endeavouring to attract his at¬
tention for a considerable time past ; he described the Indian
as being without the usual war dress, and as an old man, with
very white hair.
I then related to the company the promise which had been
made to me a short time before.
As the question of the action of one mind upon another may
be raised, it is right to state that I was thinking at the seance-
about the possibility of the Indian putting in an appearance,
but I imagined he would have shown himself in the prime of
life, stalwart, and in his paint and war dress, and entirely
different in appearance to the description given by Mr. Rouse,
whose description was afterwards corroborated by a message
given to me through another medium.
N. FARYAN DaWE.
Portman Chambers, Portman-square,
Dec. 19th, 1873.
THE OUTRAGE AT MR. COOK’S.
Sir,—I enclose a copy of a letter which I have addressed to
the editor of the Medium, but as it may not “ answer his
purpose ” to publish it, I send it you as well, to use as you
may think fit. Iota,
Junior United Service Club, Dec. 22nd, 1873.
The following is the letter:—
, “ GRASPING A SPIRIT.
“ 20th Dec., 1873. .
‘‘ To the Editor of the Medium.—Sir,—Your correspondent
‘ H. E. T.’ ignores the fact that the ‘ gentleman referred to,’
in grasping the spirit, broke the conditions to which he had,
before the beginning of the seance, solemnly pledged himself.
“It is to the credit of the ‘ gentleman referred to ’ that he
himself has not ventured to defend his conduct in print. I
should think he must wish that his friends had shown the
like discretion.
“ ‘ H. E. T.’ evidently writes in good faith, but he is mis¬
taken when he says that no tests are allowed but such as are
‘ dictated by those interested.’ Who are ‘ those interested ?’
The editor of the Spiritualist has long ceased to have any¬
thing to do with the invitations to Miss Cook’s seances, and it
is impossible to conceive what interest the gentleman who
manages them now could have in deceiving the public. More¬
over many tests, which do not violate certain simple con¬
ditions, and which may be suggested by the company, are
allowed. We know that some conditions are required in all
•cases of spiritual phenomena. I cannot think that * H. E. T.’
has acted in the interest of truth by fanning doubts which had
never any sufficient foundation, and what he himself, it seems,
‘does not entertain. Iota.”
[Last spring, when the editor of the Spiritualist had to do with the issue
'of invitations to the circle, it is hard to say what “interest ” he had in the
smatter, beyond the scientific one of closely watching at a private circle the
‘development of some of the finest phenomena connected with modern
:Spiritualism; for these facilities he felt greatly indebted to Mr. Blackburn
‘and Mr. Cook. Beyond that, the matter involved the consumption of about
itwo days of his time per week, and much care and responsibility, such as
iare now felt by Mr. Luxmoore.—Ed.]
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
■J. W.—Mrs. Guppy has never been admitted to one of Miss Cook’s
seances, and knows nothing about them. Mr. Guppy has been
present at one only, and expressed himself highly delighted
with the same.
W. II. (Liverpool).—Will write to you in a day or two ; please
send the original from which the abstract was made.
Legal Persecution oe American Mediums.—We find
in the Denison ( Texas) News of November 13th, an indignant
protest against the new trick of legislatures and courts in
combining against Spiritual mediumship, in the vain hope of
crippling its usefulness, by compelling it to take out. a license,
or else submit to fines, and sometimes to lengthened imprison¬
ment. The News says:—“ The Legislature did many good
things, and a few bad ones. Among other Acts is one that is
contrary to the spirit of the Constitution and the enlightened
age in which we live—one which taxes the faith and worship
of several thousand conscientious citizens of Texas. The 13th
Legislature saw fit to incorporate in the law regulating taxa¬
tion a clause forbidding the Spiritualists lecturing or holding
seances, unless they first procure a license, which costs ten
dollars in each county.” The law reads as follows :—“ From
every Spiritualist, clairvoyant, mesmerist, or medium, so
called, who plies his or her vocation for money, ten dollars
for each and every county.” On this matter the State journal
of Austin, which is the capital of Texas, remarks that there are
many thousands of conscientious Spiritualists in this State.
Spiritualism is their faith, their religion. The Democratic
13th Legislature taxed these people for their faith and their
worship. Was ever anything more monstrous. Why, the Tycoon
of Japan is more liberal than that. So is the Mexican
Government.” The Denison News professes to believe that
the next Legislature will strike out this provision of the Act,
which is clearly unconstitutional and at the same time oppres¬
sive. It above all deprecates the taxation of a man’s religious
faith. We also perceive, by the daily press, that “ Dr. Sher¬
man, of Adrian, Mich., has been complained of for blas¬
phemy committed by him in making certain utterances at a
Spiritualist mass-meeting in August last; ” and now the Provi¬
dence Young Men’s Christian Association, not to be outdone,
have raised a howl (successful, we are sorry to say) against
Spiritualism as exhibited by the Davenport Brothers in that
city, petitioning, “ in the name of humanity, Christianity,
and the good of our people,” against the granting of a license
to them, and for the revoking of such license, if it had been
given to them [which was done by the obsequious Board of
Aldermen, on the ground that the exhibition was “ to be given
as a merry-making affair”], for Sunday exhibitions, “that
the efforts of the Christian community in our city may not
hereafter be confronted by licensed desecration of the Sahbath
for the love of money and the deceiving of the people.”—
Banner of Ligl\t.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM, (established 1870.)
The Council have much pleasure in announcing to the Public that
MRS. CORA. L. Y. TAPPAN
(Inspirational Spirit Medium)
WILL DELIVJSR THE FOURTH ANNUAL PUBLIC LECTURE
ON SPIRITUALISM,
ON TUESDAY EVENING-, 20th JANUARY, 1874,
AT THE LUXEMBOURG HALL.
(Opposite the Dalston Junction Station, North London Railway.)
The chair will be taken by J. C. Luxmoore, Esq.
Doors open at half-past seven o’clock; the Lecture to commence at eight
precisely, previous to which the audience is respectfully requested to be
seated.
ADMISSION.
Reserved Seats   Is.
Body of Hall and Balcony   6d.
Members of the Association  Free.
Tickets can be obtained of Mr. Thomas Wilks, Circulating Library,
Dalston-lane, E.; Mr. Geo. Blyton, 12, Forest-road, Dalston, E.; Mr. Sami.
Gillins, 14, Spurstone-road, Hackney, E.; Mr. Jos. Stephens, 16, Templar-
road, Hackney, E.; Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico,
S.W.; Mr. A. M. Greene, 26, Birchin-lane, E.C.; Mr. Thos. Blyton, 12, High-
street, Bow, E.; at the Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dal¬
ston, E.; and at the Doors of the Hall on the evening of the Lecture.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS
WILL HOLD A
SOIREE
At Goswell Hall, 86, Goswell-road, on Thursday Evening, Jan. 1,1874, in aid
of the Funds for supporting the Sunday Services held in the above Hall.
Tea will be served at 6.80 p.m,, and the Soiree commence at 8 o’clock,
when the Chair will be taken by
George Sexton, Esq., M.A., M.D., LL.D., &o.
Tickets for the Tea and Soiree, Is. 6d. each, and for the Soiree only, 6d.
each, may be obtained at the Spiritual Institution, 16, Southampton-row,
W.O.; or of Mr. Blyton, Secretary of the Dalston Association, 74, Navarino-
road, Dalston; Mr. White, Secretary of the Marylebone Association, 4,
Gray-street, Manchester-square; Mr. Cogman, 16, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-
end; Mr. Weeks, 24, Lower Stamford-street; Mr. Sparey, 13, Middleton-
road, Dalston; Mr. Steele, 36, Great Sutton-street, Clerkenwell; Mr. Burri,
at Goswell Hall; or from the Secretary, Mr. R. Pearce, Committee Rooms
30, Parkfleld-street, Islington, London, N.
Dec. 26, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
495
F
EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
BEYERIDGKE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS to be presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain to
Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
The new patent self-acting dry closets,
for Earth, Ashes, or Charcoal. No noise, no dust, no smell, no
inconvenience; economy and comfort combined. Send for price list.
PEAT ENGINEERING AND SEWAGE FILTRATION COMPANY
(Limited), 150, Leadenhall-street, London.
A. GLENDINNING, Secretary.
Now ready, No. 41, January, 1874, price 5s.,
THE QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF SCIENCE. Edited
by William Crookes, F.R.S., Ac. This Number contains an article
by the Editor, entitled, “Notes of an Enquiry into the Phenomena called
Spiritual during the Years 1870-1873.”
London: 3, Horseshoe-court, Ludgate-hill, E.C.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Yolume, Demy 8vo,
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel Swedenborg: his life and
WRITINGS. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the
Doctrines, and the other-world Experiences of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav¬
ings, by Mr. C.H.Jeens—I. Jesper Svedberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IY. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
• SELLER, STATIONER. AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist. 39, Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, Supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., Ac., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingslaud.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, Ac., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
TO BOOK-BUYERS.—Just published, and sent post
free, CATALOGUE No. 6 of Standard SECOND-HAND BOOKS,
being a portion of the large and valuable stock of CHARLES LOWE, 1,
Ann-street, Birmingham.—Libraries and small parcels of Books purchased
or exchanged.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
EJ. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North, that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, Ac., Ac. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms, casb, postage extra.
E. J-. BLAKE (successor to MR. BARKAS),
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Aaron franklin, preserver of birds and
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE. Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’-heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. Aaron Franklin, 100, Suf-
folk-street, Birmingham.
SIBYL, Clairvoyante and Trance Medium, may be consulted
in all matters of ill-health or business. Terms 5s. each person. From
12 till 6. 53, Great Coram-street, Russell-square, W.C.
ISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Revealing Startling Facts
to the public, can be consulted on either Medical or Business Affairs con¬
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 12 to 5. Terms, One Guinea.
Address, care of Mr. Frederick Everitt, Newgate-street, Bishop Auckland.
RS. OLIVE, TRANCE MEDIUM, also Medium for
the Cure of various Diseases by Spirit Mesmerism and Prescrip¬
tions. 49, Belmont-street, Chalk-farm-road, London, N.W.
A Public Seance at the above address on Friday Evenings at Seven
o’clock. Admission, 2s. 6d.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—19, Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy-
square.
R. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5.s; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
HUGH McLEOD, M.D., Psychometric, Impressional, and
healing by the laying on of hands; in which departments of Medium-
ship Dr. McLeod is prepared to give the highest references. Terms, 5s.
each person. Visits by arrangement. Hours 10 till 4. 53, Great Coram-
street, Russell-square, W.C.
RS.WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—’Present address, 41
Bemard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
TNSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
JL (Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“ The prayer over he commenced an eloquent and philosophical address
on modern Spiritualism.”—North-Western Daily Times.
“ The medium then passed into what is termed the trance state, and in
clear and forcible language, with a readiness of expression and fluency of
utterance delivered a discourse on Spiritualism.”—Liverpool Daily A Ibion.
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lecturer, or what¬
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram¬
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature and its Needs’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!”—South Wales Press.
“ Those who are intellectually inclined, and desire to know what Spirit¬
ualism is as taught by the spirits, will learn more in an hour’s conversation
with Mr. Morse's guides than in months of misdirected seeking.”—Medium.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.'’—/spiritualist.
“ Mr. Morse is what is called a speaking-medium, of no mean order, for
he kept crowded audiences intently listening each evening for above'anhour
and a half to his certainly most powerful and accomplished addresses.”—
Darlington and Richmond Herald.
“He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—-Gfasyow Herald.
MR. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
Mr. Morse holds a seance every Friday evening, at 8 o’clock, at 15, Southamp¬
ton-row, W.C., when he is in London, where letters, &c., may be addressed,
or to his private residence, Warwick Cottage, Old Ford, Bow, E.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 59 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4Jd. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER, LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for The /SpinYMa/wl Newspaper
496
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 26, 1873.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into ,all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adain-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Dart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena1. The Committee was appointed on the 2Gth
January, 1869, as follows: —
“H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq.. F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Borgheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B.Eex Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
• Cameron, Esq., M.'D.; John Chapman, Esq.,' M.D.; Bey. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.C.S.; Mrs.
!D. H. Dyte; Janies Edmunds, Esq , MiD.;' Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
1 Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah. Esq., F.Q.S.; Jenner Gale
Giillier.'Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.;, Albert. Kisch, Esq.,
1M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice; Esq ;.Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.'; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
.■Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; 0. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
IPh.D.; William Volckman, Esq,; Horace S. Yeomans, Esq. - ,
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited, to ;co-
(operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
sand the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:*- .
“George Cary,' Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Co?, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H^Levy,
Esq.; W. H. .Swepston, Esq., Solicitor ; Alfred fii Wallace, Esq:, F.B.GtS.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the,. Committee, issued-its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky .volume, .published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported: —
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently prbcee'dihg'from
•articles of furniture, the' floor and walls of the room—flip' vibrations
•accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible, to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
•contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported: —
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’    
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begm by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leavmg the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begms, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any commumca-
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence,.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits ,to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power kt work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligentbeing. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want", and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best 'manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; t he manifestations aro bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
Capital—ONE MILLION STERLING.
ffeacl OJices.-BROWN STREET and MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
FIRE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable’rates
Bonus Returns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Renewed Premiums.
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.O.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Cdrporation in unrepresented localities.
TO OWNERS OF HOUSE PROPERTY.
E. BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
11, PARK GROVE, SHEPHERD’S LANE, BRIXTON,
ESPECTFULLY solicits the patronage of Owners of
House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixton
Road, and near the.'Railway Station—offering special facilities for the
prompt letting of Houses of every description.
All Orders for Building; House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833. •
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
liberal discount for cash.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS. —Handsomely-printed Blue
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion, maybe obtained in, packets, each containing 400, price 2s 6d. per
packet. They are especially useful for distribution at public meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, reading-rooms, clubs, and places of
public resorts
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, London, E.C.
Now ready, 14th Thousand, 54 Illustrations, post free 14 stamps.
THE PEOPLE’S GUIDE TO HEALTH; or, VOLUN¬
TEERS’ MANUAL, by HENRY SMITH, M.D. (Jena.) Gives in¬
structions for Developing and Strengthening the human body, How to
regain Lost Health and Secure Long Life and avoid the Infirmities of
Old Age.
REVIEWS OF THE WORK.
“There is a daily growing necessity for such Works as the present,
if we are to be saved as a nation from retrograding.”—Stirling Observer,
July 10th. “Any one in search of health and vigour will find it useful.”
—Morning Chronicle. “ If Dr. Smith had written nothing else than the
‘ People’s Guide to Health’ he would have earned for himself the grati¬
tude of posterity.’'—DuinfernUihe Saturday Press, June 7, 1873.
Ward, Lock, and Tyler, Paternoster-row.
May be had direct from the Author on receipt of 14 stamps.
Address Dr. Henry Smith, 8, Burton-crescent, London, W.C.
LUNACY LAW REFORM.
LL PERSONS cognisant of cases of INCARCERATION,
under a false plea of Insanity, or of MALTREATMENT OF
LUNATICS, or who are ready to co-operate in obtaining AMENDMENT
OF THE LUNACY LAWS, are earnestly requested to communicate with
MRS. LOUISA LOWE,
97, BURTON ROAD, BRIXTON.
The following Extract from the “ Act to Amend the Law relating to Luna¬
tics ” is a fair specimen of Lunacy Legislation :—
“ It shall be lawful for the Proprietor or Superintendent of any licensed
house with the previous assent in writing of two or more of the Commis¬
sioners, or in the Case of a House licensed by Justices, of two or more of
the Visitors to entertain and keep in such house as a Boarder for such time as
may be specified in the assent, any person who may have been within Five
Years immediately preceding the giving of such assent, a Patient in any
asylum, hospital, or licensed house, or under care as a Single Patient."—25
& 26 Viet., ch. iii., sec. 18.
END OF VOLUME THREE.; —
December, 1873. - -f ■ '
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge &" Co,, at tfie Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Hdlbiorn, in the Rariafr ot St; Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published byE. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London, E;D. . . , . :
