AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[EEGHSTBRED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 144.—(Vol. VI.—No. 22.) LONDON: MAY 28? 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence*
Momenta.
.BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
Review:—The Unseen Universe; of, Physical Speculations on a
FutureState ...       ... 2S3
Curious Phases of Witchcraft    256
Mrs. Hardy’s Mediumship. By J. N. T. Martheze   ... 258
Persecution of M. Leymarie in Paris     258
The Phenomena of Sleep and Dream. (Concluded). By Edward W.
Cox, Serjeant-at-Law   ... 259
Lunacy Law Reform Association  ... 261
Correspondence:—Spirit Identity—A Week among Spiritualists in
London—The Archbishop of Canterbury on Spirits—The “Fir¬
man'' Seance   261
The Davenport Brothers in Europe:—The King of Portugal Investigat¬
ing Spiritualism ...         264
Paragraphs:—Dr. Sexton at Goswell Hall, 258; Religious Mania, 263;
Next Wednesday’s Soiree, 264; The Spiritualist Readiug-Room in
Bloomsbury, 264; Liverpool Psychological Society ...   264
SPIRITUALISM AND ITS WORK FOR WOMAN.
Under the special auspices of the S. S.,
MRS. CORA L. V. TAPPAN
Will deliver, under Spirit Influence, a
LECTURE
on the above subject,
AT DOUGHTY HALL, 14, BEDFORD ROW, HOLBORN,
ON THURSDAY, JUNE 3rd,
In aid of the praiseworthy endeavour now being made by Mrs. Wilkes
to enable our unfortunate sisters to regain their position as honourable
members of society.
Doors open at 7.30, to commence at 8 o’clock. Reserved seats, 2s.;
Second seats, Is.; Back seats, 6d.
Tickets may be had of Mrs. Burke, Secretary S. S., 17, Burlington-road,
Bays water; Mrs. Burns, 15, Southampton-row, Holborn; at the rooms of
the British National Association, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury; and
at the doors.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman's Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager,
WHY RUIN YOUR SYSTEMS by the Continual Use
of Medicinal Narcotics, when you may Secure Health-giving
Bleep by a little Study of Nature’s Laws ?
Dr. Moses Rigg, 17, Pakenham-street, London, W.C., teacher of the
Mesmeric and Biological Sciences.
All should read his pamphlet gratis by post Id. stamp.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
EJ. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c., &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to Mr. BARKAS),
 Newcastle-on-Tyne.  
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is,
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year
1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, at whioh
all the great Societies of Spiritualists, 'and the Spiritualists of the chief
towns in the United Kingdom, were represented. The amount of the
annual subscription to the National Association is optional, with a min¬
imum of five shillings a year. Each member has a single vote at the
general meetings, and is eligible for election to all offices.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury,
Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.O., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules
may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Wobum-street.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected with Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
in addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 80s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
A (Seance-room can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
WILL HOLD THEIR
FIFTH CONVERSAZIONE
On Wednesday, June 2nd, 1875, at their Rooms, 38, Great Rutsell-
street, Bloomsbui'y, W. C. Entrance in Wobum-street.
These meetings have been organised at the request, and for the benefit of
Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting friends and members,
and of discussing matters of interest connected with the Spiritualistic move¬
ment.
Music and other entertainment will be provided at each meeting.
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of interest is re¬
quested for exhibition.
Hours, from 7 to 10.30 p.m.
Admission by Tickets only, to be obtained in advance, of Miss Kisling¬
bury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALI STS.
PRIZE ESSAYS.
The Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists offers
THE GOLD MEDAL OF THE ASSOCIATION,
Or the sum of £20 in money, for the best Essay upon the following subject:
The probable effect of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral, and
Religious Condition of Society.
Second Prize, £10.
The competition is open to all British born or naturalised British sub¬
jects, and to all Foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
The essays to be forwarded, not later than the 1st October, 1875, to the
Resident Secretary, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C., of
whom further particulars can be had on application,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 28, 1875,
ii
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOG T, MES¬
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY,
ON SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST" NEWSPAPER,
38, GfiEAT KTJSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON, W.O.
(Entrance in Wobum-street).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A standard work
containing interesting and well authenticated facts, proving the reality
of spirit communion. It also contains an elaborate essay defining the
author’s views of the relationship of Spiritualism to the Christian
Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTE ALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD,
by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorbing interest, replete
with well authenticated narratives describing manifestations produced
by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of the Dialec¬
tical Society. This committee consisted of literary, scientific, and
other professional men who investigated Spiritualism for two years
without engaging the services of any professional medium, after which
they published the report. Original edition, 15s.; abridged edition,
5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM,
by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever published to scientifi¬
cally demonstrate the reality of some of the physical phenomena of
Spiritualism. 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Alfred
Russell Wallace, F.R.G-.S. This book contains a masterly argument in
reply to Hume’s Essay on Miracles. It also records a large number of
interesting spiritual manifestations, and contains some of the personal
experiences of Mr. Wallace. 5s.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE, by Epes
Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well authenticated spiritual
phenomena. Information about the relationship of Spiritualism to
Religion and Science is also given. 6s.; New edition, 7s. fid.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey. A brilliant,
well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly bound, with gilt
edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This book consists of
essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific aspects of Spiritualism.
3s. fid.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR SPIRITUALISM EX¬
PLAINED, by Fritz. A practically useful work for inquirers, giving
general information about English professional and non-professional
mediums, also about the periodical and other Literature of Spiritualism.
3s.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant at Law, An
introduction to Psychology. This book admits the reality of some of
the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but argues that they are pro¬
duced by an alleged Psychic Force, unconsciously governed in its
action by the thoughts of the medium or the spectators. 8s. The
first vol. of this book, which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of
print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev. F. G.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly published book contains Facts and Traditions
relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions, Wraiths, Warnings and
Witchcraft. The author admits the reality of Spiritual visitations, but
considers Modern Spiritualism to be diabolical. He, however, gives
valuable facts, previously unpublished, and prints the only authorised
and complete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo.,15s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCE OF SPIRITUALISM, by
M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains experi¬
ments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Frse Will. 2s. fid.
ARCANA OF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vols., 12s.
STRANGE-VISITORS, dictated through a Clairvoyant. 8s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND, by Maria M. King. 5s. 6d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS, by Lizzie Doten. Best edition, gilt.
10s. fid.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE, by Lizzie Doten. Last edition,
gilt. 10s. fid.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem by Lizzie
Doten. 2s.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard. 6d.
MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E. Newton. Is. 3d.
LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H. Powell, Is. 3d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s. 6d.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive principles.
5s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD.
Through the mediumship of Mrs. Oonant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H. S. Qlcott
14s.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epw Sargent.
7s. fid.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 12s. 6d.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MESMERISM,
ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY.—Continued.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. Vol. L, 7s. 6d.
Vols. II and III 8s. each.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s trans¬
lation.) 7s. fid.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles. 7s. 6d.
STATUVOLENCE, OR ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM.
7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHTSIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma Hardinge.
15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 6s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting little
boob, containing Messages given by Spirits through the Writing Me¬
diumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by Adolphe
Didier. 2s.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr, BuckniU and Dr. Daniel
H. Tuke. 25s.
PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY, by Serjeant Cox. Is.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS.
S. d:
Natures’ Divine Revelations    ,.... 17 o
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia   7 6
The Teacher. „ II. „     7 6
The Seer. „ III. „     7 6
The Reformer. „ IV. „   7 6
The Thinker. „ V. „   7 6
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis    7 6
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land   4 0
Arabula, or Divine Guest i  7 6
Approaching Crisis, or Truth v. Theology  5 0
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People  7 6
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual  3 6
Death and the After-Life i  4 0
History and Philosophy of Evil  4 0
Harbinger of Health *  7 C
Harmonial Man, or Thoughts for the Age   4 0
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memorander.)    7 fi
Philosophy of Special Providence  3 0
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion  4 0
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers  8 0
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse   6 6
The Inner Life, or Spirit Mysteries Explained   7 6
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves    7 6
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings !  5 0
Tale of a Physician, or Seeds and Fruits of Crime   5 0
Diakka, and their Earthly Victims      3 0
Congugal Love; Truth ». Theology     3 0
Morning Lectures      7 6
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1875.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
/Secretory.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, hussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitchman, Messrs. John Priest.
R. Casson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. G,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—^Ic. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
THE object of the Committee and of the Members gene¬
rally is, to spread abroad a knowledge of the great and precious
truths of Spirituahsm. We unite and labour for this purpose, and ear¬
nestly hope for the co-operation of all who are solicitous that their fellow-
men should become acquainted with the fact of spirit-life and spirit-com <
munion.
Subscription, Is. per quarter, for which valuable and interesting works
on Spiritualism, &c., are lent to read,
CH/ixuss J. Hunt, Hon. Secretary.
VOLUME £IX. jVfUJVIBER TWENTY-TWO.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MAY 28th, 1875.
Spmiwalxst glefosppr.
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTSThree shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
iftebteto.
The Unseen Universe; or, Physical Speculations on a
Future State. London: Macmillan and Co. 1875.
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
•ount as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Boduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub-
acription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of “ The Spiritualist” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such nopediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers inSpiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Bochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Oadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Bichard Boberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTBALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Bussell-street.
,, Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 164, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. B. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118 Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
,, Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale,—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe
and London, is one shilling.
J^EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children,
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offitss—4, Fitaroy-square, W.
A strong impression prevails among Scotch readers
of this journal that this thoughtful hook has been
written by Spiritualists in disguise, for so much of the
work as has been quoted in a review in the Scotsman
sets forth all the first principles of Spiritualism, adul¬
terated with a little dogmatic theology. But the
authors are not Spiritualists, and it will be breaking no
confidence to state that the Athenceum-has published
that the book is written by two fellows of the Royal
Society—Dr. Balfour Stewart, of Manchester, and Mr.
P. G. Tait, Professor of Natural Philosophy at the
University of Edinburgh.
There is a tendency in the human mind not to rest
upon the things of earth, but to attempt to pierce the
mystery which lies beyond the shadowy veil cutting off
the view of the unseen world. The statesman, the
philosopher, the poet, those who have achieved great¬
ness and attained the honourable elevation they sought
in this life, see the real emptiness of those baubles for
which most men strive, so they turn aside from the
things of time to consider the things of eternity, and to
speculate upon the mystery of existence. Consequently
Professor Huxley quits for a time the stones and bones
of past ages to give a casting vote at the Royal Institu¬
tion against materialism, and in favour of the idealism
of Berkeley; Professor Tyndall quits his batteries and
lanterns to speculate at Belfast upon the origin and
destiny of man, and the press now teems with books
written under impulses of the same kind. Dr. Balfour
Stewart, who has stepped aside from the study of
physics to take part in writing the present book, is
Professor of Natural Philosophy at Owen’s College,
Manchester. He was formerly Superintendent of the
British Association Observatory at Kew; he has written
standard scientific books for Oxford University, and all
his life has been a deep and earnest student of the
works of nature, from which labour he has never
turned aside either in search of social precedence or
worldly gain. Both upon its own merits and the re¬
spect felt for its authors by the scientific world, the
book now before us will command widespread attention.
Having no desire to be captious, stress will not be
laid by us upon the bull contained in the title of the
book, except to remark that a “ physical speculation ”
must be first cousin to an “ imponderable weight.”
The book displays a deep knowledge of physical science,
far too deep to be slighted by the intellectual world;
and, on the other hand, it breathes true natural
spirituality. Reasoning from a purely physical stand¬
point, the authors come to the conclusion that the
visible universe must have been developed by an un¬
seen power, because, if the living being is traced back
to the primal germ assumed by the sceptical biologist,
254
THE SPIRITUALIST.
or to the ultimate atom of the physicist, the question
may yet be asked, whence came that germ, or whence
came that atom ? It is the old story of the Hindoo
placing the world upon the back of a snake, and the
snake upon the back of a tortoise, and the tortoise upon
the back of an elephant, hut haying nothing left for the
elephant to stand upon, the whole speculation fell to
the ground for want of a foundation. The authors
do well to admit the theories of materialists so far as
they go, without denial, hut to join issue with them over
the facts lying at the boundaries of their knowledge.
Messrs. Tait and Stewart adopt the hypothesis of
dissipation of energy. In the present solar system
degradation of energy is seen in all directions. The
evidence is strong that the sun is slowly cooling, and
that the forces of nature are gradually sinking into a
state of equilibrium in relation to each other. The
authors argue that our visible universe was brought
into existence in time by a creative act, or must have
been developed out of a previously existing universe.
The latter may still exist, and be destined to survive
the wreck and ruin of the visible creation of the present.
The authors speculate whether there may not be a
something within man which survives the things of
matter, and they raise the question whether the assumed
interstellar ether does not constitute the bond of con¬
nection between the universe which is seen and that
which is not seen. In this way do they furnish man
with a spiritual body over which death has no power.
They say:—
“Let us, therefore, begin by supposing that we possess a
frame, or the rudiments of a frame, connecting us with the
invisible universe, which we may call the spiritual body. Now,
each thought that we think is accompanied by certain mole¬
cular motions and displacements in the brain, and parts of
these, let us allow, are in some way stored up in that organ,
so as to produce our material or physical memory. Other parts
of these motions are, however, communicated to the spiritual
or invisible body, and are there stored up, forming a memory
which rpay be made use of when that body is free to exercise
its functions. Again, one of the arguments which proves the
existence of the invisible universe demands that it shall be
full of energy when the present universe is defunct. We can,
therefore, very well imagine that after death, when the spiritual
body is free to exercise its functions, it may be replete with
energy, and have eminently the power of action in the present,
retaining also, as we have shown above, a hold upon the past,
inasmuch as the memory of past events has been stored up in
it, and thus preserving the two essential requisities of a con¬
tinuous intelligent existence.”
The men who could pen such a sentence as this were
very naturally supposed by the Scotch readers of these
pages to be Spiritualists, the only difference between
the authors and Spiritualists being that we are able to
prove by experiment the position which they have
taken up, whereas they have' no better foundation to
rest upon than hazy speculations evolved in part
from their own inner consciousness. They have departed
from the principles laid down by Bacon, whilst Spirit¬
ualists are walking in the experimental and orthodox
paths of science so far as this subject is concerned.
The facts of Spiritualism, which alone can prove the
position taken up by the authors, are dealt with in a
summary fashion in five short paragraphs of the book
now under notice. They begin by calling these facts
“ pretensions,” and then go on to assert that the spirits
described in the Scriptures are represented as appearing
to men unprepared to receive them, and consequently were
attested by unbiassed witnesses, the most glaring case
of the kind narrated in the Bible, namely, that of the
appearance of Samuel in the presence of the witch of
May 28, 1875.
Endor having unaccountably escaped their attention.^
On the other hand, they say that the manifestations
recorded by Spiritualists take place, as a rule, in insuf¬
ficient light or in total darkness, and in the presence of
those who are in a state of mental excitement. If our
two authors have read anything at all about Spiritualism,
we should suppose they have read the works of their
brother fellow of the Royal Society, Mr. W. Crookes.
If so, they will see that he records that he has photo¬
graphed materialised spirits by the electric light;
probably they mean this method of illumination when
they say ‘ insufficient light or total darkness.” As to
the other statement, that the manifestations take place in
the presence of persons who are in a state of mental
excitement, all that can be said is, that we have been
present when Dr. Balfour Stewart has tried experiments
at Kew with his rotating disc in vacuo; we have also
been present when Mr. Crookes tried some of his experi¬
ments with materialised spirits, and our testimony is
that Dr. Balfour Stewart was rather the more excited
experimentalist of the two. Mr. Crookes had the
pressure of popular abuse and ignorance to work against,
consequently was all the more cool and cautious in
making his experiments.
Further, if certain manifestations—especially those
with partially developed mediums—are favoured by
subdued light, is that a reason that they are not to be
investigated? If night favours astronomical observa¬
tions, is that a reason why stellar phenomena should be
studied only by daylight ? To be consistent, Messrs.
Stewart and Tait should send a circular to all the
astronomical observatories in the kingdom, warning
their managers to make no observations except in broad
daylight, and arguing that anything seen by an astro¬
nomer who prepares himself to observe the same shall
be set on one side as unworthy of credit. For thus say
our two philosophers : “ We should not be disposed to
credit any communication from the world of spirits that
was not made in open daylight, and to those unprepared
to receive it and therefore unprejudiced.”
And what is the conclusion of these two intelligent
philosophers about Spiritualism ? They “ do not hesi¬
tate,” they say, “ to regard these pretended manifesta¬
tions as having no objective reality.” Now it so
happens that the Committee of the Dialectical Society,
consistingof educated professional men,—lawyers, archi¬
tects, literary men, and men of science,—after investi¬
gating the phenomena for two years, reported that they
had an objective reality. Further, the colleague of
Messrs. Tait and Stewart, Mr. Crookes, has in his book
registered the vibrations of the raps and of the physical
forces at work, by means of self-recording instruments
constructed on the same principle as those used by Dr.
Stewart at Kew to automatically register magnetic
variations; consequently the position assumed by our
two authors is virtually that of giving a rude denial to
the testimony of truthful people. If the Royal Society
told Dr. Stewart that his experiments with his rotating
disc never took place, but were a dream, and that the
experiments of Professor Tait on the thermo-con¬
ductivity of metals had no objective reality, but were
the result of visions produced by dinners of a less ab¬
stemious character than those which enlivened the
members of the British Association at Edinburgh, they
would both be treated as fairly and honourably as they
have treated Spiritualism; but there would be this dif¬
ference between the two cases—the proved results of
their experiments would be of small importance to the
May 28, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
255
world, whereas the facts of Spiritualism prove that
man has a life hereafter'; they also affect the religious
opinions as well as the daily life of every member of
the human race.
Swedenborg was one of the greatest mediums of
modern times, and at the hands of the two gentlemen
who have written this book he fares very little better
than Spiritualists. The authors say—“ Had Sweden¬
borg confined himself to the invisible world, it would
have been very difficult to prove him the subject of a
delusion, but when he visits the planets and describes
their inhabitants, he enters at once upon dangerous
ground.” They then go on to show the almost con¬
clusive evidence that Swedenborg was wrong in some
of his revelations about the planets, just as this journal
has shown that the revelations about the physical
universe given through trance mediums can in most
cases be proved to be not only erroneous but sometimes
the very reverse of truth. Granting all this, why do
not Messrs. Stewart and Tait carry out their own line
of argument so as to deal fairly and honourably with
Swedenborg ? If they appeal to erroneous revelations
about physical facts, why do they not also call attention
to those which were not erroneous ? Take the well-
known fact, printed in nearly every book about
Swedenborg, how on the 19th of July, 1759, the seer
landed at Gottenburg, and at six o’clock in the after¬
noon told no less a person than the philosopher Kant
that a dangerous fire had broken out in Stockholm
and was spreading fast. Stockholm is 300 miles from
Gottenburg, and in those days there were no telegraphs.
Swedenborg further said that the house of one of his
friends whom he named was in ashes, and that his own
home was in danger. At eight o’clock he exclaimed,
“ Thank God, the fire is extinguished the third door
from my house.” All this afterwards proved to be
true. Why do not Messrs. Stewart and Tait deal fairly
with the facts, and not, like sharplawyers, pick out those
only which serve their purpose ? By what right also do
the authors brow-beat witnesses by intimating that self-
recording instruments made on the same principle as those
used by Dr. Stewart himself at Kew did not register
objective realities, but dreams ? By what right does Dr.
Stewart say by implication that his near neighbour,
Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Parkfield, Didsbury, Man¬
chester, was not recording an objective reality when he
stated in these pages that a tape knotted round the neck
of Mrs. Corner (Florence Cook), and sealed at the neck
with a signet ring, was removed at a seance in the house
of Mr. Wm. Crookes without being cut, or the knots or
seals broken, although the loop of the tape fitted close
to the neck and would not pass over the head of the
medium ? He may argue that the admission of such a
fact would put mankind into a state of intellectual
confusion, whereas the argument should be that it would
put him into a state of intellectual confusion because he
does not yet know all the laws of nature. Would not
the facts of electric telegraphy put a savage into a state
of intellectual confusion ? If so, does that prove that
electric telegraphs have no objective reality? Dr.
Stewart has written much and thought more about the
impenetrability of matter, yet when a practical illustra¬
tion bearing upon this all-important subject is published,
he throws cold water upon the witnesses, and gives
unreliable information about such phenomena to the
public, in one of the most important books he ever
published in his life. The truth of the matter, in all
probability, is, that the two pages about Spiritualism in
the work before us were written by Professor Tait, and
not by Dr. Balfour Stewart. The fairest and most
unbiassed article ever written by any man who had not
inquired into Spiritualism was that penned by Dr.
Stewart, and published in Nature at the time when the
British Association met at Edinburgh. Yet two pages
in the present book are written in direct opposition to
the spirit permeating that article, hence those pages
were in all probability written by Professor Tait. Nor
is it a small thing that the authorship of the calumny
should be fixed upon the right person. Although in
the present day whilst Spiritualism is unpopular (except
in well-informed and highly intellectual circles) applause
may be gained from the ignorant by condemning its
truths, a book by such intelligent men will also have to
be judged in the light of history when we actors in the
present drama shall have departed into the unseen
world. In that future time the crude speculations in
the book before us]will be explained (by solved problems,
and the writers of that day will tell how Messrs.
Stewart and Tait thrust aside the facts which would have
proved the immortality of man, how they misrepresented
truth to the general public, how they took up the
position of a half-developed Galileo who pleaded that
the earth rotated upon its axis, but who argued that
the telescope and other instruments which could prove
the same were delusions and snares, and who further
asserted that the phenomena of the heavens which the
allegedtelescoperevealedhadno objective reality. Messrs.
Stewart and Tait have never inquired into Spiritualism
for themselves; they are much in the position of the'
professor of philosophy at Pisa who refused to look
through the telescope of Galileo, but most learnedly
argued that the things revealed by his telescope had no
actual existence.
Throughout this book, by a process of pure reason¬
ing, based upon the knowledge of the authors of the
nature of the physical universe, certain true conclusions
are arrived at in relation to the spirit world, the only
thing necessary to clinch the arguments being some of
the proved truths of Spiritualism. For instance, they
say that some of the passages in Scripture must be re¬
garded as figurative, and they add, “ May they not be
descriptions of what takes place in the unseen universe
brought home to our minds by means of perfectly true
comparisons and things of this universe which they
most resemble ?” The truth of this idea has long been
practically ascertained by Spiritualists, and has led to
long discussions on the symbolical nature of spirit
writings and spirit drawings. In Mrs. De Morgan’s
book, From Matter to Spirit, published by Longmans,
attention is called to different spirit drawings, all teach¬
ing the same truth through varying symbols. Again
the authors say : “We cannot easily agree with those
who would limit the existence of evil to the present
world.” This again is well known in Spiritualism to
be a proved truth, for all kinds'and conditions of spirits
put in an appearance, some of the highest greatness and
goodness, whilst others are of the lowest type.
On page 163, speaking of the human spirit, they
say: “ Even if trammelled by the grossest substance,
we might expect that at least on rare occasions it
should somehow manifest itself.” Here, then, they
state what their theory demands, and what the facts of
Spiritualism alone can prove. They argue that there
must be a spirit within man, and that this survives the
dissolution of the physical body, yet proclaim that the
phenomena of Spiritualism have no objective reality,
256
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 28, 1875.
quite^ forgetting that on page 25 they admit that St.
Paul once saw a ghost, and that he attached much
importance to this proof of the possibility of resurrec¬
tion. Now, St. Paul must have seen this spirit by one
of two methods : either he became clairvoyant and saw
with spiritual vision, in which case clairvoyance is a
truth, or the spirit materialised itself by some such
method as that now common in London. Without one
or the other of these processes, both known to Spirit¬
ualists to be realities, St. Paul could not have seen the
spirit; yet the only methods by which he could have
seen the apparition are denied to exist by the authors
of the book before us.
The question of miracles is also a difficult one for
our two authors, especially when it is considered that
their utterances are to be criticised by the scientific
world. They will not admit for a moment that Christ
was above law, for He spoke of Himself and was
spoken of by the apostles as bound in all respects by
the law of the universe; so Messrs. Stewart and Tait
fall back with some modification upon the old explana¬
tion of the action of Mr, Babbage’s calculating machine,
which, after having worked for a long time by a
particular method of procedure, suddenly manifested a
single breach in its method, and then resumed for ever
afterwards its original movement. This is not the
method by which men of science usually deal with the
facts of the physical universe. They usually verify or
throw aside the assertions of tradition by bringing to
bear upon them the more general knowledge of to¬
-day. The laws which produced the true spiritual
‘phenomena recorded in the Bible are at work now.
The influences which produced the hand-writing upon
the wall at Belshazzar’s feast are equally potent at the
present day, materialised spirit hands which do direct
spirit writing being common enough. Yet our authors
accept without question traditionary records, and deny
the reality of the same facts when they now occur in
the presence of their most intimate friends.
Towards the close of the book the authors say:—
“ The truth is, that science and religion neither are nor can
be two fields of knowledge with no possible communication
between them. Such an hypothesis is simply absurd. There
is undoubtedly an avenue leading from the one to the other,
but this avenue is through the unseen universe, and unfor¬
tunately it has been walled up and ticketed, ‘ No road this
way,' professedly alike in the name of science at one end and
in the name of religion at the other.”
Most of the scientific opinions about the spiritual
nature of man expressed in the book will be proved
hereafter to be true, but proved only by the facts of
Spiritualism. One reason why the authors cannot
prove their position at present is that they have unfor¬
tunately walled up the avenue to the unseen universe,
and virtually ticketed it—“ No road this way: (Signed)
Siewart and Tait.” The book might be made a very
good one if some intelligent Spiritualist would revise it,
beginning by cutting out thefewpages about Spiritualism
and Swedenborgianism, by adding a chapter about the
philosophy of Berkeley, by inserting observed facts
where the authors seek to prove their points by meta¬
physical speculations, and by ruling the far-fetched
“calculating machine” argument out of court, sub¬
stituting the ordinary course of nature and the usual
scientific method of dealing with traditionary accounts
of real phenomena. The book should then be re-
christened “ The Physical Aspects of the Phenomena
of Spiritualism,” and would be a valuable addition to
the literature of the movement.
CURIOUS PHASES OF WITCHCRAFT.
“ A chronicle
Of strange, and secret, and forgotten things.”
Shelley.
The intelligence styling itself ,<£ Imperator ” has
intimated in these pages that there have been times
and seasons in history when the millions of spiritural
creatures that walk the earth unseen, ordinarily, both
when we wake and we sleep, have through unknown
causes been permitted to draw nearer to human kind,
manifest themselves more palpably, and interfere more
intimately in mortal affairs. Such periods are mysti¬
cally referred to by the most transcendental author of
this century, reflecting the secret love of Platonic ages—
Unknown—albeit lying near—
To men the path to the demon sphere;
And they that swiftly come and go,
Leave no track on the heavenly snow.
Sometimes the airy synod bends,
And the mighty choir descends,
And the brains of men thenceforth,
In crowded and in still resorts,
Teem with unwonted thoughts.
When close above their heads
The potent plain of demons spreads;
Stands to each human soul its own,
For watch, and word, and furtherance
In the shares of Nature’s dance.
These ideas present themselves in the earliest human
records, run through the primeval mythologies, and
enter under many shapes into the traditions and super¬
stitions of almost every race. In the beginning of days
it is written that the sons of God saw the daughters of
men that they were fair; and they took them wives of
all which they chose. This, it is intimated, led to
immeasurable evil and wickedness. It were idle to
speculate too curiously on the condition of those dim
inconceivably distant ages, of which Egyptian papyri
and Babylonian cylinders are but now disclosing some
hint. Some think there are traces yet on earth of
great and long-continued civilisations that arose when
her surface presented other features and configurations
of sea and land than now. In desert countries there
are mighty ruins and monuments of human toil, for
which even tradition has no rumour, and vestiges of
the long-drowned Atlantis may possibly yet be recog¬
nised above the waves. Cloud-capt towers, gorgeous
palaces and states, and all that inherited and made
them—none can tell how great—may have dissolved
and left no track behind; and none can say how close
the “ demon sphere” and the “ sons of God” may have
stood to those unknown generations.
But in the first dim light of history the idea and
belief in the possibility of close communion between the
inhabitants of the earthly and spiritual worlds is found
prevalent—such communion as Genesis describes. All
know how much of the Greek religion and worship was
based on the intercourse of gods and mortals; the
heroes and semi-divine personages, around whom the
most glorious poetry in the world has crystallised, were
the offspring of the gods by mortals. The Greek mind
saw nothing strange in the spiritual inhabitants of the
Olympian sphere seeking the daughters of men, nor
in children springing from such union. Men pre¬
eminently great were indeed certain to have an origin
ascribed to superhuman parentage. Alexander of
Macedon claimed Jupiter for his sire. Plato was
reputed the child of Apollo, born of the virgin
Perictione. Who can surmise in what events, or tradi¬
tions of events, reaching backwards—perhaps to the
■Mat 28, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
257
unknown prehistoric times, perhaps of nearer date—
such beliefs had their root and warrant.
Such ideas, however, seem confined to the Aryan
and Semitic races, and to be jstrange to the Eed Men of
America and the black nations of Africa. In India
and Scandinavia, no less than in old Greece, sages and
heroes sprang from the gods, but a strange transmuta¬
tion has passed over European conceptions since the
triumph of Christianity. As is ever the case, the
bright deities of the old religions become the hideous
fiends and demons of the new. The solemn oracles
and mysteries that stood for the highest national cere¬
monials shrank and darkened into witchcraft and necro¬
mancy, practised by the lowest, most ignorant classes,
and commerce with Satan and evil spirits took the place
of the loves of the “ sons of God” with mortal women.
Eor more than a century Europe has agreed to look
upon witchcraft as a huge delusion, the result of popu¬
lar and scientific ignorance, and to point to the records
of witch trials with pity and a sense of humiliation
that such follies and cruelties could have been counte¬
nanced by the best understandings of the day. It does
not seem improbable that the immense records of
witchcraft and trials connected with it, existing all
over Europe, may be reopened and scanned^with dif¬
ferent eyes and conclusions. Jean Paul Eichter re¬
marks that “ ordinary minds make everything in the
trials of witchcraft to be the work of imagination.
But he who has read many such trials finds that to be
impossible^,” and modern spiritualistic experience throws
a strange and startling light upon those dismal records.
Preternatural strength and alteration of weights are
frequent features, and when to-day we hear of baby
mediums, some explanation, though little excuse, may
be offered for what has always seemed the incredible
barbarity of burning children as witches. One feature
runs through all these trials: intercourse between
witches and Satan, or the imps he sent, was always
assumed and generally admitted, indeed, as the seal
and completion of their initiation. Moreover, the off¬
spring of such intercourse were not unfrequent—some¬
times Calibans, “ oafs,’’ deformed, malignant wretches;
sometimes persons of distinguished beauty and genius.
Doctor Martin Luther relates in his Table-talk that he
personally knew well one of these “ devil’s children,”
and evidently saw nothing wild or incredible in the
idea. In the Lady of the Lake the weird grisly priest
Brian the Hermit was of no mortal parentage; strange
tales were told of his birth—how his mother had
watched a midnight fold by an ancient battle-field
covered with the bones of men, and the “spectre’s
child” that was born, beheld the future, and was
familiar with the disembodied world. The literature of
two or three centuries ago is full of popular accounts
of famous witches and “ wise women,” who would now
very probably be ranked as very powerful mediums.
The names of several still linger in popular remem¬
brance. To select one—“Mother Shipton” now only
suggests a bent old woman with a steeple-hat and nose
and chin meeting together; perhaps to Londoners some
further notion of a favourite inn. She seems however
to have been a woman of extraordinary spiritualistic
powers. A curious tract printed at London in 1686,
relates that she was born in Yorkshire, and, “ as the
common story is, that she never had any father of
human race or mortal wight, but was begot (as the
great Welsh Prophet Merlin was of old) by the
Phantasm of Apollo or some wanton aerial demon, in
manner following:—Her mother Agatha being left an
orphan about the age of sixteen, and very poor, was
once upon a time sitting bemoaning herself on a shady
bank by the highway side, when this spirit appeared
to her in the shape of a handsome young man,
tempted her, and prevailed so far as to gain her. He
was as cold as ice or snow.” [A similar statement was
very generally made in the witchcraft trials.] “ Erom
this time forth she was commonly once a day visited by
her hellish gallant, and never wanted money.” The
tract goes on to relate how Mother Shipton was born,
and was christened by the name of Ursula by the
Abbot of Beverley, how her mother becoming sensible
of her evil course retired to a convent; how as the
child grew up it was often visited by the fiend its
father, and performed many amazing exploits and
manifestations. The tract contains a list of her most
notable prophecies, and states that “ she was advised
with by people of the greatest quality,” amongst them
Cardinal Wolsey, of whom she prophesied that he
should never come to York ; and indeed, when within
eight miles of it, he was suddenly recalled by the
king, and died at Leicester. She also foretold the
Great Eire of London, many events of the Eeforma-
tion, the reigns of Elizabeth and James I., and the
execution of Charles I. Luckily for herself she lived
before the times of the witch-terror, and appears
rather to have been regarded as an oracle. At the age
of seventy-three she foretold the day of her death, and
at the hour predicted lay down on her bed and died.
This remarkable woman left an abiding impression on
the popular remembrance. Even now a little day¬
flying moth, common next month in hay-fields, the
dark markings on whose wings present something like
the profile of a face with hooked nose and chin, is
known to the keen working insect-hunters of Spital-
fields and the East-end as the “ Mother Shipton.” The
idea of such unearthly connections has never quite
faded away. William of Malmesbury has a story truly
mediaeval in its wildness, how a young man of Eome,
wealthy and noble, having newly married a wife and
given a grand banquet, did after the feast propose a
game at ball, and taking off his finger his betrothed
ring put it upon that of a brazen statue, of Yenus which
chanced to be standing near. After the game he went
for it but found the finger of the statue, that before was
straight, bent round into the palm of the hand, and that
his ring could not be got away. Not liking to say any¬
thing, he went away, and returned at night with his
servants, intending to break the hand, but to his amaze¬
ment found the finger straightened again, and his ring
gone. In confusion he returned to the bridal chamber,
but on lying down he felt something like a dense cloud
tumbling about, something that could be felt, but not
seen ; and also heard a voice that said, “ Stay with me,
for thou hast exposed me this day ! I am Yenus, on
whose finger thou didst put thy rirg: I have got it,
and will not give it back.” He, astounded, dared not
reply, and spent a sleepless night. In his Earthly
Paradise, Mr. W. Morris has told this strange story at
length, as he only can tell it; and in The Ring given to
Venus the reader may learn by what terrible and
perilous means the young man was delivered from his
unwelcome visitant and recovered his ring.
These marvellous old stories may perhaps be read
with different thoughts to what they would have
awakened twenty years ago. “ Imperator” asserts tha
the present is one of those epochs of special spiritual
258
the spiritualist:
May 28, 1875.
activity for which the mind of man may be hoped to be
better prepared than in days when popular ignorance
and terror could only be expressed in witch-burnings
and murderous violence; though he warns us “ the full
time is not yet.”
Finally, to show how the notion dealt with in this
paper still exists and is familiar to other races in dis-
tantlands, the following extract from an account of village
superstitions in Southern India, written by a native in
the present year, is subjoined, quite as wild and gro¬
tesque as anything mediaeval:—“ A few demons are so
voracious that they snatch up with avidity balls of rice and
curry thrown into the air; some have human mistresses
and concubines, and even outrage the modesty of their
occasional fair worshippers. At Bodinaikenur, in the
Madura District, a certain Chetty bought of a magician
a Malabar demon, for Rs. 90, it is said; but ere a day
had passed since the transfer, the undutiful spirit fell
in love with his master’s wife, and succeeded in its
nefarious purpose. A pious Hindoo assures me that
the woman still lives, leading a very unhappy life with
the demon, the husband being long dead and gone.”
This would be an aspect, undreamt of by Coleridge, of
‘•'Woman waiting for her demon lover.” X.
MRS. HARDY’S MEDIUHSHIP.
BY J. X. T. MABTHEZE.
As Mrs. Hardy has just arrived in London, I feel it
my duty to publish what I witnessed two years ago
through her mediumship. As a clairvoyant, she gave
me several tests; for instance, she described with ail
particulars, the death of a little brother of mine, of
whom of course she could never have heard by any
ordinary means. As to physical manifestations, those
given through her mediumship are presented so free
from all complicated conditions as to possess a peculiar
interest, and to give good evidence to those who witness
them.
A lady of my acquaintance told me some particulars
of manifestations which she had witnessed through
Mrs. Hardy’s mediumship, in which a spirit dog appeared
to be the producer of some of the effects. But she did
not give me all the details.
Occasionally through Mrs. Hardy’s mediumship, the
gas from some of the burners has been put out without
the flames from the other burners being affected; this
has been done without any motion of the taps, and the
two sets of burners were supplied from the same main
pipes. The same evening, the spirits put out the flames
which were burning during this experiment, whilst
those they had extinguished on the first occasion con¬
tinued to blaze.
70, Palmeira-square, Brighton.
Dr. Sexton at Goswell Hail.—On Sunday evening
last Dr. Sexton delivered a discourse on a subject which has
recently received considerable attention amongst thinking
persons—viz., “ The Theory of Human Automatonism.” A
good audience assembled, amongst whom, however, but few
known Spiritualists could be noticed. The lecture was mainly
devoted to a reply to the address of Professor Huxley, given
at the British Association meeting at Belfast, and afterwards
printed in Nature and the Fortnightly Review, and the paper of
Professor Clifford, which also appeared in the latter periodical,
on “ Body and Mind.” The audience seemed much pleased
with the manner in which Dr. Sexton handled the subject,
and expressed a wish that the lecture should be published.
On Sunday next the subject of the discourse will be “ Christian
Morality and its Proposed Substitutes.”
PERSECUTION OF M. LEYMARIE IN PARIS.
We have received the following letter :—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sir,—In the absence of our friend| Mr. Gledstanes, I have
promised him to keep you advised of the course of the medium
question here—the Buguet-Firman-Leymarie business, now
pending before the Juge dTnstruction, or examining magis¬
trate, Monsieur de la Haye.
Buguet was, as your readers know, released from imprison¬
ment nearly three weeks ago on the trifling bail of £40. That
highly respectable and worthy gentleman, M. Leymarie, the
editor of the Revue Spirite, was only released, on the same
bail, the day before yesterday. Firman is still at the Mazas
prison, nor has he yet been examined. He has, indeed, been
once or twice before the judge in his cabinet (this French pro¬
ceeding called the instruction being private), but it was only
for a few moments of superficial questioning, in a language
which he can neither speak nor understand more than very
slightly. He has now been over a month in solitary confine¬
ment, made doubly solitary from his inability even to talk
with his jailers. His wife has not yet been permitted to visit
him, even with the impassable abyss between them of two
iron gratings, and about five feet of space between the
gratings. A kind intervention by Mr. Washburne, the
American minister, obtained for the poor afflicted little lady
the opportunity of embracing her husband for a moment on
Thursday in the judge’s presence. He is to be examined on
Tuesday the 25th. It seems that he cannot be admitted to
bail, nor allowed to see anybody, until after his examination.
This seems to be the French way of breaking down the nerves
and stubbornness of accused persons who, being innocent,have
nothing to confess, and therefore decline to do so. The man
who will only confess himself a rogue is let out early and
easily; the one who wickedly will not because he cannot, is
properly punished by being treated as though he were one,
including the little attention of handcuffs. On Mr. Wash-
burne’s demand also, it has been promised that an interpreter
shall be employed at his examination. Whether he will be
admitted to bail or not afterwards, is far from certain. The
judge has intimated that in this respect they deal differently
with foreigners, who have less root in the country, than with
resident French persons accused. You may also regard it as
certain that they will all be ordered for trial, as the upshot of
the instruction ; and a very important trial it will be. Spirit¬
ualism, which has passed triumphantly through the severest
ordeals of scientific trial before such authorities as Mr.
Crookes and others, has now to undergo that of a police correc~
tionelle trial in France, before judges proud of their ignorance
of it, and’ with a still bitterer clerical influence, believed by all
the Spiritualists here to be behind the whole proceeding. The
accused have, I fear, but a moderate chance of justice.
The position of Leymarie and Firman is complicated, and
seriously endangered by a circumstance which I must mention
with great regret. Buguet, the photographic medium, has
turned round, and not only wholly repudiated mediumship,
but accused the others of full cognisance of his imposture
and trickery, so as to make them his pretended accomplices.
He says that all his pictures were humbugs, and rather seems
to claim credit for his cleverness in tricking the easily self-
deluded Spiritualists. He even denies having ever even pre¬
tended to be a medium. I refrain from any epithet in regard
to him, or from selecting among the different motives to
which this astonishing cause on his part is attributed. Some
think he is acting under the influence of bribery from the
Jesuits, whom they suppose to be the occult prompters of this
crusade aiming to stamp out le Spiritisms in France. Others
see in this system of defence a cunning plotting of the preju¬
dices of his judges and the general public to curry present
favour, and with some reference too to the future prosecution
of his profession, that of an ordinary photographer. Others
think that he hopes to lighten somewhat the load of his own
shame by distributing it over other shoulders as well as his
own—together with a dash of spite and resentment against
those honest Spiritualists, including M. Leymarie, who now
turn from him in disgust and contempt, freely manifested in
both language and acts. Whatever may be the real motive of
his policy, the fact is unfortunate, as I have told you; and it
is to be feared that his declarations, claiming to be in the
nature of “king’s evidence,” may find power and credence
with prejudiced judges, against honest and imlocent men,
despite the scant title to credit attaching to a person in his
avowed position. You know how very little—how infinitesi-
359
May 28, 1875. THE SPIRITUALIST.
mally little—evidence is good against Spiritualism or Spiri¬
tualists in the minds of most of its opponents.
Besides the charge of complicity with Buguet, which was
what Firman and Leymarie were arrested upon, the matter of
the seance at Madame Huguet’s is also brought up against
Firman, in regard to which you have already published the
proces verbal on the one side, and the counter declarations of
the Firmans on the other, and in this instance I am con¬
vinced of his innocence, though it presents a formidable case
of appearances against him which can only be judged fairly
by persons acquainted with the marvellous phenomena of
materialisation, now familiar to you in England, as also in
America, but totally unknown, and of course disbelieved, in
this country.
Firman is penniless. Is this not a proper case for the in¬
tervention of the British Association of Spiritualists to help
him, and their own cause, to the means of employing counsel
for the proper defence of him and it ? He is an American
indeed, but has married an English wife. I do not know of
any American Spiritualists here, and Spiritualism is of no
nationality.
One word more about Buguet’s now repudiated mediumship,
under the promptings of a policy about which all must form
their own opinions. There can be no doubt whatever of its
genuineness or of its power, though its exercise was very
exhausting to him, and therefore could not yield him the
means of supporting the two households with which it seems
he indulged himself. M. Leymarie has hundreds of letters
attesting the correctness of the spirit likenesses obtained by
him. Besides those of the Count de Bullet, the De Veh
family, and Mr. Gledstanes (including several in which Mr.
Guppy appeared, with scrolls covered with his own hand¬
writing, with his signature and characteristic style), I have
seen others of a very distinct, marked, and conclusive charac¬
ter, in which appeared persons totally unknown to Buguet,
and of the obscurest position in life. I also was present on
one occasion when an English gentleman (Major Norton) sat
to Buguet. He was accompanied by a friend (a member of
Parliament), who happened to be an amateur photographer, as
well as an out-and-out scoffer at Spiritualism. The camera
was thoroughly examined. The incredulous photographic
M.P. went down with Buguet to watch severely the cleaning
and sensitising the plates, and afterwards to the dark chamber
to assist also at the development of the negative. Everything
was all right, and secundum artum. Major Norton was a total
stranger, who had dropped in with his friend by accident.
And yet the result, which was brought up in a few minutes,
was what Major Norton recognised as a striking spirit likeness
of a deceased aunt of his, which he was sure would astonish
the rest of his family. You know, no doubt, the experiences
of the Countess of Caithness with him, to say nothing of
others in London; and yet Buguet now finds it convenient to
disavow the whole, and to repudiate his own mediumship.
He may be telling the truth now, after about a couple of years
of admitted imposture, and he may not be acting under the
influence of—well, we may politely call it—merited reward for
tardy truth; but certainly the appearances are at least as
strong against him as they seemed to be against poor Firman
when under the fair but angry hands of Madame Huguet. I
hope you will call attention to the matter of pecuniary help to
Firman to employ proper counsel, otherwise I think him in
serious danger before the French tribunals.
J. L. O’Sullivan.
Paris, May 23,1875.
A private note gives the following additional par¬
ticulars :—
M. Leymarie was let out of prison three days ago on bail.
That scoundrel Buguet persists in declaring him to have been
his accomplice, and to have had half his nefarious gains ; but
all the ransacking of the police has failed to trace the slightest
indication of collusion on Leymarie’s part, and nobody will
attach the slightest weight to the assertion of one who has
proclaimed himself to be a thorough cheat and liar.
Enemies of Spiritualism wanted to have all the stock of
spiritual books at the Bue de Lille rooms seized bodily and
destroyed, the rooms closed, and the society broken up ; but
they have not succeeded in finding a legal pretext, so the
books and letters seized five weeks ago have been returned,
and poor Leymarie is let out of Mazas. He has shrunk to
half his natural size, and looks ten years older; his clothes
hang about him like bags; his face is wrinkled, his eyes are
sunken, and his beard is full of white hairs. ’Tis really piti¬
able ; but I hope that freedom, air, sunlight, and proper food
will bring him up again. But what a monstrous injustice! to
seize and imprison an innocent man, confining him in a cel¬
lular dungeon, not allowing him to be approached by any
human being but the jailer, while unknown enemies confiscate
books and papers, and employ every means to make up a case
against him!
There seems no doubt but the authorities are determined to
make an attempt to use Buguet as a cat’s-paw for attacking
the “ Society Anonyme,” simply because Leymarie, the admi¬
nistrator of the society—(we should say limited liability com¬
pany)—had written in favour of Buguet in the Revue published
by that society. Buguet will be tried before long for escro~
querie (swindling), and the enemies hope to include the
society and Spiritism in the verdict, which will undoubtedly
be against Buguet, but which I hope they will fail to extend
as they hope to do.
THE PHENOMENA OF SLEEP AND DREAM.
( Concluded.')
BY EDWAED W. COX, SERJEANT-AT-LAW.
The question here] presents itself, Wherefore does the Con¬
scious Self accept the impressions of brain action in dream
without questioning their reality, their congruity, or even
their possibility ? It does not so when the brain is awake.
Then the Conscious Self sits in judgment upon the impres¬
sions brought to it by the brain, and is enabled to distinguish
between the actual and the ideal, the objective and the sub¬
jective. Why not in dream also ?
The Conscious Self feels no surprise in dream, however
strange the vision presented to it, simply because the condi¬
tion of its relationship to the brain, as the material organ
through which alone it can maintain communication with the
external material world, compels it to accept the impressions
made upon it by brain action as realities having, in the
normal state of that relationship, some corresponding external
existence by which that action of the brain was caused.
True, that the brain has not unfrequently self-produced im¬
pressions, as they always are in dream. But the Conscious
Self has learned this fact from experience, and setting its
Will-Power in action, it tries these impressions by certain
mental tests, which enable it, usually, but not always, to dis¬
criminate between the actual and the ideal—the fact and the
ideal.
The reason why the Conscious Self does not so discriminate
in dream may be thus stated. The Will-Power being suspended
in dream, one faculty cannot be brought to bear upon another
for the purpose of comparison and reasoning as when awake,
and therefore all impressions upon the material organ of the
mind are accepted as real. The process of reasoning requires
the combined action of several mental faculties, and probably
also the mental action of the two hemispheres of the brain—
or the two minds, as Brown-Sequard calls them. If any of
those faculties in one hemisphere of the brain be sleeping,
the process of reasoning is impracticable, and those mental
impressions are accepted as real because the test is wanting
by which the reality and unreality of impressions are deter¬
mined in the normal condition of the brain.
So far, I have referred only to ideas presented in dream—>
the pictures which the brain paints. But the emotions also are
called into action in dream, and the Conscious Self receives the
impressions of them and feels them. How is this ?
The emotions do not come into action capriciously. They
can be created only by something presented to them by other
of the mental faculties. We do not feel hate, or anger, or
love in the abstract. The presentation of some object, real or
ideal, by one of the other mental faculties is necessary to the
kindling of an emotion. When the object is presented, the
emotion follows without the exercise of our Will, and often in
opposition to it. So it is in dream. The inventive faculties
construct the story, and the presentation of that story to the
emotional faculties excites them to involuntary action. Hence
it is that in the dream we feel the love, hate, fear, anger, which
the incident of the dream would have excited in reality, the
events and persons having been accepted as real by the other
faculties.
Thus the emotions are excited in dream, as they are excited
in our waking state, by the presentation to them of ideas.
Awake, we find love or hate, fear or desire, provoked as much,
and even more frequently, by ideal pictures as by real external
objects. So in sleep the picture painted by the dreaming fancy
invokes the appropriate emotion. But as the ideas of dream
260
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 28, 1875,
pass through the mind without the direction of the other
faculties, so are the emotions uncontrolled by them. In dream
the passions and sentiments often prevail with really more
fury than ever they burned in our waking state.
But there is a peculiarity in dream to which I invite special
attention, for I do not remember that it has been noticed by
any of those who have treated of these phenomena. In dream
we are all dramatists and actors. The most stupid, equally
with the most intelligent, invent plots, construct characters,
and frame dialogues. A dream is rarely, if ever, a simple
reproduction of one event or series of events. The materials
are, of course, quarried from the memory; hut they are re¬
combined to make new forms, precisely as with the novelist or
the dramatist. Consider what the dreamer does. For every
dream that has continuity the mind invents a story, often
complicated and ingenious. The actors in that story are as
frequently creations of the fancy as revivals of the memory of
the dead or representations of the living. But perhaps the
most marvellous feature of this strange psychical performance
is the dialogue. Each personage in the dream plays his own
part perfectly. He converses freely and in keeping with his
character, and often this dialogue, as in the acted play, or in
the drama of real life, is maintained by half-a-dozen speakers.
What a wonderful process is this! And yet the dreaming
mind does it all 1 That mind constructs a story, invents cha¬
racters, and improvises a dramatic scene in which the whole
dialogue is supplied by itself 1 And this is not a miracle
peculiar to the intelligent and educated mind. It is performed
also by the most stupid and illiterate. ■ It is strictly true that
every ploughboy is every night at once a novelist and a dra¬
matist, and this, too, of no mean capacity. To me there is
nothing in all the strange phenomena of dream so strange as
this, or the study of which promises to throw so much light
upon the mental faculties and the manner of their action.
But although the mind is the inventor of this acted drama,
it is wholly unconscious that the drama it is creating is an
invention of its own. That which itself has created, it
believes implicitly to he an objective reality. It is satisfied
that it sees those places and hears those persons, and that
the speeches that fall from their lips are their own, ignorant
that it is itself the inventor of that which itself is contem¬
plating.
Is not this a second proof offered by the phenomena of
dream that the brain that acts and the Conscious Self that
takes cognizance of the actions of the brain are distinct
entities ? Awake, the brain works, and the Conscious Self
takes notice of its working. That consciousness is asserted
by the Materialists to be merely the consciousness by the
brain of its own conditions. But if it were so, the brain would
he as conscious of its own conditions and actions in dream as
when awake. It is otherwise in fact. In dream the brain
works as in the waking state, but the Self is unable to dis¬
tinguish the inventions of the brain from the impressions of
external objects. This could only be by some change in the
relationship of the Conscious Self to the dreaming mind.
Such a change implies that they are not identical, but distinct
entities. It follows that if there be both the Conscious Self
and the mind or brain of whose actions that Self is conscious,
the existence of something in us, other than the corporeal
mental mechanism, is demonstrated.
Thus in the phenomena of dream we find the strongest
scientific evidence of the existence of Soul.
A dream is not a desultory flow of disordered images and
disjointed ideas; it observes a definite arrangement in the
shape of a continuous and connected action, following appa¬
rently the same law of association of ideas that governs their
advent in the waking state. It is important also to observe
that, as in the waking state, the ideas in dream come in suc¬
cession, two or more never presenting themselves at the same
instant. Hence our conception of time, which is consequent
upon the mental structure that entertains ideas only in suc¬
cession, one following another. If the mind had been so
structured as to entertain many ideas together, we should have
quite another conception of time than we now form. The
ideas thus produced by the brain in a stream are presented to
the Conscious Self in the same order of succession; and hence
that Self, in the normal condition of its relationship to the
body, has. only the conception of time that results from the
successive actions of the brain. But it is something more
than probable—it is almost certain—that if the Conscious
Self were so far severed from its association with the material
organ through which alone it can communicate with the
material world, as to receive impressions directly, it could
perceive simultaneously what through the mechanism of the
brain it can receive only in succession, and therefore that the
conception of time would in such case be altogether different
from that which it possesses when informed only through the
medium of the brain.
The practical result of this suggestion is, that what we call
time is merely a human conception, the product of brain
structure; and that to a being differently structured, and to
ourselves when the relationship of the soul to the body is
changed, time may be something altogether different from that
which it appears to us now.
And there is, in fact, a very great difference between the
waking and the sleeping mind in its conceptions of time. In
dream a whole seeming history will be enacted in an hour,
which, to have been acted in reality, would have occupied
days or even years. It was the notion of Lord Brougham,
based upon a dream of long continued action which occurred
to him during a brief slumber in court, induced by the drone
of some tedious counsel, that dream took place only when in
the act of falling asleep or of waking, and not during actual
sleep. But this is contradicted by the experience of any
person who has been suddenly wakened from sleep, and who
will have found his dream as abruptly interrupted. The fact
is, that in dream there is no other measure of time than the
flow of ideas. When uncontrolled by the Will, the mind pro¬
duces and presents ideas with incalculable rapidity. The
number of ideas is the count of time to the dreamer. If in a
sleep of five minutes as many ideas flit through the brain as
in five hours of waking, the measure of time to the dreaming,
as to the waking mind, will be the number of ideas and the
rapidity of the stream. But in the waking state the mental
impressions are corrected by past experiences. In dreams
the rapidity of the stream of ideas within, and the absence of
any correcting impressions from without, combine to cause an
action, that lasts in reality but five minutes, to appear to the
Conscious Self as five days.
The psychological importance of this is very great. It
serves to correct our notions of time by showing us that it is
a human conception merely, and altogether different even in
the waking and dreaming conditions of the mind. Faulty
notions of time, space, and such like mental conceptions
dependent upon mental structure, lie so at the root of popular
fallacies, and are so frequent, and yet so rarely recognised
even by the educated, that some service may be done by
inviting attention to the striking proofs of them that are
found in the phenomena of dream.
In sleep the conception of time as measured by external
events is not always wholly suspended. The desire to wake
at a particular hour often produces the result. But this is
not, as some have assumed, the consequence of a measure of
time kept by the mind in sleep, for waking during the night,
in the absence of an external indication of time, we have no
knowledge what the hour is, nor how long we have been
sleeping. The waking at a desired hour must be due to
some other process than counting in our sleep the march of
time. What is that process is a question that well deserves
examination.
But my allotted time is exhausted. The subject is so large
that I have been unable to do more than touch the fringe of
it. The questions it involves, and which, probably, it will
go far to solve, are so important to psychological science, that
I hope to return to the subject hereafter. I will merely now
shortly sum up the principal arguments of this paper—a plan
which I would respectfully suggest to all who may contribute
to our discussions, as being the best means of impressing
that argument upon the memories alike of hearers and readers,
besides assuring themselves of the definiteness and value of
their own suggestions.
1. Awake, the Conscious Self controls the action of the brain,
the material organ through which that Conscious Self com¬
municates with the material world.
2. The power by which this Self controls the action of
the material mental organ, the brain, is that called the Will.
3. In sleep the action of the Will is suspended, but con¬
sciousness remains. The Conscious Self perceives, and often
remembers, the dream presented to it by the brain.
4. But the Conscious Self receives the impressions of the
brain action as they are presented, and it is unable to
distinguish between the ideas self-produced and ideas that are
impressions of material external objects. Hence the implicit
acceptance of dreams as realities.
5. In dream there is no discerning of incongruity or im¬
possibility. The cause of this curious condition is that the
paralysis of the will prevents the calling in of the aid of the
“ judging faculties,” as is done in the normal waking state.
Mat 28, 1875,
MB SPIItlTtrALlST.
281
6. It is a question whether this may not be due in whole or
in part to the duality of the mind asserted by Brown-Sequard.
7. In dream the conception of time is lost. Adventures
that appear to the mind to occupy a week are really enacted
by the mind in five minutes. This is the consequence of the
mental structure, which can entertain but one image or idea in
the same instant of time.
8. The mind does not measure time in sleep otherwise than
by the succession of ideas. It is deprived of the corrections
which in the waking state are supplied by external objects.
9. The severance of the Conscious Self from the mind and its
operations, so remarkably shown in these phenomena of sleep
and dream, are of the greatest importance to psychology, as
proving the non-identity of the Conscious Self and the brain as
its mental organ, and therefore as supplying almost conclusive
"evidence of the existence of Soul as an entity distinct from the
brain.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
On Thursday last week a public meeting, convened by this
association, was held at Exeter Hall (Lower Room), to peti¬
tion Parliament for an investigation into certain cases of
persons alleged to have been incarcerated and long detained
as lunatics, though they were sane, and also into the whole
working of the lunacy laws. Some of the statements made
were of considerable interest to the public.
The Rev. John Page Hopps, of Glasgow, who took the chair,
said the association asked for three things—first, a simple
hearing from the authorities; secondly, an inquiry into the
working of the present system; and thirdly, safeguards. As
the law now stood, anybody, if any two medical men could be
induced to sign a certificate that he was insane, might be con¬
veyed to a lunatic asylum, and there incarcerated for life, and
this had been done in many instances without the person so
imprisoned having any power to obtain his release. One
remedy that they suggested was, that no lunatic who was
not dangerous to himself or others should be incarcerated
at all; another was, that there should be only Government
asylums.
Dr. Pearce, of Northampton, moved the first resolution—
“That this meeting, considering the present state of the
lunacy laws to be defective, oppressive, unjust, and fraught
with danger to the liberty of the subject, hereby pledges itself
to use every lawful means to obtain their reform.” He thought
medical men should have nothing at all to do with certifying
that persons were not of sane mind. He would have the evi¬
dence taken on oath. There was every reason to believe that
many sane persons were detained in asylums against their will
by their relatives, from bad and interested motives, and he
related one or two cases of this kind. In one, a man had
quarrelled with his son, and the son got him put into an
asylum, where he remained for some months. In another
case, a man of some property had an only daughter, who mar¬
ried against his wishes. The son-in-law had epileptic fits. A
medical man was got to sign a certificate, and he was brought
to Northampton in a fly, where another medical man came
and looked at him in the fly, and gave a second certificate,
and the young man was taken off forthwith to a private
lunatic asylum, and the father-in-law gave a cheque for three
months’ board and lodging. Great injury was done by luna¬
tics being brought together in large numbers in asylums. The
effects produced on the minds of many who might under
favourable circumstances have soon recovered was to intensify
the disorder and make them confirmed lunatics.
The Chairman then called on Mrs. Lowe, who came forward
and addressed the meeting for some time. She said she had
applied to the Commissioners for permission to go and see
Miss Wood, in order to obtain her instructions to some solici¬
tor. The Commissioners had peremptorily refused access.
Every patient is, she was advised, entitled to apply through a
solicitor for a jury trial; therefore all intercourse with solici¬
tors is carefully guarded against, and all letters from private
patients are, as a rule, sent to their incarcerators. In her own
case she was kidnapped and taken to a madhouse under the
authority of an informal certificate. When she got there the
first thing she did was to ask to see the head of a firm of
solicitors in Bristol, and that was refused. She then sent a
letter to a London firm who had transacted business for her
for twelve years. The letter was never delivered, and she was
detained for fifteen months. That letter was either shown to
the Commissioners, or it was not. If it was, their suppress¬
ing it showed malice against herself. If it was not, then the
proprietor of the asylum had broken the law, and they ought
to have prosecuted him. But the Commissioners said they
saw no reason for prosecuting him. They never did see any
reason for prosecuting anybody unless where horrible violence
had caused death, and an inquest ensued. There was no
greater danger to society than this, that the power of prosecut¬
ing was vested in the Commissioners alone. A wrong, which
she felt deeply, was, that in some private asylums male attend¬
ants were employed in the coercion of ladies. (Cries of
“ Shame.”)
Mr. Fleming, a Poor-law guardian of St. George’s, Hanover-
square, supported the resolution. He found, he said, when he
was first elected guardian, that the medical men who had to
examine paupers supposed to be of unsound mind were paid if
they could certify them to be insane, but if they could not they
were not paid. That had been altered, but the whole system,
he thought, ought to be investigated.
The motion was then put and agreed to, and on the motion
of Mr. Plumridge a petition to Parliament founded on the
resolution was adopted.
A vote of thanks was then given to the chairman, which
brought the proceedings to a close.
^omspontience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of (his journal and its readers.1
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
Sir,—For the sake of the truly honest and honourable
young mediums who have lately left the shores of England,—
Messrs. Bastian and Taylor, who,—after a series of test seances
which ought to have been sufficient to satisfy the most incre¬
dulous, and for the sake of their worthy spirit guides, who
laboured so wisely and efficiently to spread the light of Spi¬
ritualism, I think it right to reply briefly to some remarks
which appeared in your last issue. Not for myself would I
take this trouble, for it is quite immaterial to me what the
public at large may think of the work so ably carried on by
George Fox, the controlling spirit, at these seances; but I
consider it my duty to the mediums and the good spirits who
helped them, to go out of my way a little to make this simple
statement, that in the thirty times or upwards in which I
had the extreme pleasure of beholding my departed brother
Thomas’s face merely, and full form embodiments, and of
conversing with him, frequently upon family matters known
only to myself and him, I consider I had most undoubted and
convincing proofs of his identity. I hope, Sir, this simple
assertion, from a man in the full possession of his intellect
and senses, will be sufficient for any, even the most sceptical,
and beg to remain, yours truly, P. Lorillard Ronalds.
65, George-street, Portman-square,
May 23rd, 1875.
Sib,—Your insertion of this letter in your next issue of The
Spiritualist will oblige, as I feel anxious to remove the doubt
and suspicion which, doubtless, have been engendered in the
minds of many of the readers of your journal by the perusal
of the several antagonistic articles which have lately appeared
in your paper respecting the recognised materialised spirit
relatives manifesting at the ever-memorable seances of Messrs.
Bastian and Taylor. I certainly felt much surprised at the
hostile criticism about the genuineness and reliability of such
wondrous manifestations as appeared in The Spiritualist two
or three weeks ago, and the apparent short-sightedness and
loss of memory experienced by the writer on the occasion of
his visit to one of the said seances, in his omitting to mention
the all-important fact of the wife of Mr. Cottrell manifesting
in full materialised form to her husband, who was present at
such seance, and was recognised by several of the sitters from
the spirit-photograph taken by Mr. Parkes a short time before.
She also distributed a lot of lilies, which she brought with
her and took from a pocket in front of her robe. I still felt
greater surprise when I found that the letter of Captain James,
which appeared in last week’s Spiritualist, was made the basis
of such fallacious argument and illogical reasoning on the
writer’s part. What has a third party’s testimony to do with
the ample and weighty mass of primal testimony given and
published week after week in The Medium, Spiritualist, and
other papers ? It appears that oblivion has also taken place
with regard to such unimpeachable evidence, as the writer has
quite ignored and impugned such body of living evidence.
He even has the temerity to broadly insinuate that we are not
to believe the evidence of our own senses, and that all is
262
TSE spiritualist.
May 28, 1875.
illusory on our part for indulging in such belief. And as a
set off, the Holmeses are again imported into the subject as
a striking example of such imposition, when the duplicate
theory cannot be brought forth, as that has been exploded by
the medium Bastian being brought into the circle at the same
time the spirit manifested to the sitters. Bather a staggering
blow that to theorising “ duplicate ” editors and sceptical in¬
vestigators. The Holmeses, with all their trickery and decep¬
tion, could not manufacture dear departed relations, who
repeatedly manifested themselves to their living relatives at
the seances in question, and which has proved beyond a
shadow of doubt the “ almighty truth,” now established, of
our departed ones visiting us in material form again here!
Which mighty and glorious fact has been fully proved, and
can be proved by a living body of primal incontrovertible
evidence at hand. J. Began.
4, Stanley-villas, Northcote-road,
New Wandsworth, May 22nd, 1875.
A WEEK AMONG SPIRITUALISTS IN LONDON.
Sib,—Spiritualists from the provinces, when visiting the
metropolis, most naturally inquire, ” What news in our move¬
ment ? ’’ and so I found myself, soon after arriving, in the new
rooms of the British National Association of Spiritualists, and
to be sure, most pleasant sensations .greeted me in this agree¬
able home for inquirers, even in its present unfinished state.
The cheerful rooms, the handy arrangements for access to the
literature, are equally inviting. There is the big-sized Banner
of Light, spread like an ocean before the adventurous sailor,
who may feel sometimes a relief in steering again into the
homely river; The Spiritualist, gliding with more confidence be¬
tween the shores of spirituality and psychic force. Then again,
the Medium and Daybreak will give him an impulse of more
unfettered enthusiasm, which may again be nicely blended
with his inclination to hold fast to the traditions of his youth
by the Christian Spiritualist. Should a glance at Human
Nature, however, remind him that be has lifted himself already
too far away from daily life, let him slip across to the British
Museum, the sight of which (peeping warningly through the
window) might have now and then tugged him gently back to
terra firma. Let him walk through the drawing-room of his
ancestors, the brilliant monkey collection, and when he
finally stands face to face with the commanding figure of the
gorilla, then he will, regaining the status quo of his nerves,
exclaim, “ Here we are again! ” For my part, this kind
of shower-bath was not quite needed, for I felt a little cooled
down by learning how dissension among Spiritualists had set
in, and turned the formerly even, smooth fluid into a kind of
cloggy mass, like sour milk after standing. Intrigues of very
earthly nature, jealousies and discontent in various forms,
mar the harmony; and some people, apparently not satisfied
with the amount of respect and attention paid to their indi¬
vidual labour, and disregarding the grand demonstration
of after life for all, try hard to secure a little extra immortality
Passing over mildly the petty quarrels between mediums
(although sometimes assuming painful traces of human nature)
as remnants of a departing but struggling materialistic age, we
may hope that an occasional “ stirring up ” will restore
the even flow, and a well-organised association, on purely
practical technical principles, discarding any one-sided indi¬
vidual interest, will and must fulfil a grand mission.
After having thus seen my anticipation of the new premises
so agreeably realised, I lost no time in securing a place at the
next seance of Bastian and Taylor. The often repeated
reports of these highly interesting and impressive meetings
make it superfluous to enter into details, but my first expe¬
riences in witnessing the appearance of full forms, which have
so wonderfully improved in these private seances, I may
be allowed to describe a little more in my own way.
Like all or most investigators, I went from one remarkable
phase to the other with renewed caution and even scepti¬
cism, until repeated experiments registered the new guest
in the list of facts. So I was led up gradually to the
materialisations in their various forms, as shown in the
opening of the cabinet. The conditions to be observed,
however, placed a kind of barriere between medium and audi¬
ence, and although all possible doubts had been set at rest by
the most ingenious tests, the mind could not help connecting
the appearances in some way directly with the organisation of
the medium. But, when a figure steps out, recognised too, and,
as it were, mixes with the audience—the last thread of connec¬
tion with the medium cut off—the fact is so stupendous, so
staggering, that all previous training falls short here. I con¬
fess the impression was immense, but on the next day I had
almost forgotten all, because there was not sufficient room yet
in my brain to place this new fact comfortably between the
others.
The sensitiveness of these forms, when trying to face the
light, which was extremely feeble, struck me particularly.
They first merely peeped out, shrunk back again, then repeat¬
edly tried, with almost painful caution, as if approaching the
light as a sea of water, in which they might be drowned or
dissolved by venturing too far. This extraordinary sensitive¬
ness permeated the whole room to my sensation. I felt as if
all my finest nerve fibres were spread out: a spider’s web
would compare as a stout ship’s rope to them. Even in asking
previously the one or other medium for some possible improve¬
ment in the arrangements, the answer betrayed a touch of dis¬
turbance in the harmony. At last it seemed to me as if all
dead matter in the room began to awaken to a kind of con¬
sciousness of intelligence, and I caught myself nearly in the
act of asking my chair for permission to sit upon it. In a
rough sceptic all this would probably excite imagination into a
wrong channel, but to me it was highly suggestive, as showing
that in a spiritual circle, more than mere harmony, a perfect
equalisation of all individual differences is necessary, so to say,
to prepare a vast sensitive plate to receive the picture unbroken
and in all its details.
I can only join with all friends in expressing my regret at
having to bid farewell to these gifted mediums, but hope that
with regained health they may return to continue a work so
markedly advanced.
For the sake of contrast, I take the reader at once to an
evening with conjurors. Being very fond of trying to find out
clever tricks, I took with delight the opportunity to go with
Mr. Harrison, who intended to finish up his “dissection” of
the puzzling Psycho mechanism; and I confess, in my several
attempts (and as many break-downs) to solve that mystery, I
was nearly mad with envy to learn that my friend had found it
out the first time, and it is but a poor consolation to me that
I might have got it also, perhaps, on the second visit, for I
remarked at once that Mr. Psycho would most likely refuse to
be put on a chair instead of on the glass tube, or to be placed
anywhere on the carpet. As a sign of a dawning solution,
even the idea of an air-pump flashed through my mind,
and I try to suppress my vexation at my slow compre¬
hension by firmly believing that by my own research I
should have succeeded in discovering that this clever Psycho
is but a fast-living offspring of the happy union of clock-work
and air-pump. Besides the clever construction of machinery,
there are two most essential agencies at work in these aston¬
ishing performances—dexterity of hands, and dexterity of the
tongue, for the latter played, in' ridiculing poor, deluded
Spiritualists, such; freaks of impudence, that only a perfect
negation of all shame and capacity for blushing would account
for such language; and a poor excuse might be advanced only
in favour of Mr. Maskelyne, that some fellows, even in the
first seats, applaud these vile attacks. We admire when a
conjuror does his best work by misleading the observers’
attention as to his modus operandi; but when disgraceful
statements at the expense of respected people assist, the exhi¬
bition becomes disgusting. Otherwise, these splendid per¬
formances are really delightful, and would be of immense
value to investigators, as training them for acute observation.
But they are very useful still, as keeping away those ever-ready
wiseacres, who had better turn altogether from the movement;
for people who fancy they can for a couple of shillings get at
the source of truth which costs far-famed, well-trained scien¬
tific philosophers years of careful examination, are of no use,
and had better join the chorus of washerwomen and coster¬
mongers in scoffing and laughing down what seems too much
for their reasoning faculties.
Spending the following Sunday with a German family and
friends at Brighton, I took the advantage of driving the discus¬
sion on our subject into the practical resolution of attending^ a
seance—the only sensible motive which can nowadays induce
me to enter upon this topic, especially with Germans, and so
we had a private seance with Mr. Williams. The usual physi¬
cal phenomena were this time so agreeable and fascinating in
their; character—although the power was not sufficient for
higher manifestations—that the often-censured sameness was
not in the least felt by me, although I had been present in
many circles. The gentlemen felt thoroughly satisfied, and
left with the decided resolution to replace verbal discussion
by practical investigation. Having thus fulfilled my duty by
assisting in promoting our cause, I turned again to my own
demands for progress, and enjoyed thoroughly a conversa¬
tion with Mrs. Woodforde. I soon realised the favourable
May 28, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
accounts of her distinguished medial gifts. Our conversation,
which touched on Spiritualism in general, suddenly changed,
and my spirit-guide now began to speak to me by the entranced
medium. A discourse of over an hour’s length then appeared
to me only a moment, as we both looked at each other in sur¬
prise when learning the advance of time. I shall never forget
the beautiful sentences linked together like a wreath of flowers,
and in each a kernel of useful instruction. It would be im¬
possible for me to recall all details, but the impression was one
of a pure, elevating nature, whatever the source may have
been. My question—“ Why we often meet such harsh, vulgar
opposition?” was remarkably answered, and, as being useful
to all new and too warm enthusiasts, may be repeated in a few
words:—“ Human minds are differently constituted, and
Spiritualism is not acceptable to everybody at the same time.
Their longings and habits vary like the animal kingdom',
and those who prefer to live in holes and caverns must not be
forced into daylight. Again, others who crawl slowly along
the ground cannot join the bird in its flight. It will come to
all,” she continued, “ but for each in its proper course and
time.” I felt deeply impressed with this inspired conversa¬
tion, and in pondering over it now I feel astonished, at times
even mortified, to think hpw foolishly I bestowed my zeal in
wrong quarters. In running back in memory to my period of
excited activity, I actually catch myself like one standing
before a pond and inviting a fish to have a stroll with me
over the fields! This lesson I take to heart, and hope to save
much trouble to myself and to others by carefully considering
beforehand where the subject of Spiritualism may be intro¬
duced with advantage. On asking whether my invisible friend
would manifest her presence on a photographic plate, I was
advised to go to Mr. Hudson, and of course followed this hint,
and obtained two different positions of the same spirit at two
sittings. If there is a process of preparing a plate with a sham
figure which withstands rough polishing, then I could of course
not swear to the result in my case, otherwise the operation
was gone through exactly as if I did all myself, following Mr.
Hudson from the first to the last touch like one half of the
Siamese twins. Before sitting down, I mentioned that in my
own results I got the spirit figure always on my left side, and,
curiously enough, the beautiful, almost classical-looking, form
came here on my left side, against the experience of Mr. Hud¬
son, whose figures usually appeared on the right. In the
second sitting, when I suggested to Miss Hudson (the medium ?)
to sit nearer to me, the figure came oiit on the other side.
This was interesting and new to me, the same spirit having
evidently shifted its place. Another feature worth noticing
was the decided decrease of intensity in the second figure, my
own image being equal in both. It tells of a diminution of
power. In the third and last sitting not a trace of spirit form
could be detected. To me the experiment was highly inte¬
resting and pleasing, but Mr. Hudson felt rather disappointed,
for he would have preferred to see a recognised face instead.
I perfectly understood his feelings, and I hope and nearly feel
sure we may have success ere long.
My time for my stay drawing to a close, I resolved to wind
up with spending the last evening at the soiree of the National
Association, and a more agreeable conclusion could not be
imagined, there being so many friends drawn together in
pleasant, homely rooms. My first searching glance for the
“ stars” in the cloudless sky caught the face of Mrs. Corner
(Miss Cook) ; but I had to inquire whether I saw aright, for
my imagination had, by following her remarkable career, the
numberless sittings, and severe experiments, pictured a pale,
sickly person, and here I found a fresh and rosy-looking young
lady, the very type of life and health. My melancholy expec¬
tation was dispelled as if by magic, and even the idea crossed
my mind that before long medical men might prescribe in
some cases doses of seances for the bodily benefit of patients.
The cheerful, lively aspect of the assemblage in toto spoke for
itself, and the forming of new acqaintances seemed to me more
a matter of natural disposition than mere ceremony. In fact,
I found my “ round” among Spiritualists here most delight¬
fully concluded.
But, alas, I know by experience that some little mishap is
always in store when I begin to think “ This time all goes
smooth.” After having managed with difficulty to remain
another day, to take advantage of an offer to be present at a
seance with Miss Showers, I tasted a bitter cup of disappoint¬
ment, for that celebrated medium did not appear. Spoiled by
uninterrupted success up to this point, I obstinately believed
that even here an extraordinary manifestation would be at the
bottom of it—an aerial flight to a great distance—say Sebasto¬
pol ; and as no return tickets are furnished on such trips, our
263
waiting in vain would seem quite explicable. However, as no
report of that kind confirmed my expectation, I must give in,
and take it as a little damper in the otherwise good time I had
of it in London. Cheisiian Reimebs.
Manchester, May 15th, 1875.
THE AECHBISHOP OE CAHTEEBTJET OH SPIEITS.
Sib,—Some time ago there appeared in The Spiritualist a
copy of a letter sent to his Grace the Archbishop of Canter¬
bury, on the subject of modern spiritual phenomena, by Mr.
Herbert Noyes, if I recollect aright. Now, I never heard
whether there was any reply to it, nor do I know what opinions
his Grace may entertain on the subject; but anyhow, in the
current number of Good Words is an article on the Fallacies
of Unbelief, which is chiefly devoted to the popular arguments
against Christianity and miracles in general, and a great deal
of it is worthy of perusal by Spiritualists, as well as by
orthodox people. For instance, his Grace says : ” Certainly,
it would seem to be a less practical question if we asked what
is the distance between the earth and the sun, than to ask
what is the probability that the spirit which I know to be
within me, and which by a thread of consciousness binds
together all the separate states of my changing life, and which
I know for years has regulated all the movements of my mate¬
rial body, shall live and grow and develope itself with ever-
increasing freshness long after my mortal body has wasted
into dust To say that religious questions are not
practical before you have thoroughly examined them is quite
unworthy of a philosopher The greatest philosophers
of past and present times, the noblest spirits which the
history of the world has ever produced, have thought and
acknowledged that they could find no loftier subjects of con¬
templation.” Well, that is certainly very cheering to us
matter-of-fact practical Spiritualists; but my own personal
experience goes to prove that to confess myself a Spiritualist
is to acknowledge myself a fool. And still more, to admit that
I am a medium is to admit myself an impostor, and such, I
think, has also been the experience of those Spiritualists in all
ages who have made themselves practically acquainted with
religious and spiritual beliefs and phenomena, instead of in¬
dulging in metaphysical discussions on the subject. Anyhow,
that the article in question is valuable at the present time,
taken in conjunction with what is recorded of modern miracles,
is the opinion of Jas. F. Rhodes.
80, Corbridge-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
THE “ PIEMAN ” SEANCE.
Sib,—The “ Firman ” affair in Paris, taken with theyjciscos
that have happened in London, gives a perfect denial to those
conditions being necessary which are generally laid down and
required by the spirits to materialise; for in each case of
alleged imposition the manifestation has been given when
not only the sceptic or discoverer of the imposition was in
the circle, but in the last case you might say “in the
cabinet ” with the medium. In every case also their precon¬
ceived intention of attack was not known to the controlling
agents. This being so, would not the best test to adopt for
the future tie to conceal some reliable and trustworthy person
in the cabinet without the knowledge of the medium, when¬
ever the integrity of the same is doubtful ? Let these wit¬
nesses report their experiences at the end of the seance.
Geobge Blvton.
2, Albert road, Dalston, May 17th.
A teance lecture will be delivered next Thursday
evening by Mrs. Tappan in the Doughty Hall, in aid of unfor¬
tunate women, and should be well supported.
Religious Mania.—The Daily Telegraph of last Monday
says—“ Charles Dentith, a young man employed in the steel
works of the London and North-Western Railway Company
at Crewe, committed a murder under peculiarly distressing
circumstances on Saturday evening. About half-past five Den-
tith’s married sister, with whom he resided, left him with her
infant in the cradle whilst she went upstairs to attend to
household matters. Taking advantage of her absence, Dentith
seized a knife, and walking to the side of the cot, plunged the
weapon into the skull of the child, killing it almost instan¬
taneously. Dentith is in custody. He has for some years
been a regular attendant at, a Primitive Methodist chapel in
the town, and religious mania is said to be the cause of the
crime. He was also a teetotaller.”
264
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 28, 1875,
THE DAVENPORT BROTHERS IN EUROPE.
THE KING OE PORTUGAL INVESTIGATING SPIRITUALISM.
Bv The Banner of Light which reached London by last Wed"
nesday’s mail we learn that it is now over one year since
the Davenport Brothers left America for Havana, Cuba, and
during that time they have visited nearly all the islands of the
West Indies, also some of the principal cities of South
America; but the hot climate of the West Indies had reduced
them to such a weakened physical condition, that Ira Daven¬
port was especially advised by the physicians to leave for
a colder climate ; so they concluded their engagement, sailed
from the island of Cura^oa, and landed in Havre after a
tempestuous voyage of twenty-three days. Off the Bay of
Biscay for five days and nights they were in a tremendous
storm. During their stay in the West Indies they suc¬
ceeded in creating considerable interest amongst the higher
classes, consisting of bankers, merchants, and government
officials—the bulk of the population being made up of un¬
educated natives and half-breeds of all nations ; the negro
element was prominent in many of the islands.
Their success in South America was great; in Caracas,
Valencia, Puerto Cabello, and other places in Venezuela, they
filled the largest theatres to overflowing for several nights in
succession, also giving many seances in the private residences
of leading citizens. In Georgetown, South America, they
gave two public seances.
On returning to Europe they landed at Havre, where they
passed two weeks, resting and recruiting after the fatigue of
the long voyage. From Havre they went south, giving public
seances in the principal theatres of Nantes, Tours, Angers,
and several other places. From Bordeaux they sailed for
Lisbon, where they arrived on the 8th of February, and on the
12th gave a private seance to the members of the press, causing
an excitement only equalled by that of London and Paris in
1864 and ’65. Hundreds of small pamphlets were immedi¬
ately issued by unknown parties, announcing an explanation
of the phenomena, and sold in the bookstores, shops, and in
the streets. They were immediately sought for by the
managers of the theatres and other public places of amuse¬
ment, and concluded an arrangement with the director of the
Theatre Gymnasio for one week, opening on the 16th to a
house literally packed from pit to gallery : every ticket having
been sold two days before the opening night, hundreds of
persons were refused admission. Private boxes, which were
bought at the theatre prices, were afterwards sold for three
times their cost by speculators, who are always on the look¬
out to take advantage of any unusual excitement. During their
engagement at this theatre they were visited by the king and
royal family several times, also by some of the nobility and
prominent citizens of Lisbon. The king was highly pleased,
as well as astonished, with what he witnessed at the palace in
the private seances, and took a deep interest in all the different
manifestations that were evolved. At Lisbon they received
telegrams from the principal cities of Portugal, and made con¬
tracts for Oporto, Bruga, Averio, and Coimbra.
Their career in all the cities they visited in Portugal was
one continual success in every respect, unequalled by that in
any other country in the same length of time ; and they were
not a little surprised by meeting with quite a large number of
Spiritualists, many of them professing the Catholic religion.
Haying passed about five weeks in Portugal, engaged nearly
every day in giving public or private seances (creating
an interest which will not soon die out), they started for
Spain, and arrived in Madrid on the 17th of March, and gave
a private seance to the members of the Madrid press, which
was well received by them all, they, without exception, giving
favourable reports of what they had witnessed. It was their
intention and desire to at once give public seances, but they
were prevented on account of the religious holidays, of which
they have a great many in this country.
The Davenport Brothers have left Spain, and are now on
their way to Brussels.
Next Wednesday’s Soiree.—London is very full just
now, so it may be expected that there will be a large attend¬
ance at the National Association soiree next Wednesday, at
38, Great Bussell-street, when there will be an oppportunity
of talking over the results of the bazaar, the persecution of
M. Ley marie in Paris, and other matters of interest. The
galvanometrio apparatus to be presented to the Association
by Mr. Blackburn may possibly bo finished by that time, and
exhibited at work.
Mr. and Mrs. Hardy leave London for the Continent
to-day.
Mr. Peebles has ready for the press, a new book en¬
titled “ Radical Doctrines of Spiritualists and Shakers.”
The Spiritualist Reading-Room in Bloomsbury.—
The collection of books in the library of the National Association
of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, although
not very large at'present, is of superior quality. Should contribu¬
tions of books continue at the rate they have begun, in a very
few weeks the finest spiritualistic library in the world will
have been established on the premises. Among the articles
that are wanted on the premises, but are not likely to be
purchased out of the ordinary funds of the Association during
this year of exceptionally heavy expenses, are some large
looking-glasses (to place over the mantelpieces of the best
rooms), two couches, an ottoman, a complete set of the works
of A. J. Davis, and some few other things. The room at
present unfurnished, and which may possibly be hereafter
turned into a philosophical department, requires a carpet, as it
has to be utilised for the soirees. Unless some of these articles
are supplied by private gift, it is not probable that the Associa¬
tion will purchase them for some time to come, as its principle
of action is to live within its income, and not to get into
debt, although the heavy cost of starting and furnishing new
offices may cause a slight deficiency at the close of the present
year.
Liverpool Psychological Society.—A correspondent
says—“ It may not be so generally known as is desirable, that
there is a discussion society in connection with the above
association of Spiritualists, which meets every Friday
evening, at eight o’clock, for the purpose of reading literary
and scientific papers on the physical, mental, and spiritual
constitution of man—scarcely less than concerning those
wonderful facts and phenomena now called psychology and
Spiritualism indefinitely. By some the human body is consi¬
dered a machine, of exquisite workmanship, it may be, but
still a sort of chemical laboratory, in every part of which, day
and night, the most delicate and refined processes are being
performed, for weal or for woe. Others tell us that this same
machinery operates only under the direction of a force, termed
the vital principle; whilst a third group of doctors, or teachers,
assure us of a soul, and a spirit, which depend not on organic
tissues, and live elsewhere, after the collection of physical
phenomena has been withdrawn. On the 21st instant all these
views were more or less represented by materialists, psycholo¬
gists, and Spiritualists, assembled to hear an address read by
Mrs. Nosworthy, on the subject, “ Not Church, but Jesus,” in
the Islington Assembly Booms, followed by the usual discus¬
sion. And certainly this talented lady exhibited a remark¬
able display of elocutionary power, that set forth most fully
and impartially, before a large audience, those extremely
important topics of spiritual philosophy and natural science
that bear upon Hebrew and Christian records, and all the
scriptures of anthology in every part of the world, barbaric or
civilised. The paper was heartily applauded by competent
judges of ancient and modern philosophy, and the conclusion
of it was, that ecclesiasticism is not the Christianity of Jesus;
and that, despite scientific materialism, which awards the
same destiny to the holiest as to the most abandoned—a
silence of death from which there shall be no resurrection unto
life, either for a Nero or St. Paul—the spirituality of Christ is
the chief safeguard of the human soul from time to eternity;
whilst the continuity of existence, now demonstrated by the
science of Spiritualism, will ere long be accepted by mankind
at large as the truest and best revelation of each individuality
of being, satisfactory alike to the aspirations of heart and
intellect.
MRS. TAPPAN’S LECTURES,
ON SUNDAY EVENINGS AT 7 p.m.,
AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS, MOR'TIMER-STREET, VT.
THIRD AND FINAL COURSE OF SIX LECTURES.
May 2.—1. “Further Experiences in Spirit Life,” by the late Judge
Edmonds. May 9.-2. “ Spiritual Chemistry,” by the late Professor
Mapes. May 16.—3. “ Moral and Spiritual Healing,” by the late Dr.
Rush. May 23.—4. “ Experiences in Spirit Life, and in Communicating
with Mortals, by the late Adin Augustus Ballon. May 30.—5. “ The
Harmony and Divinity of all Religions," by the late Theodore Parker,
June 6.—6. “The Spiritual Cosmos,” by the Whole Band of Twelve
Guides.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
Mat, 28, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
• ••
in
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTS, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can be consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
1 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 2, Vemon-place,
Bloomsbury-squaro, W.O.,
BBITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS. (Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, near Manchester.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bemard-street, Russell-square. W.O.
MR. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush,
W, Please write.
TSS GODFREY, CURATIYE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W, To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
JY. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return as
soon fas engagements permit. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—Wartvick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.
DR. M’LEOD AND SIBYL—MAGNETIC HEALING
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefltted., By letters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfleld, Esq., 15,
Lower Belgrave-street, Pimlico, S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and* Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
Mrs. oliye, spirit medium, 49, belmont-
STREET, CHALK FARM-ROAD, N.W. Trance communica¬
tions for Tests. Business and Medical advice, Healing by Spirit Mesmerism,
Ac. Terms for private seance, one guinea, public seances on Tuesdays,
at 7 p.m., and Fridays, 3 p.m., at above address. Admission 2s. 6d. Pre¬
vious appointments should be made for private seances.
"VTOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDLER, Professor
_L\ of Curative Mesmerism (80 Years Established), attends patients
daily1! from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indication of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
EM. PARKES, SPIRITUALIST PHOTOGRAPHER.
• Sittings a la stance by appointment, Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays. The magnesium light used in dull weather or when required.
Fee, one guinea per sittine. Address, 0, Gaynes Park Terrace, Grove-road,
Bow, E.
WANTED TO PURCHASE.—A complete Set of bound
volumes of the Spiritual Magazine. Please apply, stating price
and condition of volumes, to X, care of E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
London, E.C.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russell-strbet, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 8s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
TO SPIRITUALISTS.—A valuable opportunity is now
presented to Spiritualists of increasing their temporal means.
Particulars, with conditions, may be obtained from A. Snow, IS, Atling-
worth-street, Brighton.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston-lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in-
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Halston, and Kingsland.—Information
as to Local Association, Seances, &o., to be obtained on application. 2'he
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N. W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21, Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple,E.O.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer. S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, FinohJey-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buiidings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Edeu-villa, Cairn s-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thornham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hiil, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John. 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Ghinnery, Samuel, Esq., 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Orosland, Newton, LyntonJodge, Vanbrugh Park-road Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. F., 8, Marlborough-road, St. John's-wood, N.W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwieh.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder's-hill, Hendcn, Middlesex, N. W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel.E, 6, Loughborough-road North, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton S. W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Gale, R., 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.O.
Harper, Robert, 55, Oastle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Oobden-sfreet, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-sti eet, Hyde-park. W.
James, Capt. J, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.0
Meers, W. D„ 75, Fairfax-road, St. John’s-wood.
Nosworthy, Mrs.F. A., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., Olub-chambers, Regent street.
Regan, James, 4, Stanley-villas, Northcote-road, New Wandsworth.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., M.D., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, vldKent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, 103, Seymour-place Bryanston-square, W.
Sneliing, G. F., Camden-vilia, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Sirawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wilson, D. H, M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall
S.W., ana 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square. Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C. ,
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. 1’Empereur de Eussie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, Styria, via Gratz, Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the.Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor (Progressive Spiritualist), Melbourne, Australia.
Mrs rCora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Babco Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. C instant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Berne, Switzerland , •
Epea Sargent, Esq., Box 3,556, Boston, U.S.A.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russel ■
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M, Edouard Buguet, 5, Boulevard, Montmartre, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Pans.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-EJysees, Paris.
Gr. O. Witeig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 35, Leipsio
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Wurzburg, Bavaria.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New Yffk.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Aostria.
Dr. G. L. Ditson, Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L Sammons, Esq., Cape Town Africa.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 28, 1875,
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., P.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Pox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. O. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Eeed, Esq.; C. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Pox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were Subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’   
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Enquirers into Spiritualism should begin by ‘forming spirit circles in
their own homes, With no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
6. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.^
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PBIOE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe ;,it klso has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection with their communications in its columns are
Mr. O. P. Yarley, C.E., F.B.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.B.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred B. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayu Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess - of Caithness; Count de Medina
Pomar; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Bobert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isbam, Bart.; Mrs. Boss-Church,
(Florence Marry at); Mrs, Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Bussian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.) ; Mr. J. O. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Da we;
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Bev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox London-, Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.B.I., Barris¬
ter-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LLM.; Mr. C.
Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W. Lindesay Bichardson,
M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 3rd Edition, with Appendix. ^
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz. Price 3s.
London.—Simpkin, marshall & Co.
The spiritual and psychopathic insti-
TUTE, 1, Dunkeld-street (opposite Emmanuel Church), West
Derby-road, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Healers sent to all parts (terms
per arrangement.) J. and L. E. Coates, Principals.
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman,
Price Threepence. To behadof W. H. Terry, 96, Bussell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
. TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of tbe most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 89 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4£d. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
or enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVEB PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, ana
umbrellas.
rpo THE GUARDIANS OF ORPHAN GENTLEWOMEN,
JL or others deprived of the advantages of a Home Circle. A Lady of
unsectarian and liberal views wishes to receive into her house Three
Young Ladies from the age of sixteen, in order to complete their studies
by means of the classes held at the Crystal Palace School of Art,
where the best masters are engaged. Board and residence, exclubive of
school fees, 120 guineas per annum. Young ladies of good family from the
Continent or the Colonies would be acceptable. Address Y Z, Nicnolls,
Newsagent, Upper Norwood. 
0 THE READERS OF “ THE MEDIUM.,, Answer,
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.") Published by E. W.
Allen Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny
E MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published ox?
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathedrals, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
“OEYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
JLVi fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Bue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Aye Maria-lane London E.C.
