[Registered as a Newspaper.
No. 181. (Vol. VIII.—No. 6.) LONDON: FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
(Contents.
At'ulds of Spirit Hands in Manchester. By'William Oxley 61
Casts of Spirit Hands. By C. Reimers  ... 61
The Psychological Society of Great Britain— The Visions
of Allred Stokes, the Detector of the Harriet Lane
Murder—A New Definition of the Terms Matter and
Spirit—Physics and Metaphysics—The Spiritual Body—
Psychological Pacts in the Hands of Physiologists—The
Value of Human Testimony—Direct Spirit Writing—
A Materialistic View of Things Spiritual ... ... ... ... 62
Interesting Mesmeric Experiments:—Convulsive Motions
Produced by Mesmerism—Experiments in Mesmerism
by Mr. Rogers — Mr. Redman’s Experiments in
Mesmerism  ... 64
Mental Telegraphy, Clairvoyance, and Somnambulism. By
Emma Hardinge-Britten—Extraordinary Case of Som¬
nambulism—Writing in an Unconscious State—Writing
in the Dark—Searching for Writing Implements, etc.—
Strange Light from the Visual Organs—The Winds ... 67
The Persecution of Spiritualists in Paris. Comdemnation
of M. Leymarie ...      ... 69
A Seance at Captain James’s   69
Poetry:—A Dialogue between Wisdom and one of her
Children, 69; Sonnet ... ...      69
Correspondence :—Rapping Mediums for Daylight Seances
Wanted—Healing Mediumship in Paris; The Revivifi¬
cation of Plants—Private Seances in Manchester—The
Nature of the Spirit—Mesmeric Experiments—A Seance
with Mr. Eglington  €9
The Harrison Testimonial  71
The Spirituality of Walt Whitman’s Poetry:—Whispers
of Heavenly Death—Assurances—The Last Invocation 71
Dr. Slade's Mediumship     71
Provincial News:—Liverpool, Debate on Mesmerism at
the Rooms of the Liverpool Psychological Society—
Funeral of a Spiritualist—iVwcasffe-on-T’yne, A Social
Meeting of Spiritualists  72
Answers to Correspondents   72
Paragraphs :—Ne n Publications, 69; National Association
Library, 71; Council Meeting of the National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists, 71; The Testimonial to Mrs. Tappan 71
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street,
London: and orders intended for the Friday s issue should reach the
office not later than by the first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London,
W.C City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
London, E.C.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, & GENERAL OUTFITTER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including
hats, shirts, and umbrellas.
Will shortly be published,
DR. MONCK’S ALMANACK and TRUTH-
SEEKERS’ GUIDE TO THE INVESTIGATION OF
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.” Overforty closely printed pages.
Price 3d. Contains original articles on “Scientific Spiriiual-
i'sm,” “Oui Bono," “The Healing Power,” “Rules for the
Spirit-circle,” &c., &c., by S. O. Hall, Dr. W. Hi chrr.au,
“Fritz,1 T. P. Barkas, &c. Will be found very useful among
Sceptics and Investigators. Quantities supplied to societios or
for free distribution at a great reduction. Single copy, post
free, 3d. Address, Geo. Tommy/ 7, Unity-street, Bristol.
Agents wanted.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psyoho-
logiques, fondfe par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the SocMti
Anonyme, 7. Rue do Lille. Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
OPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
k3 description of manifestations recently produced by
i pirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.C.; and E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, Pater-
u if ter-row, E.O.
2-16, Boulevard des Oapucines, Paris.
1 >EVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The
B y Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of
Printing. Estimates forwarded on application.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
The Second Volume of The Identity of Primitive
Christianity and Modern Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth,
completes the work.
CONTENTS.
I.—Spirit Writing.
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power.
III. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV. —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
V.—Clairaudience
VI.—Dreams and Visions.
VII.—Trance and Ecstacy.
VIII.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Coitentions.
X.—Prayer.
XI.—The Ministry of Angels.
XII.—Death.
XIII. —The Spirit World.
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI.—Conclusion.
The above work has just betn issued in America, and copies
may be had in a week or two, price 10s el. each at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.O.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, pub¬
lished on the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue
de la Cath^drale, Lifege, Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the t- pi ritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Hanner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, originai essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, los. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
MR. J. J. MORSE
Will del’.ver a TRANCE ADDRESS in the Town Hall,
Bishop Auckland, on
SUNDAY EVENING NEXT, FEBRUARY 13th,
Doors open at 6 p.m. Subject of Lecture—
“ SPIRITUALISM: ITS ABUSE AND USE.”
Admission Free.
Mr. MORSE will deliver two TRANCE ADDRESSES in the
Free Library Buildings, South Shields, on the Evenings of
FEBRUARY 22nd and 23rd.
Letters may be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old
Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
GEORGE SEXTON, LL D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has fi om the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row,
Birmingham athenaeum, temple
STREET.—On MONDAY, February 21st, Mr. J. W.
MAHONY will give RECITALS from Shakspere, Byron, Hood,
Tennyson, Eliza Cook, and other Poets, comprising the follow¬
ing pieces:—“Selection from Hamlet,” soliloquy in first act;
“Lady Clara Vere-de-Veie " (Tennyson); “Honesty, a frag¬
ment” (Eliza Cook); “ Bridge of Sighs ” (Hood); “Betterthan
Gold; ”• “ Selection from Hamlet, Advice to the Players; ”
“Field of Wat jrloo ’■ (Byroni; " Shamus O’Brien ” (by re¬
quest) ; “ Selection from Henry the Fifth, Speech of Henry in
the Treaty Scene ; “ The Dream of Eugene Aram ” (Hood);
and the soliloquy by Hamlet in fourth act, never spoken on the
stage.
Several efficient vocalists will take part in the programme.
Tickets Is. and 6d. each, may be obtained at Mr. Hill’s, Bristol-
street; Mr. Lowe, Ann-street; Mr. Turner, Icknield-street
West; and from Mr. Mahony, 1, Cambrian-place, Anglesey-
street, Lozells. To commence at eight o’clock.
The proceeds will go towards ihe cost of repairing damage
done to furniture (caused by overcrowding) on the occasion of
Mr. Mahony’s first reply to the editor of the Birmingham
Daily Mail.
East London spiritual meetings.—
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter's-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at 8even o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntarj contributions.
COMMITTEES OF THE BRITISH- NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS. -
Offices and Library Committee:
Mr. Thos. Evbritt, Chairman.
Mrs. Everitt, Mrs. Kislingbury, Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, Mr.
E. T. Bennett, Mr. J. Freeman.
Soiree Committee:
Mr. E. Dawson Bogers, Chairman.
Mrs. Everitt, Mrs. Mai thy, Mrs. Kislingbury, Mrs. Desmond
Fitz-Gerald, Miss H. Withall, Mr. Thos. Everitt, Mr. J.
Freeman.
Provincial Societies Committee:
Mr. H. Withall, Chairman.
Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, Mr. Algernon Joy, Mr. E. T. Bi-nnett,
Mr. R. Pearce, Mr. J. J. Morse.
Lecture and Discussion Committee:
Mr Geo. King, Chairman.
Mr. Martin R. Smith. Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mr. H. T,
Humphreys, Mr. E. P. Ashton.
Seance Committee:
Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, Chairman.
Mr. Martin R. Smith, Mr. T. Eveidtt, Mr. Desmond Fitz¬
Gerald, Mr. S. Cliinnery, Mr. Keningale Cook.
Finance Committee.:
Mr. Morell Theobald, Chairman.'
Mr. Martin R. Smith, Mr. Alex. Calder, Mr. Geo. King.
BRITISH
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
WINTER MEETINGS.
A continuation of these meetings will be held at the Rooms
of the Association for reading and discussing papers on
Spiritualism and kindred topics. They recommenced on
Monday, January 24th at 7.30 o'clock, and will be held fort¬
nightly until the end of April. Friends having papers to
communicate are requested to send them at an early date to
the Secretary, at 38, Great Russeil-street, Bloomsbury, W O.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISH EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
QUEBEC HALL, 25, QUEBEC-STREET,
MARYLEBONE-ROAD.
PUBLIC MEETING will be held at above
address on Tuesday, Feb. loth, at eight o’clock, for the
Purpose of Reorganising an Association of Inquirers into
Spiritualism.
All the late members and friends of the Marylebone Society,
and Spiritualists generally, who, by their counsel or otherwise,
can assist, as well as persons anxious to inquire into the
subject, are cordially invited to be present
Admission Free. No Collection.
THE BIRKBECK BUILDING SOCIETY'S ANNUAL
RECEIPTS EXCEED FOUR MILLIONS.
HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE FOR
TWO GUINEAS PER MONTH,
W ith Immediate Possession and no Rent to pay.—Apply at the
Office of the Birkbkck Building Society, 29 & 30, South¬
ampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF LAND
FOR FIVE SHILLINGS PER MONTH,
With Immediate Possession, either for Building or Gardening
purposes.—Apply at the Office of the Birkbeck Freehold
Land Society, 29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-
laue.
HOW TO INVEST YOUR MONEY WITH
SAFETY,
Apply at the Office of the Birkbeck Bank, 29 and 30, South¬
ampton buildings, Chancery-lane. All sums under £50
repayable upon demand.
Current Accounts opened, and Interest allowed on the
minimum monthly balances. Cheque-books supplied. English
and Foreign Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
Advances made thereon.
Office hours from ten to four; except on Saturdays, when the
Bank closes at two o’clock. On Mondays the Bank is open
until nine o'clock in the evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAYENSCROFT, Manager.
BOARD and RESIDENCE, Upper Norwood.—
A lady, of liberal views, and Nonconformist, desires to
establish in her own house a friendly family party of two or
three ladies. Young orphan ladies would find this a pleasant
home, and those who wish to study will have advantages in
joining the classes now so popular at the Crystal Palace
Schools of Art. Terms—130 guineas per annum, or propor
tionately less for a shorter term. Address—Alpha, 1, Bemard-
villas, Upper Norwood.
ii
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton-, S/VV.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Berriard-villas, Upper Morwood.
Everitt, Thomas, LilUn-vllla, Ilolder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex,
N.W.
Fitz-Cierald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.B.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, War wick-square, S.W. .
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Bamsay, Mrs., 4(1. Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin It.. Ileathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, Fincliley-road, N.W.
Wasou, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adsbead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd.,New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., I, King Edward-st., Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Itichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Itcigate.
Binney, F, A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Yue-terrace, Soutbsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 88, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury.
Cooper, It., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Orosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrngh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George fit., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Beading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.W.
Fitton, B , 34, Walnut-street, Oheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel, E, 0, Lougliborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6 Bye-terrace, Peckham Bye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Ilinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S-E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivlmey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Janies, Capt.,1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, 199, Londpn-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
klawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Nonolk.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Bichmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C.T., M.R.C.S., 19,Nottingham-place,York-gate, Regent's
Park., N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, E. Dawson. Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs. E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Fincliley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trat'algar-road, Old Kent-
road,S E
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Siiort, Rev. W. F., J. House,’tWoolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper
Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G.N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Yersailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret's-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, R M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss II., 1, 'I'he Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, II., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heatblands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbnry, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C..
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobltz, bei Potschach, Styrin,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2c, Leipsic, Germany.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmleld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co„New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 206, West 38th Street, New York,
■U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 4, Via Morone, Milan, Italy.
Dr. Maxmilian Petty; Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse, 35, Gartenhaus,
Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq , M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
a, Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-ayenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 11, 1876.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W.'L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernou-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 18, Rue d’Acnieres, Paris. *
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de I’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Mrs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. Lewis
Roberts, 68, Oxford-street, Liverpool.
L’UnionSpirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
’The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec,—II. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka Josefstadt, Erzherzog, Alexauder-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
BllITISH NATIONAL AS-SOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The British Nation At Association op Spirituai,ists is formed
to unite Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid
and benefit; to aid students and inquirers in their researches, by
placing at their disposal the means of systematic investigation into
the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic; to make
known the positive results arrived at by careful research; and to
direct attention to the beneficial influence which those results are
calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual con¬
duct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class, whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers
into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in
the year 1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liver¬
pool, at which all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the
Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United Kingdom, were re¬
presented. The amount of the annual subscription to the National
Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year.
Each member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is
eligible for election to all offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wish¬
ing to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss
Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38,
Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C., of whom copies of the Con¬
stitution and Rules inay be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Woburn-street.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM & LIBRARY
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and
periodicals connected wi'h Spiritualism, from all
parts of the world, and various high-class journals, are regu¬
larly supplied. The library contains, in addition to the best
writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, speculative, and
scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes
membership; Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d.
To non-members, annual tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.;
Monthly, 5s.
A Seance-'ioom can be engaged under special arrangements,
to be learned from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on
Saturdays.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. Aii s worth
Secretary.—Mr. Lewis Roberts, 68, Oxford Street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Knox.
Committee of Management.—Mr. J. Smith, Mr. James Monk,
Mr. J. Chapman, Mr G. Brown, Mr. J. Haslam, Mr. Jones,
Mr. William Meredith, Mr. Ainswoith, Mrs. Ainsworth, Miss
Hilton, and Miss Dickson.
Trustees.—James Wason, Esq., Mr. John Lamont, Mr. Joseph
Shepherd.
Auditors.—Mr. P. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
instructiou, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
February, 1875.
In the Press.
Dr. monck’s almanack and truth-
SEEKERS’ GUIDE TO THE INVESTIGATION OF
MODERN SPIRITUALISM. Over fifty closely-printed pages,
with illustrations of direct drawings through Dr. Duguid’s
mediumship. Contains original articles written expressly for
the almanack by S. C. Hall, F.8.A., Dr. W. Hitchman,
“Fricz,” T. P. Barkas, F.G.S., W. Oxley, T. Shorter, Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory, A. Calder, J. N. Tredman Martheze, Mrs.
Tyndall, &c., &c. Subjects—“Scientific Spiritualism,’’ “ Cui
Bono," “The Healing Power,’’ “Spiritualism in Every-day
Life,” 1 The Beneficent Aspect of Spiritualism,” On Mediums,’
“Rules for the Spirit Circle.” Will he found very useful
among sceptics and investigators. Orders should be sent in at
once to Geo. Tommy, 7, Unity-street, Bristol. Single copy, post
free, 3d. Quantifies supplied to societies or for free distribution
at a liberal reduction. Agents wanted.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m.
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and
Thursday evenings ; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists
only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance, healing,
AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship. Disorderly Influences
removed. French spoken. At home Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended. Ad¬
dress, 10, New Ormond-street, Bloomsbury.
PROFESSOR REGAN, PSYCHOPATHIC
HEALER, wishes to make known, by desire of his
Spirit Physicians, who cure through him, in his normal
Gate, that having been developed by them into a powerful
healing medium, and at the same time, by a course of deep
s'udy, acquired a practical knovledge of the philosophy of
disease, and its rationile of cure, he is now prepared to ex¬
amine, treat, and cure patients, suffering from all kinds of
acute, chronic, nervous, and organic disease of long years’
standing. Consultations and invaluable treatment given at
his own house, or at patient’s residence, by appointment.
Visitors received at his Consulting-rooms from 12 to 4 daily.
Fee. One Guinea. Address, 59, Finborough-road, Redcliffe-
gardens, South Kensington.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIYE MESMERIST
AND RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT,
1, Robert street, Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen
by appointment only. Terms on application by letter.
MR, J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
Notice.—monsieur adolphe didier,
Professor of Curative Mesmerism (80 Years Estab¬
lished), attends patients daily from 2 till 5, at his own resi¬
dence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden Hill, Kensington. Som¬
nambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases, indication t f
their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can consult
by letter.  
V/TR. S. R. REDMAN, Professor of Animal
Magnetism, begs to inform inquirers and othe s that
he is prepared to attend Public or Private Seances at the houses
of investigators or otherwise, and give his unique illustrations
of Mesmeric and Psychological Phenomena, as recently given
by him before the members of 1 The Brixton Psychological
Society.” For terms, etc., app’y by letter to Mr. S. R. Reamau,
Brixton-hill, S.W.
R. ROBSON, TRANCE MEDIUM~ is pre-
pared to hold Seances or give Addresses on subjects
connected with Spirit Communion. He is also desirous to
obtain active employment in the daytime with a Spiritualist or
Spiritualists. Good references. Age 30 years. Address—
35, Edmund-place, Aldersgate-street, London, E.C.
MR wTlLIAM EGLINGTON, the PHY-
SICAL MEDIUM, is at liberty to receive ENGAGE¬
MENTS for Seances at private houses. For terms, <fcc ,
address, Mr.W. EglinGTON, St. James’s House, Walthamstow.
BIRMINGHAM. — Local Spiritualists are
earnestly invited to attend the Ordinary Meeting at the
Athenaeum, on Sunday, the 6th Feb., when after the Lecture
there will be explained to the meeting a co-operative scheme
for blending the material interests of Spiritualists and others,
and for saving out of the profits otherwise paid to shopkeepers—
a Fund for the building of the Spiritual Hall.
Clairvoyance, and healing by spirit
MESMERISM.—Test Communications through Trance
and Writing. Seances by Mrs. Olive, the well-known Spirit-
Medium, on Thursday (other days by appointmeut only), from
two to four p.m. for Private Consultation, and four to live for
Public Seance, at 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury. Mrs.
Olive also holds Public Seances at her residence, 49, Belmont-
street, Chalk-farm-road, N.W., on Tuesdays, seven p.m., and
Fridays, three p.m. Terms—Private Seances, one guinea;
Public ditto, admission 2s. 6d. Mrs. Olive’s Healiog Powers
are now well established, and testified to by many who employ
no other medical aid. Special terms for courses of treatment
on application. Single visits for consultation, &c., within ten
miles, two guineas inclusive.
Mediumship , its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor-
ma ion for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper bianch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for 1 Jd.; or six copies post free
forGd.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTION FOR THE
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper street,
Islington. A good “ Magnetic "healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from II a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 61.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTE
FOR the CURE OF NERVOUS AND MUS¬
CULAR DISEASES, opposite St.Chrysostom’s Church,
74, Queen’s-road, Everton, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Ope¬
rators sent to all parts. Terms per arrangement.
J. Coates, Principal.
Mesmerism, electro-biology",
FASCINATION.
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological
phenomena.
How to know Sensitive SUBJECTS.
How to develop Clairvoyant Media.
How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DR. MOSES RIGG can teach any person efficiently by post.
Pamphlets and testimonials gratis, or by post, Id. stamp.
Address, 9, Granvi le-square, Londcn, W.C. At home daily
from 10 till 5.
ji j|$ixrtpr tn |f| nub uf ^{tujilunlmnt^
V OjLU JV1E ElQHT. KuMBER SlX.
LONDON. FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 11th, 1876.
MOULDS OF SPIRIT HANDS IN MANCHESTER.
BY WILLIAM OXLEY.
On Friday evening, February 5th, by invitation from Mr.
lleimers, I had the pleasure of witnessing this remarkable
phenomenon under circumstances where fraud was simply
impossible.
On Monday last Mr. Reimers called upon me, and stated
that while sitting alone with a well-known medium, he had
had a hand mould formed, and a cast taken from it, and had
taken one from the medium’s hand, which was quite different.
He invited me to sit with him, in order that the truth might
be vindicated by another witness. I remarked if we could
have a left hand it would be all the more pleasing and satis¬
factory, as the one he had was a right hand.
I went accompanied by a friend, so that there were
present four, the medium (a lady), Mr. Reimers, myself, and
friend. We weighed half a pound of paraffin, putting it
into an earthen jar, filling up the same with boiling water,
which soon dissolved the paraffin. After a conversation
with the invisibles by means of raps on the floor and table,
in full gaslight, they said they were ready to commence
operations, although the liquid was so hot that I could not
put my finger into it without being scalded. We then put
a lace net bag over the head of the medium, drawing it up
tight round her waist, enclosing her hands and arms, and
fastening the tape at the back. We inserted paper in the
bow, so that it was impossible for the medium to untie the
knot, or to get her hands out of the net bag, as it was tied
and knotted on the outside at the back in such a manner
that had it been tampered with the position of the paper in
the knot would have betrayed the attempt. The medium
then went behind a rude cabinet, which was nothing more
than a cloth drawn across one corner of the drawing-room.
We sat outside, with a good light from a lamp on the table
in the middle of the room. After the medium was seated on
a chair in the cabinet, another chair was placed inside, with
the hot liquid on it. After sitting, say about half an hour,
the unmistakable spirit whisper was heard, but indistinctly,
after which a strong masculine voice spoke and said that they
had had an accident, and broken the mould, but that they
had mended it, and we should see something that would
please us ; also that Mr. Reimers was to bring a light, and
be careful not to touch the medium while he removed
the mould. Then, to our astonishment, there lay
a beautiful mould of a small delicately-formed lady’s left
hand. Being warm it had to be carefully handled, and on
examining it we found it had apparently been broken on the
back, and then carefully mended ; but the most remarkable
fact was that the fingers were curved^ and a portion of the
rvrist moulded with the hand. I carefully examined the
mould to see if the hand had been drawn out and the mould
pierced, but not a trace of this was discernible, as it was all
one clean mould, without a seam or mark, except on the back,
where it appeared as if a piece had dropped off and been
put in again ; the joint had beerl very neatly done, and was
hardly perceptible.
Allowing the inevitable supposition that the medium
could have supplied herself with a pair of casts, and manipu¬
lated the casting in the dark, and got out of the net bag
and fastened it again in the ingenious manner by which it
had been tied (which could not have been done without our
hearing her movements, as we sat quite close to the curtain),
even allowing for all this, we have the fact of the repaired
mould, with curved fingers, and a whole complete shell
without a mark. A mark would necessarily have been seen
had the cast or the hand been drawn out of the mould. The
hand was at least an inch smaller or shorter than that of the
medium, and, judging from the cast taken of the right hand
j mould, it appeared to be that of a young aristocratic lady,
I the lines, nails, and joints being of beautiful symmetry.
After all was over the liquid was so hot that we none of
(| us could put our hands into it, and we felt the hands of the
! medium, which were almost cold.
Judging from what I saw, as heat or cold seems to be
! quite the same to the spirits, there is no reason why we may
i not be favoured with a mould of the face and head, or even
I of the whole form, if vessels large enough are prepared. As
vj the first region of the spirit world is Wonderland, there is
) | no saying what marvels of spirit power await us. Supply
)! them with favourable conditions, such as trusting, obedient,
i and loving spirits on our side, where is the man living who
| i can say what the spirits cannot do ?
) \ Higher Broughton, Manchester, February 7th, 1876.
j ! CASTS OF SPIRIT HANDS.
i ) i BY. C. REIMERS.
ill “ lx the most cloudless skies of scepticism I see a rain-cloud, even if it be
j; j no bigger than a man’s hand—it is modern Spiritualism.”—Brougham.
How wonderfully this prediction of Lord Brougham seems
m to draw near its fulfilment! On the horizon of America
| j this cloud appeared, and"the first drops, tick, tick, tick, fell
m upon the nose of a little child, Katie Fox, in Rochester, and
|[| although these strange “raps” puzzled her, she felt in-
| | stinctively that they came from above, not from below,
jjj Soon these drops fell thicker and faster over a wider area,
I) i and mortals having learnt their meaning, the development of
| ! a power began, of the importance of which our philosophers
j j were not dreaming. Where they fell on a fruitful soil, not
i) i trampled down by blind, fanatical scepticism, strange
| | phenomena cropped up, partly grotesque and silly it is true,
| giving food to the superficial scoffer, but their hidden higher
)i mission engaged the minds of that class of thinkers, who
I! receive and judge not a new visitor only by his dress. Quiet
j! observation steadily battled with increasing abuse, and true
| scientific champions have victoriously established the new
j truth. If the phenomena have passed the realms of the
|l ridiculous, the arguments against them have now to walk
11 the same road—at least, when the reality of these facts is
s | questioned. When the struggle grew more serious, the
| Harvard University courageously resolved to investigate and
i to publish the results. It obtained the results, but with
|; another kind of courage resolved not to make them known.
| The Dialectical Society in London took up the subject in the
> | same spirit, but, although the society refused to publish the
i unexpected result (after two years’ investigation by sceptics),
< I the sub-committee gallantly carried out the task, and their
! work will not be forgotten in the history of true enlighten-
i ment. When I presented a copy of this report to the
I library of our society, Schiller-Anstalt, it was rejected by
11 the scientific (?) division of the literary committee! The
)! members of this society get their information about Spirit-
ualism chiefly from the Gartenlaube, where cases of un-
I doubted imposture (known long before by Spiritualists) are
cleverly handled to flatter the prejudices of the ignorant.
The arguments still afloat among Germans are—conjuring,
hallucination, hypnotis?nus, catalepsy, and hysteria, and those
| who feel not quite safe cautiously advance the possibility of
mesmerism. Consequently my own experiences fell to the
| ground, as they left no proof which could be passed from
i| hand to hand, instead of from mind to mind.
| Last Sunday I obtained evidence of the mysterious power
| which literally can go from hand to hand, for it is the cast
11 of a hand taken from the mould left by the spirit, or what-
| ever it may be. I am curious to see how far this tremendous
/; fact will tell, but I know it must leave its mark, and my
62 THE SPIRITUALIST. Feb. 11, 1876.
simple report of it now will justify the preceding introduc¬
tion from an emotional as well as technical point of view.
I secured my medium in the stiff net bag so tightly, that
the tips of the fingers could with great effort only be forced
through the tape round the waist. Then I melted the
paraffin, and placed the basin on a chair close to the
medium, and took my seat before the cabinet. I waited a
long time without seeing even the face, when a voice, this
time the direct spirit voice, plainly said,—e( It is done; don’t
wake the medium. Handle the mould gently, it is on the
chair.” And there it was ; and I saw something like a face
vanishing near the medium, my opening of the curtain being
done immediately after the advice. A thrill of joy went
through me on beholding the mould, which I placed gently
on the table; then the medium awoke with the usual cool
“ Did you get anything? ” I invited her at once to have a
dip in the paraffin, still liquid. She did so, but her face
expressed evident regret, for it was very hot, and I rudely
suggested that my spirit friend must be used to very hot
places. Three pretty loud raps testified to the dangerous
character of my acquaintance. The enormous difference
between the hand of the medium and that of the spirit
delighted her, for she was afraid it might be a double.
Although the fact of obtaining a cast under similar circum-
stances is not new," and I felt fully convinced I should get it,
the effect on my mind was highly impressive, being aware of
its importance in regard to my fellow investigators in
Germany, especially when the strict test conditions are
critically examined.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
The ordinary fortnightly meeting of the Psychological Society was
held on Thursday, last week, at 11. Chandos-street, Cavendish-square,
London, under the presidency of Mr. Serjeant Cox. There was a good
attendance.
The minutes of the last meeting were road and confirmed.
Mr. P. P. Blyth and Mr. Wedgwood were elected honorary members.
THE VISIONS OF ALFRED STOKES, THE DETECTOR OF THE HARRIET LANE
MURDER.
Mr. F. K. Munton, honorary secretary to the Psychological Society,
then read the following report, which had been drawn up by himself:—
The recent execution of Henry Wain wright for the murder of Harriet Lane,
and the remarkable circumstances connected with the discovery of the crime,
are within the recollection of the members of the Psychological Society, in
common with all readers of the public journals. The principal witness was
one Alfred Philip Stokes.
Wainwright had concealed the body of his victim for twelve months at the
rear of his premises, and being compelled to leave the place, he called in the
assistance of Stokes to remove two parcels, subsequently found to contain the
murdered woman’s remains. Just before the execution a letter appeared in
the Times and other newspapers, pui’porting to be addressed by Stokes to the
condemned man, explaining the singular circumstances under which he
(Stokes) was induced to look into one of the parcels temporarily left in his
charge, and which led to the detection of the prisoner. This letter stated in
substance that a supernatural voice bade Stokes open the parcel, and in
response to his mental inquiry, announced that it was a murder, and that he
ought not to conceal it, even though he would thereby convict a generous
friend.
One of the objects of this society being the collection of psychological
phenomena, the Council deputed me to interview Stokes; first, to ascertain
whether he was the author of the letter in question (its diction and variance
of style from the evidence in court pointing to doubt), and secondly, to
minutely inquire into the alleged phenomena. I accordingly secured a private
meeting with Stokes, and carefully sifted his story. I found him to be an
intelligent man, of the working tradesman class, and by no means so illiterate
as the public report of his evidence would indicate. His defective orthoepy,
strongly marked as to a few words, was calculated to lead to a somewhat
mistaken impression; for example, both in court and to me, he pronounced
the word “ covered ” as though the first syllable were spelt with an “ i,” and
again, the word “ spirit ” as though it were spelt with an “ e.” I was not
altogether surprised to hear him say that he himself was the individual author
of the published letter. He stated that it was honestly addressed by him to
Wainwright, without the smallest idea of its getting into a newspaper, and
that no one was more astonished to see it in the public journals than he was
himself, adding that he never learnt in what manner the gaol authorities
permitted or authorised its publication.
After my interview with Stokes I made some memoranda, and, as to the
material points, I will endeavour to quote his exact words. But it is neces¬
sary to give a brief account of some of his personal peculiarities, which will
throw a light on what follows. He stated that he and his mother were both
given to strong presentiments. He illustrated this by saying that at the
outset of his mother’s illness, which ultimately terminated fatally, and at a
time when neither her friends nor the medical man apprehended danger, he
(Stokes) and his mother mutually felt and confided to each other that death
would ensue. Whenever he (Stokes) dreamt of his deceased mother some
trouble always followed, perhaps of a minor character, such as loss of
work, but more often of a serious nature. I did not attach much importance
to this, except that it explained his meaning when he stated that on the night
before the eventful Saturday when Wainwright was taken into custody, he
had a very vivid dream of conversing with his mother. He was, consequently,
somewhat depressed during the early part of Saturday, and when he went
home frpm bis yrork to dinner in the afternoon he remarked to his wife that
IHi, he felt much out of sorts—that he had no appetite, and, somehow, felt assured
something very unpleasant was going to take place, and ho tided in vain to
shake off this depression. Omitting the details of Walnwright’s request to
i Stokes to help him to carry two parcels, and his leaving him in possession of
them while searching for a cab, I proceed to Stokes’s statement, just remarking
j that, although I cannot, of course, vouch for its accuracy, I fully believe the
I man intended to speak the truth.
| Stokes said, “ While I was looking at the parcels covered with American
cloth, there being nothing particular, except that they were,rather heavy, I
; /; seemed to hear a distinct voice by my side say three times over—f open that
j (i parcel! ’ I could have sworn that somebody was behind me, and I turned round
jj! to look ; not seeing any one I was a bit staggered, and at first tried to dismiss
Mi the thing as absurd. The voice, however, startled me again with the same
|)J words—‘ open that parcel! ’ I considered a second and then gave way to the
|(j impulse and opened it. I can never forget the horrible feeling which came
j|{ over me when I saw a human head and two hands ! Stokes here.romai’ked
Mi that o?f/y “ a poor sort of man as he was,” he would not voluntarily go through
i) | that moment again for a thousand pounds, adding that, although the people
i (i laughed at him in court when ho said that his hair stood up with fright, it was
really true. He then went on to state that while hesitating what he ought to
Mi do, the same voice seemed to say—“It is a murder: will you conceal a
i)i murder?” and by a sort of supernatural energy he closed up the parcel and
i(j tried to look unconcerned as Wainwright came up. The latter evidently
Mj noticed his confusion, for he looked first at the parcel and then at Stokes,
i )i saying—“ What’s the matter with you ? you haven’t touched that parcel have
i )| you ? ” to which Stokes replied, “ I don’t feel well, and I haven’t had my tea.”
j (j Wainwright said, “ Why, it isn’t tea time yet,” and Stokes managed to answer,
j (j “ Ah! but I didn’t eat my dinner either.” This seemed to quiet Wainwright,
Mj who went off in the cab.
j)l I observed to Stokes that some of these details were new, and ho replied
j (; that there were many things he didn’t say to the court, for if he made the slight-
j (i ost mistake the lawyers so badgered him that he was afraid to attempt to explain
j| anything. Stokes practically indoi'sed the language of his letter, saying that
j) j the same voice bade him follow the cab, which he did, resulting in the discovery
j(! of the murder. Stokes also said that, although he did not pay much attention
l\! at the time, he had on several occasions during the past year seen Wainwright
i) I walking in a very listless way, with his eyes on the ground, and suddenly stop
i)j and stand back in a kind of fright, which he (Stokes) ascribes to his
i(i undoubted guilt.
j|i Since the execution Stokes once dreamed of seeing Harriet Lane, or rather
j) j of a young woman in a long white robe, waving her hand in a kindly sort of
Hi way without speaking, and rising upwards till lost to sight. He had never
jyj seen Harriet Lane alive, but was so impressed with this dream that he found
i 11 out a person who had her photograph, which he discovered exactly corre-
Mj sponded with the image of his dream. He further said that a woman, re¬
in siding in a house wherein he (Stokes) formerly lived, and to which Wain-
Mi wright sometimes came, declared that she saw Wainwright come up the stair-
Mj case the other day just as she had seen him in life, and she nearly swooned
Mj with fright. But as the dream just referred to might be due to very natural
j)j impressions, and the story about the woman who swooned, with some other
j|j similar statements, partook of the hearsay order, I refrain from giving more
j(j details. Stokes told me, in conclusion, that he had not recovered his nerves
Mi since the fatal day, and felt he never should. He certainly has the appear-
;)! ance of a man who has passed through great trouble, though there is not the
jn slightest symptom of weakness as to mental power. ‘All his statements, when
i.jj invited in an encouraging tone, are perfectly clear.
Mj I do not offer comment, my mission being to examine the evidence. I re-
j |j port the result, and leave the members to draw their own conclusions.
j}j Mr. Munton, having remarked, after reading his paper, that Stokes,
j(j with some hesitation, promised to attend the society if the members
j|j desired it, the President expressed his belief that Stokes was a
ijj very impressionable man, of an imaginative turn, and probably in
j(j thinking the matter over afterwards fancied that he had heard voices
j (j which impelled him to open the parcel; he should like to ask him
some questions upon this matter, and he should he very glad if Stokes
i)j would come there to make any statement he desired.
Mj A NEW DEFINITION OF THE TERMS MATTER AND SPIRIT.-
Ml Mr. Seijeant Cox then said that, in recent debates, different speakers
!)j having attached different meanings to the words “matter” and “spirit,”
ijj he purposed—to use his own words—to “ assign to them a sense in which
j(j they are to be taken for the purposes of debate in this room, and of use
jyj in our published papers. But let it not go forth that what we propose
jjj is to dictate a definition, to be received as being in itself a perfect one.
j(j That would be an impertinence. Nothing more is designed than to
j j j indicate the sense in which the words should be taken in the discussions
j(j and papers of the Psychological Society, with a view to keeping them
jjj more directly to the point at issue, and to prevent the loss of time and
jjj labour that must always result when disputants are without mutual
j(j knowledge of the fact that they are using the same words in difterent
j/j senses. The ultimate particle with which all things are constructed is
jjj ‘the atom.’ Atoms combine in various proportions, probably iunume-
j(j rable. Of these atomic structures we know but one, because the human
i)j senses are constructed to have perception but of one, namely, that
Mj particular combination of atoms which composes molecules—which
I molecules are the ultimate form of being that is perceptible to the
human senses. The entire of that small fraction of creation that is
j perceptible to our senses is composed of molecules, and molecular
structure is controlled by a certain class of laws we term the physical
or natural laws, and are moved by certain physical forces whose exist¬
ence is only known to us by their action upon molecular structure.
This, then, is ‘ matter,’ or what alone we call ‘ matter.’ Whatever is of
molecular structure is ‘ matter,* and therefore ‘ matter ’ is whatever is
perceptible to the human senses. There might be about us a whole
universe of things constructed of some other combinations of atoms
than those we call molecular, and they would be wholly unseen, unfelt,
unknown to us. We should be in absolute ignorance of their presence.
‘ Matter,’ then, for the purposes of psychological science, and as it is
desired to be understood within the Psychological Society, and in which
sense only it will be recognised in their proceedings, is that combination
of atoms which alone is perceptible to the human senses, and which we
Feb. 11, 1876.
THE SPIH IT UAL! ST.
63
term ‘ molecular.’ Whatever any linman sense, unaided or aided, can i/j
pei'ceive, is ‘matter.’ All tilings perceptible to any human sense are ju
material. Nothing that is not made of molecules can affect any human ])|
sense, which is excited only by the impinging upon it of something that m
is material—that is, of molecular structure. We do not feel the physical |||
forces themselves, we feel only the impact of the molecules they move. j)|
This is a simple,“clear, and very definite conception of matter, and if ir
the term were always used in this sense, what a world of worthless jv
controversy would he swept away ! What, then, in psychological 1)1
science, is spirit? As distinguished from matter, it is simply non- H\
molecular structure, that is to say, some one or more, possibly all, of K|
the many combinations of atoms other than the molecular, but which i)|
combinations are imperceptible to our senses. It may well be—perhaps |(|
it is—that matter and spirit are distinctions that are more in owrselves Hi
than in i/iemselves. They may be the result pf our own limited powers Dl
of perception. It is certain that, if we had one sense more, we should : i
perceive much that now is imperceptible to us, and that which now is m
spirit to us would then be matter. On the other hand, if we had been |)|
gifted with one sense the less, much that is now matter to us would be Rj
spirit. But the distinction is not the less real. ‘ Matter,’then, is the Hi
molecular structure which alone our senses are constructed to perceive. |)i
When we say that a thing is material, we mean only that it is made of Hj
molecules. When we speak of spirit, we mean anything formed of Hi
some other than the molecular combination of atoms. When we speak I < |
of a spirit, we mean any intelligent being formed of some non-molecular I) I
structure, and consequently imperceptible to us.” Hi
PHT8IC8 AND METAPHVSIC8.
Mr. C. C. Massey, barrister-at-law, in a paper read by him, adverted Hj
to the President’s warning against a metaphysical treatment of the Hj
subject, and begged to enter an emphatic protest against the suggestion j ? j
that in a contest with materialism the metaphysician must necessarily i(!
be worsted. On the contrary, if the devotees of physical science were, Hi
as a rule, familiar with metaphysical thought, and with the results of j) j
metaphysical analysis, it was probable that materialism would not be so R;
rampant as it is. Metaphysics had long ago proved that all that we H j
know by our senses, all that science can concern herself with, are mere m
phenomena. It was true she went further and asserted also the pheno- j(j'
menal character of consciousness. Nevertheless, the result was that Hj
matter—all that we know of it—was dependent upon consciousness, and j 11
not consciousness upon it, viz., Esse was Percipi. The late Mr. J. S. m
Mill, though not an idealist in the general scope and tendency of his j) i
philosophy, had admitted, as the result of the best thought of the world Hj
upon the subject, that the phenomena of external perception resolve j(j
themselves, in their ultimate analysis, into “bundles of permanent j j
possibilities of sensation.” To say that there was nothing but matter j|j
in the universe, was to say that there was nothing but phenomena; but j j j
this proposition was also the refutation of materialism because pheno- j) j
mena, ex vi termini, were only appearances, that is to say, existed only jjj
in relation to consciousness. If there was anything definite in our con- j j
ception of matter it was the occupation of space. Molecules might be Hj
divided into atoms, atoms might be derived from vortices—these again j
evolved from an ether of inconceivable tenuity; but if the atom, the j) j
vortex, or the ether were material it must occupy space: it must, there- i) j
fore, be conceivably divisible. There never could be found in it the j j j
unity which a self-existent substance must necessarily have. In other jij
words, extension could not possibly be an attribute of being. The j i
argument was at least as old as Plato; it never had been, it never i j
would be answered.
THE SPIRITUAL BODT. |)|
Mr. Massey continued: But granting that we cannot go beyond )
phenomena, the practical issue remains whether we have any evidence j)1
of consciousness being associated with other than molecular structures, j j
Nobody supposes that if there are other finite intelligences besides our j|j
visible selves they are without organisms, or in other words, bodies, j j j
And no opponent of materialism would be concerned to deny that these j j
bodies are constructed of material which, otherwise combined, may j j
result in molecular forms. And it may very well be supposed that this jjj
ether not only constructs matter by its own aggregations, but that it also i) j
has forms of its own, permeating all material structures, and forming jjj
invisible bodies exactly correspondent to the visible ones. Is it not ijj
highly probable that all material organisms are built from within out- j) j
wards, the finest ethereal particles first taking on the form, and then jji
gathering about that form as about a mould, the grosser particles in j j
successive envelopes, till at last we get the material body ? If so, why i \ ]
there we have our ethereal body, what some of us, following the respect- j j
able authority of St. Paul, are accustomed to call our spiritual bodies, j j
And what evidence have we of the death of this body, supposing it to jji
exist? What we see is the falling to pieces of molecules. Are we ijj
entitled to infer that the finer and invisible structure falls to pieces also ? jjj
Certainly not, because the disintegration we witness we know to be due i j
to the failure of correspondent action between the outer structure and i /;
the forces peculiar to molecules in a similar state of aggregation. The ijj
inner body may depend for its organic consistency upon altogether dif- j j i
ferent forces and laws. The distinguished authors of that great and jjj
noble work of scientific imagination—The Unseen Universe—\mv6 jji
showed the high probability that exists of the absorption of physical jjj
forces into the invisible, and of their convertibility into other forces jjj
which have no manifestation in the physical universe. They go jjj
further, and, referring matter to an origin in the invisible, even antici- jjj
pate, from a scientific point of view, its ultimate disappearance—in fact ijj
its dematerialisation into the source from which it arose. I will take j j j
leave to quote a single passage from this remarkable book.
“ Thus in the last chapter we came to the conclusion that the avail- i j
able energy of the visible Universe will ultimately be appropriated by jji
the invisible, and we may now perhaps imagine that the separate exist- iji
ence of the visible Universe will share the same fate, so that we shall Hi
have no huge, useless inert mass existing to remind the passer by of a
form of energy and a species of matter that are long since out of date
and functionally effete. Why should not the Universe bury its dead out
of sight ? ”
The atomic or ethereal body, the invisible body, the spiritual body,
would thus be one and the same. But thus far we are still within the
region of phenomena, and therefore, if any one chooses so to speak, of
material though not of molecular structures ; for the underlying sub¬
stance, the true life or soul, we must go beyond phenomena, we must
seek it in Being or the Absolute. This Being is necessary precisely
because phenomena are contingent; this Absolute, which is unknow¬
able, nevertheless is, because all that we can know is relative. In
ignoring this, which is indeed the soul of the Universe, the ultimate
reality of the Universe, physicists, while they think they are only
materialists, are in fact nihilists. Their matter is only phenomenal,
and they admit nothing else.
But it may be that even in the region of phenomena we can confound
them. Admitting that we know nothing of efficient causes, and that
all we can ever show is the relation of antecedent and consequent
between phenomena, all that is really proved by the association
between the phenomena of consciousness and molecular modifications
of the brain, is that finite consciousness is not independent of organism;
and this nobody now disputes. The real question is—Must this
organism always be moleculary ? The Chairman has told us that this
question must be answered, if possible, by facts. Well, we are in this
difficulty. Inasmuch as the work of consciousness in this molecular
world is done through a molecular organism, any evidence of its acting
independently of that organism must necessarily be evidence of au
abnormal activity, and, as such, not within ordinary experience.
PSYCHOLOGICAL FACTS IN THE HANDS OF PHYSIOLOGISTS.
It is true that many of these abnormal facts, which were once laughed
to scorn by scientific men, are now generally admitted by them. But
the student of physiology will have remarked, that when one of these
facts is admitted, it is always because, or, at least, it is always when
an explanation of them, more or less plausible, upon physical principles
is forthcoming. I bear in mind our Chairman’s injunction to speak
respectfully of cur opponents, but there does seem to me to be an
understanding among men of science that no psychic fact shall be
admitted which does not appear to be explicable consistently with their
principles. Dr. Carpenter has, perhaps, been the most rash in his
admissions, especially as even those who believe most in physiological
causes shake their heads at his explanations. If any one wishes to
know the extravagant suppositions to which men of great ability and
attainments will resort in order to escape from the burden of a psychic
mystery, I need only refer him to some parts of Dr. Carpenter’s work
on Mental Physiology. It is not too much to say that no generation
passes without leaving on record well-authenticated cases proving, if
true, the action of mind outside the physical organism.
THE VALUE OF HUMAN TESTIMONY.
The evidence can be found in every century and in every country.
But what avails it ? Inasmuch as it is not in accordance with ordinary
experience, we are always exposed to the neat dilemma of Hume:—
“ The ground of our reliance on the uninterrupted uniformity and
exclusive operation of the known laws of nature, is experience. But
experience is also the sole ground of our reliance on human testimony.
When, therefore, human testimony asserts an interruption of the ordi¬
nary course of nature, we have only to oppose the one experience to the
other, and to reject the weaker, in order to know which to believe.
Now, it is more in accordance with experience that men should lie, or
should be deceived, than that these things should happen. Therefore,
we reject the latter, without further inquiry.” Perhaps before long
the force of Mr. Wallace’s admirable answer to this argument will be
generally recognised, and then the Royal Society will have no excuse
for ignoring the testimony of members of their own body.
DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING.
The other night our honorary secretary gave us some very interesting
facts, the significance of which was wholly missed by one at least of the
speakers. Having had much the same experience of this fact as Mr.
Munton, I should like to explain what I conceive to be its bearing up@n
this question. For those who were not present at our last meeting, I
may mention that the fact adverted to by Mr. Munton, was that known
among those who have given attention to the occult phenomena com¬
monly called Spiritualistic, as “ direct writing; ’’ i.e., writing, on a slate
for instance, not produced by physical organism of any person present
in the flesh, or by machinery. Now suppose we had never heard of or
imagined intelligences unincarnate, should I be logically justified in
inferring their existence from this fact ? Given a phenomenon and a
fact sufficient to account for it, and the philosophical law of economy or
parsimony forbids us to resort to a hypothetical cause. To write a
coherent -sentence requires not only intelligence and volition—these
might come from the medium—but also an organism. Mere force, blind
or intelligent, rushing out like a current of electricity might suffice to
make a noise, to overthrow a table, or other object in its passage.
Directed by intelligence—that is to say restrained or expelled at will—
it might even account for raps or table tipping, for communications
obtained by these means. But the scrap of pencil which traced those
words must have been held and guided. Apart from machinery we
know of only one means by which vital force can so operate. That is
organism. I am therefore justified in inferring that there was an organ¬
ism at work on that slate. Where did it come from ? To whom did it
belong ? Did the psychic force of the medium construct it ? No, for
even if the existence of an organism does not suppose design, its
original creation does. But the same law of economy to which I
before referred, forbids us when we have got an organism to go beyond
Feb. 11, 1876.
64
THE SPIRITUALIST.
it for the intelligence and volition which put it in motion. Thus I get
an intelligent action performed by some agent in that room which was
not one of the sitters. That agent I call a spirit, and I maintain that
Mr. Munton’s fact was perfectly relevant to the question before us. The
gentleman who said it was not, had much better have confined himself
to a denial of the fact, and to the usual sneer about Maskelyne and
Cooke with which all observers of these phenomena are quite familiar,
and to which it is to be hoped they have become quite indifferent.
A MATERIALISTIC VIEW OF THINGS SPIRITUAL.
Mr. Gordon said that, in discussing Professor Tyndall’s paper in the
Fortnightly Review, they were not concerned with what were the
opinions of Professor Tyndall, but with what he wrote. He thought
from the essay that he was a materialist, and that he was right in being
so. At a previous meeting Mr. George Harris had denied the materiality
of the soul. He (Mr. Gordon) could not conceive of anything not
material, for if it were immaterial it had passed out of the range of
science altogether. At present he did not believe in spirits, perhaps
because he had had no experience of them. If the soul were not material,
how could it possibly be subject to any tests they might wish to apply ?
Mr. Tagore, in his remarks, had taken the immortality of the soul for
granted.
Mr. Tagore: No; I did not. (Laughter.)
Mr. Gordon: Well, if anybody says it is immortal he states a fact
which is unknown to science.
Mr. Tagore: That is exactly what I said. (Laughter.)
Mr. Gordon continued that many persons who supposed themselves
to be sensible, held that the soul entered the body, but he believed that
they were bound to state some time when it did so, and to explain how
nature eternally created and recreated organisms. Mr. Dunlop’s speech
had been a mixture of fact and fancy; he had told about mesmeric
wonders in India. Many persons knew the power of the imagination
over the nervous system, and how mental impressions would cause
people to suppose that their pains were lessened, but he had never
heard anybody say that an organic disease had been influenced by
mesmerism. Any such statements he should think to be an absurdity.
The statement that Agassiz when mesmerised was caused to drink water
and to believe it to be wine, was a good example in point of the extra¬
ordinary freaks of the imagination. He believed that men never had
such a desire for truth as at the present time, and that beside questions
such as those they were considering, even the rise and fall of empires
had become trivial things. The generality of people had dreams of an
immortal life, the present life being short and sad, and they were pleased
to imagine that they were heirs of immortality. Men shook off with
great difficulty the traditions of their childhood and of the past, and
were only just beginning to perceive that many of those theories were
built upon no solid foundation. When they said that they were “ dust,
and to dust would they return,” they said it hypocritically if they
believed that they would live on. Without trenching upon the domain
of theology, but keeping within the limits of the subjects coming under
the notice of that society, he would point out that preachers said that
the body contained a soul, because if an eye or a leg were cut away, the
brain and the spiritual man were perfect as before; but how stood the
same argument if the heart or the brain were cut away ? Was the
spirit still perfect as before ? Yet the heart and the brain were, so far
as science knew, nothing but matter. The idea of the soul taking
wings and flying away was nothing but a poetical fancy. When did the
soul enter the body ? Did it enter it at birth or did the child feel before ?
A baby possessed apparently far less intelligence than a brute; it could
only cry when it wanted food; he would not say that a spark of the
divinity was not there, but where was the proof of it ? There was no
scientific proof of it at all. He would turn to the subject of death.
Take the case of a young and lovely woman, the action of whose heart
had been stopped by a sudden fright, and she was dead. What hap¬
pened in such a case ? “ The soul has fled ” might be the reply. But
they might say just the same thing of a dead snake. Her limbs were
not broken; she was all there, what then had gone ? The physiologist
and the anatomist when called in, could state exactly the cause of death.
It might be true that the soul was gone, but how could it be proved ?
What form had the soul taken? Could it still think and feel, and in
what world did it live, and how ? At this point they were landed on
the brink of that ocean of which they knew absolutely nothing, and
unless the questions he had put were answered, they were obliged to
stand speechless before the accusation that they spoke of what they
knew not. The things of which the secretary and president had spoken
were not subject to scientific tests, and in the light of Science were mere
chimeras of the brain. The secretary had told them of mysterious
writing on a slate, and the president, of remarkable motions in tables, as
well as the other ridiculous phenomena of so-called Spiritualism. He
would not say ridiculous in the ordinary sense, for any facts if they
could be proved were of importance. He thought he was entitled for
proof of such things, for without proof any hypothesis built upon them
fell to the ground. If a man told him he saw a stream running up hill,
he was entitled to ask for proof, and if such things as Serjeant Cox and
Mr. Munton had stated indeed occurred, the society ought to have the
clearest evidence about them, for so far as their present knowledge of
science extended such things were impossible. He agreed that the
molecular motions of the physicist did not explain everything, and that
so far as the nature of man was concerned they explained nothing.
Without proof, such things as Mr. Munton and Mr. Serjeant Cox had
stated, were but the baseless fabric of a vision.
Mr. Tagore said that when he spoke on the previous occasion, he had
but stated the ideas of his nation at the request of the society, without
committing himself to any of them. That the Hindoo race spoke of the
immortality of the soul showed that philosophy, by guesses had antici¬
pated the proofs which science afterwards furnished. Science had no
instrument by which to prove the immortality of the soul, but the mind
|1
I)
i
{
i
i
f
Q
M
i
:
i
}i
m
i)j
)j
j
;
)
i
i
!
i
i
!
)!
of the whole human race was in favour of the doctrine, so that at the
present moment science was denying what philosophy had built. It was
an insult to him to say “ Prove the immortality of the soul,” but wherein
was man separated from the beast except in the fact of immortality ?
Where was the power of Christianity if not in the doctrine of immor¬
tality ? That doctrine had made Europe what it was, and had raised
races to a height they never attained before.
Mr. Dunlop said that after Mr. Serjeant Cox had given his definition
of the difference between matter and spirit his ideas upon that point
were not so clear as they were before the difference was explained to
him. (Laughter.) The gentleman who talked about “ facts and fancy ” put
down as fancy what he (Mr. Dunlop) called fact, and fact what he called
fancy. Mr. Dunlop had, from his foreknowledge, condemned as super¬
natural all that the witnesses had stated to be facts, and by what right
did he assume that superior position ? (Hear, hear.) He (Mr. Dunlop)
had tried some of the mesmeric experiments of which he had spoken,
and had obtained the command of the ideas and senses of the persons
upon whom he operated ; he had made them see things which were not.
He had seen Professor Stone making similar experiments, but if they
witnessed such things were they to say that they were supernatural and
like water running up hill ? Mr. Gordon had given them an elementary
—a very elementary—lecture in physics, stating facts known to every¬
body. The society was not formed to consider such elementary ques¬
tions, but to adopt scientific methods of investigating new ones, in the
endeavour to discover natural laws. If he (Mr. Dunlop) saw a Stream
of water running up hill he would not run away in a fright and say that
it was supernatural, but he would remain on the spot and try to find out
why it ran up hill. (Hear, hear.) Mr. Massey had said that when
they had found truth they should come forward and state it even in a
minority of one, and that was the right thing to do with abnormal
phenomena rather than to be frightened away by very simple and
elementary science. Fear of new facts he thought to be most
humiliating superstition. (Hear, hear.) He thought that the
society should appoint a committee to inquire into mesmerism,
and into the slate-writing of which the secretary had spoken.
(Applause.) It was true he had not known any organic disease
to be cured by mesmerism, although that agent had produced
insensibility to pain so that the most horrible surgical opera¬
tions had been performed without any suffering on the part of the
patient. In Dr. Esdaile’s hospital in Calcutta he had seen great
tumours cut from the human body without the sleeping persons feeling
the slightest pain or knowing that the operations had been performed
when they first woke up. Dr. Esdaile afterwards came to England.
He was in bad health, and had the whole of the medical profession
against him, for they were superstitious, dogmatic men of science, who
would not believe anything outside the puny laws known to themselves,
and which they consequently assumed to be the limits of nature. How¬
ever, although Dr. Esdaile practised mesmerism very little in England,
he performed a cure or two. Chloroform killed people occasionally, but
he had never heard of a patient being killed in consequence of being
thrown into the mesmeric sleep, preparatory to the performance of a
surgical operation.
The proceedings then closed.
if
m
INTERESTING MESMERIC EXPERIMENTS,
jjj Last Monday night, at the ordinary fortnightly meeting
Iji of the members of the British National Association of
jji Spiritualists, at 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.,
| | Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D., presided.
j | The Chairman said that, supposing the phenomena exhibited at Mr.
|)| Redman’s lecture to be all bond fide—and he did not intend for a
Iji moment to question them—he still thought there was much more
| i mystery concerning their causation than Mr. Redman believed. To
i | say at once that an electric agent was at work to subject the sensi-
I j j tive’s will to his own was to determine at once that volition, as well
|j| as intelligent appreciation, was electricity; for the sensitive not
|j| only thought what Mr. Redman thought concerning things, but per-
| i formed locomotive acts at his bidding. If Mr. Redman’s hypothesis
I j I was accepted, the intellect and will of a man consisted simply in an
i)j electric action of the body, which the like action, in another body,
|ji might control in any direction. Without pretence to a profound know-
I i ledge of electrical science, he must venture to doubt whether such
I ; knowledge would uphold the hypothesis in question; he thought some
|j| more accurate name than that of electro-biology should be found to
jj| describe the cause of the phenomena. He had himself, in speaking
|j| previous to the experiments, mentioned mesmerism as a better name
jj| for the phenomena than magnetism, inasmuch as the latter name
i)j involved the hypothesis that magnetism was the cause at work,—he
iji thought it better to give the first experimenter’s name, Mesmer, as
| | including no hypothesis. But, in truth, the phenomena were much
| | more like those of magnetism than of electricity, for a variety of reasons
I | which he need not particularise. Taking the lesser exhibition of mes-
I) | merism—that degree in which only sleep was produced—the magnetic
|j| agent appeared to him a still more appropriate explainer of the quietude
ij| than an electric current could possibly be. In fact, however, neither
i J | agent could fully explain what takes place when one living person puts
!the senses and intelligences of another living person to sleep—abolishes
them, in short; or when one living person turns those faculties of
another person from their identity, and causes them to feel and think
as he himself does. It may be tempting to believe that we have an
explanation of all we behold, but we had better be in ignorance than in
error from too rapid conclusions. In the case of Mr. Tytler, which
Feb. It, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
65
he had named on the former occasion, there was no doubt whatever
that he was totally ignorant that his wife had ever mesmerised him,
and yet from the first day she did so, his mind as regarded her was
altogether changed from repulsion to attraction; yet nothing we as yet
know of either electricity or magnetism can explain this moral change.
There may be strong suspicion of either of these agents in the causation
of “ biological | phenomena or of the usual mesmeric sleep and
anaesthesia ; but for himself he inclined much more to seek the causing
agent in some form of that more subtle, more pervading, more intelligent
(by which he meant connected with intellect) force to which, for want of
more precise knowledge of it, we append the name of spirit. Holding,
as he did, that the intelligent, and most likely, also, the initiative actions
of the living man are due to the action of the force which is called
spirit, it seemed most logical to attribute to the application of the spirit-
force of one individual to that of another, the phenomena both of the
ordinary mesmeric state, and of the state to which the term electro-
biological is given. It should be remembered that the force in question is
capable of exhibition in many degrees and forms ; it is the force which
makes a crystal of sugar, as it is that which crystallises a man, and
exists in men in various degrees of intensity. Thus, in some it may be
aggressive and powerful, whilst in others it is sensitive and receptive;
and these last are the persons in whom the power can operate to put to
sleep sense, or to prevent it, at the will of the operator. Some entire
nations, even, show this sensitiveness to a wonderful extent—the people
of Hindostan for instance. Twenty years ago, an Anglo-Indian official,
Dr. Esdaile, published a most interesting record of his experiments on
Hindoos in the Government hospitals, which showed that the most
formidable surgical operations could be performed without pain in the
mesmeric sleep. In the year 1858 he (Dr. Gully) had under his medi¬
cal care, for a considerable time, the late Lord Dalhousie, soon after his
return from his rule over India, and from him he received confirmation
of the marvels related by Dr. Esdaile, for he had himself witnessed
several of the operations—one of which was the excision from the
side of a Hindoo of a tumour which weighed as much as the
man’s entire body. In all these operations complete anaesthesia
was obtained, and the patients suffered no pain whatever. May
it be that the marvellous feats of the Hindoo fakirs are connected
with this susceptibity to spirit force exercised over them by others in or
out of the body ? In 1859 and 1860 Lady Mary Bentinck, a benevolent
lady in Nottinghamshire, on the strength of Esdaile’s book, had a number
of poor invalids in her neighbourhood assiduously mesmerised, and
surgical operations which they required were performed painlessly, whilst
in mesmeric sleep ; but in the toughly organised Briton she had to record
frequent failures in producing sufficient insensibility, and in not a few
no somnolent impression at all could be produced. Since that time no
similar experiments have been made in this country, chloroform and
laughing gas having superseded mesmerism, as more ready to use, but
more perilous also. He had himself practised mesmerism to a great
extent years ago, and had given an extraordinary instance of such
practice in the pages of The Spiritualist some months ago; an instance
wherein he could put the patient to sleep from an adjoining room at any
time of the day. On two occasions he had put a lady into a mesmeric
sleep for twenty-one to twenty-five hours respectively and so enabled
her to retain food in the stomach, the constant vomiting from which was
destroying her. He tried in vain in these instances to account for
the sleep, either by the action of electricity or of magnetism. On the
whole, he inclined to see in mesmeric phenomena some modification of
spirit power, such phenomena having the suspension or perversion of the
consciousness of the individual for their essential feature. It should be
remembered that, so far as we have been able to investigate it, spirit
has varied modes of exhibiting its power; it gives or takes away weight,
it can render light or dark, it can disintegrate or reconstruct coarse
matter; it can render itself visible and tangible by materialisation, or
destroy coarse materials whilst itself is invisible and impalpable, it can
pass through coarse matter and annihilate space. Was it therefore not
likely that in its most concentrated form, namely, the spirit form of man,
it should be able, in its strong exercise, to influence in varied manner
another form in less strong exercise and in a passive, receptive, perhaps
expectant state ? He felt certain that when we know more of spirit, we
shall know more of mesmerism—not before.
Mr. W. H. Harrison said that he thought that some of the time of
the meeting might be saved if the subject of physics were cleared out
of the way at the outset. Mr. Yarley himself had tried some experi¬
ments with some exquisitely sensitive instruments—the same that he
had often used for the working of Atlantic cables—in the attempt
to detect electricity emanating from the human body, and could find
none. It did not follow, however, that electricity might not come from
the human body under abnormal conditions. No relationship could be
detected between mesmerism and magnetism; when any magnetic force
operated upon a mariner’s compass, the needle was deflected, but mes¬
meric power did not do this. He was present one evening at a meeting
at the Royal Society, when a physicist thought that he had detected
the evolution of electricity from the human body by means of delicately-
constructed microscopic apparatus. Professor Tyndall argued that the
divergence of the gold leaves of the electrometer might have been
caused by the friction of the clothes against the body. Subsequently,
at the Royal Institution, he caused such divergence by brushing his
assistant down the back with a feather.
The Chairman asked whether his experiment on that occasion was as
reliable as Ins statement that he brought a buzzing noise out of a wine¬
glass with his whiskers ?
Mr. Harrison said the experiment was a great deal more reliable, for
his prejudices were not aroused while performing it, and there were
several hundreds of witnesses. Dr. Gully had spoken of the building up
of crystals, but this might, to a large extent, be explained physically by
the action and reaction of polar forces among the molecules. Where
the physicist broke down, and honestly admitted that he broke down,
j(: was in the explanation of the forces which build up living organisms.
\)\ The transformation of energy in such cases was understood to a large
i(i extent, but physicists did not know the cause of the determination of
u; energy; that is to say, they did not know why atoms should be driven
i ; in certain directions to build up one particular tree, or animal, and none
i/i other. He would suggest that at the next meeting experienced mes-
! (i merists should be invited, such as Mr. Luxmoore, who was versed in
ni the subject, Mr. Hands, who had recently written a book on mes-
jjl merism, Mr. Sheldon Chadwick, who was one of the most powerful
!(j mesmerists in London, and Mr. Howells, who recently lectured before
: i the Dalston Society. Lord Dalhousie had done more than Dr. Gully
i|| had stated; before he was a convert to mesmerism he resolved that the
| I subject should be investigated in Calcutta without prejudice, and pre-
j|| pared a fair field for the celebrated experiments of Dr. Esdaile, and for
jll this absence of prejudice and desire of investigation he was entitled tp
| | the highest honour. A book containing drawings and paintings done by
i | hand, of terrible tumours removed under mesmeric influences by Dr.
| | Esdaile in Calcutta, was in the possession of Messrs. Bailliere and Co.,
|(| of Bang William-street, Strand. He thought it would be a good thing
|j| to get it for the National Association Library, although to those who
| i were not medical men the pictures were horribly disgusting. He should
|(j like to raise the question whether the great susceptibility of the Hin-
doos to mesmeric influence was not due to the fact that they abstained
Hi from the eating of meat. Several cases had come under his notice of
HI late where mediums had been relieved from the attacks of evil spirits
||| by the abstaining from meat; the lower spirits then ceased to retain the
|I'j power of controlling them, whilst higher spirits could do so with ease.
Mr. H. Wedgwood said that the majority of the Irish did not eat
i i meat, and were they great mesmerists or Spiritualists ?
ill Mr. Harrison said that there were a few Spiritualists in Dublin and
Hi in Belfast, but he very much doubted whether there were more than
m fifty in all Ireland.
|h Mr. Tapp said that the Irish had an abundance of psychological
|J| experience; they were great dreamers of dreams, and had unmistak-
i 11 able belief in the Banshee.
Mr. Coffin said that in Canada he had met Dr. Hayes, the Arctic
| | explorer, who rather accepted Spiritualistic theories, and who said that
|(| he had found much impressibility to mesmeric influence among the
|(| Esquimaux. Although they were thus susceptible they ate scarcely
| | anything but animal food, taking only a little grass as medicine.
|ll Dr. Gully asked whether they did not generally eat fatty food.
|(| Mr. Coffin replied that they did. Except that they now and then ate
|)| a little seaweed, they took nothing in the shape of vegetable food except
|l| grass, and that was taken medicinally.
| (| Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, M. S. Tel. Engineers, said that he thought
11| that the last seance in these rooms should be taken simply as an enter-
ill tainment permissible only in the introduction of the subject, but one
|(| which it was not desirable to repeat. It gave amusement to those
!|| present, and they were all greatly obliged to Mr. Redman for what he
ill had shown them. With one exception no evidence that the experi-
(j ments were due to the action of the brain of the mesmerist had been
j>! given, and that instance was when the sensitive came to him to take a
1(1 blue flame off his head, although the back of the sensitive had pre-
Hi viously been turned, and no hint given that a flame was supposed to be
|(| there ; but as all present had seen some similar occurrences under other
| | conditions when the brain of the sensitive might reasonably be supposed
111 to be entirely passive, therefore a primd facie case had been made out that
jlj such phenomena could be accepted as genuine. He was bound to say
H; that he had witnessed the same entertainment three times with few
Hi variations, and always with the same sensitives, and he had never seen
|(| anything like trickery in Mr. Redman’s behaviour. Still, he was bound
H| to say that in matters of science they should not take things on trust.
Hi and he would ask Mr. Redman to try to mesmerise on some occasion
|l| some of the company present, so that a sensitive should come before
H| them in whom they would all have confidence. Last time he observed
H| that when Mr. Harrison shook his handkerchief before the sensitive, the
I young gentleman laughed, and that the other sensitive on the floor began
laughing at a joke which was made. In his previous experience he
had never seen patients affected by anything external to themselves.
It was so easy for young people to enter into the spirit of the thing, and
try to give amusement to the audience on the slightest provocation. He
should think it infra dig. in himself as an electrician to notice Mr.
Redman’s explanation of some of the phenomena, and on that point he
quite agreed with what Dr. Gully and Mr. Harrison had said. There
was not the slightest ground for thinking that electricity or magnetism
had anything to do with the phenomena; in fact, the only thing they
knew for certain about the phenomena was that electricity and mag¬
netism had nothing to do with them. A reasonable hypothesis he
thought was that the will power of man in his own body could command
a great reservoir of force, which he thought was to be found in the
organic food taken into the stomach; there the said matter might be
considered to lose its organic character, and above the stomach there was
the nervous bundle, the solar plexus, one of the functions of which
seemed to be to collect the vital forces from the food in the stomach.
When persons were suddenly startled they frequently had a cramp in the
stomach, for a moment giving them superhuman strength, followed by a
reaction. During the last few weeks the beginning had been discovered
of what might prove to be a new science. Mr. Redman had told them
of the new force said to have been discovered. Certainly this new force
explained some of the things which one would look for in vital energy.
It was obtained by supersaturating the armature of a magnet and placing
a cadmium bar not far off. Sparks under somewhat certain conditions
passed between the two; sparks would also pass between two lead
pencils in a darkened box, but while they were passing a Thomson’s
reflecting galvanometer in circuit was not acted upon; if a rod of glass
one foot long and quite dry were placed in the circuit, sparks would pass
66
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. II, 1876.
while under such conditions all traces of electricity were of course ar¬
rested. He thought it not impossible that in this fluid, or force, or mode
of energy, which was altogether distinct from magnetism, they might find
the solution of some questions relating to psychology. He intended to
charge a table with the force in the expectation that thereby he could
prevent the loss of vital energy felt by mediums, whilst a table was
being charged from their bodies.
Mr. George King—Have you, Mr. Fitz-Gerald, experimented in this
matter yourself. Have you seen the spark yourself? A few days ago
I met two of the best known electricians, who entirely doubted the truth
of the discovery, and expected to find it a fallacy.
Mr. Fitz-Gerald—I have been trying experiments for three weeks
and have not been entirely successful, but quite recently have heard
that others have been more fortunate by using currents of higher
intensity in connection with apparatus which I did not employ.
Mr. Coffin—I have been engaged with Mr. Thomson in experiments
on the subject with the magnificent apparatus at South Kensington, and
we have been further assisted by philosophical instrument makers. We
have eliminated errors, but think that we have seen indications
of something we cannot explain, but the more we eliminate un¬
certain conditions the greater difficulty do we find in getting good
results. We get most microscopic results in the way of sparks, and we
find what we consider to be great exaggerations in the American reports.
We obtained brilliant sparks at first, but as we more perfectly insulated
the coils and batteries and cores, the less and less became the manifesta¬
tions, but it is a fact that when everything was most perfectly insu¬
lated we obtained very minute sparks which seemed to be connected in
no way with the original current. We rather think it to be a modifica¬
tion of ordinary electricity, because the better the insulation, the smaller
the spark. The spark seems to have no effect whatever in producing
results in the ordinary way. I do not say that there is nothing in
the discovery, but I think that our transatlantic friends have not elimi¬
nated all sources of error. Mr. Norman Lockyer had remarked to him
that if it all proved to be true it would be a new fact for the Spiritualists.
(Laughter.)
Mr. Fitz-Gerald—What we have just heard is very important. If it
has been proved that sparks are not due to electricity. However minute
an electrical spark may be, its action can be detected with the greatest
facility by galvanometric apparatus. If the spark gives no indication in
connection with such apparatus, the discovery is the birth of a new
science. The spark may be small, but the phenomenon is not a
small one.
Mr. Coffin said, that with a large battery of sixty cells a spark was
just perceptible in complete darkness, and they could not devise any
means by which its influence could be recorded. He could swear to the
reality of the spark. It appeared to be electric; it required a good
conducting circuit. The thinnest film of paraffin would destroy it,
and it seemed to require a metallic chain to enable it to pass. The
spark was retroactive at times.
CONVULSIVE MOTIONS PRODUCED BY MESMERISM.
Mr. King said that he knew little of mesmerism. Once or twice,
however, a lady made passes over him for the purpose of experiment,
and those passes had extraordinary physical effect. They threw him
into convulsions; his arms and other limbs seemed to be dragged off his
body, and he was thrown upon the floor. He did not know how far
this could be attributed to some abnormal working of his own imagina¬
tion. He did not think that the same effect was produced when the
passes were made out of his sight, although this experiment had not
been very thoroughly tried. Anybody who did not know that he was
in perfect health would have thought his condition an alarming one. i
He had experienced the same thing at Spiritual seances ; and once in I,
the rooms of the National Association at a sitting his arm had been :
violently beaten on the table. When Mr. Redman gave his lecture a i'
fortnight ago, he (Mr. King) was sitting at the back of the room, and ;<
the same effect was produced upon him. As Mr. Redman made passes, ;1
he almost felt clutches drawing him towards the platform, and had ]j
some difficulty in controlling his motions. Once when he had a cold in j i
his faec a lady made a few passes over him, and took it all away in ten |1
seconds, but it came back again a quarter of an hour afterwards, j
The passes removed a swelling in his nostrils for the said quarter of ; (
an hour. Mr. A. J. Davis told in his book, the Magic Staff, how jj
spiritual powers had been developed in himself by mesmerism, and I <
that after they had been developed for some time artificially, they kept : (
with him naturally. Was it thus possible that one person could jj
remove from another envelopes which prevent the development of \\
natural spiritual faculties ? Townshend had said that patients "were j <
raised morally and intellectually by mesmerism, but, doubtless, his ij
patients took some of his own high moral tone, as is customary in such ji
operations; still this did not prove that mesmerism was elevating ji
to the sensitive; much might depend upon the moral status of the jj
mesmerist. j /
EXPERIMENTS IN MESMERISM BY MR. ROGERS.
Mr E. D. Rogers said: I will tell you some of my own experiences. I
I am glad we have got away from the physical side of this question, j(
for I am satisfied that physics will not explain our difficulties at all. ij
We must practise mesmerism quietly with a clairvoyant at our side j
in order to understand the subject. Many years ago I was assistant to |(
a surgeon, and a patient came in with so violent a palpitation of the i
heart that I heard the beating of his heart from the other side of the j ]
counter, and Dr. Gully as a medical man, will tell you that such a thing i j
is possible. I' cured him completely by mesmerism, but gained so much j
power over him that it became a very uneasy matter to both of us. I i
have sometimes wished that wherever he was he should be stopped in jj
what he was doing, and this was done, as proved by his statements to jj
me whenever we next met. For instance, he would be stopped for some j j
minutes while eating his supper, until my thoughts were taken off him, i I
Once I saw him at a distance, about a hundred yards off, and before he
saw me I stamped my foot and willed that he should stop. He did so,
and could not move until I came up to him ; at last I could not think
about him without influencing him. I have sent a person to sleep at
forty miles’ distance, and although to a certain extent it was arranged,
the sleep was genuine, as the details will show. I had mesmerised an
invalid lady ; she lived in Norwich and was very ill in bed. I was at
one time on a visit to a friend in Suffolk, and went with him to the Friends’
meeting-house on Sunday. As very little was said there, I told my patient
that between eleven and twelve o’clock I would try to Send her to sleep.
For many years she had had no sleep except what I had given her by
mesmerism. At the Friends’ meeting-house I willed her to sleep, but
mentally I passed round the room to the other side of the bed from
that on which I usually mesmerised her, and I mentally placed my hand
upon her head. She afterwards informed me that she went to sleep,
and added, “but why did you come round to this side of the bed?”
There was evidence, then, of my actual presence, and of more than can
be explained by mere physics. In mesmerising I do not make passes
as Mr. Redman does, but I look quietly into the face of the subject.
Passes are of use only to produce local effects. I mesmerised her fre¬
quently for ten or twelve years. She told me much about mesmerism,
but neither of us could understand it. Clairvoyants see more than we
do and generally agree in their statements. She said that we are
surrounded with an aura which is visible to clairvoyants.
Dr. Gully : Yes, that is just what Reichenbach says.
Mr. Rogers—True. With her I have proved some of Reichenbach’s
experiments to be accurate. She told me that there is not only a
physical aura about us but an aura from the spiritual body. After sitting
a little time the mesmerist and his subject came into rapport, and their
two spheres or auras began to unite. When these get mixed and
thoroughly united the sensitive sleeps. This result is produced by the
exercise of the will. She further told me that by degrees, the mental
spheres combine, and that then our minds become more or less one, that
is to say, I think a thought, and she thinks it at the same time. I will
call the lady Miss A. I have sometimes thought I should like Miss A.
to tell me what I am thinking about, and she cannot do so, yet a little
while afterwards she will tell me my thoughts when I do not wish it. I
think there is truth in the theory I have mooted. Mr. Tapp asked Mr.
Redman if he had known a case in which his attempts to operate on a
patient had been hindered by some unseen intelligence, and Mr. Redman
had said “ No.’’ I was caUed on one occasion to try mesmerism on a
lady in a nervous state, and she said that although she was not a Spirit¬
ualist, she was troubled by voices in her ears, uttering blasphemous
words, driving her to distraction, and pulling off her bedclothes at night.
I thought this was hallucination (if there be such a tiling), but her sister
who slept with her, said that the pulling off of the bedclothes was real, and
that the two of them pulling together against the power could not keep them
on. (Laughter.) I tried mesmerism, talked to the spirits, and ordered and
willed them off, and one of them, as he went away, said, “ I’ll pay him
out; I’ll stick to him.” I said, “All right, I am not afraid of you.”
Two or three nights afterwards I went to my usual patient, and she qt
once said, “ You have brought evil spirits with you.” She described
them exactly as the other person had described them. She said she
could hear their bad language, and she actually told me their names.
How can anybody get rid of facts like these on any other than the
spiritual hypothesis? She said that when I tried to mesmerise her as
usual, the leader of the evil band tried to prevent it, and put a cold hand
on her head, so that she shivered. Afterwards he remarked, “ You will
succeed, because Theophilus, one of your spirit friends, has come to
help you.” The spirit, on leaving her, slapped her face; I heard the
slap and saw the marks on her face.
Mr. Fitz-Gerald: Mr. Rogers seems to think that spiritual and
physical truths oppose each other, but I think that they are in harmony,
and that metaphysics should have their basis in physics.
MR, REDMAN’S EXPERIMENTS IN MESMERISM.
Mr. S. It. Redman said that it was sixteen years since he stepped upon
the platform to advocate the truths of mesmerism. He had heard
nothing of Spiritualism until within the last four years. As a public
lecturer he could not bring in mesmerism to explain Spiritualism, since
he was there simply to amuse the audience ; but he thought that the
spirit or soul of man had more to do with mesmerism than anything else.
Some time ago Mr. Clark, a warder at the prison at Brixton, was pricked
in the leg by a convict. Paralysis followed, and spread down the leg.
After making many difficulties, he allowed him (Mr. Redman) to
mesmerise him, but would not let him look into his eyes. Afterwards
he said that he was a little relieved. His speech had been slow, but he
spoke more freely. He went to him three times, and once Mr. Clark’s
wife remarked, “ Mr. Cole, the missionary, was here an hour ago, and
he could not speak a word to him ; but now he can talk.” Mr. Clark
often said that directly he (Mr. Redman) came into the room he felt
warm all over. At times he could not write the letter C in Clark, or
make the figure 5, but when he (Mr. Redman) made passes over the
paper, he could write both with ease. One evening when he called,
Mr. Clark could not eat his supper or open his mouth, but, by the aid
of a few passes, was soon able to do so.
Dr. Gully said that by laying the hand on the upper part of the
stomach, where there was a large concentration of nerve cells, people
could send themselves to sleep of a night; this was a case of self¬
mesmerism.
Mr. Redman said that a sore throat could be taken away by self-
megmerism.
It was then left in the hands of the Winter Meetings Committee to
make what arrangements they pleased for the next meeting, Feb. 21st,
but to produce some experiments, if possible.
The proceedings then closed.
Feb. 11. 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST. 67
MENTAL TELEGRAPHY, CLAIRVOYANCE, AND
SOMNAMBULISM.*
BY EMMA HARMNGE-BRITTEN.
The wonderful age in which it is our privilege to live is not
only rife with tidings telegraphed across the river of death
from those who have gained the further shore, but for us who
still remain watching and waiting on the mortal side, and
who with outstretched arms and straining eyes strive to
pierce the thick mists which hide our vanished loves from
view—for us, who are not yet, or at least have not deemed
ourselves as spirits, new illuminations are being enkindled
within us, new revealments of soul powers and possibilities
begin to dawn on our consciousness, and foregleams of what
we may be in spheres of existence far transcending even the
pious enthusiast’s idea of heaven, are gradually being
awakened into spiritual life and proportion amongst us. We
are not only learning the fact that we are spirits now as much
as we shall ever be, but that as such, the occult powers
which essentially belong to the soul alone and form no part
of material being, are lying dormant within us, and at the
spark communicated by the torch of Spiritualism, are
blazing up into wonderful and unlooked for spiritual gifts.
Under the old regime, and in the midst of the gross darkness
evolved from ecclesiastical ignorance and superstition, all
that belonged to man’s spiritual nature here and hereafter
was ranged even by one of the most candid and talented of
modern analysts as “ The Night-Side of Nature; ” now all
that relates to spiritual being under the transfiguring light
of spiritual revelation becomes the Light side of nature,
and the chief mistake we are guilty of in our joy at dis¬
covering the lost and loved of death’s mystic harvest, all in
life again, and actively engaged in the very self-same duties
that occupy ourselves, is to attribute all power and phenomena
of an occult character to the agency of disembodied spirits,
and forget that we as spirits must have some of the functions
as well as all the attributes of our angel visitants.
It is not an uncommon thing to find a good mesmerist,
from the moment that his investigations convince him of
spirit communion, attributing all his power as a healer to
the agency of “ the spirits.” Persons who from childhood
have been endowed with the rare faculty of reading the
future, and with unpremeditated speech-prophesying of
coming events, now feel sure their occult utterances are
inspired solely by “ the spirits.” The sensitives who could
read character by touch, handwriting or physiognomy ; the
clairvoyants, whose gift of discovering hidden things has
procured for them a life-long reputation, now abandon their
claims to personal unfoldment, and lay their laurels humbly
at the feet of “ the spirits.” Fortune-telling must be spi¬
ritual inspiration, clairvoyance the work of spirits, somnam¬
bulism spiritual entrancement, and animal magnetism
spiritual magnetism; indeed, we have known estimable
persons who, being more or less endowed with a quickening
of their interior natures, before they became Spiritualists,
after their conversion could not realise that they bought a
spool of thread, ordered a dinner, made a morning call, or
turned in walking to the right or the left, without a special
significance was communicated to the act by the inspiration
of an ever-present guardian spirit. In the New York Spi¬
ritual Conference of nearly twenty years ago Dr. Robert
Hallock, one of our best and most philosophical Spiritualists,
commented on this tendency to fanaticism in a lengthened
address full of pointed illustrations, winding up with the
pithy remark that “ if certain mediums stubbed their toes
against a pebble in the street, to their apprehensions the
angel Gabriel had a hand in it.” To beware of a fanaticism
of this character might be more worthy of the elevation of
“danger signals” on the part of true philosophers than
to warn off the searching soul from any shore where the
results of patient and faithful investigation might enlarge
the borders of our spiritual perceptions, and teach us more
of what we are, and by whom and what surrounded.
Our part in the modern Spiritualistic movement is, first,
to start with the proposition that we are immoratal spirits;
that we live here and hereafter; that all the powers, possi¬
bilities and functions that belong to us as spirits belong to
us now, and only require knowledge of the laws of our being
* Banner of Light, January 22nd. j
| j to unfold on this earth, as well as hereafter. Next, that we,
| | as spirits, have clairvoyant sight, spiritual perception by
! | touch, and all the attributes of a Spiritual existence sus-
i ceptible of unfoldment whilst we are yet on earth, provided
1 we can master the conditions of unfoldment sufficiently, with-
| out injury or detriment to our earthly duties and state of
i ! being. Next, that the only horizon to man’s knowledge of
| | infinite things and eternal principles is his ignorance and
I j incapacity, and that both the stumbling-blocks in the way of
j I Spiritual progress may be overcome by patient and unremit-
| | ting study of the laws which govern our Spiritual natures.
In the year 1860 a correspondent of the Philadelphia
! i Sunday Mercury related the following incident, which oc-
I I curred on the occasion of his visit to the rooms of the late
ijj Mr. Conklin, spirit medium, of New York City. While he
] was waiting at the back part of the room, being an entire
I I stranger to all present, the communicating intelligence re-
|ji quested him, by tips of the table, to take a seat in the circle.
Ill This being done, he writes :—
“ After a moment’s delay the medium’s hand experienced that magic
|) 1 influence, and he wrote the following:—‘ My Dear Sox,—Your brother
j); John died this morning at ten o’clock.—Henry.’
“I admit this intelligence cast a gloom over my feelings, and I used
|)| all kinds of devices to prevent the audience from observing my dilemma,
I | they all knowing my scepticism. But it was useless to try to hide my
melancholy. I stated this was very strange, that there was telegraphic
]) I communication direct to the location where my brother resided, yet I had
(received no intelligence from there of his death. I left the medium with
rather a sad heart, but very unwilling to yield to the truth of this mes¬
sage. Next morning, about ten o’clock, I received a telegraphic dis¬
patch, dated the day before, from my sister, announcing the same sad
tidings, confirming to the very letter the communication I had received
Si the night before at Mr. Conklin’s rooms. Why I had not received the
|jj dispatch from my sister the day it was sent, was because the wires were
I' j down, and all communication cut off for some eighteen hours. This I
learned by making inquiry at the telegraph office. Your readers will
here observe that the message received through the medium was from
ten to twelve hours in advance of that received by the telegraph line.”
The next illustration will be, as promised, a case clearly
m proving the exercise of will, carried by the mesmeric in-
| | flnence of the two operators in the act of mental telegraphy.
| l The lady, as above stated, is the author of these papers,
I I Emma Hardinge-Britten :—
I | °
“ A lady who was a strong medium, and a gentleman remarkable for
||l his mesmeric power of healing (though not a believer in Spiritualism,
i) nor, in the ordinary sense of the term, a spirit-medium), had frequently,
|j| by way of experiment, sent messages to each other by means of the*
j mental telegraph. Sometimes they willed to project messages at a set
| | time, and placed themselves in a passive frame of mind, or what is
) called a receptive condition, for the purpose of conducting these experi-
\ ments. At others, they sent messages without previous arrangement,
i and occasionally they gave and received these mental telegrams in the
j presence of others.
“ On all occasions their messages were so worded as to surprise each
|j| other, and preclude the possibility of the intelligence communicate 1
jjj being the result of ‘guessing,’ or familiarity with each other’s opinions
i and phraseology. As neither of the parties were professional practi-
; tioners, or could have had any other motive in the conduct of their
| j | experiments than the discovery and application of truth, they were the
iij last persons to be placed in the category of ‘deceivers,’ a word so
ijl commonly labelled against the name of every one who dares to advance
) one step beyond the common track beaten by the multitude.
1“ The time at length arrived when it was deemed advisable that
these telegraphic exercises should cease. The gentleman, Mr. B., was
about to proceed to a foreign country, and before his departure he
earnestly solicited that a final experiment should be tried on the day
of his embarkation. His coadjutor Mrs. H., however, steadily declined
the proposition, and had no reason to expect that her wishes in this re-
ijj spect would be disregarded. On the night when Mr. B. embarked,
jjj Mrs. H., being seated in a company of twenty persons at the house of
ijl Mr. M. B. Dyott, in Philadelphia, suddenly realised a strong mesmeric
influence, under which she felt for a few minutes as if spellbound; then
|j; she distinctly heard the voice of her absent friend calling her by a
| j name known only to himself and her, followed by a message of a char-
J acteristic nature.
“ During the silence which ensued upon Mrs. H.’s seemingly entranced
j | condition, fourteen of the persons present declared that they heard a
j) | sound like the plashing of waves against the paddles of a steamship,
i j I and the indistinct murmur of a man’s voice. As no one in the company
j had the least idea to what such sounds could refer, and as the lady con-
j(l cerned had no expectation of such a manifestation, its force may be
i) I deemed the more remarkable. It is only necessary to add that the very
I first mail after the arrival of Mr. B. brought a letter informing Mrs.
| H. that he had sent precisely such a message to her at the exact moment
of its reception in Philadelphia, and that the only difficulty he experi-
I enced in concentrating his thoughts upon the message, was the rough¬
ness of the ocean and the pitching of the ship at the time.”
The intelligent Spiritualistic reader need not be informed
i that these two cases are only selected as illustrations from
68
THE STIHITtfAlilST.
Eeb. 11, 187$.
tens of thousands of others, more or less known, of a kindred |||
character. fjj
It would not be difficult for the author of these papers to |||
publish two thick folio volumes, one containing instances of | |
spirit-control acting upon media and conveying telegraphic | j
messages and information, verified after the spirit's message j |
had been received, and the other cases in which the human j | i
spirits engaged might have been the sole operators in work- i j
ing the mental telegraph. In all conditions of somnam- j j
bulism it is more difficult to distinguish the state and its j j
superinducing cause than in the process of mental tele- j j
graphy. Somnambulists often render independent testimony ; {!
of sleep-waking powers that do not necessarily involve the I j
agency of spiritual mesmerisers. Still the state of sleep- | |
waking and that of entrancement are so similar that they ! j
may often be confounded the one with the other. It is quite | I
admissible to believe that in the deep mesmeric sleep called i j
somnambulic, the spirit of the sleeper becomes liberated ! i
from the fetters of the body, and actually sees and hears far f |
more acutely than in the waking state; also that it displays j! i
powers of mind which could not be exhibited when hindered ;
by the limitations of matter.
The author, for instance, has been known to rise in her | i
sleep, proceed in thick darkness to her study, and there in- \\\
scribe musical compositions, and write abstruse exercises in l\
harmony and composition, entirely beyond her normal j
capacity to achieve. On the other hand, she has frequently j
been known in the “somnambulic condition” to recite j j
original poems, sing original compositions, and make what >i
were pronounced to be “ splendid orations,” in a style totally .]!
different to her ordinary methods, and though at the early i j
period of childhood when these feats of abnormal wonder m
were enacted, her friends and associates—entirely ignorant |)|
of Spiritualism—attributed them all to the same somnam- \\\
bulic state, there were marked differences between the m
various phenomena exhibited, proving that some were the ||j
action of the sleeper’s own spirit in a state of high exaltation, j j
whilst others must have proceeded from the influence of i
foreign spiritual intelligences taking advantage of the som- •||[
nambulist’s unconscious organism to manifest their presence. | |
The following cases will be found more indicative of the isolated ! i
somnambulic state than those of the author, whose medium- m
istic tendencies, manifested from early childhood, render it | j
probable that her unconscious states were always more or less j j
influenced by spirit-control.
In one of the local papers published in Fulton, N. Y., in i(|
the year 1859, the editor gives the following details of a !>j
remarkable instance of somnambulism occurring in the m
person of a well-known inhabitant of the village. He writes j||
thus:—
EXTRAORDINARY CASE OF SOMNAMBULISM.
A Miss Mary Starr, niece of A. Loomis, Esq., of this village, and | i
now residing in his family, attending school, has for some time past been i) |
the subject of a very singular phenomenon, closely bordering on the :>i
wonderful and mysterious. j
WRITING IN AN UNCONSCIOUS STATE.
Several days since she was afflicted with partial blindness, accom- jjj
panied with severe headache, from which, however, she soon recovered, ij j
At night, after falling asleep, she arose, lighted her lamp, and taking i)j
pencil and paper, wrote several stanzas of poetry, which were found in |) |
the morning, but of which she had no knowledge herself, and she could i(j
only be convinced of the fact by the assurance of her room-mate, a j) |
cousin, and the unmistakable evidence of her own handwriting.
WRITING IN THE DARK.
Anticipating a repetition of the act, and fearing danger from a burn- hi
ing lamp in the hands of a sleeping person, her uncle, after she retired ||]
on the succeeding night, took the precaution to remove the lamp from Kj
the room and place it beyond her reach. She, however, arose, and in hi
perfect darkness wrote another piece of poetry, which upon examine- |)|
tion by daylight, was found to be well written, correctly spelled and hi
punctuated, and the ruled lines as accurately followed as they could iji
have been by the best penman with a good light. And this has been |(l
repeated from night to night, each time a new piece being produced, hi
She has no knowledge of the matter herself, cannot repeat a word of j)!
the poetry she produces, and insists that she does not write it. Her
friends watch her closely. They have interrupted her while writing, hi
when she seems like one aroused from a deep slumber, and cannot
finish the line or even the next word of the stanza she happens to be hi
writing. i ■ . t |/|
SEARCHING FOR WRITING IMPLEMENTS, ETC.
If her writing materials are removed from her room, she arises and |);
finding them missing proceeds to search drawers, trunks, etc., in the hi
dark with as much ease as another would doit by day. One of the ill
pieces, which wre publish, was written on scraps of paper thus found
by her between the leaves of an Atlas.
The most of her productions are dated “ August 17, 1840,” the date of
her birth ; to many of them are appended, “ Written for the Courier."
The Courier was the name of a paper published in the village where
she resided in childhood. Naturally she has no particular fondness for
poetry, and never attempts to write it. Whether her “ efforts ” asleep
are “ original,” or pieces that she has sometimes read, is not known.
One thing is certain, she writes them in an unconscious state, and in
rooms “ pitch-dark ” at the time. She has, however, sometimes fallen
into this condition in the daytime, when her writing impulse comes
on.
STRANGE LIGHT FROM THE VISUAL ORGANS.
A few nights since she was awakened while writing in the dark.
Her sensations, as described by herself, were very peculiar. Her eyes
emitted a bright light, like the burning of two candles, when turned
towards her manuscript, rendering her writing perfectly visible, but
when turned in any other direction all was “ dark as midnight.”
Mr. Loomis is a wealthy and influential gentleman, who formerly
resided in the town of Winsted, Conn., at which time he was a promi¬
nent member of the Presbyterian Church. We understand that the
3’oung lady, whose health at first seemed to be injuriously affected, is
now recovering from her temporary indisposition. We extract a speci¬
men of the poetry written by Miss Starr, unconsciously, and in the
dark, which is certainly not without merit:—
THE WINDS.
Cold December’s rain is beating
Down upon the window pane,
And the night winds sadly mutter
In the wild and dreary strain.
In the sunny days of childhood
There was music in their tone ;
Now they ever seem, when dying,
Like Despair’s expiring moan.
Once I knelt me at the keyhole
In our olden kitchen door,
And in awe and wonder listened
To the tale the wild winds bore.
Then methought I heard distinctly
Voices in each passing gale,
Making my young heart beat faster,
As I heard their wonder tale.
Now the wintry winds are moaning
In and round about the door,
And they seem like tongueless pleaders
For the unprotected poor.
Scenes of halcyon juvenescence
Now before my vision glide,
Like the thickly coming fancies
Of a dream at eventide.
As in somnambulism and trance, so in clairvoyance, with¬
out any exhibition of the sleep-waking state, there are
abundant evidences that the opening of the spiritual vision,
called clairvoyance, may proceed from the influence of dis¬
embodied spirits acting upon a susceptible or mediumistic
organism, or it may be an attribute of the subject, an interior
perception of the spirit itself, without necessarily involving
the control of a foreign agency.
Take the following two illustrations, selected from multi¬
tudes of similar ones only because they refer to persons well
known in the spiritual ranks. Dr. A. C. Stiles, of Bridge¬
port, Conn., claimed to have, from a boy, possessed the
faculty of perceiving, by a clairvoyant sense, the interior
conditions of the human system, and pointing out its locale.
In his medical practice he used to give the most invariably
correct diagnoses of the diseases of distant persons by hold¬
ing a lock of their hair in his hand. In order to put his pre¬
tensions to the experimentum crucis, Mr. William Clarke, of
Westville, Conn., cut ofl’ a lock of hair from an ox that ap¬
peared to be ailing. The hair was taken from under the ox’s
chin, and so nearly resembled human hair as not to be dis¬
tinguishable from it by any ordinary observation. This,
without any intimation as to where he obtained it, he for¬
warded in a letter to Dr. Stiles, with a request that he
should give a diagnosis of the condition of the patient. Dr.
S. received the letter, examined the hair, and, as the result
of his impressions, wrote substantially as follows:—“ As
for your ox, I would advise you to slaughter him, especially
as I perceive that he is fat. He will not be able to work
much more, in consequence of a blow which he has received
across the back, which has both injured the kidney and the
spine.”
Mr. C. accordingly killed his ox, and found in one of the
kidneys and in the spine the evident marks of injury which
he had received from a heavy blow or contusion.
Dr. Stiles, although a medium and a firm believer in
THE SPIUITUALIST,
6$
Feb. 11, 1876.
Spiritual philosophy, did not necessarily owe his clairvoyant l|[
perceptions, in this case, to the intervention of spirits. He . (!
was a clairvoyant from a boy, and, as such, could always j |
perceive the nature and locality of disease in those who ff j
approached him. Like a vast number of those persons who j(j
can discover lost property and trace hidden things, he pos- j.!j
sessed the faculty of clear sight inherently. Spiritual in- ||i
fluences added to and often aided his gift of perception; |J|
for kind spirit friends ever surround us and ever seek to H;
exalt our native powers by the addition of their own bene- |||
ficent control; still they have ever assured the writer of If!
that which her own experience confirms, namely, that clair- j[j
voyance is one of those occult powers in man that exists as a M
part of his spiritual inheritance, and may and does shine out j < i
in certain conditions of the human system as an independent ; j
attribute of the soul, although it is also one of which spirit- j (j
friends are willing to avail themselves when they have an i!
opportunity of influencing their mediums.
We flood the age with these items of testimony, and yet |;<i
because we cannot repeat them at command, or place the u
occult powers of being at the service of every idler who ;;
desires to find a royal road to all discovery, or subject the \l\
angel world to the bidding of mortals, we are assailed with |[j
the continual platitudes of “ Why don’t they come to me ? ” H;
“ Why cannot I have such things done for me ?” Ci Why don’t ;(
I see?” and “Wherefore am not I thus favoured?” &c., &o. jji
Whilst we are weary of such unphilosophical questioning, |
and care only to place our pearls of truth before the minds u
that have already entered upon the path of investigation, \\\
and are therefore ready to receive and classify our facts, !j
still we must own there is something due to these same h
questioners, and much more to the world in general, who j) ;
doubtless would gladly share with us the beneficence of our j<
spiritual blessings if they could only see in the phenomena |< |
thus reported any chain of cause and effect, any connection |)|
with these bright sunbeams from the light side of nature, j
with a well-defined science of occult forces. jn
V,- ’ 1 lil
THE PERSECUTION OF SPIRITUALISTS IN PARIS.
CONDEMNATION OF M. LETMARIE. i |
Sorrow is rarely much mitigated by having been antici- Hi
pated as inevitably approaching. Ley marie’s pourvoi en !
cassation was rejected yesterday, on the grounds ■which I j)i
have already indicated to you in advance. It is a hard and m
cruel case, to which it is not easy to resign oneself with i (|
any patience. In his note to me, informing me of it, poor \)\
Leymarie says that he will live through his year of impri- Hi
sonment with firmness and cheerfulness: that his person is j<i
nothing, the cause everything. But will his delicate health \\
survive the hardships and exposures of St. Pelagie ?
J. L. O’Sullivan.
Paris, Feb. 6th. Hi
A SEANCE AT CAPTAIN JAMES’S.
Last Tuesday night a seance was held at the house of Captain J.
James, late of the 90th Light Infantry, at Tottenham. Mr. Eglington H
was the medium, and several others were present. Among the friends 15
were several members of Captain James’s family, Mr. G-. R. Tapp, Miss i(
Lottie Fowler, Mrs. and Miss Showers, Mr. Colman, and Mr. VV. H. Hi
Harrison. A dark seance was held, and the manifestations were strong, j (j
A heavy musical box floated about the circle, and touched several of the i (i
sitters gently on their heads as it moved. A tumbler containing soda- i:
water was removed from the outside of the circle at one side of the room, j < j
to Mr. Harrison’s mouth at the other side, next to the mouth of Captain i j I
James at a third part of the room, and back again to the sideboard, all pi
within a minute. A musical box, furniture, and other articles, were j<;
piled upon the laps of Miss Fowler and Mr. Tapp, as high as their
chins. While Captain James held the hand of Mr. Colman, a chair P
was threaded upon the arm of the medium, a now very common case at ;; j
spirit-circles of matter passing through matter. The sitters held each Hi
other’s hands throughout the seance, with the exception of Mr. Eglington, i; j
who sat in the centre, and his hands were held while some of the mani- ;} i
festations occurred. Hi
Kj
Mr. J. N. T. Martheze, of 20, Palmeira-square, Brighton, writes Hi
to say that he has last year's numbers of The Eefi(/io- Philosophical |)j
Journal, which he will be happy to present to any Spiritualistic society i( j
that may be forming a library, on application for them. H j
New Publications.—A supply of the second volume of Dr. Crowell’s 1)1
valuable new book has reached The Spiritualist newspaper branch office, K i
38, Great Russell-street. The cheap publication, Information for K j
Inquirers into Spiritualism, will be out in a few days, and all further \l j
advertisements for it must be sent in at once. ill
Poeti'K-
A DIALOGUE BETWEEN WISDOM AND ONE OF HER CHILDREN.
Wisdom Questioneth.
Wht art thou sad, my child? The hours beguiling
Of the fair thoughts which fair occasions claim ;
Why art thou sad, my child, while life is smiling;
With every cause to praise, why seem to blame ?
Compliant fortune, bidding thee be glad,
Why art thou sad, my child ? Why art thou sad ?
Thy night is well-nigh sped ; gleams of the dawning
Of bright aurora, chasing clouds away,
Already fleck the far horizon—morning
Offers a promise of the joys of day ;
Thou hast the gifts thou prayed’st to have had,
Oh, foolish child ! then wherefore art thou sad ?
The Child Answereth.
I blame not fortune, nor despise her favour ;
I own her bounties, and enjoy her reign,
With, it may even be, a keener savour
Than they who never pined for them in vain ;
But Fortune, good or ill, has no control
Over the joy or sadness of the soul.
There are two lives in life, each one depending,
Though co-existent, on a different food ;
E ver at war, and therefore never blending
The separate taste in each of ill and good ;
At once, the joys of both may not be had,
I smile in sense—but in my soul am sad.
Wisdom Rejoineth.
Not so ! the blessings of both lives, 0 doubter,
To man, even here, on earth, are not denied ;
He who the inner made, made too the outer,
To dwell in wedded union, side by side;
Spirit and sense, in one harmonious whole,
May be united, even here, 0 soul!
If thou wilt seek to harmonise thy nature
By regulating, first, the life within ;
Then, raising up to it thy natural stature,
Just weight—not more—to outer things begin
To give, true joys thy outer life will leaven,
And lodging there, thou yet may’st dwell in heaven.
From Aurora, by A. A.
SONNET.
Written at the close of the last Meeting of the Psychological Society of Croat
Britain, February 3rd, 1876.
Where wert thou, Soul; ere erst my body born
Became thy dwelling-place ? Didst thou on earth,
Or in the clouds, await this body’s birth ?
Or by what chance upon that wintry mom
Didst thou this body find a babe forlorn ?
Didst thou in sorrow enter or in mirth ?
Or for a jest, perchance, to try its worth,
Thou tookest flesh ne’er from it to be torn ?
Nay, Soul, I will not mock thee ; well I know
Thou wert not in the earth, nor in the sky,
For with my body’s growth thou too didst grow ;
But with that body’s death wilt thou, too, die ?
I know not, and thou canst not tell me, so
In doubt we’ll go together, thou and L
S. W.
(ttorresponuencf.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers.']
RAPPING MEDIUMS FOR DAYLIGHT SEANCES WANTED.
Sir,—Notwithstanding that there are in London several mediums,
with various qualifications, it seems to me that there is a want of that
class of mediumship which was represented by the younger Mrs. Mar¬
shall, when the only kind of manifestation known was the communica¬
tion by raps. I am continually being asked by my friends, when I tell
them that spirits are alive and can talk to us, to show them something.
To do that is really a work of great difficulty. If any one will tell me
where I can take an entire stranger to the subject, and be sure of being
able to show him proof positive of the presence of spirits, I should be
very much obliged to him. As Mr. Williams receives visitors in his
rooms, and as I have had several hearty shakes of the hand by John
King, and have other reasons for knowing that he is a very remarkable
being in every way, I once took three friends to see him. On that
occasion there was neither sight nor sound of him, the only thing hap¬
pening being the placing a chair upon the table; which occurrence my
friends did not attempt to account for, but said, with reason I think,
that I had not proved to them the existence of spirits. A few days ago
I asked permission to bring a friend to a seance with Mr. Colman. As
a great favour I alone was allowed to come, but, upon expressing a
desire to come a second time, was refused permission. Last night, at a
seance with Mr. Herne, nothing whatever happened, except that he (the
medium) told us that he saw Mr. Bellew, who was trying to mesmerise
him, in order to take control of him, but could not succeed. That
seance would have been of no use to a stranger. The failure of this
seance is rather unaccountable, inasmuch as the medium was in a much
better state of health than he had been for a long time. We were
singing all the time in the most conscientious manner, and the company
was the same as when a week previously a spirit measuring 6ft. lin.
was walking about among us, in oriental costume, with naked legs and (
feet. It seems to be difficult to catch anything of this kind, and I Y
suppose a beginner must not expect to be able to see anything so )
remarkable as that. Now, as all these dark seances are a matter of <
doubt and difficulty, would it not be a good plan to have a medium like \ \
Mile. Huet, for instance, installed at the Association Rooms, ready for -
all comers ? If she had any encouragement she would come over to
London. She has now gone to Nice, as she finds there is not much
demand for her mediumship in Paris. With her one is always sure of
getting an intelligent communication rapped out. It is true, I believe,
that if friends invoked are not able or willing to come, the spirits
around the medium see who is wanted, and take their names and
answer for them; but that is a sure sign of spirit-life, and is worth
something. J. H. Gledstanes.
HEALING MEDIUMSHIP IN PARIS.—THE REVIVIFICATION OF PLANTS.
Sir,—I think it will be interesting to your readers to learn that we
have now in Paris a healing medium who has made some remarkable
cures. Mr. Edard has just been acquitted of the charge of unlawfully
curing people at Bordeaux. Among the number of cases that were cited
at the trial were some as remarkable as those that were attributed to
Christ. In addition to his own mesmeric influence he makes use of
electro-magnetic apparatus, of which he is the inventor. He has also
made a belt against sea sickness, the efficacy of which has been acknow¬
ledged by all who have tried it, and the Academy of Science has
accorded it its approval. He has had extraordinary success in revivi¬
fying sick and decaying trees and plants. The following is one case
vouched for and signed by Sir Richard Wallace’s head gardener, at his
Chateau de Bagatelle in Paris:—An orange tree, 200 years old, two
yards high, entirely leafless, branches dried up, and considered dead.
After Mr. Edard’s treatment with an “ electro-magnetic manure ” and
his own mesmerism, buds came out on the old wood, its original vitality
was renewed, and it is now a flourishing tree. As Mr. Edard refuses
to take any money for service rendered to the many sufferers whom he
has restored to health, he is obliged to work for a living as a clerk in an
office. Alfred Veron.
Paris.
PRIVATE SEANCES IN MANCHESTER.
Sir,— In a seance, after the last reported, the communication of Ester
Barton was completed by the statement that she was servant to the
priest who made “heaps of money from her power,” and that she was
executed on the 20th of April, 1534. I cannot up to this time make out
whether there is truth in this fact, but it has been repeatedly asserted by
decisive raps. In my second daylight experiment for materialisation the
spirit form appeared again very clearly, but not as lifelike as before, the
movements being unsteady and features fixed, as of a mask.
As I had only a very few seances in the presence of other witnesses it
will be interesting to brother investigators to meet a natural suggestion
as to the force of my statements, by reporting a stance we had last
Friday at two o’clock, including Mr. Chas. Blackburn (Manchester), Mr.
Tiedeman Martheze, and Mr. Bamford with his boys. After a few raps
we arranged for the cabinet, and had to wait a considerable time until
the face appeared. Mr. Bamford had secured the medium in the net
bag. The cross round the neck was not only plainly visible, but hanging
over the edge of the aperture, the touch of the metal on the front
(American cloth) being quite audible. After it retired, another face
appeared, unknown to me, but Mr. Bamford and one of his boys seemed
to recognise it, although the light and waning power interfered with
closer examination. The same evening we had a seance at another
place with the Bamford boys. Although cutting sceptical edges split
somewhat the current of power, there were some extraordinary pheno¬
mena under the strictest test conditions, ending with the ring taken
from the finger of the sceptic, and placed on the lap of the medium (who
was secured in a bag), being found on the finger of the boy, whose
sleeves were sewn together behind the bag! This, with direct writing
on a slate, formed the most startling points of the evening, and surprised
all. At the close of the seances, after the medium left, a sceptic would
insist that it was all imposture. This was the most striking manifesta¬
tion of all, and fairly perplexed some intelligent witnesses, who had
investigated the problem for many years! The next day, Mr. Martheze
and Mr. Bamford had a seance with my medium by themselves.—Yours
truly, C. Reimers.
Manchester, January 30, 1876.
THE NATURE OF THE SPIRIT.
Sir,—Your correspondent, M. A. (Oxon), states that “the theory put
forward in * Spirit Teachings ’ is this:—
“ Man is a tripartite being, composed of body, spirit, and soul.”
It is explained that by “ spirit ” is meant “ spirit-body,” and by soul,
the immortal principle in man.
I had noticed that in these beautiful “ Teachings ” the trichotomy is
stated in this order. In my view, the use of the word “ spirit ” to
designate the spirit-body is erroneous. In scriptural psychology, and
in that of the Greek fathers, the spirit-body is termed the soul (psyche,
anhna, and, perhaps, nephesh). Justin Martyr says:—“The body is
the house of the soul, and the soul is the house of the spirit.” St. Paul
says:—“ I pray God your whole spirit, and soul, and body may be
preserved blameless.” That “ by virtue of the possession of which man
is immortal” should properly, I think, be termed spirit (pneuma,
spiritus, and, perhaps, ruachj. The question may be merely one of the
correct, or conventional, use of terms. In the dichotomy of the Latin
fathers, which, until comparatively recently, prevailed in the modern
churches, the word soul seems to include both the pneuma and the
psyche; and the proper distinction between spirit and soul has been
very generally lost sight of. We talk of seeing “ spirits” in the same
way as we speak of so many “ souls” perishing at sea, or elsewhere.
What the clairvoyant medium sees are spirit-bodies, or souls; and what
perish at sea are bodies. I think it not improbable that Imperator
himself might accept the transposition of the words “ spirit ” and
“ soul,” as follows;—
“ Man is a tripartite being, composed of body, soul, and spirit.”
Desmond G. Fitz-Gerald, M. S. Tel. E.
Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
MESMERIC EXPERIMENTS.
Sir,—The meeting at the “ British National Association of Spirit¬
ualists ” last evening, broke up so shortly after the very interesting
account Mr. Rogers gave of his own experiences in mesmerism, that I
|)| had not time to say a few words on his theory of the uniting of the
ill “ auras ” of two persons producing the mesmeric influence. Many years
j(j ago, when I was deeply interested in the study of mesmerism, I had
7 j the privilege of witnessing numerous phenomena at the houses of Dr.
m Elliotson and Dr. Ashburner, accompanied by my old friends, Mr. H.
:) i S. T., one of the most powerful mesmerists then in England, and this
): gentleman’s wife. The lady was a strict disciplinarian, and held rigidly
( to the rule of “Early to bed and early to rise,” and was always
| \! anxious to leave before half the experiments were accomplished. I have
71 never myself been subject to the mesmeric influence, although con-
K: stantly acted upon by these gentlemen; but the fact that a few passes
! j down my back, made by Mr. H. S. T., even unknown to myself, had the
f immediate effect of producing mesmeric sleep in the wife, even when at
|(| the other end of the room, and quite unconscious of the ruse which
Hi was being played upon her, does not fit in with the above theory. We
; I were enabled to remain in this mutual relation as long as we pleased,
in There was not any sympathetic feeling between myself and the wife,
Hi therefore my “aura’’could not have mixed with hers. We must seek
i) | further for an explanation.
i (| As the National Association invites “ facts ” which have been person-
H: ally attested, it may not be uninteresting if I detail one of which I was
j) i not only a witness, but in which I was one of the principal actors. It
Kj occurred in my own family. We were staying at the country house of
) my friend Mr. H. S. T., where my child was suffering fearfully from
|}| carbuncle on the wrist. After a large dinner party, at which I thought
Hi she was on the point of fainting every moment, we adjourned, at Mr.
Hi H. S. T.’s request, to his little study, accompanied by his daughter. A
|) i few waves from his hand produced in the sufferer a calm mesmeric sleep,
Kj during which a sweet smile remained fixed upon the lips. I was then
Hi directed to hold tbe arm, whilst he made a deep gash into the tumour,
i(; which was to be removed. A quantity of dark blood followed the oper-
jii ation, and the arm was laid passively in my hands, although a few
Hi minutes previously it had been in a sling, and the slightest touch pro-
Hi duced the greatest agony. We bound up the arm with a bread and
Hi water poultice, and after a few minutes the patient was awakened. Her
Hi first look was one of surprise at seeing us all gazing at her, but no
(i thought of the arm seemed to occur to her until we asked the question,
|(| “ Is the arm better ? ” “ Oh, yes, better, I don’t feel any pain at all.”
(i The cure was complete, and the arm healed in a very short time. I
(i will get my friend, whose initial above I have given, to let me have
ci some of the records of the wonderful cures he has performed in his own
). county through this most precious gift of mesmeric power. I have other
): cases of my own also, which I can give you at another time if not in-
( truding on your space. Charlotte Fitzgerald.
) 19, Cambridgo-street, Hyde Park, W.
) A SEANCE WITH MR. EGLINGTON.
Sir,—On Monday, January 31st, 1876, a private seance was held at
; the residence of Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, 6, Loughboro’-road, North
t. Brixton, for the benefit of a few investigations. The room had been
\| prepared for total darkness. A musical-box of twenty-five pounds
;j weight, a guitar, a slate with a pencil of very diminutive size, placed
( under it, two large paper tubes, and a hand bell were put upon the
(l table. The circle was composed of seven persons, including two scien-
); tific men. All hands being linked, the gas was lowered, and we sang a
(l few songs from the Spiritual Lyre. During that time some attempts
y at manifestations were made, which enabled us to ask if we were
rightly seated. The answer was “No.” After re-seating ourselves as
{ the spirits directed, all hands joined, we were told to put out the gas,
V and immediately we heard the direct writing. A name or two appeared
)j on the slate, but no message. We had a break for about twenty
v minutes, and on resuming the dark seance, all hands joined as before,
)l the direct voice of one of our old spirit-friends greeted us, startling
iMr. P—, one of the scientific investigators, who was not, as we are,
familiar with audible spirit-company, “Joey,” the medium’s guide,
also spoke to us in the direct voice, patting our heads, hands, etc. 1
was informed by the medium that a host of spirit children surrounded
me ; and that one whom I recognised from his description of her, was
then bending over my head. Instantly I ■was tapped on the brow, and
I something like a gossamer veil fell over my face, and I felt over¬
shadowed by spiritual presence. I was patted on my head, hands,
and shoulders by a number of materialised hands, all playfully and
simultaneously greeting me. The medium then informed me that my
little spirit niece had floated up to the ceiling and disappeared from
1 his view. Spirit hands were felt by all except one gentleman, and we
requested Joey to touch his hands ; the reply was “I would if I could,
but the gentleman’s influence is adverse and renders me unable to get
j near him.”
70
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 11, 1870.
Feb. 11, 1876.
71
THE SPIRITUALIST.
The medium then became entranced, and the spirit Daisy most m
urgently cautioned us not to break contact, as by doing so, dangerous |)|
consequences might ensue. The medium’s hands were still held by ||l
Mr. Fitz-Gerald and myself. Manifestations began then in earnest, iji
The musical box was wound up by the spirits and played so long that \ /;
we begged of them to stop it, which they did after carrying it round j j I
the circle, and placing it on the floor. i
The chords of the guitar were heard while floating over our heads, f/j
and touching the ceiling. The bell was taken up and rung, having a j(!
light on the handle part of the time, and it was finally deposited on the j jj
gas pendant. A few other spirit lights were seen. j)|
After these manifestations, I felt myself drawn up from my chair by j(|
the medium ; unwilling to release my grasp of his hand, a light was j;j
obtained and he was standing on the table with contacts unbroken, in
still in a deep trance. Mr. Fitz-Gerald lifted him down, but he was a |(|
lew minutes in coming to his normal state. Thus concluded a very in- \)\
teresting seance under strict test conditions. ill
On the following day, from 3 to 6 p.m., the medium gave another nj
stance. Daylight was perfectly excluded. There were present Miss E. j)i
Fitz-Gerald, Mr. Herbert Edmands, medium, and myself. (j
The musical box, guitar, tubes, hand-bell, slate and pencil, were |!
placed upon the table. All hands linked except the right hand of medium j) |
and the left of Miss E. Fitz-Gerald, who between them held the slate. ](j
We commenced in our usual manner by singing a hymn; almost im- ]|j
mediately we heard the writing, and, in a moment or so, the following W!
message was found upon the slate:—“A few years ago people were |(|
glad to hear a few of the so-called raps ; then how thankful even you
ought to be for whatever you get. You are all mediums ; persevere in In
your investigations, as more and more is to be seen as you progress day jvl
after day in your endeavours to promote the truth.” Shortly after j jj
that, our hands again joined, the medium became entranced, and Joey j(j
told us to sing again. We did so, and were accompanied by the guitar, j(j
which kept much better time than our vocal organs did ; for loud raps jj|
of impatience accompanied our imperfect attempts. Joey spoke to us jjj
all, and performed many amusing feats with his hands, and impressed, Iji
as the novelists say, a kiss tipon the young lady’s brow. Another iji
favourite spirit of ours present greeted us all in his manly and well- i(!
known voice, indulging in a little badinage, and acquainting us with iji
the tangible force of spirit-power to our hearts’ content.
The musical-box was taken out round our heads and placed upon the j(!
floor. We saw the guitar perambulate over our heads, round the room, jjj
and finally rest on Miss E. Fitz-Gerald’s chair. The bell was rung, tubes j ji
thrown about, and materialised hands of all sizes very plentifully be- j(j
stowed their greetings.
The young lady would not be satisfied without a kiss from her old jjj
friend, upon which ho gave her a very audible one, saying, “Now, jjj
Emily, will that do?” The young lady replied, “It will,” and, with jjj
the usual “ Good-night, God bless you,” the inhabitants of the spheres jjj
departed. E. Gunyon. ijj
THE HARRISON TESTIMONIAL. | !
The subscription list to this testimonial is now closed. The last jjj
amounts received were from Prince Paskievitsch and Prince Gagarin, jjj
of St. Petersburg, £6 6s. Od. each. The total, with the guarantee fund, jjj
is about £700, a very generous contribution, considering that it has jjj
been made at the close of by far the most expensive year Spiritualism jjj
in England has ever seen. jj
Mr. Harrison has received the following letter:—
2, Great Winchester-street, jjj
London, February 7, 1876. jj;
My Dear Harrison,—I regret to inform you that I have again been jjj
very ill. I was seized on the Monday preceding the testimonial night, ijj
and was too ill to write you. It was no want of will that kept me jjj
away. Very truly yours, ijj
C. F. Varley. jjj
Mrs. Olive is now giving stances at 38, Great Russell-street, on jjj
Thursday afternoons.
National Association Library.—The following works have lately been j j i
added to the Library at 38, Great Russell-street:—Denny’s Alpha, iji
presented by Mr. A. C. Swinton; The Honeymoon, presented by Mr. E. j jj
D. Rogers; Apparitions, presented by the author, Mr. Newton Crosland; jjj
and R. Dale Owen’s Threading My Way, presented by Mr. J. Selwood.
A handsome album has also been presented by Miss Wiffen, for the
purpose of collecting trance communications, spiritual drawings, or
writings, which are not thought suitable for publication, but which may
nevertheless be of sufficient interest to attract casual readers. Any such
communications sent for insertion should be written on one side of the
paper only, and in distinct handwriting.
i Council Meeting of the National Association of Spiritualists.—
On Tuesday evening last, at the monthly meeting of the Council
of the National Association of Spiritualists, it was resolved to invite
Mr. D. D. Home and Mr. J. H. Stratil of Vienna, to accept honorary
membership of the Association. Mr. Everitt moved “ That a com¬
mittee be formed to inquire into the relations between Mr. Harrison and
the Association.” Mr. Harrison’s sole relation to the Association is
that he has an office on the premises, and as an equivalent for rent gives
the Association some of the time of his assistant, to save the Association
the expense of appointing a clerk. Mr. E. D. Rogers moved an amend-
mend, seconded by Mr. Morell Theobald, “ That Mr. Harrison be re¬
quested to pay rent for his room, and that a committee be appointed to
define the relationship between Mr. Harrison and the Association.” This
was carried by 11 to 6.
THE SPIRITUALITY OF WALT WHITMAN’S POETRY.
The following selection from Walt Whitman’s poems was
read recently at one of the soirees of the British National
Association of Spiritualists, by Dr. Keningale Cook, and
was listened to with marked interest:—
WHISPERS OF HEAVENLY DEATH.
Whispers of heavenly death, murmur’d I hear,
Labial gossip of night—sibilant chorals;
Footsteps gently ascending—mystical breezes, wafted soft and low;
Ripples of unseen rivers—tides of a current flowing, for ever flowing;
(Or is it the plashing of tears ?—the measureless waters of human tears ?)
I see, just see, skyward, great cloud-masses ;
Mournfully, slowly they roll, silently swelling and mixing;
With, at times, a half-dimm’d, sadden’d, far-off star,
Appearing and disappearing.
.(Some parturition, rather—some solemn, immortal birth :
On the frontiers, to eyes impenetrable,
Some Soul is passing over.)
assurances.
I need no assurances—I am a man who is preoccupied, of his own Soul;
I do not doubt that from under the feet, and beside the hands and face I am
cognisant of, are now looking faces I am not cognisant of—calm and
actual faces ;
I do not doubt but the majesty and beauty of the world are latent in any iota
of the world;
I do not doubt I am limitless, and that the universes are limitless—in vain I
try to think how limitless ;
I do not doubt that the orbs, and the systems of orbs, play their swift sports
through the air on purpose—and that I shall one day be eligible to do as
much as they, and more than they;
I do not doubt that temporary affairs keep on and on, millions of years;
I do not doubt interiors have their interiors, and exteriors have their exteriors
—and that the eyesight has another eyesight, and the hearing another
hearing, and the voice another voice ;
I do not doubt that the passionately-wept deaths of young men are provided
for—and that the deaths of young women, and the deaths of little chil¬
dren, are provided for;
(Did you think Life was so well provided for—and Death, the purport of all
Life, is not well provided for ?)
I do not-doubt that wrecks at sea, no matter what the horrors of them—no
matter whose wife, child, husband, father, lover, has gone down, are pro¬
vided for, to the minutest points;
I do not doubt that whatever can possibly happen, anywhere, at any time, is
provided for, in the inherences of things;
I do not think Life provides for all, and for Time and Space—but I believe
Heavenly Death provides for all.
THE LAST INVOCATION.
At the last, tenderly,
From the walls of the powerful, fortress’d house,
From the clasp of the knitted locks—from the keep of the well-closed doors,
Let me be wafted.
Let me glide noiselessly forth;
With the key of softness unlock the locks—with a whisper,
Set ope the doors, 0 Soul;
Tenderly! be not impatient!
(Strong is your hold, 0 mortal flesh!
Strong is your hold, 0 love.)
DR. SLADE’S MEDIUMSHIP.
This celebrated American medium has of late been in the
habit of admitting only two observers at a time to his day¬
light stances in New York, in order to secure the best pos¬
sible results by the avoidance of unnecessary confusion.
We believe he sometimes holds a large circle in the evening.
His powers of obtaining slate writing have recently been
described in these pages, but about a year ago he was in the
habit of sitting for test materialisations. A piece of string
was passed from one side of the room to the other, and upon
it a piece of cloth, a yard square, was suspended a foot or
two in front of the wall of the room. There was a round
hole in the centre of the piece of cloth. Dr. Slade sat in
front of this, along with the spectators, and before the faces
came the spirits whisked up the cloth to show that there
was still nothing visible between it and the wall. Then
faces began to appear at the opening in the cloth; they
were usually mask-like, with no life in them.
The Testimonial to Mrs. Tappan.—Mr. Coleman requests us to
state that Mrs. Tappan has heard from Messrs. Colby and Rich of the
Banner of Light, Boston, that they have received the illuminated address
and the other presents intended for her, and after they have been ex¬
hibited at their offices, they will be forwarded to her at San Francisco,
where she informs Mr. Coleman she is actively engaged in address¬
ing large audiences, and she says as it is impossible for her to write
much, she desires her kind regards to all her English friends. Mrs.
Tappan’s letter to Mr.'Coleman is dated San Francisco, January 19,1875.
She is charmed with the climate, and writes in good spirits.
72
THE SPIRITUALIST. Feb. 11. 1876.
ilrobtnctal Jictoa.
LIVERPOOL. |
A [DEBATE ON MESMERISM- AT THE ROOMS OP THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL ! (
SOCIETY. | \
For some time past—in fact, since the society held the present rooms j (
—it has been in the habit of having papers read, and of inviting dis- |)
cussions thereon, opponents especially being requested to state their ;)
views regarding Spiritualism, and to advance their objections, the same (
freedom and courtesy being accorded to them as to the advocates of the | >1
cause. Unfortunately, however, the opponents of Spiritualism and \h
psychology have not always used this liberty with good grace, and have | y
frequently stifled free and fair discussion. On Friday evening there i)
was a strong muster of these gentlemen, and very few Spiritualists u
present, to listen to a paper read by the vice-president, Mr. Ainsworth, : \
on “ Mesmerism, and its Relation to Spiritualism; ” Mr. Walter Isaac i>
in the chair. ; l
Mr. Ainsworth said many arguments had been advanced by op- jy
ponents to cover the ground occupied by Spiritualism, and mesmerism i) |
was one amongst the theories they had broached. It was to that \b
subject he would call their attention, more especially as he noticed )
in the audience a gentleman whom he recognised as a professor of |)|
mesmerism, and whom he had heard assert many strange things on the j l
public platform on behalf of mesmerism and against Spiritualism. He jvj
had seen several of that gentleman’s experiments, which were no m
doubt good as far as they went, but to an observing and intelligent i l \
man they fell far short of what was assumed or pretended on their I) i
behalf. He might not have seen to advantage the power of the mes- Ii
merist, but then he noticed that, notwithstanding all that had been | (
advanced, conditions were as essential in the production of mesmeric :) i
phenomena as of Spiritualistic phenomena. The lecturer (Mr. Ains- i j i
worth) then detailed at length several of the experiments he had jj|
witnessed, as well as the failure of some of them; the reasons ad- )
vanced by the mesmerist to account for these failures,—1st, that the i \ j
individuals had a temperament somewhat similar to himself; 2nd, that hi
he was working at a disadvantage, there being no music; 3rd, the ;) |
audience consisting chiefly of boys, did not keep as quiet as they ](j
should do while he was getting his subjects under control. Here at
least he had learned that conditions were required,—the attention of pi
the subjects, the soothing influence of music, and passivity, as seen from m
his demand for silence. Yet the same gentleman pooh-poohed the idea pi
of a certain number of individuals holding a seance and observing the i) i
above conditions. But where he saw the operator and the subjects, he \b
saw the lack of successful control, and the want of conditions. The j) i
lecturer then referred to the early development of Mrs. Cora L. Y. I) i
Tappan from the age of eleven years; when, in a state of unconscious i j
trance, her spirit-sister wrote on a slate through her mediumship; to jji
the fact of her speaking four languages at that early age in the i
abnormal condition ? to the surgical operation performed by her, while i j i
totally ignorant of all medical knowledge, at the age of thirteen. He i) j
would ask, how could mesmerism account for that ? he would be glad to
receive information on the subject, who was the mesmerist ? He had : \ \
advanced these propositions, and waited calmly for reply.
Mr. Shaw said be had seen Mr. Procter perform some wonderful ex- | ;
periments ; that the lecturer had not seen him to advantage, as it was j(j
his first night, with strange subjects before a strange audience. He had i) |
seen the mesmerist place a chair on the floor in a rocking position, and
having placed a child on one end, and having a strong, able-bodied sub- i) i
ject at the other, he had made the child lift the man by mesmeric passes pi
alone.
Mr. Procter (who was the mesmerist alluded to) said that it had been j j
observed that there were some people foolish enough to believe in !)1
Spiritualism, notwithstanding that their tricks were exposed one by one, |
and their mediums shown up before the world as impostors. He con- i
sidered Mrs. Tappan a very well read, clever woman, who had escaped j jj
exposure up till now. He then undertook to show them the chair ex- | :
periment and signally failed. Approaching the chairman he slapped i)
him on the shoulder, and tried to mesmerise him.
Mr. J. Coates said that for a considerable period he had been satisfied j j |
that Spiritualism was a fact, a grand fact, one that had to him, as to j i j
thousands, proved the continuity of life beyond the grave, and bad j i I
given an occasional peep into the mysteries of the land of spirit. He | \:
was satisfied that spirit communication also was a fact, and although the : i
opponents had been pleased to call mediums idiots and impostors, he i | i
claimed to be a medium. He did not think for a moment that any one !
in that room denied the reality of mesmerism; but it was just possible i i
to give to that subject undue importance, and claim for it what did not H
justly belong to it. He was acquainted with the best authorities on the i(j
subject, had studied their best thoughts, and had the pleasure of num-
bering amongst his friends such men as Capt. Hudson, Spencer Hall, j i
W. Chadwick, and his late co-labourer, Mr. Meredith, who was a power- \l\
ful mesmerist, and was now lecturing at Burnley. Spiritualism was i |!
true, so was also mesmerism ; but neither one or the other was to be 11 \
supported by foolish and extravagant assertions. Let Mr. Procter prove jl|
mesmerism if he liked, but that would not disprove the realities of Spirit- | :
ualism; if anything, it would throw a light on that subject. He believed i JI
that mesmerism was the forerunner of modern Spiritualism. Sweden- jii
borg and Andrew Jackson Davis had both been the subjects of mes- I i
merists before they gave to the world their wonderful and advanced i I
philosophies. i j I
Mr. Chapman and Mr. Shephard took part in the debate, which was !
adjourned to next Friday.
Mr. Peter Bretherton, late organist of the society, passed away on hi
the 1st inst, in his fiftieth year. He was a hard worker, noble, faithful, j i i
and true. His Mends and the society sustain a loss.
Funeral of a Spiritualist.—Mr. Coates writes to us that the
mortal remains of Mr. Peter Bretherton were taken on Thursday last
week and consigned to a grave which had been obtained by his friends
for that purpose. The coffin was lowered, and a clergyman appeared on
the scene to read the service for the dead, according to the Church by
law established. The friends of the deceased informed him that his
services would not be required, as Mr. Bretherton had requested that
there should be no ministrations of the Church at the grave side, ex¬
cepting an address from Dr. Hitchman suitable for such an occasion,
and in harmony with the views of Spiritualists. The clergyman there¬
upon informed them that the ground they stood upon was consecrated,
and under no circumstances would any service or address be permitted
there other than that ordered by the Church ; he threatened fines if any
such thing were attempted. Those assembled committed the body of
their brother Spiritualist (who was also lately a respected and honoured
materialist) in silence to the grave, and the charge for minister and
clerk had to be paid for services neither rendered nor wanted. Dr.
Hitchman delivered the funeral oration at the Rooms of the Psycho¬
logical Society on Sunday night.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE. .
A SOCIAL MEETING OF SPIRITUALISTS.
On Thursday evening, February 3rd, there was a social tea-meeting
of members and friends at the Freemasons’ Old Hall, when about
seventy persons sat down to tea, the tables being presided over by the
Misses Wood and Fairlamb. When the repast was over, the company
had increased to about one hundred and fifty, among whom were Mr.
and Mrs. Lambelle, of South Shields; Mr. Elliott, of Walker, and many
other well-known Spiritualists from neighbouring districts. After a
solo by Miss Coltman, accompanied on the organ by Mr. Walton, Mr.
J. J. Morse narrated his American experiences, which have been
already reported in The Spiritualist newspaper, and which gave great
pleasure to the audience. The chair was occupied by Mr. Hobson.
On Sunday morning a seance was held, when about fifteen persons
were present, including one or two from Ouston, near Chester-le-Street,
the sitting being for materialisation. A face with a dark beard and
draped head-dress showed itself repeatedly at the aperture of the cur¬
tains ; it answered questions by nods or otherwise, but did not speak.
It bore a very good light, and allowed the sitters to change their seats,
so that most persons had a view of the face within a distance of two
feet. The face remained visible for ten minutes at a time. Miss Wood
and Miss Fairlamb were both within the cabinet, but no tests were
imposed.
In the evening Mr. Morse lectured to a respectable and attentive
audience, among which were many strangers; the subject was “ The
Unknown God.” Speaking first of the ordinary notions of the
orthodox God, he next showed that the idea of man’s God at any time
has always been in accordance with his highest conceptions, depending
upon his condition at the time. Then came the question whether God
has fully and sufficiently revealed Himself to mankind. That such had
been the case he endeavoured to show from nature, in that man,
animal and vegetable organisations, all and each being true to its pur¬
poses, and adapted to meet the required end; also that there was
gradual unfoldment and evolution; that matter was acted upon from
within, and that there was an ever-living present God working in
nature now, in the past, and for ever. Proceeding from matter to
motion, thence to organisation and to individuality, it was shown that
there was a grand purpose running through the realms of nature,
revealing a God of wisdom, justice, and universal love ; that all the
vicissitudes of life and its various experiences were the only means by
which we could gain knowledge, and, although we saw nature en¬
deavouring to overcome man, and man endeavouring to overcome
nature, whatever transpired did not affect individuality nor immortality,
as even the finite mind was superior to the changing conditions which
surrounded it. The delivery of the discourse occupied an hour and a
half ; the language was eloquent, and most of those who have attended
Mr. Morse’s lectures before say that they never heard a finer discourse
proceed from his lips.
The chair was occupied by Mr. Armstrong, the president. Mr. Hare
proposed a vote of thanks to the lecturer, to which Mr. Morse responded,
stating that it was not to him, but to the invisible guides speaking
through him, that we were indebted.
On Monday evening an entertainment was given in order to help to
defray the expenses connected with the purchase of the new American
organ, which Mr. Walton has worked energetically to procure for the
benefit of the members. Mr. Mould was the chainnan of the evening.
The programme consisted of—Organ solo by Mr. Walton, “ March of
42nd Highlanders;” Chorus, “The Might and theRight,” Choir ; Read¬
ing, “The Helmsman of Lake Erie,” J. T. Rhodes; Song, “Annie
Lisle,” Miss Coltman ; Song, “ Last Rose of Summer,” Miss Fairlamb;
Reading, “The Pilgrims and the Peas,” Mr. Walton; Comic song,
“Batch of Ballads,” Mr. Pickup; Song, “L. S. D.,” Mr. Greenwell ;
Magic Lantern exhibition of spirit photographs, kindly lent by Mr.
Burns, Mr. Pickup; Song, “The Anchor’s Weighed,” Mr. Bunnell.
A similar meeting will be held on the first Monday of every month,
and the committee would be glad of the co-operation of all those who
are willing to take part. A collection was made to defray expenses.
J. T. R.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Erratum.—In M. A. Oxon’s letter On the Nature of the Soul, in last week’s
issue, line 11, instead of “in such soil,” read “ in such sort.”
Feb. 11, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
ON SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF "THE SPIRITUALIST"
NEWSPAPER.
38, GREAT RUS3ELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
LONDON, W.C.
(Entrance in Wobum-street).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.;
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.: moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, ' by William Crookes, P.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism. 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume's “ Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Eikss Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti-
cateu spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. (Kl.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Sorjeaut-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by, an alleged Psychic! Force,
unconsciously governed in its Mtion by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee. D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality oi Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This l>ook professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author ot acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spint Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by tho Rov.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supernaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be-
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature: Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit ;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN HARD EC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell>
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens* these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made.by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery,
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. "The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe. is better than any which that poet wrote 'during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. cd.; cheap edition,
7s. fid.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. Od.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits api>eared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PSALMS OF LIFE, a collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. (id.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen,
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumshii) of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
ex)>eriments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
ARCANA OF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vols.,
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. fid.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Ilardinge. 16s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 9s.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three uarts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists, is. Papeij fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 0s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record of Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. Cd.
STOttlESOFINFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET —3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. fis.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONfe ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD'S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex-
iHisitlon of Spiritualism, fis.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com-
inunications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Yols.) 10s
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1766. 2s. fid.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. fid.) 4s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." *■ d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . 15 #
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . .- . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . . .76
The Seer. ,,111. „ . , . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. .. . , . . .76
The Thinker. „ V. „ . . . . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis , . .76
A Stellar Key to the'Summer Land . • ■. . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . ' . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .50
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . , . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . .86
Harbinger of Health , . . . . . .76
Harinonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .30
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) ., . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . . , ,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . - . . .36
Penetralia; Containing Hannonial Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .60
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . . * 2 6
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . . ..30
Morning Lectures ... . . . .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recom¬
mended by Thb Spiritualist Newspaper . . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .50
History of American Socialisms-.(Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yuu, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a:d. and 518 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A„ Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge. D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fisko. M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind'; or, A Voice from the Ganges,by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by;James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . .20
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . * 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B. A . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . . 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S..
Special edition for Schools . , , . .10
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Doten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), is. each
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thoma* R.
Hazard, fid.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
6(1.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “ There is In it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” fid.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
THEODORE PARKER IN SPIRIT LIFE. Given
inspirationally through the mediumship of Dr. F. L. H. Willis.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young. fid.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brovior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. R. T.
Ilallock. 2s.
THE. SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 11, 1876.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. W. H. HARRISON.
Committee.
Martin JJ..Smith, Esq.
Charles' Blaelrtrarn, Esq.
Sir Chas. Isham, Bart.
Baroness Adelma von Yay.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
H. D. .Tenoken, Esq. M.R.I.
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq, M.S.
TeuS. ’
N. P. Day s, Esq. .
Miss Douglas.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M;D.
Mrs. H’ony wood.
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgen-
stein.
Alexander Calder, Esq.
Alexander Tod, Esq.
Mrs. Katei'Pox-Jencken.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq.,
• F.B.8.-
James Wason, Esq.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
James Mylne, Esq.
: . . . ' JSeeretary and Treasurer, i.
Martin-B. Smith, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Since the year 1869 Spiritualists have been indebted to Mr.
Wm. E.. Harrison for the excellent journal of which he is the
editor. This journal has been a credit and strength to the
movement in every respect. It has been printed in clear type
and on good paper, and has been conducted with ability,"
caution, courage, and public spirit. It is hardly necessary to
say that up to the present time the paper has been by no
means' self-supporting; indeed, during the first three years of
its existence it entailed upon Mr. Harrison a very heavy loss,
which he bore single-handed. This loss was aggravated by
the fact that, in order the more completely to devote his
attention to the Spiritualist newspaper, Mr. Harrison volun¬
tarily relinquished a considerable portion (estimated, upon
reliable information, at an average of not less than £200 per
annum) of the income which he was deriving from literary
work on the Engineer newspaper and other journals. Mr.
Harrison has indeed done more than this, for during the past
eight years he has given up one or two evenings every week
to a practical observation of spiritual phenomena at seances.
By his unwearied and intelligent observation he has been
enabled to collect a mass! of reliable information as to the facts
and principles of Spiritualism, which fits him in the highest
degree to be the editor of a newspaper devoted to the religious
and scientific aspects of the subject.
It is a matter of notoriety that the Medium newspaper,
which was inaugurated the year after the appearance of the
Spiritualist, has been annually subsidized by large subscrip¬
tions, which its editor, Mr. Burns, has always called for as
justly due to his exertions. Whilst we fully acknowledge the
services which have been thus rendered to Spiritualism, we
would call attention to the fact that no appeal to the-public for
help has ever, except upon one occasion, and that fora special
purpose, appeared in the pages pf the Spiritualist for six years.
The work was done, and the whole expense borne for three of
those years by Mr. Harrison alone; during the last three years
an annual sum of about two hundred pounds has been privately
subscribed by a few friends, which has, doubtless, greatly
relieved the burden upon the shoulders of Mr. Harrison, but
this in no way touches the fact that Mr."Harrison has for years
cheerfully submitted to a heavy pecuniary loss in order to
supply to the movement a paper in many, if not in all, respects
worthy of it.-
The undersigned ladies and gentlemen are of opinion that
it is not to the credit of the movement that this pecuniary
loss should be borne alone by Mr. Harrison.
Had he appealed to the public for subscriptions, they would
doubtless have been forthcoming, as they have been for some
years past in answer to the appeals of the Medium ever since
its establishment—but he has not done so.
It is proposed, therefore, that a subscription, in addition to
the existing Guarantee Fund, shall be opened, which shall take
the form of a testimonial to Mr. Harrison, and which, it is
hoped, may to some extent, relieve him from the heavy
sacrifices which he. has made in money, time, and work in the
interests of Spiritualism.
Friends desiring’to' contribute to this fund are requested
to send in their names to Martin B. Smith, Esq., care of Miss
Kislingbury 38, Great Bussell-street, London, W.C.
List of Subscriptions to January 5th, 1876. .
Mr. Martin R. Smith.     £50 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn.......;....     50 0 0
Mr. J. N. T. Martheze     50 0 0
Mr. James Mylne       40 0 0
Mr. Alexander Calder 20 0 0
A Friend  ....‘....V.A....: I.............'..;...’........ 20 0 0
Mr. Alexander Tod . ....'.   20 0 0
Comte de Bullet      ;....... 20 0 0
Mr. N. F. Dawe          15 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.      10 0 0
Mr J. M. Gully, M.D        10 0 0
Prince Paskievitsch        6 7 7
Prince Gagarin         ,677
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgenstein  6 0 0
F. S. A.    5 5 0
Mr. C, F. Variey,JF.R.S.        500
Mr. Eugene Crowell, M.D.   5 0 0
Mrs. Louisa Lowe .‘. 6 0 0
Mr. Charles Massey 6 0 0
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald .;  5 0 0
A Friend   1    5 0 0
Mr. A, Tod...........; (SecondSubscription) 5 0 0
Mr. CharlesBlackburn  „ • 5 0 0
Mr. C. C, Massey   „ „ 5 0 0
Mr. A. Calder   5 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.    , .'50 0
F. S.Al^.Alf;.-5 - 0 0
Signor Damiani      rf   3 3 0
Mrs.HonywOod        ; 2 2 0
Mr. Morell Theobald        2 2 0
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S....:.    2 2 0
Mr. S. Chinnery      2 2 0
Mr. S. Templeman Speer, M.D    2 2 0
“ Ennesfallen’’    .’  2 2 0
Three Friends...........".A      2 2 0
Mr. A. L. Henderson    . 2 2 0
Col. Olcptt    2 0 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory     2 0 0
Mr. Epes Sargent   1  - 2 0 0
Dr. Baikie     2 0 0
Miss Douglas    .2 0 0
M. H. C....,      2 0 0
M, Gustave de Yeh      2 0 0
Mr. Geo. Sutherland.   2 , 0 0
Miss Aaiia Blackwell        2 0 0
Mr. Keningale Cook    1 11 6
Mr. Geo.HKing         ,110
Mr. F. A.Binney      110
Mr..J. Coates     110
Mrs. Maltby      110
Mrs. Kislingbury .".....   110
Mr. B. W. Pycock     110
Mr. B. Coleman       110
Mr. B. Fitton      110
Major Menars    110
Mr. John Lament    7..;......'.........,.   1 1 "0
Mr. Archibald Lamont  110
Mr. T..B. Griffin     110
Mr. J. B. Stones     <110
Mr. G. W. F. Wiese   .......'   110
Rev. W. Wtritear .,.,-.4     1 10
Miss Whitear   1 1 0;
, Mr. C, E: Williams    1 1: 0
Mr. A. Giendinniog   ; ;......   1 .1' 0
Mr. H. Withall  .......;    I P 0
Captain James......     1,1 0
, Mr. F. W. Percival.. *..           .1 * 1 0
Mr. Christian Eeimers'     1 1. 0
Mr. Thos. Hinde................     • 1 1.0
Mr. Thos. Grant          • 1. 10
Mrs. Geo. Neville   7.„.........r   11 0
Mr. G. E. Tapp           1 1 0
Mr. J. Clfjrk Ferguson i   j  110
Mrs. Wdodfdfde......   110
Mr. T. M. Simkiss  7.....1.1 0
A Friend    ,1.1-. 0
A Friend, per Miss Williamson.. 1 1 0
Mr. W. P. Adshead ....;   SBKft 110
Mr. D. H. Wilson    :... ....;. 110
Mrs. M. T. Wood.......     i.7. 110
Mr. John Scott ..;       1 1 0
Mr. C.T. Hook       110
Mr. W. White.     1 1 0
Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy     110
Dr. W. Hitchman   ;  1 1 0
Mr. E. D. Rogers .......; Sa...  1 0 0;
Mr. R. Corbet         10 d
M.B..:.....         10 0
Baroness von Vay     1 0 0
Dr. W. M. Buchanan    1. 0 0
Miss E. D. Ponder    ;    10 0
A Subscriber   1 0 0„
Amicus     10 0
Mr." A. C. Swinton   J     1 0 0;
M.A. (Oxon.)    10 0
Mr. J. H. Gledstanes      1 0 0
Mr. Geo. Lee    ;.     0 10 6
Mr. W. E. Bassett       0 10 6
Mr. T. H. Edmands   t   0 10 6
Mr. Aaron Franklin   0 10 6
Mrs. &ardn Franklin  .....'  0 10 6
Mr.J.S. Crisp ; ; ;     t   0 10 0
Miss F. J. Theobald  0 10 6
Mr. St. George Stock    0 10 0
Mr. Geo. Blvton  .ii. 0 10 0
Mr. G. H. Potts     :   0 10 0
J. f. c    0 10 0
Mr. E, Storey     0 10 6
Mr. J. Deane      010 6
C. S. S.     0 10 0
a. c    ....:.. 010 0
A. B. O. : ....'' 0 8 6
Mr. Algernon Joy     - 0,50
Miss Eislingbury       0 5 0
“Peterboro”       0 5 0
A.'O.-W.    ......" 0 5 0
Miss Emily FitzGerald    .'....   0 5 0
A Clergyman ......;....; ■..., ,r..........7...'.. 0 5 0
A. He&fler of The Spiritualist       0 5 0
Mr. Wm. Robinson     0 5 6
Mr. E. Pearce   0 5 0
“Mercy” 7....7.     050
An Old Friend      0 '5 0
Miss Mackay     0 5 0
The Misses Young  0 6 0
Y  0 5 0
A Well-wisher ...i ;   0 5 0
Mr. Young  ! 0 5 0
Small sums t   0 5 3
Guarantee Fund   206 0 0
Just published in one volume, handsomely got up, and printed
on toned paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE OBIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY
OF THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
lllmtrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an
. Anyel in the tenth state.
Contents.
Chap. 1.—TheUpity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
v 2.—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
,, 3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences
in the Spiritual world,
„ ^.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God.
„ 5.—The purpose of God in creation.
„ 6.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
, 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
, 8.—The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
„ 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
„ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
,, 11.—The Lost Orb. Parti.
„ 12.—The Argelic Society of Aaron’s Rod.
„ 13.—The Lost Orb. Part II.
,, 14.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ 15.—The Lost Orb. Parc III.
' „ 16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an ac¬
count of the Birth, Parentage, and Death of, Teresa Jacoby,
with her experiences in the other life up through the states
to the tenth, in which she is now in, and communicates as the
Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by ihe Recorder, who gives a
full account concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with, a Frontispiece photo-
printed, of the Angel, the original of which was produced by
the direct operation of Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjects treated of are
of such thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense
to make it a handsome volume and not being published with
any regard to profit, it is hoped that a large circulation may
be obtained.
Price of the volume 6s.
On sale at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38,
Great Russell-street, London, W.C. . * ■ . " ■ '
SPIRITUAL SCIENTIST, of Boston, Mass.,
kj U.S.A. The most faithful and impartial exponent of
Spiritualism in America. The title, Spiritual Scientist, clearly
indicates the character of the" paper. Unlike all other
Spiritual journals, it gathers from the great authors of ancient
time the fruits of their researcles into the secrets of nature
and the laws of. the Sp ritual Universe. On the Occult
Sciences it has many able contrhmtors, and solicits correspon¬
dence.
Published weekly. Sci ntist Pub. Co., publishers'. E. Gerry-
Brown, Editor. Offices, 18, Exch«nge-s re^t, and 24, Devon-
shire-street. The Scientist is now in its fourth volume Terms
of subscription, in advance, 13s. per annum, including postage.
Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 38, Great iuusell-sireet,
London, W.C.
HP HE ALPHA ; OR, THE FIRST PRINCIPLE
I OF THE HUMAN MIND; A Revelation,-but no Mystery,
with Spiritual Advent and Steel. Portrait of the Author,
E. N. Dennys. “We can call to mind’few books fit to be its
fe\\ows.’'—Athenxum: “ It contains more ’ truth, poetry,
; philosophy, and logic, than any work we have ever read;
: it is.a new revelation, and one of the most remarkable produc-
1 tions ever given to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
Also just published, with a beautiful Engraving of the Author
470 pace's, on toned paper, handsomely bound, prke'3s. 6d.
rpHE RELIGION* OF LIFE,- AS EXEM-
JL PLIFIED BY THE MAN JESUS CHRIST, a Series Of
Lectures, by the author. of “. Alpha.” A synopsis of the topics
may be obtained free on application.
CONTENTS:—What:is Evil?:Charity; Poverty—its Evils
and its Mission; The Divinity that Dwells in Man; The Church
of the Future;^ “Stand up! I myself also am a Man;!’ The
P&th of Righfeouine’ss j Trust in God; SelfiTrnst; What is
Christianity ^'Thy Kingdom Come!, RJ Man ? The “ one
thing” 'desi'redfby^.the^Pqalmist; I^ure Religion; Philosophy;
The Childhood of Jesus V'BeiigiouS'Liberty'; .Election and
Grace; Time; Sin; Law the Regenerator,; The Last Judg¬
ment; God is not. Mocked; The Unchristian Character of
Riches; Peace; Religion Consists in Action; The Millennium,
and how to obtain it. t
The work is also published in nine parts, eight at 4d. each
and one at 6d., done up in neat wrappers.
“THE UNCHRISTIAN CHARACTER OF RICHES” and
“RELIGION CONSISTS IN ACTION” are also published
separately at Id. each, -
*** The cordial aid of the friends of education, intellectual
progress, and religious liberty is earnestly solicited to make’
these works as widely known as possible. They contain the
most important of ah knowledge, by a deep, and original
thinker, and will be supplied at cost price for extensive circu¬
lation. They have been brought out in ayariety of forms to
suit the means of all classes of readers.
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Mafia-lahe,' London, E.C.
First Edition.
IMPORTANT NEW PUBLICATION.
INFORMATION FOB INQUIRERS INTO SF1RIT-
' , „ tJALLSM.
A PAMPHLET; the full size of The Spiritualist, containing a
large amount of information, compiled especially for inquirers,
will be shortly issued from:27<e Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office at 38, Great Russell-street, London, for sale at public
meetings,
PRICE ONE PENNY.
There has long been a demand for some such publication
as this, the current spiritual newspapers not always containing
the most suitable or most condensed information for persons'
to whom the subject of Spiritualism is a strange One.
Many thousands of copies of the publication will be printed,
and kept on sale by. vendors of spiritual literature,1 and at
spiritual meetings throughout the country.
From the large circulation thus secured, it will be a
VALUABLE CHANNEL FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
To Mediums, Mesmerists, Authors of Spiritual Looks, and
others. The charge for advertisements will be One Shillii g
for the first twenty-five words, and Sixpence for every addi¬
tional twenty-five words, or portion thereof. Displayed adver¬
tisements Five Shillings per inch.
All advertisements should be sent in as soon as possible, as
the publication will come out in a few weeks! time.
Special arrangements will be made to supply local societies
with copies at a cheap rate, if ordered in large quantities; the
said societies may thus considerably increase their income by
the profits on sales.
All communications on this subject should be addressed to
the Editor of The Spiritualist, 38, Great Russell-street, Blooms-’
bury, London, W.C. '
“THE SPIRITUALIST’? NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of. the Science and Ethics o’
Spiritua.lism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
UPHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-*- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in’the
United Kingdom, ana is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also lias an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced.Spiritualists, including many eminent in tlie, ranks
of Literature, Art, 'Science, and the. Peerage. Among, tliose who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly'Journai of Science” (wlio
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause)-; Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wies¬
baden); The Countess of Caithness ; the -Duke of Lencliteuberg;
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent;(Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Olmrcli (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas JSt. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. II. M., Dunpliy,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D, (Edm.) ;
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. John E Purdon.'MB."(India)’; Mrs.
Hollywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr.
St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon) ; Mr! James’Wason; Mr. N;
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reiniers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mi-. J. M. Gully, M;D,; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies. D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. 11. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A.. LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia): and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United;Kingdom, lOs.-lOd.
To residents in the United States, 4 dols. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to-“Tlie'Manager,
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Loudon,
W.C.” ■
[December, 1875.1
Just Published. Price 2s.. ,
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely, scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co. | }
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwdod’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Avq
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
