A F^ECOF^D Of THE PROQREff Of THE J3CJEJMCE y\ND ETHICS OF fPJF^JTU/XJfM.
No. 6.—Vol. p LONDON: TUESDAY, FEBRUABY 15, 1870. eveTy
LORD BRODGHAM ON SPIRITUALISM.
A "work entitled The Boole of Nature* by Mr. Charles
0. Groom Napier, F.C.S., was published last month, and
has a preface by the late Henry Lord Brougham and
Vaux, which preface closes with tbefollowing sentence:—
“ There is but one question I would ask the author, is
the Spiritualism of this work foreign to our material¬
istic, manufacturing age?—No; for amidst the varieties
of mind which divers circumstances produce, are found
those who cultivate man’s highest faculties ;—to these
the author addresses himself. But even in the most
cloudless skies of scepticism I see a rain-cloud,—if it be
no bigger than a man’s hand; it is Modern Spiritualism.”
Many were the noble acts and deeds of Lord
Brougham, but the foregoing outspoken statement,
shows, how even in his later days, he was in advance
of many of our younger and more energetic philosophers
and statesmen, both in knowledge of facts, and in fear¬
lessly and honestly publishing that knowledge.
THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.
THE ARCHITECTURE OF THE HUMAH BODY.
Professor Humphry, M.D., F.R.S., of Cambridge
University, is now giving a course of six Tuesday morn¬
ing lectures on the Architecture of the Human Body,
and the fourth lecture of the series was delivered last
Tuesday. He said that the several bones forming the
spinal column or “backbone,” are joined together at
their outer edges by tough fibres, but the inner portion
of the space between the bones is pulpy and not fibrous,
so that the vertebrae are to all practical intents and
purposes balanced upon fluid balls, tough outside and
soft in the centre. These fluid balls prevent bad effects
from jars. By pressure and by work, some of the in¬
ternal fluid is squeezed out of the balls during the day,
but the fibrous substance having a great attraction for
moisture, the loss is soon replaced. So tightly are the
bones joined together, that when the spinal column is
broken, some of the bones themselves are almost sure to
be broken also. All mammals, with a very few excep¬
tions, have the same number of bones in the neck, and
there are no more bones in the neck of the giraffe than
in the neck of a man. The ribs are attached to the
spinal column, and proceed from it in a curve ; they are
inclined in a slightly downward direction, but in old
people they become more horizontal. The points of the
ribs are not directly joined to the breast-bone, but are
connected with it by ligaments which slant slightly up¬
wards, so that the downward slant of the ribs, and the
upward slant of the ligaments, permit respiration to go
on more easily than would otherwise be the case. The
position of the heart, which is somewhat to the left of
the centre of the chest, seems to give it a tendency to
drive more blood to the right side, and to the right arm,
so may have something to do with right-handedness.
Babies have very large skulls in proportion to' the size
of the rest of the body, and this is curious, because for
many years the large brain enclosed in the skull has
very little work to do. The lower jaw is moved by a
.very large and powerful muscle, which spreads upwards
and outwards like a fan, so as to reach to the temples,
and to cover a very large portion of the side of the
skull; it is the presence of this muscle which makes it
unpleasant to eat a hard biscuit while a tight hat is upon
the head. The thigh-bone is the longest bone in the body;
it has a very shallow socket, so that it is kept in its place
principally by atmospheric pressure, and moves to and
fro, depending from the shallow socket, something like
a pendulum. The knee is one of the most complicated
joints in the whole body, and when it gets out of order
does not readily get right again. The pelvis is an inch
wider in woman than in man, therefore tends to make
women walk with a waddle, but this defect is not seen
unless they strive to keep pace with man; although
women have this disadvantage, they have graces which
man has not. After the age of twenty-five is past, exa¬
mination of the bones will give very little clue to the
age at death of the individual who owned them. Madder
will colour growing bone a red colour, so that pigs fed
on madder +br a time, and then killed, will be found to
have portions of their bones stained red. Anatomists
have availed themselves of this plan of colouring bone,
to learn more of the method of growth of the substance.
♦London: John Camden Hotten. 1870.
Bone is light in weight, yet it will bear twice the strain
of oak, and is much more elastic, so it is the very best
substance which could have been chosen for the frame¬
work supporting the rest of the human body.
THE'ATMOSPHERIC SOURCE OF VEGETABLE NUTRITION.
Dr. William Odling, F.R.S., in the first of twelve lec¬
tures on “ The Chemistry of Yegetable Products,” said
that from an acre of meadow land some 4,000 pounds
weight of hay is usually removed, as the product of a
few months’ growth ; and this great quantity of matter
has to be traced back to its source. All vegetable pro¬
ducts, when subjected to a moderate heat, out of contact
with air, give a considerable quantity of charcoal or
carbon, retaining very nearly the outward form of the
original substance. In this way evidence is obtained of
the presence of carbon in vegetable products of all
kiuds. The proportion of carbon in wood, corn, wheat,
and different vegetable substances varies, but it averages
about 45 or 50 per cent, of the whole weight. When
such an enormous weight of carbon is removed from
cultivated .land every year, the question arises, “ Where
does it come from originally?” Up to about forty
years ago, the prevailing idea was that it came from
decaying and dead vegetable matter in the soil, in the
form of a brown substance called “humus.” The
vegetable mould of forest land contains about 70
per cent, of carbon; in grass and arable land there
is also much humus rich in carbon, and to this
substance the origin of vegetable tissue was as¬
cribed. This view was adopted both by Sir Hum¬
phrey Davy and Berzelius, and it was not over¬
thrown till Liebig, in 1840, brought the question
under the notice of the British Association; he then
heaped proof upon proof that humus was not the
source of the carbon in question, and he brought out
what is known as j§ the mineral theory of vegetable
nutrition.” Before humus can enter a plant it must be
dissolved; and Liebig showed that humus is very in¬
soluble in water; also that, if the whole of the rainfall
upon an acre of land dissolved all the humus it could
take up, and the whole of this humus was carried into
the plant during the period of its growth, it would only
account for a very small percentage of the carbon in
the full-grown vegetable. Humus is, however, more
soluble in alkaline liquids, and Liebig proved that if all
the alkali contained in plants had been employed to aid
the rain water in dissolving humus, still it would not
account for a tithe of the carbon found in the plants.
Where, then, does the carbon come from ? It must
come from water, earth, or air; and as water contains
no carbon; attention was drawn to air. Common air
contains carbonic acid gas in small proportion, there
being about four volumes of the gas to every 10,000
volumes of air. It was found by experiment that peas
could be grown in soil consisting only of powdered
burnt brick, quite free from organic matter : also
in Chili, Peru, and other countries, vegetation is
sometimes very rich upon sandy soils, containing
little or no carbon. The palm trees of the West
Coast of Africa, which grow upon a sandy soil,
yielded between the years 1821 and 1830 no
less than 107,000,OOOlbs of oil, containing 32,000
tons of carbon. Where did all the carbon come from ?
Although there are only, on an average, four volumes
of carbonic acid gas in 10,000 volumes of air, yet that
would give a volume of the gas in the theatre of the
Royal Institution half as large as the lecture table, and
a volume of solid charcoal as big as a brick; so that
when the enormous volume of the atmosphere of the
earth is considered, there is plenty of charcoal in it.
On every square foot of the surface of the earth there
is a column of air pressing with a force of 2,OOOlbs.;
and this column contains about half a pound of charcoal;
calculation, therefore, shows that the atmosphere of the
whole earth contains 3,000 billions of pounds of carbon,
or more charcoal than is contained in the whole of the
vegetable and animal kingdoms, and in all the coal)
deposits below the surface of the earth. Dr. Odling
closed his lecture by describing how it was proved by
experiment over and over again, that the leaves of
growing plants absorb carbonic acid gas from the atmo¬
sphere, and appropriate the carbon contained therein.
It is, therefore, demonstrated that most of the carbon
helping to form trees, plants, grass, and corn comes
from the atmosphere, and not from Mother Earth.
THE APPEARANCE OF SPIRITS AT PUBLIC
MEETINGS.
The following is a portion of a letter by Mr. D. A.
Eddy, of Cleveland, Ohio, published on the 29th Jan.,
1870, in The Banner of Light, the chief newspaper on
Spiritualism in the United States :—“ You are already,
no doubt, somewhat familiar with the name of our
medium, Mrs. Harriet Thackerberry, who visited New
York, recently, on an invitation from a gentleman who
saw the manifestations here, and desired to present
them to the New York Spiritualists. It is now only
two years since the spirits succeeded in attracting
attention, and making themselves known through this
medium, since which time the manifestations have gra¬
dually assumed a more positive and decided character,
but, till quite recently, have been mostly confined to
prescribing for invalids, and conversing freely and
audibly with any one in the audience that desired to
enter into conversation with them. They seem to take
much pleasure in exhibiting their vocal powers in sing¬
ing, and this constitutes one of the remarkable features
connected with the manifestations. There are one
male and three female spirits always in attendance.
They have a great variety of songs at hand, and always
seem pleased when called on to render any particular
one, with the time or air to which it is adapted. The
female voices; so far as the music is concerned, will
compare with the most celebrated singers now before
the public.
“ The presiding or controlling spirit, Benjamin Thac¬
kerberry, was the husband of the medium; and was lost
on Lake Ontario nine years ago last November. By dint
of perseverance he succeeded in coming back and learn¬
ing the laws of control. He was an unlettered, unedu¬
cated sailor, but possessed a noble, and generous, and
enterprising spirit. His grammar was quite defective
before leaving the form—which still shows itself in
conversation—but a more accommodating or generous
spirit I have never met, in or out of the form. He was
attracted to his wife, and first succeeded in making him¬
self known through her. She has passed through great
trials while being developed, but through the assistance
of one kind friend, at least, has been able to outlive the
discouraging and embarrassing influences with which
she has been beset and surrounded.
“ It is now only a little over two weeks since the
manifestations that have called out this statement were
exhibited, and which took us as much by surprise as did
those which preceded them. That your readers may the
better understand, I will briefly state the conditions
preceding the manifestations in question. In order to
give satisfactory tests to sceptics and investigators a
small light frame, about 3x 2^ feet square, covered
with black oil cloth, forming a cabinet, is used; the
door forming the front having an opening or aperture
say 14 x 16 inches square, covered with a drop-cur¬
tain, tucked in at the top, making the inside dark, ex¬
cept what little light finds its way through the imper¬
fection of the framework and covering.
“ When tests are to be given, the medium’s mouth is
filled with a wet sponge; her lips compressed together
and sealed securely with several pieces—one over the
other—of adhesive plaster. Her hands are then
securely tied behind, when she take* a seat in the
cabinet, and immediately passes into deep trance or
unconscious state. In from one to two minutes after
the door is closed, talking by the presiding spirit,
familiarly known as (Ben,’ commences. He salutes
each one in turn in the audience with whom he is ac¬
quainted, and likes to be introduced to all strangers.
These proceedings over, he solicits questions, if no one
commences without. The three female spirits, who are
always in attendance, will also converse freely when
called out by the audience. Singing, conversing, play¬
ing upon instruments and writing inside the cabinet
constituted, as we supposed, the ultimatum of these
manifestations. Judge of our surprise, when suddenly
and without any previous warning, several faces ap¬
peared at the opening in the door above referred to.
On inquiry, we were informed by the presiding spirit
that ^hereafter these exhibitions would constitute the
leading phase and most important feature in the mani¬
festations, and well has he kept his word.
“ At the time these last-named manifestations ap¬
peared, the medium was under an engagement to go to
New York, where she is at this time of writing. We
42
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 15, 1870.
succeeded in prolonging her stay some ten days, in
order to have this new development fairly and satisfac¬
torily tested. The result was that some fifty spirits
presented themselves, a large number of whom were
recognised by parties in the audience.
“ The only conditions required on these occasions
were music, if convenient; the circle to sit from six to
eight feet from the cabinet; the lights placed so as to
shine with full force directly on the opening in the
door when the faces presented themselves—conversa¬
tion amongst the audience and with the presiding spirit
in the cabinet allowed, same as when we had only
singing and musical manifestations. The only change
in the condition of the medium .was—in addition to
those above described—a veil was placed over her face
after her hands were securely tied behind. In most
cases, the spirits presenting themselves appeared to have a
light gauze or piece of white cloth over their foreheads,
and sometimes over the neck and chin, but, in most
cases, exhibiting the face sufficiently to be recognised.
They informed us that the light was so severe upon
them that this precaution was necessary to enable
them to hold on, while a fair and distinct view of their
features could be seen by the audience.
“ By direction of the presiding spirit, we took the
cabinet to Jfr. Beckwith’s photograph-rooms, West Side,
where five different negatives were taken in daylight,
in less than an hour, three copies of which I sent you
last Saturday, 8th inst. This was the first and only
sitting the medium gave for photographs while here,
prior to leaving for New York. Most ot the faces seen
at the circles, especially the select or private circles,
were plainer than those I sent you, and we are assured
that after a little practice they will be able to present
themselves as plainly and distinctly for photographs as
any one could in the form.
“ It may, perhaps, be well to state that the voices
which proceed from the cabinet are not produced by the
medium’s organism, but by the spirits themselves, who
possess the faculty of forming lungs and all the appa¬
ratus necessary for distinct articulation. Many suppose
the talking and singing proceed, in some way, from the
medium’s organism. But this is not the case; the con¬
ditions are such that it is utterly impossible for her to
articulate. The spirits, when talking, are in the imme¬
diate vicinity of the medium, but usually from one to
two feet from her, and frequently change their position.”
Dr. Newton, the healing medium, will arrive in Eng¬
land in May next.
Mediumistic Diet.—Within the past month we have met
with five mediums in London, who have been forbidden by-
spirits to eat pork, on pain of having their mediumship taken
away. Mr. Peebles says that in the United States the same
objection to pork is almost universally expressed by the
spirits.
Sunday evening lectures are now being delivered by Dr.
Carpenter, V.P.R.S., Professor Huxley, Mr. J. Norman Lock-
yer. and others, at St. George’s Hall, Langham-place, Regent-
street.
Lecture by Mb. S. C. Haul.—Last Thursday evening,
Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A., gave a Lecture on the Fairy Legends
of Ireland, at the Literary Institute, Newington Causeway, in
connection with “ Dunn’s Tailors’ Labour Agency.” The hall
was full to overflowing, many being unable to obtain seats.
Mr. Hall began by speaking of the universality of the belief in
fairies in Ireland, and he told all about the superstitions relating
to the phooka, the banshee, the cleuricaune, the dullahaun, and
many other varieties of the “bogle ” tribe. He told how St.
Kevin got rid of the last of the “ sarpints ” in Ireland. St.
Patrick had previously cleared out all serpents but one, who
was too clever for him. St. Kevin then tried to annihilate the
reptile by prayer, but St. Kevin was a young man; of course
his prayers had not the full strength of an older saint, so he
failed. Then he spoke fair words to the sarpint, and one day as
they were walking arm in arm through a wood, they came to
a great trunk, and began to dispute as to its size. The ser¬
pent bet the saint a gallon of spirits that the trunk would not
hold his (the serpent’s) body so a trial was made; St. Kevin
whipped down the lid of the box, and dropped the trunk and
its contents into the sea, the serpent crying out all the time,
I St. Kevin, let me out, let me out, and I’ll pay you the gallon of
sperrits like a gintleman 1 ” Other tales did Mr. Hall relate,
one a very rich one told him by the late Master of the Rolls,
and the interest of the audience was well sustained through¬
out. At the close a vote of thanks was proposed by Mr. W.
E. Church, seconded by Mr. W. Dunn, and carried by acclama¬
tion.
The Meetings at the Cavendish Rooms.—Four Sun¬
days ago, the first of a series of Sunday evening meetings,
partaking somewhat of the character of a religious service,
began to be held at the Cavendish-rooms, Mortimer-street,
Langham-place, under the management of Mr. J. M. Peebles.
Full particulars respecting one of these meetings will be found
in another column. Already the attendance is large enough
to quite fill the hall. Steps are being taken by some leading
friends of Spiritualism to make the step a permanent one, and
an organ is shortly to be purchased, that the vocal may be
aided by instrumental music. The singing on the first two
evenings was of a doleful character, consequently a choir was
formed, and a marked improvement in this part of the service
is the result. Arrangements will also shortly be made, to de¬
corate the lecture-table with flowers. A great fault connected
with ordinary religious meetings is that the preacher has it all
his own way, and listeners who are sometimes more intelli¬
gent than the teacher, are obliged to accept all he says in
silence. Would it, or would it not, be a good plan to an¬
nounce at the close of every Sunday evening lecture, that
those present may put any questions they please to the speaker
upon the platform ? During the absence at Norwich of Mr.
Peebles last Sunday evening, Mr. Bums officiated in his place.
On each evening plenty of rappings were heard near seats
occupied by media, but not loud enough to interfere with the
proceedings.
Reports of Jftmtngs.
[When, reports of the^speephes of spirits are printed in this Joitrnal, npn-
iSpiritualists should understand that spirits out of the body,. are w,isp or
fdotish, truthful or untfutfiful, just the same as spirits in the bo,<fy, Mpre-
<&tr, they are but individuals, so do not know everything. Tfie statements of
a Spirit are but the assertions of an individual; but by comparing, the state¬
ments of many spirits, it may in. time be possible to discover in what points
they agree; and to sift out the unreliable communications. Many spirits
cannot see each other, any more 'than we can see them, and as some of them
are thus in different states of life, it dots not follow that contradictory
messages are therefore untruthful. Spirits are of different religions, conse-
sequent :y their teachings do not altogether agree; there is no more uniformity
in the next world than in this one. It is the business of this journal to report
facts, so we are in no way responsible for the religious, scientific, or any other
teachings given by individual spirits.]
A SUNDAY EVENING MEETING OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
REASON, AND THE RIGHT OF PRIVATE JUDGMENT—THE DOCTRINE OF ENDLESS
TORMENTS—THE PSYCHOLOGY OF “REVIVALS”—TRANCE MEDIUMSHIP—
POWERFUL PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS—MATERIAL OBJECTS MOVED WITH¬
OUT CONTACT WITH HUMAN BEINGS—THE HAPPINESS CONFERRED BY
SPIRITUALISM—HEALING MEDIUMSHIP—CURES RECENTLY EFFECTED BY
DERVISHES AT SCUTARI IN THE PRESENCE OF PRINCE FREDERICK WILLIAM
OF PRUSSIA—CARRIAGE OF NEWS FROM EUROPE TO AMERICA BY SPIRITS
—TESTIMONY OF THE DYING IN FAVOUR OF SPIRITUALISM.
Ox Sunday, January 30th, Mr. J. M. Peebles, American
Consul at Trebizond, delivered a lecture on Spiritualism, at
the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-street, Langham-place,
Regent-street. These meetings will be held regularly every
Sunday evening, and the proceedings begin at seven o’clock.
Mr. Peebles, according to a system he has long carried out
in the United States, preceded his lecture with a short reli¬
gious service, and he began by giving out a hymn, which was
sung by the large number of Spiritualists and others present.
He then offered up a short prayer to the Almighty, giving
thanks to Him for the blessing of direct communication with
departed friends, and for having planted within every human
being the seeds of endless growth, and eternal progression.
Mr. Peebles then said that in one of the epistles of Paul,
there is language something like this :—“ Be ready to give to
every man a reason for the hope that lieth in thee.” Reason,
he said, is a Divine gift, one of the greatest characteristics of
true manhood, and as God has been pleased to make us
reasonable beings, we ought to exercise these reasoning
powers to the best advantage. We should sanction no
theology, no moral teaching, and no deduction of science, till
we have brought the subject to the test of reason. "Wherever
there is an effect there must have been a cause : wherever
there is motion there must have been something to produce
it, and wherever there is a house there must have been a
builder; so, where we see millions upon millions of bright
and glorious worlds circling in their orbits, there must be
some intelligence guiding them by grand and immutable
laws.
All the conceptions of man being finite he can never fathom
the infinite ; he will always be a progressive being, and how¬
ever high he may ascend in the scale of creation, he will
always find universes before him to explore. We may with
Plato call God the “life essence,” or with A. J. Davis, “the
great positive mind of the universe ”; we may accept the
teaching of the Apostle John that “God is love,” or what is
better we may say with Jesus that “God is a Spirit”—the
Infinite Spirit of the universe. There is imparted to every
man a portion of that Infinite Spirit. The spiritual body of
man moves the earthly body, but what moves the spirit
body ? It is moved by the power of the Infinite Spirit; God
is a living fountain, acting continually upon this innermost
spirit—the spirit of man. Mind is unseen, it is the great
motive power of the universe, yet the scales cannot weigh it,
nor can it be analysed by the blowpipe, but an idea often
exerts great force. Martin Luther once said that “ every
man had the right of private judgment,” and that idea had
sufficient inherent power to shake the church of Rome to its
foundations. That idea has since grown till all are much
agreed that no man, or bishop, or pope, has any right to step
in between a man and his private judgment, and to dictate
what he shall think or do.
He would tell his listeners some of his own experiences in
the matter of Spiritualism. He was born in one of the New .
England States, and his parents were Calvinistic Baptists.
His early schooling was aU coloured by the strict dogmas of
that sect, and on Sundays he listened to long sermons, and
fearful hymns ; one of these hymns he remembered contained
the following verse:—
Eternal chains and heavy plagues,
Tormenting rocks and fiery coals,
And darts to inflict immortal pains.
Dipped in the blood of damned souls.
Another hymn closed thus
The sinner must be born again,
Or sink to endless woe.
He was taught in his Sunday-school that he was a sinner by
nature, that he had sinned in Adam, “our federal head,”
before he was born, and that he lived under the curse of God.
This teaching had such an effect, that when he was ten or
twelve years old, he was afraid to go to sleep, lest he should
die in the night, and wake up in the flames of hell. When
he was about fifteen years of age, a revival clergyman visited
the village of Chenango, where he then lived. Numbers of
the people went to the revivalist to “ get religion,” and some
of them wanted him to go and get religion too. The revival
preacher was, by nature, a keen psychologist, well able to in¬
fluence more negative minds than his own, and he preached a
powerful discourse from the text—“When the Lord Jesus
shall be revealed from heaven in flaming fire, taking vengeance
on them that know not the Gospel.”
It was a fearful sermon about the torments of hell, and
worked strongly upon his youthful mind. Soon after it was
over, the preacher took him by the hand-—just what a mes¬
merist would do when influencing his subject—and told him
that he was a sinner, but that if he believed in Jesus, all
would be well The minister added, “Say you believe.”
“Well, I believe,” was the reply. “Another soul saved,”
exclaimed he. The psychological effect of this was that he
felt relieved in mind (he knew why now), and he began to go
about with his precious Bible in his pocket, striving to con¬
vert others, while less than sixteen years of age himself.
Some little time afterwards, the same Elder Bush, revivalist
preacher, left his wife and children, and went to parts un¬
known with his servant girl. This fact had a great effect
upon his (Mr. Peeble’s) mind; he thought that the teachings
of such a man could not be influenced by the Spirit of God,
and he threw over all his teachings as nothing but priestcraft
and delusion. Then came a dreamless night, with no ray of
hope, and he became a student of the works of Voltaire and
Tom Paine. About two years afterwards a “ Universalist ”
clergyman came to his village; the Universalists are a reli¬
gious sect in the United States, who teach the universal sal¬
vation of all men through Jesus Christ; He was a tall,
solemn, dark-haired man; in his sermons he preached that
God loves all, and that His tender mercies are over all His
works ; he referred to the" love displayed in the works of
nature, and he showed that there is harmony between the
works of God and the Bible. This loving teaching was very
attractive to him (Mr. Peebles), so he prepared himself to
become a minister of this church, and for twelve years from
that time he was a Universalist clergyman.
One afternoon, about sixteen years ago, he was walking
with a member of the New York Legislative, the Honourable
V. Kenyon, who told him that he had been to witness some
of the “spirit-rappings,” which had then only just begun to
attract public attention. He replied that he was astonished
that his friend should go to witness such tricks. Mr. Kenyon
said that he was very much surprised at the communications
and the manifestations, and asked him to come and witness
them also. He (Mr. Peebles) consented, but requested that
the appointment should be fixed for some evening, as he
should not like to be seen going by daylight to a rapping
medium. (Laughter). When he got there he saw the lady,
her husband, and child, put their hands upon the table ; he
heard raps, and, of course, thought that they made them.
He asked to be permitted to examine the table, and he did
so, but found nothing. Then he said, “If you are spirits,
please rap somewhere elsethen he heard the noises upon
the wall, and all round the room. Next the raps and tremu¬
lous movements came upon his coat-collar, and as he knew
that no machinery was concealed there, he was startled ; but
he thought it due to some unknown force playing round the
room, and making noises. Then the raps told him the name
of a cousin of his who had died, together with her age, and
the text chosen for her funeral sermon. He ascribed this to
thought-reading. The name and address of the medium was
Mrs. Tomlin, of Auburn, New York.
The second time he attended a seance he saw furniture
moving about with nobody touching it. Soon afterwards a
trance medium, a lad about fourteen or fifteen years of age,
came to Elmira, New York, with a gentleman, and they
asked for the use of his church for the public exhibition of
the spirit power. He made no objection; in fact, he had an
itching curiosity about the subject, and he wished to expose
the delusion. The beardless youth took his seat upon the
rostrum, and the gentleman, who accompanied him, asked the
audience to appoint a committee to select a subject for the
medium to speak upon while in the trance state. He (Mr.
Peebles) was made chairman of the committee, and was
allowed to choose the subject, so he thought “ That’s good !
I’ve got him now!” The subject given was, “What is the
philosophical influence of the nations of antiquity upon the
civilisation and science of modern Europe and America ?”
The boy at once stepped forward and commenced, and, for
one hour and three-quarters, one continual stream of history
and philosophy fell from his lips; the beauty of the language
was astonishing, and the names of well-known and little-
known sages of antiquity fell glibly from his lips. He began
by speaking of jthe old Aryan race, and he spoke as if he had
the whole history of India, Egypt, Greece, and Rome at his
fingers’ ends. He (Mr. Peebles) knew the work necessary to
get up sermons before they are preached, and he was perfectly
astonished at the address given by the boy, and he went home
thinking that there must be some power at the root of
Spiritualism.
About six months later Dr. Redman, a very celebrated
American test-medium, visited the city. He (Mr. Peebles)
called upon him, like Nicodemus, by night, and saw a table
moving about with much force whilst nobody was near it; he
also heard rappings. Then Dr. Redman took a pencil and
wrote swiftly, backwards and bottom upwards. The message
was from James Kenyon, a good old Quaker preacher in earth-
life, and it told things which nobody but their two selves
knew. Yet he (Mr. Peebles) could not say that even then he
was quite a believer. Soon after two of the members of his
church became Spiritualists. Others of his church became
media, and gave him test upon test, yet he could hardly say
that he was a believer.
About twelve years ago he chanced to pay a visit to Mr.
and Mrs. Odell, in Cleveland, Ohio, at a time that the Daven¬
port brothers were stopping in the house. A public stance
was held in the afternoon, and the manifestations were very
powerful; he thought that some years ago the manifestations,
through the Davonport boys, were more powerful than they
have been since. Whilst the audience were holding hands,
and the Davenports were tied, with flour in their hands, and
chalk-marks round their feet, there was just light enough to
see the musical instruments flying about the room, and they
could be heard playing tunes. The spirits requested the
witnesses to keep passive, and said that they would try and
materialise themselves sufficiently to be seen. A faintly
luminous cloud was then seen to form near the ceiling; it
gradually shaped itself into a human figure with hands
upraised, and then it vanished. Everybody in the room saw
it. He (Mr. Peebles), at the close of the stance, said, “We
read that spirits once rolled away a stone from Christ’s sepul¬
chre, and unlocked prison doors; if you be spirits, I defy you
to do the same.” That evening, at the house of Mr. Odell,
while the room was brilliantly lighted with gas, and the
Davenports were tied, he and all the company saw peacocks’
plumes floating about the room, and a book walked across
the floor with nobody touching it. Some unseen power then
laid hold of his ankles, and jerked him out of his chair, so
that he came to the ground in a very undignified way, and
hurt his arm. That night the two Davenports slept in a bed
at one end of a very large room, and he and Mr. J. K. Brown,
of Buffalo, New York, slept in the other. The light of the
moon made objects in the room pretty clearly visible. Three
loud raps came upon the door, so he said, “ Come in,” as he
thought it was Mr. Odell. The door opened and shut, but
nobody came in. Next he felt one great blow on his fore¬
head, and a second on the pit of his stomach. “ The spirits !”
said the media, and immediately there was a tremor of the
whole house! His bed was then upraised, and began to rock
in the air with such vigour, that some of the castors dropped
off the bedposts. Brown said, “For God’s sake, Peebles, get
a lighthe jumped out of bed to do so ; just as he reached
the door a great big hand hit him on the back, and he jumped
back into bed again, being frightened. Afterwards the spirits
told him that they manifested so violently not to do him any
harm, but because he had dared them to do their worst or
their best.
At last he became a medium himself, he knew these pheno¬
mena to be the work of spirits, and then came the greatest
ordeal of his life. He knew that departed loved ones could
still converse with their friends, and the question was “ Shall
Feb. 15, 1870.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
43
1 proclaim, this great truth, shall I padlock my mouth, or shall
I speak out like a brave and honest man ? ” His family told
him to be careful, o c he would injure his reputation, and ex¬
pediency said “be silent,’’but he thanked Almighty God that
strength was given unto him as unto Paul, to go forth and
speak the living burning truth. During the past twelve years
he had been continually, almost, with media, and he had wit¬
nessed so many facts, that he has the absolute tangible know¬
ledge that spirits do communicate with man. Nobody could
tell the wealth of this knowledge to his soul, and the strength
it gave him to go forth and toil for the good of humanity.
People often say that the manifestations will uproot the Bible.
When the statement is made that the manifestations will de¬
molish any truth, depend upon it they have very little faith
in the book, for never yet did a truth perish—every truth in
the Bible will stand for ever. He had now more faith in the
■visions, the trances, the prophecies, the spiritual marvels and
healing gifts described in the Bible, than he ever had before;
the old facts corroborate the new ones, and the new the old.
Those who attempt to overthrow the modem, these spiritual
manifestations, are hurling atheistical and deistical javelins at
primitive Christianity itself; for every argument brought
against the modern facts can be brought against the old ones,
and employed to scatter the Bible to the four winds of heaven.
The lecturer then narrated how Mrs. Hawkins, healing
medium, of Sturgis, Michigan, was told to go and see Mr. H.
T. Williams, of Burr Oaks, Michigan, who had been nineteen
months confined to his room by paralysis. With some diffi¬
culty she was at last permitted to see him ; she then simply
took hold of his hands, breathed a prayer to heaven, and
departed. The same evening she called again. He then felt
a thrill passing through his body; she told him to “Arise
and walk,” and H. T. Williams arose and walked across the
.street and back again. The medium said “That is not my
power—give the thanks to God.” He (Mr. Peebles) had also
been present when Dr. Newton had made the dumb to speak
and the blind to see.' If every person present led more of the
Christ-life, of the spiritual Divine life, they would have more
•or less of the same spiritual gifts. These powers are in action
more or less in nearly every part of the world- They are
manifested in Asia Minor among mediumistic dervishes, for
only a few weeks since he was standing at Scutari, Asia,
opposite Constantinople, by the side of Prince Frederick
William of Prussia, and saw them making the lame to walk.
They were not the “howling” dervishes, but the “healing”
dervishes, and their method of proceeding was certainly pecu¬
liar. They seated themselves in a circle upon mats ; then
the Sheik or head Patriarch entered, kindling a pot of incense,
and commenced repeating passages from the Koran followed
by prayers and responses. Rising, they put on white robes
and began chanting in wild strains of music. This was fol¬
lowed by each one touching the Sheik’s hand and then, all
joining hands. The chanting continued with wave-motions of
the body. Soon some of them fell into a sort of ecstacy. At
this point the sick were brought in, the ecstatics surrounded
them, repeating their prayers, the old Sheik touched some of
the sick with his hand, others were laid upon mats and he
stood upon them with his feet; while others he mesmerised
with a bronze hand said to be shaped like Mahomet’s hand.
All must have felt the presence of a powerful mesmeric in¬
fluence ; certainly the sick were healed, and the ‘ ‘ lame made
to walk.” These dervishes professed to have visions. Spiri¬
tual influences in some form cropped out in all climes and
nations. God has never left Himself without witnesses.
Mr. Peebles related the occurrence of an Italian spirit, call¬
ing himself Perasee Lendanta, witnessing those battles that
involved Italy and Austria, and then informing him of the
results of the engagements through a medium. It was before
the Atlantic cable. The steamers reaching America two and
three weeks after, uniformly confirmed the spirit’s previous
statements. He deposed to a remarkable test he had from
this spirit a few weeks since while visiting Nero’s baths near
Naples. It was a demonstration of the continuous attendance
of his ministering spirits. Spiritualism demonstrates a future
life. It give present tangible evidences of recognition here¬
after. If the Angel of Death were to appear at any public
meeting, and were to say that ten of the persons present would
die before the morrow’s sun should set, what trembling and
fear the announcement would cause to all but experienoed
Spiritualists. To the latter there is no death—they call it
i birth.” It is merely leaving the old garment and putting on
a better. The speaker then read the following extract from
a letter to him from the wife of the late Rev. J. W. Bayley,
of Fulton, New York, dated May, 1868. In describing the
last moments of her husband, she said that the day before he
died he began to sing^and would sing for hours. She asked—
S Does it not tire you ? ” “ Ah yes,” said he, “ but I’m so
happy I can’t help it.” Then turning his eyes heavenward he
exclaimed, “ I see over the river. I see my daughter Ellen.
1 see many friends. They beckon me to come ; and oh, I’m
so happy, do not weep, for I’m going home,” and smiling he
passed on to the spirit-land. This was a beautiful spiritual
manifestation. All who accepted the testimony of this dying
clergyman were Spiritualists.
Mr. Peebles added, that if they would not receive the
testimony of a dying clergyman, what testimony would they
accept ? They might ask 1 Why could they not witness
spiritual manifestations themselves ?” Well, there were plenty
of opportunities in London of doing so, moreover, they could
get up spirit circles in their own homes. Only a few days ago
he was present at a circle in a house near Hyde-park, and a
spirit came and talked to him with an audible voice, heard by
plenty of witnesses, and described what took place in the
house of Mr. Odell, Cleveland, Ohio, nearly twelve years ago,
although he had never narrated those occurrences to anybody
in London.
The proceedings then came to a close. During the evening
rappings were plentiful near the seats occupied by the media,
and some of the raps on and about the platform were loud
enough to be heard over the greater part, if not the whole, of
the hall. Mr. Peebles and four other friends returned home
by rail soon after the meeting was over, and loud raps which
answered questions, came upon the floor of the railway carri¬
age, both at the Farringdon-street and Ludgate-hill stations.
The medium was Mrs. Perrin.
PRIYATE SEANCES.
SPIRIT HANDS—SPIRIT VOICRS—SPIRIT IDENTITY—JOHN KING- IN OHIO—DIS¬
APPEARANCE OF WINE—LIFE IN ONE OF THE SPHERES—WHERE BABIES GO
TO—SPIRITUALISM AND THE CLERGY—THE NATUIlB OF, LUNACY—THE
FUTURE OF SPITITUALISM—REMARKABLE PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS—DR.
ASHBURNER’S EYESIGHT—A MEDIUMISTIC MURDERER.
On Wednesday evening, January 19th, at a meeting of Mrs.
C. Berry’s circle, the media were Mrs. Perrin and Mr. Child.
Fourteen ladies and gentlemen were present in all, including
Dr. Ashburner ; Mr. J. M. Peebles, American Consul at Tre-
bizond ; and Mr. N. F. T. Daw.
A dark seance was held, to obtain tbe spirit voices. After
the lapse of about five minutes, cool spirit hands were felt
touching different members of the company, and four or five
rings were pulled by the hands off the fingers of different
members of the circle, and placed on the fingers of others pre¬
sent. Of course the production of the hands in darkness is
less satisfactory to novices than their formation in the light;
but it was quite clear by the manipulation of the rings, that
the owners of the hands could see to perfection in pitch
darkness.
About a quarter of an hour after the seance began, the
spirit, John King, so well-known at Mrs. Mary Marshall’s
seances, announced himself. Mrs. Marshall was not present.
John’s voice was loud and clear, and after causing some
amusement by asserting that a little “ billing and cooing ”
was going on in one corner of the room under- cover of the
darkness, he said that he had come to do some work, and not
to play, for there were reporters present, so he wished every¬
body to keep quiet, as he had enough to do to collect the
power from the members of the circle to make himself audible;
he also had a batch of spirits to keep in order, and they were
in a very “ larkish ” humour. His business that evening was
with Mr. Peebles.
Something like the following conversation then took place ;
the exact words are not given, because in the darkness notes
could not be taken. Although the conversation is necessarily
reported from memory, nothing whatever has been added,
though some of the sentences are probably omitted :—
John Kino—Well, Mr. Peebles, it’s a long time since you
and I met, about twelve years ago, at Cleveland, Ohio. Do
you remember it ?
Me. Peebles—Yes, I remember it, I owe my final conver¬
sion to Spiritualism to John King.
John Kino—How we shook your bed that night and rattled
the plates without breaking them, till Mrs. Odell said, “ The
devil’s in the house.” Do you remember it ?
Mr. Peebles—Yes, I remember it.
John King—Do you remember the fat servant girl ? You
didn’t like her and she didn’t like you. You never liked the
dinners you had in that house, and always thought the plates
were greasy, and not properly cleaned. Do you remember ?
Mr. Peebles—Yes.
John King—But you went up tremendously in the estima¬
tion of that fat girl after you gave her the half-dollar. Do
you remember ?
Mr. Peebles—Yes, I remember.
John King—Well, do you think I have given you a good
test, and that I am the John King you met in Cleveland ?
Mb. Peebles—I know you are some spirit well acquainted
with all that took place that evening.
John King—Well, I testify—and I don’t like to be doubted
—that I am the John King who conducts the manifestations
which take place in the presence of the Davenport Brothers.*
I am also the John King who speaks at the siances of Mrs.
Mary Marshall and Mrs. Perrin. Do you think I have given
you a good test ?
Me. Peebles—Yes.
John King—Then go and print it all in your paper, the
Yankee-Doodle-Doo. (Laughter.)
Although Mr. Child was present at this s'eance, none of the
many voices usually obtainable through his mediumship were
heard. His spirits had told him they were going to leave him
for a time, and had given him no information when they were
coming back again. They had left him for a time once
before, after telling him that the temporary stoppage of the
manifestations would be good for his physical health.
At supper, after the close of the seance, raps came in the
centre of the table, and the vibrations caused some bunches
of grapes to tremble visibly over the spot from which the
sounds came. Questions were then asked, the spirits giving
one rap for no and three for yes, as usual. They were asked—
Would they take anything? Yes.—An orange? Ag.—Some
grapes? No.—A glass of wine ? Yes.—Port? No.—Sherry?
Yes.—Would they drink it then and there? Ah.—Did they
want darkness ? Yes.—Would they select the medium and
persons to be present ? Yes.—They then selected Mrs. Perrin
the medium, Mrs. Berry, Mr. Harrison, and nobody else.
The last-mentioned witness gives the following statement
of what took place :—“ 1. I poured out a glass of sherry and
placed it on the centre of a small polished table in the dark¬
room, which then was illuminated by a candle flame.—2. The
three of us stood round the table, and the two ladies placed
their four hands in mine. There was nobody else in the
room, and our hands were about a foot above the glass.—3.
The light was blown out, and instantly' raps were heard upon
the table. They gave “yes” and “no” answers to questions.
—4. After the lapse of about three minutes, the glass was
heard hopping about in a lively way upon the table, the hands
of the three of us being motionless.—5. In about twenty
seconds the hopping noise ceased, and a shower of raps upon
the table followed.—6. The question was asked—“ Have you
taken the wine ? ” and three loud raps were heard.—7. A call
for “ lights ” was made, and the rest of company entered with
candles, and found the three of us standing round the table
and holding hands. The glass on the centre of the table was
empty, nor was there a drop of liquid on the polished surface
of the table ; the carpet beneath the table was not wet, nor
were there signs of wine having been spilt near the table.” .
On Wednesday evening, January 26th, at another meeting
of Mrs. C. Berry’s circle, Mrs. Perrin and Mr. Child were the
principal media present. The spirit voices incidental to the
mediumship of Mr. Child were heard. Amos Ferguson, the
Scotch spirit was there, also Alonzo Bates, “Joe,” and
Bbenezer Wyatt; John King took the lead in the proceedings.
At the outset there was plenty of fun and jocularity in the
conversation. One of the spirits said that in life he was a
barber’s apprentice, but he resolved to be silly and not learn
the business any faster than he could help, because then more
of the work would be thrown upon his shoulders. His master
therefore took to polishing his back, instead of the razors,
with his strap, but he paid his master out for it by accidentally
upsetting the boiling water into the boots of his best customer,
who jumped up with siich a start that the barber nearly cut
the throat of his best patron. John King, however, stopped
all nonsense of this kind as much as possible, and replied only
to serious questions. He said that he ought not to be present
that evening at the stance at all, as a friend of his appeared
to be just passing from earth life, and he wanted to watch as
* The Davenport Brothers are generally recognised by Spiritualists as
genuine media, and attribute the reverse opinion so deeply rooted in the
public mind, to the uhtruthfulness of many London and other newspapers.
Some of the Dublin newspapers, however, once gave accurate descriptions
of the manifestations.—Ed.
much as possible by his bedside. He should not be very glad
to see his friend come into the next world, for his work on
earth was not yet finished, and the best method of entering
the spirit realms, is for the individual to bring with him the
memory of a well-spent earth life. It is best to lemove the
effects of wrong deeds while still on earth, for it is a slower
and more painful work afterwards.
In answer to numerous questions, he said that it took him
about three minutes to come from his spirit sphere to the
circle upon earth ; he did not know the distance between the
two, in fact, he could not measure distances. There are birds
and animals in his world, but they loved them too much to
shoot them ; they would chase the deer sometimes, but the
dfeer enjoyed the play as much as the pursuers. There was
plenty of water in his world, and Mr. Perrin could keep his
yacht up there if he liked. They have books, they had all the
literature of earth in addition to their own, for they had only
to wish to see a book by any earthly author, and its reflection
was before them. Yery strange, wasn’t it 1 Babies go to a
separate sphere. Mothers who have left little loved ones
behind on earth, look after the children in the baby sphere,
nurse them, teach them, kiss them, and “ cuddle ” them.
After supper, Mr. Peebles, being called upon for a few
remarks, said that he was very thankful to their kind and
liberal hostess Mrs. Berry, who, by promoting these seances,
was doing so much good in aiding the cause of Spiritualism.
(Applause,) He was very thankful to the spirits who gave
the manifestations, also to the media, the I prophets ” of these
days, rejected and persecuted by the world, but much loved
by the angels of God. He was also very glad to see two
clergymen present, for he himself had once been a minister,
and taught the people what he then believed quite as sincerely
and honestly as he now promulgated the facts of Spiritualism.
He remembered the time when he wrote and preached
sermons against Spiritualism, saying that it was all imposture
and the devil, and he still had in his possession some of those
old yellow fossil sermons, which he kept as curiosities. Still
while writing those sermons, he felt that he ought to investi’
gate Spiritualism before expressing opinions about it, and the
result they all knew. If the clergy would only investigate,
and help to teach the public the facts of the case, the world
would be very greatly blessed. As an American he should
carry home with him very pleasing recollections of the people
of this country.
On Wednesday evening, February 2nd, at another meeting
of Mrs. Berry’s circle, nineteen ladies and gentlemen attended,
and Mr. Child, Mrs. Perrin, as well as other mediums were
present. It was, from a spiritual point of view, a somewhat
inharmonious circle, consequently the spirit voices were weak,
and it was some time before John King could gain power
enough to speak. He then severely censured a clergyman
present for laying hold of the paper tube, while he (John
King) was speaking through it, not, he said that there was
harm in the act of touching the tube, so much as in the “ sus¬
picious thought ” which dictated the act, in the house of a
lady of honour and truth. The clergyman then admitted
that he had seized the tube in the attempt to test the reality
of the voices, and he was satisfied that no mortal present
could see in that pitch darkness, so as to detect the act and to
single him out as the perpetrator thereof from among so
many people, as John King had done. John King then told
him that he was a powerful medium himself, and that he
should be careful to draw good influences around him, or his
mediumship would bring him trouble. He added that that
evening there were bad influences about, and he wished Mr.
Peebles to offer up a prayer to help to raise the tone of the
meeting, and to reconcile to some extent the jarring elements.
This was done, after which John King requested that a hymn
be sung. When this was finished, he made a few further
remarks, and gave place to Katie, who said that John King
had gone, and would not return that evening; she then
earnestly requested Mrs. Berry to limit her invitations to
about nine persons, a few of whom should attend regularly.
The others ought not to be asked to attend a second time,
but after having gained a certain amount of knowledge there,
they should be left to pursue their inquiries in other directions.
Lights were then struck, and Mrs. Perrin was entranced by
the spirit of Mrs. Farnham, the American authoress. She
said that according to a previous promise, she had made
inquiries among her spirit friends as to the nature of lunacy,
and they informed her that lunacy was a disease very easy to
cure, for it usually arose from one organ of the brain ruling
all the rest. Her spirit friends, however, drew a line of dis¬
tinction between lunacy and idiotcy. All lunacy will even¬
tually cease to afflict the people of earth, and all human
diseases will be removed as time rolls on. They could not
then give her any more information upon that subject. She
added that as seen by spirits, the forms of the persons present
were clouded by materialism, and why should they while
sitting at spirit circles encourage more ? Most assuredly when
they reached the better land they would much regret every
lost moment here below.. It is a fearful responsibility to be
born, and on the other side all will have to give a faithful
account of the life spent here; as the Scriptures say, where
much is given much is expected. As to the mediums who
have such great powers given them, woe unto them if they
fail to use those powers aright, for they are the prophets of
the present day. They had to go forth into the world to
draw its four corners together, and they were laying the
foundation-stone of one of the grandest developments that
ever Mother Earth has experienced, for the crudest develop¬
ments of earth have nearly passed away, and the intellectual
day is at hand. By and bye the heads, the leaders of the
people, will give unto them the privilege of shaping their own
God, Jand then sin in the world will be less: so grand is the
natural instinct implanted in the human breast, that there is
no creature under the sun who does not believe in his or her
God. Even the heathen centre their ideas of God in wood or
stone, and their faith in their highest aspirations ought to be
respected. Dark indeed did she consider the world still to
be, for stern priestcraft still holds the people, but it will all
pass away, and the sun of intellectual truth will soon be free
from the chains now holding it down; soon all will worship
God, and God alone. God is a good and loving father, full of
tender mercy and compassion, and He will never close the
door upon the vilest of the vile. To-night, could her hearers
see with their spiritual eyes the dark dens of Newgate, filled
with wretched criminals loaded with crime and sin, they
would also see a bright angel watching over it, trying to
catch a single sigh of repentance ftir the. past—trying to in¬
spire the mind to overcome the crimes of the niaterial body,
for the soul is not so dark as the body, and must hereafter
feel the-effects of its load of sin; when it has to work out its
own salvation. She wished the beloved ones present to first
become themselves as pure as they wished others to be. When
44
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 15, 1870.
they met by the roadside one loaded with sin and shame, one
with whom society forbade them to hold converse, let them
not draw their garments too closely around themselves, but in
that hour softly whisper a prayer; it will be borne to that
angel world where all prayers are answered, and some bright
messenger may be sent to help the deluded one. Each and
all present should pray, for prayer is a calm and tranquil sea
of truth, cleansing the soul, and purifying it more and more.
She concluded with the words “ Beloved ones, farewell, and may
the Great Shepherd of His children protect you all for ever.”
Mrs. Farnham also in the course of the evening sang the
verses already published in this journal, beginning with the
line “ The gaudy day is dying.” The word we printed “ day¬
light ” in those verses, should have been “ twilight.”
In the course of the evening, Mrs. C. Berry asked a lady
present to make a statement, as to the facts she witnessed at a
seance in the house, on the previous Monday. The following
is the statement, and we regret that the power of popular pre¬
judice induces the narrator to withhold permission to publish
her name and address ; both, however, can easily be obtained
by those who wish to authenticate the facts. Mrs. M. M. W.
said—On Monday evening, the 31st January, a secmce took
place at the residence of Mrs. Catherine Berry. The parti¬
culars are as follows:—Mrs. Berry, the Rev. G. C. D., and
myself assembled in the seance room, at about eight o’clock,
p.m. The room was not totally dark, the large shutter not
having been as usual put up at the window ; it was however
in the room standing against the wall. There was also a small
American folding chair in a similar position on the opposite
side. Two pictures were hanging on the walls; a large quan¬
tity of wool-embroidery, consisting of two dozen pieces, had
been previously rolled up and left on the chair. A large book
was on the window-sill, and a card-box about two feet long
and one foot wide, containing laces and other things, was also
there. A small carved oak table, having three legs, stood in
the centre of the room, at which table the three sat. The
lights were then put out, Mrs. Berry held in one hand a box
of tapers to have a light when required. Her other hand held
wine. Loud raps were immediately heard, and the large
shutter was removed. In a few minutes the American chair
was very gently put on the table; the smaller picture was
unhung, tremendous raps were now heard, also two loud
shouts, then a peculiar noise hardly to be described. At this
time a very large hand was passed over my face, like the hand
of a big man ; it certainly did not belong to any mortal pre¬
sent. Mrs. Berry was constantly being touched. Her three
combs were taken out, and put into the head of the Rev.
G. C. D., who sat opposite to her. The paper trumpet was
then put on the table, it was taken up, suspended in the air,
and a sweet singing voice heard through it. The pieces of
wool-embroidery were thrown across the room, and in their
passage they struck both Mrs. Berry and myself. A'taper
was lit, and all the things were found lying in confusion on the
floor, excepting the book, which was put on Mrs. Berry’s head;
the large picture was hung around her neck. The table was
lifted in the air to the height of three feet and put down. In
fact, everything in the room was thrown into the greatest
confusion, and without any perceptible noise resembling the
moving of furniture. At one time a loud cry was heard, and
heavy footsteps sounded around the room, with the passing of
a strong current over our faces. About this period of the
secmce I was again touched on the head and shoulders, which
frightened me so much that I left the room. A man-servant
of Mrs. Berry’s was then admitted. The raps and tramping
continued as before,. Mrs. Berry then exclaimed that she felt
moisture on her forehead ; the Rev. Mr. D. felt the same. I at
this time was standing outside, the door being ajar, a taper
being lighted a quantity of white froth was seen on a pink
silk jacket Mrs. Berry had on, and the same appearance was
on Mr. D.’s forehead. I must not forget to mention that
during this seance tapers were constantly being lighted by
Mrs. Berry, and the door stood ajar nearly*the whole time.
Mrs. Berry then closed the seance, and she and the Rev. Mr.
D. went into the drawing-room. They sat talking for a few
minutes, when the latter felt something put down his neck.
He put up his hand and found a beautiful tulip. It had been
plucked from the plants where it was growing, as it stood in
the ja/rdinier at the window, twelve feet from where they sat.
This manifestation took place with a fire in the room, and the
blind only half down. I have since weighed the articles
before mentioned that were moved. Pictures, 34-lbs. and
44-lbs.; chair, 5-lbs.; and book, 5-lbs. I make this statement
at the request of Mrs. Berry, for although I have had many
opportunities of witnessing these phenomena, I had never
until last Monday been thoroughly convinced of their reality,
not that I ever expected any fraud or deception on either the
part of Mrs. Berry or the mediums who visit her, but the
whole thing was so opposed to my belief that I could not rea¬
lise it. I am now convinced there was an extraordinary
power present, be that power what it may.
Last Wednesday evenin g, at the usual weekly meeting of Mrs.
C. Berry’s circle, only six ladies and gentlemen were present,
including Dr. Ashburner, and Mrs. G. Perrin, the medium.
After a few remarks by Dr. Ashbumer about his loss of eye¬
sight, a spirit entranced the medium and said, You have called
upon a higher power than your own to know whether the
sight of your right eye will ever be restored. I could not give
the information by table raps, when I tried just now, so I
have thrown the medium into a deep dead trance, that you
may hear the truth. You have had pass over your sight
another skin. Beneath nine soft skins you have perfect sight,
not dimmed or impaired by time. Your sight can be restored.
Each skin will have to be dissolved ; it can alone be done by
magnetism [mesmerism?] and it can alone be done by time.
I can tell you the exact time it will take to restore your sight:
it will take nine months—one month for each skin. The
proper conditions and the proper person found, you will again
look on Nature’s grand garden, and again behold the sun in
all its radiant beauty ; you will look upwards to the spangled
canopy above, you will look your fellow-creatures in the face,
and again stand forth a champion for this cause. Be of good
cheer, you have been promised, and the powers around you
are waiting to fulfil that promise. Careful cautious mesmerism
by a youthful person is necessary; to-night, if you have no
further questions to ask, I will give you twenty minutes’ mes¬
merism, and will use upon you the force of fifty will-powers
and ONE.
The spirit then made passes over the eyes, and in about a
minute Dr. Ashburner was in a mesmeric sleep.
Afterwards a dark seance was held, but the power was very
weak, and more than half-an-hour elapsed before John King
could make his voice heard. He then said that most of
the power had been used up in the treatment of Dr. Ash-
burner. He said that people should be careful not to be
mesmerised by persons less refined and intellectual than
themselves, and that prpbablj Dr. Ashbumer would not be
long in meeting a person having the right kind of influence
to restore his sight under the directions given. He liked
speaking to circles of refined and intellectual people rather
than mixed public ones, where he often had to'bandy rough
jokes and rough words; moreover, converse with refined people
elevated himself. It takes less time for a refined man to get
coarse in coarse company, than for a coarse man to get re¬
fined in refined company.—In answer to a question about
capital punishment, he said that a certain murderer [it is
best not to give his name] is a very powerful medium, and
that when he lost control of his body through drink, a band
of bad spirits of men who had been hanged for murder, and
were now full of revengeful feelings towards society, Expressed
their feelings by making the body of the medium commit the
murder. He then strongly censured judges, for committing
in cold blood the very same crime for which they condemned
the murderer ; the fact that they are acting under the laws of
the land is not a valid excuse, though of course other persons
are implicated besides judges.—He said that he usually en¬
tered the stance rooms by the door when others entered also,
but when obliged to get in how he could, he found it easiest
to pass through the window. He was getting tired simply of
the voices and noises at circles, and if a few persons would sit
steadily for the purpose, he could help to give them some
higher manifestations, in the shape of exquisite spirit singing,
and spirit musiq. By request, he closed with a very brief
prayer, beginning with the words—“ Almighty, eternal, and
loving Father,” followed by a request that all present might
have a good influence shed around them, and be protected
from the action of all but high, holy, and pure spirits.
SPIRITUALISM IN NORWICH.
Last Thursday evening, Mr. J. M. Peebles, United States
Consul at Trebizond, lectured upon Spiritualism in St. An¬
drew’s Hall, Norwich. The following' report of his lecture is
from the Norfnlk News:—“ The lecture was prefaced by read¬
ing from the New Testament, by singing Watt’s hymn,
‘There is a land of pure delight,’ and by prayer. The
lecturer then took his text from Isaiah, ‘ Come now, and let
us reason together, saith the Lord.’ He said we should
accept no new doctrine till it had been tested by reason, and
fully investigated. He took it for granted that all present be¬
lieved in a God. Philosophically speaking, there was no new
truth in the world; there were only new views of the old
truths. Modem Spiritualism was only a new view of old
facts that prevailed among the ancient nations. Zoroaster
said he could' disenthral himself from physical things, and
hold converse with the gods. Pythagoras and Plato held
doctrines respecting the existence of spiritual beings, and
Socrates had his attendant spirit. There was, however, no
revelation so filled with the ministry of spirits as the Old and
New Testaments. The Bible was full of visions and narra¬
tives of angelic appearances. The lecturer then read a variety
of passages in which angels were said to have appeared to
Abraham, Hagar, Jacob, Moses, Elisha, Daniel, Matthew,
Mark, and others. Two men, Elias and Moses appeared to
the Lord on the Mount of Transfiguration. For a period of
4,000 years—all through the Bible history—angels and spiri¬
tual beings appeared to mankind and talked with them. Had
God changed ? Had His purposes changed ? Had a Divine
law changed ? The material laws had not changed, nor had
spiritual laws. If therefore these things had occurred 2,000
years ago, why should they not occur now ? When he saw so
many men without any well-grounded faith in the future life,
he thought it of great importance that there should be now
an opening of the heavens to enable them to discern the
reality of spiritual things. Man in this world was a soul in a
body; death severed the connection between the two, and the
soul went into the spiritual world. Now, was there any
method by which those who had gone into that world could
return and hold communion with those they had left behind ?
He was not a believer in the statement that fathers and
mothers and beautiful spiritual beings communicated with us
to-day, because belief was lost in perfect knowledge. For the
last sixteen years, during every day of his life, when he was
in solitude, he felt spirit fingers on his brow, and some¬
times heard spirit voices speaking to him. Mesmerism was
generally believed in, and that was closely allied to Spiri¬
tualism. The way in which spirits manifested themselves
was threefold. The first was by physical manifestations;
the second, by psychological appearances or control ; the
third, by impressional control of media. The lecturer then re¬
lated an occurrence which took place at a seance on Saturday
night last, at the residence of a lady near Hyde-park, when,
among others, two clergymen were present. After some other
maifestations, a chair was lifted upon the table, and one of the
clergymen was lifted up bodily and placed init as it stood on the
table. (Laughter). Things of asimilarcharacterwere believed in
that were recorded in the Bible, and, as this was not believed,
it seemed that such events needed to be 4,000 years old before
they could be credited. (Applause). Through these minis¬
trations Atheists were made to believe in God, and Deists to
believe in Christ. Robert Owen was an eminent example of
this fact. He (the lecturer), however, had no great interest
in physical manifestations. He preferred those phenomena
which were like what the Scotch called second sight, and
trance manifestations. He then related how he had once
biologised a young man and made him think that he was
Henry Clay, and led him to make speeches in that character.
It was his spirit, not his body, that controlled the young
man, and so spirits in the spiritual world were able to control
mediums. He had told an audience when he was in Cali¬
fornia that theymight all become mediums. One person rose and
asked, “ Can I become a medium?” He replied that it was need¬
ful in the first place that he should cleanse his body ; secondly,
avoid drink; thirdly, take no tobacco into his mouth; next,
avoid swine’s flesh and all coarse and gross language; and
then three evenings a week go into his closet and sit down in
prayer, passive and calm, for one hour, and before six months
had rolled away he would see the loved ones, or hear their
voices, or have some other demonstration of their presence.
The man went away sorrowful, for he could not endure to do
all these things. Some said, What was the use of it ? That
was a Yankee question. [Laughter.] We should not say,
What is the use of it ? but, Is it true ? The use of it was to
show that there was a future life, and to corroborate the Bible
histories. The use of it was to roll up the curtain and show
to us those we loved. It taught us that there was no death.
The lecturer, in conclusion, made some telling observations in
relation to the restraining influence that would be exercised
over the viciously inclined by the thought that there were
present with them, watching them in all their doings, the pure
spirits of those who loved them.
“ The lecturer gave notice that he should speak again on
Tuesday and Thursday next.”
Mr. G. Perrin says that the spirit “ John King” comes
and speaks so often at the seances under Mrs. Perrin’s me-
-diumship, that he really cannot state how many dozens of
times he has heard him, in the absence of Mrs. Mary Marshall,
through whose mediumship John King’s voice is best known
to the public.
Marriage op the Earl op Dunraven.—Married on the
27th ult., at the Catholic Church, War wick-street, London, by
the Hon. and Rev. Gilbert Talbot, D.D., the Earl of Dunraven,.
to Anne, daughter of the late Mr. Henry Lambert, of Carnagh,
formerly M.P. for the County of Wexford.
Mr. W. M. Wilkinson has written an interesting pam¬
phlet published by Mr. Burns about the Welsh Fasting Girl,,
citing a multitude of cases of prolonged abstinence from food
by persons, some of whom are now living. Much of this evi¬
dence he wishes to bring forward at the trial of the parents
of the Welsh Fasting Girl, in the attempt to secure for them
the benefit of the doubt.
The Dialectical Society.—The Dialectical Society,
we believe, are now unanimous in admitting spiritual mani¬
festations to be true, but differ in opinion as to whether so far
as they have seen, they are produced by spirits or by an
unknown force. One of the sub-committee reports that in
Mr. Hone’s presence a chair rose by itself in a good light, to
such a height from the ground as to fall upon the top of the
table, also that an accordion containing no apparatus, played
tunes in the air with nobody touching it. With this testi¬
mony of their own committee before them, they will have
interesting work when they teach us all about this unknown
force, which does such strange things, and displays so much,
intelligence.
The Spirithalist.—As this journal now is issued
only once a month, we have increased the quantity of news
it contains, by abolishing the standing matter upon the seventh
page. For the present, therefore, those who want much
printed evidence to place in the hands of non-spiritualists,
must fall back upon our first number, which is a mass of
clinching evidence from beginning to end. Steps have been
taken to make this journal known in the United States, the
colonies, and in 1 some parts of the continent of Europe;
already, therefore, copies are beginning to find their way to-
foreign countries. Covers with stringed backs, to keep clean
till required for binding, are now on sale price half-a-crown.
They may be ordered through any bookseller upon giving him
the name of our publisher, Mr. Allen.
St. John’s Association of Spiritualists.—On Thurs¬
day, Jan. 13th, Mr. T. Shorter gave a lecture upon Spiritualism
and the Bible, to the St. John’s Association of Spiritualists,
St. John’s Hall, Corporation-row, Clerkenwell. On the motion
of Mr. Steele, Mr. Avery took the chair. Mr. T, Shorter then
pointed out how modern Spiritual manifestations are in many
instances the same as those recorded in the Bible. The forma¬
tion of visible spirit hands is described in the narrative of
Belshazzar’s feast; writing mediumship is several times men¬
tioned ; Philip was lifted up between heaven and earth, so
this is an ancient case of the levitation of the human body;. in
like manner he showed the parallelism between nearly the
whole of the ancient and modern manifestations. At the
close of the lecture, Mr. W. Barber rose, and said that the
knowledge that such occurrences as those narrated by Mr.
Shorter are actually now taking place, would do a vast amount
of good for the assertions made in the churches do not come
home to the hearts and consciences of hard-working practical
men and women. Mr. Sayers proposed and Mr. Young
seconded a vote of thanks to the lecturer, and the proceedings
closed.
Life in the Deep Sea.—Last Friday night, Dr. Car¬
penter, Y.P.R.S., lectured at the Royal Institution upon the
above subject. He narrated how he, with a picked staff of
skilled surveyors, has been engaged in 'ElMS. Porcupine, in
dredging in the deeper portions of the Atlantic near the
British coast. In very deep water the bottom of the ocean is
at nearly freezing temperature, and temperature seems to
have a greater influence on animal life than depth. Living
organisms, some with well-formed eyes, have been brought up
from depths of from two to three miles, and the pressure at
the latter depth is about three tons to the square inch. Warm
currents of water, principally near the surface of the ocean,
flow from the equator to the poles, and cold currents flow from
the poles towards the equator. Probably much more cold
water comes from the south than the north polar regions, and
it is possible that much of the cold water at the bottom of the
North Atlantic comes from the southern hemisphere. Water
collected behind the paddle-boxes of a moving steamship con¬
tains less carbonic acid gas than water collected at the bows ;
hence surface-agitation gets rid of some of the waste products
of the respiration of animals, and ocean storms necessarily
have a beneficialj influence upon the living organisms in the
deep sea. Sir Henry Holland, Bart., F.R.S., presided, and
among the ladies and gentlemen present were Mr. and
Mrs. C. F. Yarley, Mr. H. D. Jencken, and many other
Spiritualists.
Mr. Home in Glasgow.—During the past month Mr.
Home has spent much time in Glasgow, and the Associatiaa of
Spiritualists there gave him a public reception at a soiree.
The Glasgow \Sentinel states that at that soiree—“ Mr. Home
delivered a very impressive and eloquent address, in the
course of which he stated that the age of miracles was not
yet past, and that all that was transpiring in connection with
Spiritualism was in strict accordance with the laws of God,
which were also the laws of nature. He admitted that he
felt sometimes inclined himself to doubt the manifestations
which took place through his own mediumship, were it not
that they were attested by credible witnesses. Many there
were who ascribed the effects produced through certain media
as the work of the devil; but he was prepared to say—if he
was the instigator of such good works—that he was a much-
maligned old fellow. He (Mr. H.) could number upwards of
five hundred personal friends or acquaintances—comprising
both young men and old—who had been restrained from lead¬
ing a ‘ fast ’ life, and who were now walking in a way which
showed that they were thoroughly imbued with the feeling
that they were beings destined for a nobler—an immortal
life. He concluded his eloquent address by giving good
counsel and advice to those who were searching after spiritual
truth. The musical portion of the entertainment was very
creditably sustained by Mrs. Nisbet, jun., Miss Brodie ; Messrs.
Brodie, Dunn, Aitken, and Hunter. Humorous recitations
were given by Messrs. Nicholson and Simpson. Mr. Home
was a host in himself throughout the evening 5 and his
rendering of ‘ The American to his National Flag ’ convulsed
the audience with laughter. The evening was spent in a
happy manner, and appeared to be highly enjoyed by all
present.”
Feb. 15, 1870.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
45
CHARGES FOR ADVERTISEMENTS.
1. Advertisements of Public Companies, Half-a-guinea per
sixth of a column, or every portion of sixth of a column.
2. General Advertisements, Five Shillings per twelfth of a
column, or portion of twelfth of a column.
Note.—Advertisements at the foregoing rates will be
'■‘displayed ” so as to occupy the full space paid for, but
advertisements at the following rates will be in closely set
type.
3. General Advertisements, Half-a-crown per first five
lines or portion of five lines, and Fourpence for every line in
addition.
4. Situations Wanted, or Apartments to Let, One Shilling
per first four lines, or portion of four lines; Threepence for
every line in addition.
Ten words are allowed to the line, and six figures or
initial letters count as one word.
When five or more insertions of the same advertisement
are paid for, twenty per cent, reduction will be made in the
above rates.
The power is reserved of refusing to insert any advertise¬
ment.
Advertisements and remittances should be sent to the
Publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's j
Church-yard, London, E.C., or to Mr. J. Burns, 15,
Southampton-row, High Holborn, London, W. C.
All letters should be brief and to the point, as the amount
of space available for correspondence is at present small.
Communications intended for the Editor should be by
letter only, addressed to the care of the Publisher, Mr. E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's Church-yard, London,
E.C. Until the Spiritual movement in England, together
with this journal, have both grown considerably, time cannot
be spared for personal interviews on subjects connected with
the literary work of The Spiritualist, but all letters will
meet with careful consideration.
The Spiritualist is a periodical intended to give great
freedom of expression to all the different shades of opinion
to be found among Spiritualists. There will therefore be
very little uniformity in the ideas promulgated in this journal,
more especially in the correspondence columns, Under these
circumstances every reader will find occasionally something
in The Spiritualist which he or she does not like, but the
right of reply remains. This freedom of thought given to
others, the Editor claims for himself, and those who do not
like the contents of leading articles, can write against them
in the correspondence columns. This plan is thought, better
than that of reducing the contents of the journal to a
pale weak mediocrity, by inserting only those contributions
which please everybody. The preceding remarks are not
intended to imply that those who have crotchets which they
cannot get printed anywhere else, can find an outlet for them
here, for none but those letters which are considered worth
publication will be inserted.
Notices of Public Meetings in connection with Spiritualism
should be sent to the office several days in advance.
Co Swbsmtars.
The first twelve numbers of The Spiritualist will be
forwarded regularly by penny post to subscribers, who remit
four shillings in payment, to Mr. E. W. Allen, Publisher,
Ave Maria-lane, St. PauVs-churchyard, E.C. No notice
will be taken of orders received unaccompanied by a remit¬
tance.
“The Spiritualist” is published on the fifteenth day of ever y
MONTH; THE OTHER JOURNALS DEVOTED TO SPIRITUALISM ARE PUBLISHE D
ON THE FIRST OF EVERY MONTH. THERE IS THEREFORE A FORTNIOHTL Y
SUPPLY OF NEWS.
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1870.
LANGUAGE.
The power of thouglit-reading possessed by spirits, is
asserted by many of them to render the use of language
less necessary among themselves, especially in the
higher spheres. Possibly sufficient evidence has not
yet been collected to definitely decide this point, but
it is easy to understand that a spirit who has to speak
through the tongue and brain of a trance-medium, must
often be at a loss for words to convey ideas to the
hearers, about phenomena and conditions of life of
which mortals have no knowledge. In such cases the
spirit is much in the condition of a warrior who
searches an armoury in vain for the weapon he is
experienced in using, and not being able to find it,
takes the best substitute he can lay his hands upon.
Words appear to be in'ventions of man, just as much
as bows and arrows, and the more rapid his in¬
tellectual progression, the more words is it necessary for
him to invent. This is why the scientific world is con¬
stantly obliged to invent new words to express definite
ideas, and very many of these words gradually creep into
use among the general public. Some savages have but a
few hundred words altogether in their languages, and
in such cases it is utterly impossible that a thousandth
part of the ideas contained in any large English book,
can be imparted to these races, because they have
neither the words to express the ideas, nor the brain to
understand their import. The invention of words is
constantly going on around us, for instance “ telegram,”
and “ post-office,” and “ locomotive,” and “ lead-pencil,”
are of recent origin, and there is no evidence that this
“ human invention” principle cannot be extended to all
words, except perhaps interjections. Probably the first
men, however savage they may have been, ejaculated
“Oh!” when anybody ran a pin into them, without
deliberately inventing the word, but directly ideas had
to be expressed, then the inventive faculties of the brain
began their work. Language is therefore machinery, .
and not always perfectly adapted to the externalisation
of thought; this is why people often hesitate in speech,
while searching for a word competent to clothe and
convey the idea already in the brain.
The preceding remarks are made to show that the
words of spirits through trance speakers, may not
always clearly convey the idea intended to be imparted.
Eor instance, at a private seance held a few weeks ago
at the house of Mr. C. W. Pearce, 19, Hargwyne-street,
South Stock well, Tien Sien Tie, the guardian spirit of
Mr. J. J. Morse, was asked how spirits read thoughts,
and his reply was to the following effect:—
He said that it was almost impossible to make it clear to
those who have not a full knowledge of matter and spirit and
their relations to each other. The most perfect form of
clairvoyant seeing, or thought-reading, is where the conscious¬
ness of two souls is interblended, and the thoughts and ideas
are identical—common to both. Thought-reading of this
kind is impossible with the physical conditions around these
on earth. There is another method of thought-reading, in
which two souls are placed en rapport with the ‘ ‘ idea of the
thought.” The “idea” is the thought externalised, or given
a more palpable form, and the spirit or sensitive clairvoyant
sometimes reads the thought by penetrating the idea. The
lowest form of thought-reading is that in which the thought
clothes itself with the idea, and the idea again with an ob¬
jective creation. The thought inside the idea has shape and
form, and behind it again are interior subjects for further in¬
vestigation. The subject was too difficult to be made clear to
the listeners.
Now, many people look upon an “idea” as a less
external and definite thing than a “ thought.” The
spirit wished to teach that there are inner and outer
phases of thought, long before those thoughts are so far
externalised that they are ejected through the muscular
machinery of the mouth, by the aid of invented words.
In the instance just selected it is easy to see the difficulty
hampering the spirit in his attempts to tell to mortals
ideas which were clear enough to himself, so he used
the words “ idea ” and “ thought ” as makeshifts.
There is an alliance between most of the languages of
Europe. For instance we English often make an ad¬
jective by adding the long outbreathing sound “ ish,” as
boy, boyish. The German will make an adjective with
the same outbreathing sound, but cuts it a little shorter,
and in his mouth it is “ ig.” The Latin cuts it shorter
still, and makes it “ ic.” Names in very common house¬
hold use, such as “father” and “ mother,” likewise nume¬
rals, are liable to have the same roots in related lan¬
guages. Thus it has been proved that the languages of
the greater part of Europe and Southern Asia have a
common parentage, and are by many supposed to have
sprung from an extinct “Aryan” language. These
Aryan fathers of our race, are believed to have lived in
the neighbourhood of Northern India, near the banks of
the Oxus, and in search of food, or for purposes of com¬
merce or conquest, to have spread east and west over
Europe and Asia. That branch of the family which
spread westwards, would, as pointed out by Mr. Earrar,
E.R.S., first meet with oysters at the Caspian Sea,
hence the word “ oyster” has the same root in all the
Aryan languages of Europe. But those members of the
family who migrated eastwards, would not see oysters
till they reached the shores to the south of China,
and then of course they invented or received from
aborigines quite a different name for the oyster than
that in use among the Western Aryans. The Hebrew
language is not an Aryan language; it is altogether
different in structure, and is too hard and inflexible to
be used by a people progressing in scientific research.
The Hebrew language in short is not, and never has
been, the source of even a small fraction of the words
used now or in old times among the chief nations of
Europe and Asia.
ISoofc Notices.
Uerer den Yerkehr deu Geister des Jenseits mix den
Menschen. Adolph, Count Poninski. Leipzig, 1870.
E. L. Kasprowich.
This little work gives an abstract of some lectures
recently delivered by Adolph, Count Poninski, at Leipzig.
It is recommended by the “ Comite des Vereins fur
spirite Studien” (Committee of the Association of
Spiritual Studies) established there. Those desirous of
learning the principles of Spiritualism in Germany will,
in these few pages, find valuable assistance. Like our¬
selves, the continental Spiritualists have to fight hard
with preconceived notions and sectarian opposition, and
to break the ice they have continually to fall back
upon elementary convincing arguments. The awaken¬
ing interest of the masses has to be tended and
nourished to make the seeds, now fairly sown over the
globe, grow against wholesale opposition. The tactics
of our German brethren are evidently unlike ours.
May be that pure reasoning and metaphysical deduc¬
tion have a stronger effect there than here. We
endeavour to gather evidence, facts well attested, and
as much as possible undeniable; minds unamenable to
the force of these we refrain from trying to convince at
all. In accordance with this, our plan of operation,
we will leave untouched the able elucidations advanced
by the lecturer in answer to the questions proposed by
him, and confine ourselves to an anthology of his pub¬
lished facts. We may, however, just say that the
questions referred to are these four:—
1. From what period dates the communication with
spirits ?
2. On what laws of nature does it rest ?
3. Is this intercourse absolutely sinful, or does it
only become so by abuse ?
4. What end may the Lord, in His loving kindness,
have in view by diffusing this knowledge so universally
in our days ?
The lecturer speaks of a remarkable manifestation in
the following terms :—
“ In a private circle of spiritual friends we were
favoured with a drawing by Michael Angelo, represent¬
ing a vase in antique style. The medium was a young
lady, who had hardly mastered the elements of draw¬
ing, and who is far from possessing herself the inven¬
tion and practical feeling which are expressed in this
drawing. Two ivy leaves join to shade ‘the eye of
God ’ beneath them. The upper part of the foot ex¬
hibits a butterfly symbolical of the resurrection; and
beneath this runs the Milky Way with a few stars, and
the segment of the young moon. Below are the words
‘ Amor Dei,’ and still further down ‘ Michael Angelo,
June, 1868.’ The two handles of the vase represent—
one, a reptile symbolical of evil; and the other a fish
symbolical of good. An explanation of the whole was
added by the spirit as follows:—‘ The eye of God
beholds the good and the evil; it counts the stars in
the heavens, and makes them all to shine in His light.’ ”
Count Poninski has invited all desirous of inspecting
this drawing, to his residence. A photographic copy
would enable many, and especially friends at a distance,
to become acquainted with its merits.
The Baroness von Giildenstubbe is mentioned as the
best writing medium (pneumatologist) on the continent.
The lecturer lays considerable stress on the battle
against selfishness, which has to be waged. Not so
much against the evil in others, as directed to the
guarding against the like springing up among Spiri¬
tualists. He looks upon mediumistic power as an
attribute which should not be allowed to excite feelings
of superiority. There is no more merit, he says, in
being a medium than being in the possession of good
eyesight, and the looking down upon those not equally
gifted, was as despisable as the scorning of the blind
by those able to see.
During the past four or five weeks the long-continued
depression of trade in London h is bee a tteidiJy growing
worse.
National Education.—As the great and too much
neglected question of national eiucation will shortly come
before Parliament, the public should know that a scheme is
afloat among the more selfish of our politicians, to lay the
foundations of a “ State Teachercraft,” wherein all the patron¬
age and appointments shall be in the hands of the Govern¬
ment. Of course this intention to open a new mine of patronage
will not be visible upon the surface of the plan when it is
proposed. Strenuous efforts should thereforo be made by the
public to look after their own interests, and to keep all ap¬
pointments under the new educational dispensation, in the
hands of the local autorities. There is no objection of course
to the schools being open to Government inspection. The
control of the telegraphs has already placed a vast amount of
additional patronage in the hands of the legislature. Jules
Michelet, the French historian, narrates that just before the
French revolution, the old entail, primogeniture, and other
laws, now abolished in France, had brought all the land and
all the wealth in the country into the hands of a very few
people ; the nation swarmed with paupers, scarcely anybody
could live unless they had a bumbledom of some kind under
Government, and in the anarchy which prevailed the nobles
were constantly crying out for more soldiers or police. It
would be as well not to bring about the same results in Great
Britain if it can be avoided.
46
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 15, 1870.
ipoetri).
OVER THERE!
By request, read repeatedly by Mrs. Hardinge at her Lectures in London.
Oh the spacious, grand plantation.
Over there!
Shining like a constellation,
Over there!
Holy with a consecration,
Prom all tears and tribulation,
Prom all crime and grief and care,
To all uses good and fair,
Over there!
Always brooding warm and golden,
Shines the mellow sunshine olden,
Over there!
Never blighting shadow passes
On the silken star-eyed grasses,
Waving wide their flowing hair
In the clear translucent air,
Over there!
0 the grand encamping mountains,
Over there!
O the sheeny spouting fountains,
Over there!
O the boundless starlit arches,
Where the sun in glory marches,
On a road for ever trending
Through bright legion worlds unending,
Over there!
Brilliant blossoms breathe and burn,
Over there!
Nectar drunken drops the fern
By the tulip’s early urn,
Over there!
Orange buds and passion flowers
Lattice sweet hymeneal bowers,
Over there!
All the heavenly creatures bom
Of the breeze, the dew, the mom,
In the divinest beauty grow,
Drape their purple, drift their snow,
Don their crimson, sheen their gold,
Shed their odours manifold
On the palpitating air,
On the flower-laden air,
Over there!
O the royal forests growing,
Over there!
Breath of balsam ever flowing,
Over there!
Pine-trees sing their breezy chime,
Palm-trees lift their plumy prime
In the ever Eden time,
Over there!
And a passionate perfume .
Fills the deep delicious gloom;
While through forest arcades ringing,
Lustrous birds are floating singing,
Over there!
No salt tears the ground are drenching,
Overthere! ,
Faint with toil no thin forms blenching,
Over there!
No more agonizing heart-break;
No more crouching in the cane-brake;
And no lifted hands outreaching
With a frantical beseeching,
Overthere!
No more desperate endeavours;
No more separating evers;
No more desolating nevers,
Over there!
No more fettered limbs are quaking;
No more burdened backs are aching;
No more hearts are breaking, breaking,
• Over there!
Human Nature.
MRS. HARDINGE’S HISTORY OF AMERICAN
SPIRITUALISM.*
A part of the first edition of Mrs. Emma Hardin ge's
history of American Spiritualism, reached England two
or three weeks ago, and the rest of the edition has
already been entirely sold off in the United States.
The hook is a record of the progress of Spiritualism in
every separate State of the Union, and describes a great
number of the remarkable seances, all well authenti¬
cated, giving plenty of names and addresses of highly
respectable witnesses. Most of these witnesses of . course
are now living. There is a chapter upon the medium-
ship of the Rev. J. Murray Spear, who recently visited
England, in which the weak points in his mediumship
are brought out in rather too hold relief, to give quite
an accurate idea of the real man. Altogether, the hook
is perhaps the most valuable contribution to the litera¬
ture of Spiritualism which has yet been made, and is
written by an authoress who never permits the interest
of the reader to flag. The following quotation from
the book is of interest:—
HOW A MEMBER OP CONGRESS INVESTIGATED SPIRITUALISM.
“ Amongst the visitors to Davis’s I spirit room ’ was
the Hon. Charles Cathcart, an cx-Congressman, and a
gentleman of great wealth, learning, and high social
standing in Indiana. Mr. Cathcart was the proprietor
of a splendid estate not far distant from the Poston
farm, hence he was enabled to attend their spirit circles
at his leisure, had he desired it; hut having been for
many years a profound student in the natural sciences,
and moreover of a decidedly sceptical turn of mind
upon all subjects relating to spiritual existence, he felt
little or no interest in a renewal of his first visit, and
utterly disregarded all the marvellous stories that were
bruited about concerning the i spirit room,’ until he
saw his own children amusing themselves by pretending
to hold circles, at which they insisted that invisible
operators were present.
“ By way of dispelling any ‘ superstitious folly ’ that
they might have imbibed through the reports of others,
Mr. Cathcart determined to join his young people in
their seances, and show them I on philosophical principles’
* London: James Barns, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.
the absurdity of attributing to a supernatural cause,
what he knew originated in self-delusion, or purely
mundane forces.
“ Being, as stated above, a scientist of a [high order,
and conceiving that there were still many problems in
electricity, &c., which were unsolved, but which might
connect themselves with unaccountable phenomena, he
placed upon a very heavy table, with drawers full of
books, three glass tumblers, and over these a hoard,
which he presumed would he insulated by its glass
supports. Feeling as little respect for what he called
‘ the fables of orthodoxy ’ as he did for ‘ the legends of
Spiritualism,’ and desiring to place both in the most
ridiculous possible light before his children, Mr. Cath¬
cart requested his eldest son to play, according to the
Koons formulae, on the violin, | The Devil’s Dream,’
being the tune which he deemed appropriate to the oc¬
casion. He then solemnly invoked Baalam to ‘ spare
him the services of his invaluable ass, and permit it to
quit its heavenly stable for the purpose of helping its
fellow-creatures to perform feats worthy of so exalted a
coadjutor.’
“ Meantime the hands of the circle were laid upon
the hoard, hut no sooner had the profane adjuration
passed his lips than, to use Mr. Cathcart’s own words,
‘ Away went the board ! and if we were not surprised,
let that word be dropped from the vocabulary. ... We
then took away the tumblers, resting our hands on the
board, but round and round it went; we put away the
board, and off flew the table !’ Mr. Cathcart, it seems,
was too good a philosopher to stop here. Scientist as
he was, he found something in this that upset all his
preconceived theories, and he determined that the a ass ’
whom he had invoked, should not get the better of
him, ‘ for,’ he reasoned,£ as long as he knows something
more than Charles Cathcart, the said Charles Catbcart
is the greatest ass of the two.’ Continuing his scoffing
tones of invocation, he experimented with his house¬
hold circle, until the tables, chairs, bureaus, and heaviest
pieces of furniture would, with the light touch of his
children’s fingers, fly round, float, heave, and with the
weight of several hundred pounds upon them, resist
the force of the strongest men in attempting to restrain
their erratic movements.
“ On one occasion, when a large table was in the
midst of these eccentric gyrations, it suddenly stopped,
and several loud raps were heard from the centre of it.
Startled, yet not disconcerted, Mr. Cathcart cried out,
‘ Halloa ! Satan, is that you ? if so, give us three of
your best raps.’
“ Three loud poundings rather than raps immediately
followed, when Mr. Carthcart, somewhat ashamed of the
encouragement to profanity of speech which his words
afforded to his little ones, added, ‘ Now, old fellow, if
you think as I do, that it’s a shame for two old fools
like you and I to he talking nonsense before the
children, just give the table a parting salute, and run
off with it.’ The salute that followed was emphatic
enough even to startle Mr. Cathcart, from whose hands
the table hounded off and ran coursing for several
seconds round the room, without the contact of a single
human being. But this remarkable phenomenon did
not cease here. Mr. Cathcart had occasion to visit the
Eastern States, and, whether he was himself endowed
with medium power, or that he chanced to encounter
mediums wherever he went, cannot now he deter¬
mined.
“ Certain it is that not only did the furniture of his
own house become locomotive at will, but the same
mysterious movements followed him in all his travels.
He had but to invoke ‘ Balaam’s ass,’ as he persisted in
calling his invisible motor, and when or wherever he
would, he could set the heaviest pieces of furniture in
the apartment where he chanced to be, spinning in all
directions; in short, in his own phrase, he kindly
hitched up his invisible ‘Jack’ for the amusement of
the company at any time, and he never failed to go.
“ To all the heavings, floatings, and poundings, which
thus accompanied him, Mr. Cathcart, good philosopher
as he was, could give no explanation, and when hard
pressed by his friends upon the subject, only replied
that it was the aforesaid ‘ Balaam’s ass,’ or the devil in
or out of Charles Cathcart. As to the spiritual hypo¬
thesis, he continued resolutely to repudiate it. His
scientific theory of possible causation it is unnecessary
to repeat. He could not emulate the cool assurance of
those who branded millions of their fellow-creatures as
rogues, or fools, for believing the testimony of their
senses, and the legitimate deductions which grew there¬
from. He knew he was not deceiving himself in these
sounds or motions, and had sufficient modesty to
acknowledge there might be some things in nature
even beyond the comprehension of Charles Cathcart.
‘ I don’t know everything,’ he would say, ‘ if the
parsons and professors do: and it is easier to believe
that there are laws of nature of which I am ignorant,
than that five or six millions of good citizens are in a
plot to deceive each other, or have suddenly lost the
faculty of determining what they see or hear; hut as
to the “ spirits,” why, pshaw ! one spirit is enough for
me, and old Satan, with Balaam’s Jack for a canter,
covers the whole ground.’ Thus the philosopher would
half-theorise and half-jest the subject into a mystery
more profound than the acknowledgment of a spiritual
agency.
“ Naturally enough, on his return home his desire
increased to continue his investigations in Davis’s
‘ spirit room,’ hut here his obnoxious method of pre¬
senting the subject, and his obliging offer ‘ to harness
up his “ Jack,” for the benefit of the company,’ made
him an unwelcome visitor. Finding that his presence
was disagreeable, but still irresistibly attracted to the
place, he was one evening standing outside the window
listening to the proceedings within, when, during a
pause in the music, he called out, ‘ Don’t you want me
inside there, old King ?’ Upon this, loud affirmative
knockings were given, nor did they cease until Mr.
Cathcart was permitted to enter. No sooner was he
seated and the light extinguished, than the manifesta¬
tions were renewed with increased power. The first
act of the drama, however, was the launching of the
tambourine at Mr. Cathcart’s head. He ‘ ducked,’ hut
raised his hand, caught and threw it back; again and
again, and for six successive times this feat was re¬
peated, proving that some one who had eyesight enough
to direct the missile in the dark, was intelligently
using that tambourine with more skill than himself.
“ That night proved to Mr. Cathcart a directing in¬
telligence in the circle even greater than he had
dreamed of. All the manifestations partook of this
character, and he retired more perplexed than ever.
When next the circle met, Mr. Cathcart brought, by
permission, an ‘ Amazonian Irish girl,’ one of his
domestics, whom he seated by the side of Miss Poston,
with secret instructions how to detect her if there
should be any evidences of movement on her part, or
appearance of trickery. Whether the spirit had anti¬
cipated these arrangements, or that the presence of
‘ the Amazon ’ was obnoxious to their power, we
cannot say; but it was announced by raps, at the
commencement of the sitting, that ‘ there would he no
performance that night.’
“ Baffled, but more than ever shaken in his faith of
the [spiritual agency in this circle, Mr. Cathcart now
became piqued into the resolution to sift the matter to
the bottom, or, at least, to divest the mystery ‘ of the
unnecessary burden of darkness.’ For this purpose he
contrived the following apparatus: he made a paper
case like a long pill-box, placed a glass tube at its
lower end, and in this put a few drops of sulphuric
acid. Closing the upper part of the tube with blotting-
paper, he put into the box a piece of phosphorus, and
surrounded it with a mixture of sulphur and chlorate
of potash. Upon turning this apparatus upside down,
he knew that the preparation would instantly ignite with
a brilliant flash, and the light would continue to burn
with the phosphorus. Being an experienced chemist
himself, he had tried this experiment several times
successfully, but warned his family against its use;
indeed, he declared it to he unsafe for any one hut a
practical chemist, deeming, as he said, that its sudden
explosion in the hand of an inexperienced person might
afford the operator, ‘ a nearer insight into spirit-land ’
than they were prepared for.
“ The result of Mr. Cathcart’s experiment in the
Poston Circle we shall give in his own words. When
detailing his experiences in the Spiritual Telegraph he
writes as follows:—
“Up to this time, though regarded pretty generally as a
sceptic, or infidel, my orthodox friends, whose name, I am
pleased to say was legion, were delighted at the determined
stand I took against this ‘modem delusion,’ and were quite
confident that with my t science and perseverance, ’ I should
soon expose it and do the family of man a great service.
Hence I had their pious and hearty ‘God-speed.’ In addition
to the facts mentioned above, it seemed to me there was
another connected with my experience, which had much
significance. It was that the table moving and my glass
electric machine both seemed similarly affected by the
weather. Also, the table seemed to follow a fixed rale, being
governed in its movements by our mode of connecting hands :
as, if the right little finger was uppermost, it would go against
the sun ; but if the left was uppermost, it would go with it.
At a glance you can see that my experience, as detailed above,
must have had a tendency to confirm a mind schooled in
materialistic philosophy in the opinion that the most of what
was called ‘Spiritual phenomena ’ were self-delusions, or opera¬
tions due to some natural force, which had long eluded science,
but must eventually be brought within its domain. . . .
Knowing that a brilliant light would reveal all that was
transpiring, but astound every person who unexpectedly
witnessed it, I frequently ‘ lit up ’ at home, to accustom my
young men and boys to it.
“ On the night of the illumination [I use the word in a
double sense] I took with me my youngsters, two men and
two boys, and let three friends, who were there, into the
secret. I took my seat in the circle, my friends occupying
different places on the back seats. After the performance had
proceeded some time, one of my party, a staunch New School
Presbyterian, asked that the Fisher’s Hornpipe might be
played. This was complied with, and just when ‘ old King ’
was touching it off secwndem arterrC upon the bass drum, which
was fastened upon a frame above the table, after pioneering
over and under the table with my hands, which my position
I close to it enabled me to do, I quietly placed upon it, in the
very centre, my ‘ lightning-bug,’ right side up with care, and
dropped back into my seat, by which time, without noise or
smell, the house was as light as day. What a picture for an
artist! I venture ,to say a more graphic scene was seldom
witnessed. Those not in the secret to be thus suddenly
brought into the glare of such a light as they had never
dreamed of, and my confreres to witness the stick beating the
drum as if handled from above, and no mortal nearer than
about eight feet of it 1
Feb. 15, 1870.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
47
“After striking a few blows by itself, in tbe light, tbe
stick rose yet higher, and describing leisurely a curve in the
air, gently fell on the shoulder of Miss Poston.
“We could have seen a single hair anywhere about the
table, the light was so bright. I separately cross-examined
seventeen of the beholders, and there was not a shade of
difference in the evidence.
“ At first Captain Davis thought the light was either caused
by the spirits or an explosion of some phosphorus which he
had, but seeing the remnants of my box, he demanded the
name of the author. I immediately replied that I did it.
Quite excited, he demanded my object, when I as readily
replied: ‘ Ask old King, he and I have a perfect under¬
standing.’ The composure and calmness with which I made
this reply, drew a hearty laugh from Mr. Poston, and re-esta¬
blished the captain’s good humour. When the light was
blown out, ‘ King ’ again reported himself with his usual loud
knockings, and replied in the affirmative to the question of
whether he knew what I was about. He said he was anxious
to give this matter a fair test; that he knew me to be honest in
my scepticism, and determined to let me run such a course
that I should have no partial conversion. He invited me to
come whenever I could, and always take a seat near the table.
1 have frequently attended there since. I am satisfied that
every member of that circle is as honest in their belief, as I
was in my scepticism. After the ‘illumination,’ King very
readily and correctly answered my questions on natural
philosophy, and furthermore told me that he purposely
bandied about the tambourine between my hands and his, and
broke up the sitting the night I put a watch on Miss Poston,
all with a view to lead me on to the test I had now obtained.
“I was promised musical demonstrations when none but
members of my own family were present, and well have the
spirits redeemed their word. We have now several circles in
our neighbourhood, wherein are received every kind of mani¬
festations, including, to me the most interesting of all, vocal
communications, the spirits speaking in propria personm.
“ My youngest child sees the spirits, and describes them,
and they vouch for the correctness of his descriptions. What
we have witnessed in my own house during the last few
months would fill volumes. Every member of my family is
as well convinced of the daily presence of our spirit friends
as they are of their own existence. I must not omit to add
that we have read everything that we could lay our hands on
against Spiritualism, and father and mother would blush for
even their youngest child if he could not, in five minutes, cite
facts under his own observation which would utterly demolish
every puerile attempt at explanation of these phenomena.
“ Not an immoral thought—naught else, indeed, but love;
charity, and wisdom—has ever been indicated by our heavenly
visitants. I know they have brought ‘glad tidings of great
joy ’to us; they have made us happier; and I' verily believe
that we must be hardened indeed, if they do not make us
better.
“The best demonstration [and I hardly dare hope for
better] are to be found in Mr. Poston’s circle at home. Indeed
it appears to me that we must wait long before the mind of
the public is so enlightened as to enable spirits to give their
higher grades of development to a public sitting.
“Charles W. Cathcart.
P. S.—With many I have lost my standing as a philo¬
sopherbut with all, I have, won the reputation of a first-
rate lamplighter. I had sooner have the reputation of an
humble lamplighter in the discovery of truth, than that of a
philosopher groping in darkness. C. W. C.”
“From, the time when so marked a change came
over the spirit of Mr. Cathcart’s dream, raps, table-
moving, and other phenomena, accompanied with clear
and unmistakeable evidence of spiritual intelligence,
pervaded his household. Several of his family were
relieved from pain, and even sickness by spirit
power, and the healthful touches of kind, invisible
hands. Lights flitted through their darkness; voices
spoke to them; hands clasped their own; and their
children learned to look upon, as well as to think of
‘ the spirits ’ as their best, wisest, and most beloved
of friends. The £ Amazon,’ to whom Mr. Cathcart had
intrusted the task of detecting Miss Poston in im¬
posture, proved to he a remarkable medium, and,
accustomed to look to influence through her, they
failed sometimes to note its abundance with other
members of the household. They had musical demon¬
strations of the strongest kind, besides voices speaking
through the trumpet, and the production of many
coloured and most wonderfully brilliant lights.
“ After some months of these interesting experi¬
ences, the ‘Irish girl,’ who they regarded as their
principal medium, left them, and the family were for a
while so overwhelmed with this loss that they con¬
sidered themselves ‘ plunged into the valley of the
shadow of death,’ and became almost inconsolable.
“ By persevering with their circles, however, they
soon recognised the welcome presence and manifesta¬
tions of the now-beloved spirits, and then they dis¬
covered that their most powerful medium was Mr.
Cathcart’s little son Henry, a child scarcely seven years
old. Ho sooner did the family become harmonised to
the new mediumistic power, than it was displayed in the
most wonderful demonstrations they had ever witnessed.
Little Henry was tossed about the room like a feather.
Lifted in the arms of the spirits, he would he carried
to the ceiling, cornices, windows, perched up on the
highest nooks in the rooms, or carried anywhere and
everywhere beyond the reach of human arms to place
him.
“ And in these performances, no one seemed so in¬
tensely delighted as the child himself.
“When being handed about, as the other children
would describe, 'just like an apple,’ the little fellow
would fairly shout out with rapture, and cry ‘ Go it,
old King ! I’m not a hit afraid; take me again; take
me again !’ Sometimes the child would be entranced,
and in that condition speaks words of wonderful wisdom
and beauty; hut confident as the family had now
become of the tenderly care and perfectly beneficent
character of their spirit friends, the anxious mother
could not bear to see her little one under this abnormal
influence, and besought the spirits to abstain from
entrancing him. They repeatedly assured her through
the trumpet, that this influence would be beneficial to
the child, and enabled them to perform much stronger
feats than they could otherwise effect; but as Mrs.
Cathcart could not be reconciled to this phase of the
power, the spirits kindly abstained from entrancement.”
(ftorrespontience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers].
THE BIBLE-SPIRITUALISM CONTROVERSY.
Sir,—In your last issue you inserted, under the heading
“Bible Spiritualism,” a long extract from an article in the
January number of the Spiritual Magazine, entitled, “ Anti-
Christian Spiritualism,” by W. H.
The aim of the writer—if the title were intended to convey
it—was a comparison of two phases of Spiritualism, respec¬
tively named by him Christian and anti-Christian. In this
comparison he fails, because before he can determine what is
anti-Christian he must define what is Christian ; and no
theorem of Christian Spiritualism is laid down by W. H.
Therefore, we are compelled to search beyond the title for the
true purpose of the writer. This he reveals in the article, and
it shows itself thus :—,
1st.—To prove the Godhead of Jesus Christ.
2nd.—To place under the ban of insanity all who do not
believe that the Bible is of Divine origin.
3rd.—To severely and unjustly condemn a “large section”
of his brother Spiritualists who do not endorse all that ‘ ‘ Ter-
tullian and competent moderns say ” on the above-mentioned
propositions.
Although the writer has not accomplished his purpose, it
will be well to examine his arguments.
Firstly, as to the Godhead of Jesus Christ. To prove this,
he quotes Tertullian as follows:—“That which comes from
God is God, the Son of God; and both together, God and His
Son, are one and the self-same God. ” But this reasoning demon¬
strates another proposition, namely, that I, the writer of this,
am God; for what say the Scriptures? Speaking of humanity,
of which I am part, they say: “In Him (God) we live, and
move, and have our being.” Now, if humanity derives its
being from God it is from God ; humanity is but the sum of
its parts, and I am a part of humanity; therefore I am from
God; and, if “ That which comes from God is God,” it follows
that I am God; but God is the Creator and I am the creature;
nevertheless, the Creator being God, that which comes from
the Creator is the Creator; therefore the creature is the
Creator, which is absurd; therefore “That which comes
from G®d is not God, ” &c.
Analysing the second part of the article, I fail to find any
proof that the Bible is of Divine origin, but simply a quotation
from Sir William Jones that “so it is;” therefore he has no
right to denounce as insane those who do not so accept it.
But it will be wise to seek, if haply we may find, evidence of
its Divine authority.
If the men who wrote the various books were instructed by
the Divine Author of all things, the presumption is that their
statements would be demonstrably true, otherwise how can
we arrive at truth ? Let us see if they are so, and first con¬
sider the account of what is called the Creation. We here
notice the term “day ” used to describe the time occupied in
accomplishing special formative acts; this term, the same in
the Hebrew, will allow of no other definition than this,
namely, the time elapsing between two consecutive risings
of the sun, or twenty-four hours; but geological and astro¬
nomical science demonstrate that an incalculable period of
time elapsed between the commencement and end of only one
phase of formation.
Next.—The record states that light was divided from dark¬
ness on the first day. What was the cause of that light ? It
could not have been the sun, .for, according to the same
record, the sun was not created until the fourth day. If this
account be correct the conviction forces itself upon the mind
that there is a sun kept for the special purpose of illuminating,
until such time as their own suns can be made, planets not
yet provided with one; and that this sun was the source from
which our earth derived its light during the first three days
of its existence.
I here notice that the moon and stars were made in the
same day as was the sun; and on the sixth day man and
woman were created. Man, probably, was made early in the
morning, and woman in the evening, as we find she was made
during a sleep into which Adam was placed; which he must
have greatly needed, because after he was made and placed in
the garden of Eden the Creator did an immense amount of
work the witnessing of which would be fatiguing to a newly
formed man, let alone having to name all the cattle, the fowls
of the air, and the beasts of the field, which he did after the
rest of the work was done. It will be profitable to enumerate
the labours of that sixth day. There was first the forming of
Adam, then the planting a garden in Eden—this was an enor¬
mous work, involving the growth out of the ground of every
tree pleasant to sight and good for food, including the tree of
life and that of knowledge. Then came the cutting the chan¬
nel of the river of four heads, the naming of these heads and
the lands the streams compassed, the formation of gold and
precious stones. Then was the making, out of the ground,
every beast of the field, every fowl* of the air, the living
creature, the creeping things, and the cattle. After all this
was done the beasts, cattle, and fowl were named by Adam—
a huge mass of work for one day. God now put Adam to
sleep, and during sleep the woman Eve was formed from one
of Adam’s ribs, taken out of him by the Creator for the special
purpose.
Who that reads the attempt to give a history of the phases
of creation, as given in Genesis, cannot but see the want of
scientific knowledge shown therein? Compare the fourth
day’s work with Laplace’s hypothesisf, demonstrated by M.
Plateau to be in harmony with all known mechanical and
physical laws, and then decide which is the more worthy of
credence. Had the immediate inspirer of the account been
the Creator, surely the account would have harmonised with
known scientific truth.
Now notice the inference fairly drawn from the statement
made in the eighteenth verse of the first chapter of the Gospel
father (Luke’s account will not bear the same interpretation),
and see if the statement will bear the test of reason. It is an
according to Matthew, that Jesus Christ had no human
axiom with us that the Creator is the perfection of intelli¬
gence ; whence it follows that His laws will be perfect and
adapted to accomplish the end He has in view. One of these
laws is that before a child can be conceived there must be a
union between man and woman. If humanity at any time
could degenerate, either spiritually, mentally, or physically, so
as to necessitate a departure from the law of generation to
restore the standard, therein would that law fail and its
imperfection be revealed; but its author being perfection it
must be perfection, for the whole is the sum of its parts ;
therefore the law is perfection and adapted to accomplish the
end of the designer. Consequently no being in a physical
body can be introduced into this physical life without the
union of man and woman, therefore Jesus had a human
father.
A. J. Davis, J. M. Peebles, J. Bums, and others, write
against these demonstrated absurdities, the dogmas and doc¬
trines founded upon them, and the mental and spiritual bon¬
dage to which humanity is subjected by those who unrea¬
sonably accept them to be true, and then proclaim themselves
ambassadors between God and man, asserting that upon the
acceptance or rejection of their interpretation of these and
similar passages depends—so say they—the eternal salvation
or damnation of their hearers. Noble men are the opponents
of these dogmas, for they dare to think and reason, and then
give their brethren the benefit of their labours. And in thus
thinking for ourselves :
“ We ask no boon, our right we claim
Free press and thought, free tongue and pen,
The right to speak in Freedom’s name.”
We therefore accept what is true in the Bible and reject the
false.
Who, then, are the “insane?” They who are not biassed
by appearances, have no favourite hypothesis, are of no school,
and in doctrine have no master ; or they who, like W. H. and
his supporters, are biassed by the antiquity of a book, and
who are fettered by dogmas and doctrines ? They shall pro¬
nounce their own verdict, and pass sentence upon themselves.
Let us now read the terms of the condemnation passed upon
those who differ from them. They read thus :—“ They are
from a pagan Hades, with demon announcements, and are
wildly immoral, licentious, free lovers, violating the sanctity
of marriage, advocating loathsome dogmas, making vindictive
attacks with fevered lips on the Church, politics, art, science,
theology, geology, astronomy, religion, creeds, philosophy,
love, marriage and divorce, Moses, Jesus, and the Bible; a
hybrid race of ultra rationalists running madly a muck at all
other faiths, opinions, and institutions, as if they were the
people, and that wisdom must die with them ! ” Is not this
intemperate language mean and pitiful ? How it must be
reprobated by all good, honest, truth-loving men and women;
it shows how completely sectarian narrowness may blind the
moral sense. How disingenuous it is thus to misrepresent a
“ large section ” of Spiritualists because a few hundreds, out
of millions, have perverted their liberty to sensual purposes.
As well would it be to condemn all Christians in like manner
because the Mormons say they also are Christians. There is
no honest and true man, be he Athiest, Deist, Trinitarian,
Unitarian, Catholic, or Materialist but deplores the departure
from social morality of any one member of society, belong that
member to whatever sect he may; but they would not think
of condemning the entire body because of the failure of a few.
Would not the cities of the plain have been spared had only
five true men and women been found therein ? Even so would
it have been. Therefore, oh, W. H., recal thy]condemnatory
language, and thou shalt be welcomed again as an honoured
brother, for thy intent is good though thy zeal without dis¬
cretion has carried thee beyond the bounds of charity. Thou
dost think thou art doing God service in the rebukes thou art
heaping upon A. J. Davis, J. M. Peebles, and others, and
thou wouldst call down fire from heaven to devour them.
Stay thy pen whilst the memory of thy name is dear to thy
brethren, or otherwise, with whatsoever measure thou dost
mete it shall be measured to thee again. Though thou mayest
speak with the tongue of men and angels, and have not
charity thou wilt be as sounding brass and tinkling cymbals :
“ Know we not our dead are looking
Downward with a sad surprise,
All our strife of words rebuking
With their mild and loving eyes ?
Shall we grieve the loving angels ?
Shall we cloud their blessed skies? ”
No! the mantle of charity shall hide thy expressions of
unkindness from our sight; and of thee, W. H., we will re¬
member only the days of old, when thou didst stand valiantly
in the front rank of the forlorn hope of Spiritualists in Eng¬
land, doing battle for angels and men, covering with the broad
shield of thy honoured name thy weaker brethren ; thy name
is as well-known and beloved in the angel world as it is here;
and the welcome of “ well done, good and faithful servant,”
will be thine.” C. W. Pearce.
South Stockwell.
[If tins controversy is to continue the letters must be shorter.—Ed.]
Last Saturday evening, Mr. and Mrs. Tebb gave a pri¬
vate reception to a few friends connected with the Spiritual
movement.
Mr. D. D. Home has recently been giving public readings
in the Queens Rooms, Glasgow, also in many towns in the
West of England, He is a first-rate public reader. During
his stay in England, which will probably be about two
months, Mr. J. M. Peebles is open to accept engagements to
lecture in the provinces, and letters addressed to 15, South¬
ampton-row, Holborn, W.C., will find him.
Seances at the Spiritual Library.—The Friday
evening seances rmder the mediumship of Mr. J. J. Morse,
take place as usual at 15, Southampton-row, Bloomsbury.
W.C. We have shorthand notes of more of the communica¬
tions received through his mediumship, but have no space to
spare for them in this issue. We have also ascertained that
some of the names of spirits communicating through him are
correct, and that the name of “ Dr. Fulcher,’’ given at the last
seance reported in these columns, is right.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A. G. (Glasgow).—The photographic documents shall receive
attention in our next.
G. G. (Islington).—If the communication is of interest, apart from
its reputed authorship, we should like to see it.
* Fowls are mentioned as created on the fifth day, in the earlier part of
the history—placing them on the sixth is evidently an oversight of the
writer of the account.—0. W. P.
t Laplace’s hypothesis may be seen in a condensed form in Guillomin's
Heavens, p. 467. London : R. Bentley. 1868.—0. W. P.
48
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 15, 1870.
FACTS FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
The phenomena seen at spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming’
■'vithin the ordinary range’'of human experi¬
ence, that it is quite right not! to1 accept them
<<n the testimony'.of’others, Each individual‘
should witness and .testthem personally; and
believe nothing ,until ; the absolute knowledge
is gained that deriial is'impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIBITUAUSM DESEKVE8 INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses that the phenomenaof ,, Spiritualism are,
.actual facts, and not imposture or delusion, hag of.
. 'late years so acctamlSted as to possess very
‘fc weight.’ In, the case of Lyon-o. Home, Mr Jpfeliert;
l^t/hait^r^'Mr. ;G. El'.yarl^y;- .1 ..iijj '-.IlNr
G.. Hall, ajid ^dth‘&rBj>i:llJmac^afi|d&^
■’ri’f i » i .»! f ',|
i ’ fiij -1 Jt
ftiiniffi h i» '"UTiittair - ■ lir'1
very eminent American ^Spiritualist, who fhas also
written interesting books on the subject./ftecently,,
in England, Viscount Adare has written a book
bearing testimony to. the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunfayen. 4 Tlds hook is
printed for private v circulation; only, v^hioh is an.
error in judgment.'^YalUabW.evidence.’ iiiif^yoUr5
of Spiritualism is given;|byIJohhiW’esle;Shd .'his'
family; for spirit rapping and .movefl||jntg|
wooden materials by invisible,agency;’
their own house. • jmcunfentaajifegj
they witnesspiLw'a^diiijffc’hpl
spot,.amLi^
w3
Challenges.
^u^’c^’eitfier.. of-yeu,' or any u
Ooinja^rSWjp^ife
tion dif
taneous^§a:,'ngs
in the fori^^EM1
I determinfiiS’rtO'
plieiiomeiia't'bSfhei
If possible,'.the natj
‘ ‘ AccordmSvh’
1 Home, the'd^OTJ 
not yet withe’ssed
that I was a scienf^cjrnmjuiiLwished jtp.-investig^te
“’He ■duih
pose, and deht<etl’me w*?&
way,, atid I have he^n WitBi®Litir:!i)h.nii'i%rs~iBcC^sif)ns
. when the pheiiomena have, occurred,- I have’ examined
and tested them with’ him and .with others,'under con¬
ditions of my Own choice, under a bright light, andhave
made the mpsit Jealous, and 'searching, scrutiny. I have
been, since/thenp-for seven months in- America wb
the.subject aifeaptstg^e^Mi^ffijaa^ag^ I " "'ll
it is cultivated? by vomooftfHS'sSi^t^mei^ShAliawig
experimented with and comparer tneworCBS-With eleo-
tricity . and (magnetism,; and after , hayingwaupljed .flgei
vchanic'al.andmenfetl tests, I entertaih'^j-d%iMs^ifeyei
tha’tvhb manifestatibhk which I haV§Tbiy^^'e^^m4a ,
KdMelieYe ind^^Hnuine;-ch%
•heuijiij'Uia, te.•d>.:pp<iii, in; Uh',
HHPPVHHP^bcffioif ban©r3OTim.yplt'-ott|
wmtoe. ;q|;jie.Wnndg^rfffftfjW|r-jpjat,,fraild.
BHUi’111 Wi|tp)> |||UsU|
^ —the.Owhsdihipdf. she?
rk. xracsH. j^jagfaQHllStSistO
l^'.of juBlipei'
TOHlWWwfejWiiajlyttt.eQmmj5uy|tinnV
gFpj^Q^jicanleiByEs^geflerfflly recc^nise'd'^a'wl
a^rhtttflfladgtojaglna||h mjj^fcdpea. move!
trereinothufe.’to the'operatidh of atiyiaf thei-f’e
physical laws of nature, and-that thpr^ffigaj^ggii]
on the occasions above-mentionem/s^gduiffits'
other than,tliat'of the medium andpbsffl5^
“ The subject Of course ?offersjma^;.acKi
inducements for fraud, and I only s^gapl^
myself seen and .tested. Since''MiMy "
Mr. Home began I have pursuedtC£iejS^^r„
'found engaged in it-able, learned/"a.Tiye»pK.,.M
who are ednyinced as I am, that, “the
tions are-but Ijhe introduction to. an'exte:^^(jm
mental and physical knowledge'which wilfsinp!
measure'explain and reconcile the 'bdjefg'oi3:aJl'__s._
nations. I know of several instances; bothsin^Sm^
, and America in which this, .cojirs§ Of', study
ened the, perception of the pTu^.awIoifttest tnHpi
principles.' ' There have\be6n no1 doubt cas^'i^^®
the intellect'has heeHHoo feeble's for. the/sf^mlj
has been overpowered by, it, just as frequently ,fi
from excessive application to religion and other 'exgitmj
topics, but such cases have hot come wiffimv^^’dvS
observation.
“Mr. Home, like severaTother non-profeasiohalftti.e:
diums whose pases I have studiedj was. passive miuciM
the occurrence of the manifestations. Ho,TlKeiths'
other mediums, is extremely, susceptible to external jhi-
flnences, and has a mind better suited to receive imprest
sions than to prosecute enquiries. ■ I willingly testify niy t
entire conviction of his truthfulness and honesty,’,, 4- •,,
“■ 0. 'F. VAKleV
’ • ' . > - ' _ ; r ,V;.. .. i
It also came out in the evidence givencat the(
trial, that Mr. Home had been the invited and un^
paid guest of the Emperor and the Empress of the;
French, the Emperor, Empress, and the late Em- ’
press Dowager of Russia, the Grand Duke ’Con-.;
stantine, the King of Prussia, the late-King1 of
Bavaria, the late King of Wurtemburg, and-.the
Queen of Holland. Mr. Home says that all. his
life he has never taken a farthing of pay for his-
seances. Ip March, 1869, the Spiritual Magazihe
gave the. names of the following gentlemen as
those who have long been investigating the sub¬
ject:—' '
“Cromwell F. Yarley, Esq., Fleetwood-house, Becken-
ham; Alfred-B. Wallace, Esq., 9, St. Mark’s-crescent,
j\.W. ; Professor'He Morgan,- 91, Adelaide-road, N.W. ;
Captain Drayson, R.A., Woolwich; Dr., J. M. Gully,
The Priory, Great Malvern: Dr. J. J. G. Wilkinson, 4,
St. John’s-wbod-villas, N.W.; Dr. Dixon, 8, Great Or-
mond-street, W.C.: S. 0. Hall, Esq., 15, Ashley-place,,
Victoria-street, S.W.; Newton Crosland, Esq.; William
Howitt, Esq., The Orchard, Hare-green, Esher, Surrey;
Bobert Chambers, Esq., St. Andrew’s, Edinburgh; H.
D. Jencken, Esq., Kilmbrey-house, .Norwood; X. G.
Crawford, Esq.,. 52/ Gloucesije^^accnh N.W.; W. M.
Wilkinson, Esq., OakflelX Kilburn; Lord Adtotet At?
Buckingham-gate; The Master of Lindsay, 'Grosvenor-
square.”
Mrs. De Morgan has written, a book, ebtitled
From Matter to Spirit (Longmans), where she
gives many interesting particulars, the rresult of
ten years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in bis preface to the book, says:—
“ I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos-
sihle, things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by
a rational being to be capable of explanation by impos-
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far X feel the ground
firm under me.”
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President
.of the British .Association at Norwich in 1868,
spoke very highly'of the scientific attainments, of
Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, E.L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualisj;. Professor /Harp, .of Phila¬
delphia,'the inventor of . the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that’ Faraday’s “ unconscious muscular
action ” theory explained all the facts. ’ A friend
wrote to him detailing things he had seen which
were inexplicable by that theory..! Hare at once,;
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
result was that he came into communication with,
some of .his.own departed relatives... He then
made m'echamcal telegraphic machines, which
were intelligently worked by spirits' while the
apparatus >was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote-a book recording all these'
facts. That hook is now in the British Museum,
Library, judge Edmonds, of New York, is another
tlj^iid,. oLsttiy
^B^fe.inn<Lin'defra2be
K*K©iirdly—TBai voices appertaining to no'one in the
ffesb are heard to speak and hold rational converse with
men.'
L y A' jury of twenty-four gentlemen, twelve to be chosen
•byeaph party,<sucii jury to.consist exclusively of: mem-,
bWS :of ;19ie learned professions and literary men), .to,
deeide-whethei" or not the facts contained in the above
propositions ’ are conclusively. preyed per. testes^i.e., by
wjtness'es ; of established Character. A majority : of
ithe twenty ifoiif to decide. If the verdipt.. he .that these1
facts. hav,e:.MoAbe§n^figiablfebed;"tlie'/ffipusand.guineaS'
Hie party - accepting jthis challenge ;/if
(be • . idici ijv.lhat Jh'.se ftietsov established, the tkou-
feahef §uBieaS to bemine,' -.
L ■.■.“■.Secondly.?—Immediately after the above wager being
[decided, either .way,' I/offer1 a like’challenge of.diye huh-
da^d'guine4.k-(fo:he«met,'oilLtthe ;other. sidean likp manner;
^*bffve)—thef oiynexship?of Jthe ,;sacbiKa((e,unl 'bft. ohb
[stJlpfisaiicl guih'ed.&‘'t04dependy'up.on Jlie^Eltahlishnjgnt50f.
H s^^i^gtSi'poutaihed’gii'llleprppositiqiisjajrqafly'gi'ven,’ by'
' Mt/lrw-s of the twenty-
ha»yei,!teejde4?H®>re'vioi!s• wager;
)Ae mftjo^jtyfo^teidel}i^h;s case likewise^
®^|jier.,c©e|'ttie^«qf<i.‘,'.Sre io beTconducted in any
theHury m§?yisfflecg[
, ....
!§j’Sh?'"i^5’d%6Cj:hese .eljalleMges (if,accepted..and de-
bajfm^rbaed^y the victonous paity, at the
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the qubstion should he put, “ Are, we
sitting in the right order target the best manifestations ?”
Probabfyi's6hie, members of. the circle will then bejtokl
to change, seats with'each other, and the signals’will'be
afterwards fj.strengthen'ed. Ndxt(. ask, “ Who is ,the'
medijim ? “drWhen spirits come asserting, themselves to;
be.5>aalated or known to anybody present, well-chosen
qfeBfens shaujdjjbeiputitto-test the • accuracy of the
' Mppehls s-'out.olthe body haye'all the virtues
St^Mfqmjlih&lpfispiritsimthe body.
^[^ptghCTfirstjBittin^ofr a'circle'symptoms
j|fo'f'ms|of jSmediurnshipd thanit’tilts ■ or'raps'
[ntMimlj&iitappearance.'to Information respect-
Jt^lPa^^jkjn dsj of/mediumship will,,be found.
Mrsy^^esfe^Dd|Mol;gaidslbookyA'?,o'm;A/gffe.t,<
B^>^8ptt.mpffidAb’^DonCTnans ;4dnd'j|thisjis^a
^ffi'^m®6[fraaOT.hefpreptrytiifgi't6“; starYa new’
:. ■. ■ .' ■'
.• ’,?iTO^eTarg|m3Engan'dTsevgrajtvery interesting [
ciM^^ f <5^j|ji^ml|fmp,j{if §Satifcns,fiwh^e^ the
Sjhjwis'Bpcak^ wKm^idibietLvoiveBjlbutiyn'hfertu-
is j_^!f^®pM^j|conmtion.'
S^fff'Spmtualiferg/^nMaT-epnqu'irTffgilii^oftnel'shh-
'ject.sbruxid ha^nguim’apcydg.mthvdarl^e'awces.
tbgbh^OTfffer,“sipdMthey^ff6rlso?midnyafaoiliti.es|for.
' “J ~''t^yhen;.^^?i^pie*fegularl^|bbta]n^pffi^g.ry
nj'cnibcrs of ith’i.-j.-irclv'sit v<uiud;-tbe table iritflig1
iOT.dipafvi^wayj; /Qhe/oEvtwo. paper'1 tubes,^eaSfr
TgmVT^te1 gh t den.jn cb^ j longj^wit by anjorilica
‘^but ai?*ihchiafm.-a?ha®ih (diameter; .sho^Hd^he:
.placed on tin; taljle.They mayT'e roadilyjmade
lJ^, jT>lli'rig','fip a.ipll,S,^QHfmn|fc and. tying*' a*few,.
qm?aies''df“ddtton round gfie rt^gb tubefthustqrmed.’
In'the early stages qfw voice-circle these tubes
are necessary for'the use of the spirits, but after¬
wards they may be dispensed with except when
the weather and other conditions are unfavour¬
able. When first trying to obtain the voices the
spirits may not be able to lift the tubes from the
table, afterwards they often get them up in Aha
air aioot or two and let them drop again. When
ihaymget^full 'control over-.-them they can cany
them'about up to the cfeiling and to all^ parts of
the room, and they talk to the members; of ithe
‘circle often While floating about above their-heads/
Yery, beautiful luminous phenomena are ■ sdifie-
times Shown by.the, spirits at dark circles./W^him1
sitting, fqr the voices,.the, spirits will tell*by'thfe<
lOrdipa-iy.tabk' signals how they,art- progressing-mj
iSihir'Witirk’.mgetting contTdl'Qf thfe ttcbe&aa*'
THE NEWSPAPEfi-PBEiSS "—THE PRESS ORGAN
THIStJOIdRNAL; is .the- adopted! and re-
■ cognised! Representative of the .Newspaper in¬
terests, and the medium of intercommunication between
Proprietors,-Editors^ Reporters, Correspondents, Pub¬
lishers, Printers, and all parties associated with News¬
papers. •*< Vi .(.y,;;--'—•••■■>
Wei bail with satisfaction the addition of the Neics-
paper^Press,tovthek journalism'of the United Kingdom.’
~Sfiuhders' News Zetter. ‘ *
♦^Subscriptions, 4s. per annum, post free, payable in ad-
"varice., . ; .... a,iv-
fcpndon :,>B. W.; Allbn,, Publisher, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
U .'»• . •• ■ rv ■ - ' * -
§eyijf*^Sst^/5pglandirnd South wales District
always reach the writer.”
ih* fl e',tVjidtu,eiyJi't dr] i is; the
i English:.’.-.
I
frx istsr
_ jait-s, ats-rath cr.] ess^tBan
in the world; The-f&ct tfiafethis
hhhjased andTdeijgted-to t3fb trv
■? jthg^Sjpjcg. on whtch il dreate; is' a ppi
gHOW- TO FOBS
in? emcDEslr
AStHrphcrlS^. Recent rihmbers give‘fttR'd^taiB*6r 'me
extraordinary Manifestations . through/the_;CfelQ)ratefJ
rftt fStedium, Dv D. Home,. Esq., with pldlosd^hical rtwiPn-'
' mgs as to the nature and cause of the .pnenomena: a
new series of lessons on Phrenology and the Tempera¬
ments is being given, containing some new instructions
-of great value to ,the student; drst-cls^s+Ppctjaits.of
eminent men and women, with Biographies and-Phrenq-^
•logical delineatiow-’are fteQuentlymi^gduceif ;®a f sgf&J
r^de-iof great powerjand beautytiafti^lM on>Aywlaffl^
Tempe^tncoi'aind Health;f/ti4ihllEfimiB-lTOm*BOT?
■K^Mital WorksIandS^riodicais.; t^qatises :qn MeSmeriain,’
j^irvoyance,'fS^l3^i2lism ;-;fSvSews^of Books;. reports
mwlectufeg, Meefciigs/ and‘Societies,,renders this, the
SprSapest, jnoSJ vhTied, -and instructive S Periodical'of^the
’* this,Periodical is efa-
triith respecting all
point not to be. oyer-
V ^jjteaaQtea^ajgjjSg -Post 'free,;7s.' per annurnypr. 6d. per
4, 4.njK:jLW«gn;ftjtarSapng’^miiY; Anohth'/fbm -the Booksellers, Pfogres-
f&kfflrY ^wTaeSc^oferthe realitjj^^spSjraisflf ""
'ihena?^ timeFaft^p^^ljylh^ei
medium®, pafese^among^tHoSe*’ ■
obtaine^,.mawf^;ttiffci®iJs^teefo#&,--X&b'Tpfebabi8ty?i4
that*there will' be’-j^' rqgifi^,^jjNevcrthele®; it is
a very common thing' fbr'^tnkmg manijedtations
to.be pbteane^.Tn tliis,-^gay .at the. first sifting oT'a#
family cricie j'* perhaps fo£;ey.eryi one-sticcessful;
new circle thus' started witlemt-a medhim, there
are six or seven failfif esl but hora^sfeatehtatiStics
on this point have ;, yet ijeeff*coJlfctedv/ Ayh3Sff-
once manifestations have. been-'obtaine4> Uipy
jfRfe r;IT5fy!3Tl5, ScmthSmptou-roW'Bteomsbury-squal'e,
TBbibon^^^Sdon, ’W.C. ji
■ ■
gradually increase in pCwer/aiid feliabijitjr at’ku^f ^Bfo^ess ofif^ehte may beohiained.
cessive sittings. - The'following is a- gb'odi plah’-t® *1 The’Subscription. entitti
action :-
L Let the room be of a ‘comfoptahlgAfimpsMltnjei'hut.
cool rather than warm—let- arrangentehts be Ahoe'-that
■nobody shall enter it, and th^t.itheite 'Slall he.no, inter¬
ruption for_onc lusnr ip(mSS^^S|MOTEftecffi^|g!C^p3fcle/
Wet, dampjand fdggy!weail(£a?Mft«a®wi3iB prcTOiotion
of physical phenomena. [;’ '
A- Let the.cirele conSist of four, five, or six-hadividuals,
auejut the same number of each sex. Sit round an un¬
covered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands
in contact with its top surface. ..Whether the, hands
touch each other .or not'as-, usually of-no’‘ifiiportanee.
Any table will'do, just l&Ege-Vfildugh to conveniently
accommodate the sitterii/S^e^rempval of-a hand frdm
the table for a few seconds RoeBajSTiarm, but whetjoae
of the sitters breaks the circle. j^r/aMfeig tfm table it
sometimes,’ but not always, yglfy oonsiaefably delays the
manifestations. . . ’
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-
penoils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications, tbit maybe,
obtained. , ’-4 •‘awuW'ti
4. People who do not like each other'should1 not'sit in'-
the same circle, for such a want >of harmony fendswi
prevent manifestations, except .withwell-teyqjopdd,
physical mediums; it i? not yet known why./Hjleltei) pr,
unbelief has no1 influence on the’ manifestations, btit an
aarid feeling against them is a weakSlinginfluSnoe. t
6. Before the manifestations, heghn it.;is..weIljtPieHgage<j*
in general Conversation of in singing, and it is befttnat,
neither should be of a friyolqqa ^nature, A- ^raverfm,
earnest feeling among tfie members of-the circre isitkefy"
to attract a higher and morefpleasing.class ;of spifttsVi ,*•
6. The flrat symptompf .Jih%anyisibJe ppwe]; at Wpfk-hi;
often a.feeling-]ike;a eoolvjinp sweeping oyer the'^nds-.;;
The first manifestations will probably heHahlb tiltmgs’ Or
raps. , | i/iW iAg.iki.-'/.bi
7. Whbn.inotlAns'u| the tabjp pr sounds Arcypfbduepd,
fyeely,i,to avoid canfusiqn,, let^qne. person dnJy..spe^tal
and talkjto' itl^e ;tableJ aLsWto "an*mtelligeht’being.
Let him tqH the table‘that*“th#eci. tilte bp-rSpstmean
•• Yes,”- one rr/'ans “ Nb,’:: and two menn “.Doubtful,"
and agkqyhej%ef (the. .unde'rstepdq- ,,If.
,three li^iialaAg^iven apanswer/ tnem sSy,' “ If TApottfe
the.lbtters of. thb alphiffibt slowly, Vill you signajvvery
tithe l'bpmerlls. .'(hb letter you want, and spell us out a
message. ?.!' iBhould tltrefe signals be given, set to work
JOSEPH BARKER'S. AUTOEiO.GBAPH.Y. .,
Now ready, neatly, bound in clothi price 2s. 6d. . .
EACM1NGS jOF.! EXP^RIE^CE; or,
■Lessons I' have Learned' oh: my. Way through
L/fe..-. . . - - ■! 11 -
London’.:. JAMES BeveridiIS, 9,' KLll/FuBwood'skents,
• Holbom,'W;G..i . 4 *,.- .
m
K' UMAX N^TUllE/ a 'Moathh
 t of. Z&istici rScibiitjqj,. IntelhgenceA't
all eaitnest ‘ihVestigatqre, .whdtevei: thtrfr
•;Blob'msBurj'-square. Holboni, W.C. ?■
W't’Ehei'flbls tSBftQfshhlg'tSSce .arid Shop for the sale of
Bqpks ;a dirciflatirig lahrary of all Works oil SpMtualismJ
&o<ba Bbadihg-BnoifReupplied with the Spiritual and
PrOgfessive Publications of the World/' a Drawing-
Room for .the.»apecial*P£e>of Ladies and Subscribers;
.Privffte Baams doriSbances, .Committees, Meetings, &c.,
>mriftyvherjmw/ifQrthation respecting the Caustf.and' the
. entithrig td all the privileges of , the
E^ahlisl^ientj^dnchidiri^ the^nse of two Rhbks at a
time friftn theLibmy foi; hombperhaal, is 21s,per annum
. ’’A'w'ell-asBbrted.oujbk oi Stationery, Reriodicals, cur-
reht Progressive - Literature. t Standard Works, Cheap
-Books and Tracts, Planchettes, Materials for/Writing
and ©rawing. -Mediums?; Also Works arid Appliances on
Phrenology, Physiology, Health, and Disteritrfeeform,
Temperance, Hydropathy, Gymnastics,' mesmerism,
Clairvoyance, Anlhnpfiplogy,- &c., will be kept on sale.
As the responsibnfjiea meurred in establishttlg this
“ Home"fOc- Sptrittlaffim ”. and the Science of Man are
very hekvy, the Proprietor-earnestly solicits the kind
co-operation and support of all who sympathise with
the entevgrisew Strangers in London- should at once
gaH-atrlifie" Progressive Library, where they maj; l/ear of
Lodgings and get other useful information. - ; /y,
J. Burns, Progressive Library, 15, Southampton-row,
Bloomsbury-square, Holbom, London, W.O. •/
MR. J.' L. OLIVE, Professor of Modem
; Spiritual, Science, 1, Gihspn-place, Warrington-
.cfeebent/MaidavVale,;W. Mr. Olive is prepared to afford
'information .relative:-to Spiritualism; the Development pf
Mediumistib p&ver, ;&c., withlfacilities for investigation
[of jPhehoriibha?/Sellable advice based on large medical
experienbe;»andAidBed'by benefleent ..Spirit Intelligences,
may also';be''olMfii0d,fof the relief Of ailments of Body
or Mind.Consultation Fee," One Shilling.
M f Ori the first of every,month.
THE TRHTHSEEEER, a Review,
, devoted to>the advocacy, of reverent free
thought in matters pertaining to Religion.” Edited by
the Rev. J. PAGE HOPPS. Price-.Threepence.
flp London: Triihner and Co.,'60,’Paternoster-row. Man-
,ChesterJohnsbn and Bawson; and John Heywood; and
through'alkhooksellers, and agents.,
4,KJji®M. MEDIq;aL : SOCIETY.
jliajgtooeUhe.Duke^f Argyll, K.T.
’ / v j^HeFBj^ce'thb'DncMss of Argyll.
■ ' /IS TH^Bafoneisiife^Boths'ohild.
r ■The. Oountgss: de Noadles.
A- v-'.wj Aw*,. F, '■
*••• t Presigent:
' The Right-Honourable the'Earl of Shaftesbury, K.G.
Treasurer :
Henry Charles Stephens, Esq., 171 Aldersgate-8treet,E.C
Honorary Secretary:
James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.
Lady Secretary:
__ Mrs- Blangy. 
Bankers:
The London and County Bank, 441, Oxford-street.
i The Female Medical Society is established for the
following objeet^:^;.,;-f - ' ,i ...
>-■ I?—Tp^romot^Hi’e employment of properly educated
Lwomen'inthe practicSAfiMid^dfery.'and the treatment
bftthaDiseases of-iWomen and- Children.
Ti^./LTq-proyideveducajted women with proper facilities
;fo^Iearnin'g/the, theory and [practice of Midwifery! arid
thenJccesWorvWanches' of -Medical Science.
!Jfi!6i^trife/?ygarhi'. the» accessary branches of medicine
^fforiXivrdej.flela tof honourable and lucrative.employ-
mOT/fOj^aducated wqpien ^also a means of intellectual
'Cril^rb/tmdjf o^xar nsetrijness to ladies who may not be
dbp^dent'fimbnf 'tlieip-’owii’ exertions. For want of
-pr<jpcriy qualified ladies-the ‘best portion of the. practice
p/'midwifery has drifted intq.'the hands of gentlemen,
though iSmkle .practitioners 'still attend’the hulk’of- the
population. Butany person .may undertake the duties
fjf.iahriidwife.-v Proper means, of study have never been
^r^yided ufor, women, * and there has never, been any
public examination, by which women when well qualified
might be distinguished from those who are illiterate and
unqualified, -t; <
J. The Spciatv-h^k tarried on for five years the Ladies’
'MBdiw4®oUege, 'wb^5'ha? taught the theory and prao-
tteeWTjBnwtreiy and 'the Accessory branches of medi-
xme. Llightyttwo ladies have alreadyavailed themselves
Vt^its^advaritages, and’ many of these ladies are settled
in practice, and succeeding admirably.
A life subscription of ten guineas, or an annual sub¬
scription of one guinea, constitutes a member of the
Society, but stamps or other small contributions will be
gladly received.
—Rady .subscribers of not less than one guinea are
np'wfed to visit’any Lectures in which they are likely to
[tiakut'^rogtgc/. . jf .
- VTfie/addresses'of skilled. Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses
o f tile Tfollege, and all particulars as to the operations of
the Societjr! maybe obtained of the Lady Secretary. -
Temp'omry Offices—4 Fitzroy-square, W.
. Gheqyc^io be crossed London and County Bank.
~Vrd, 1 o£ The' Spiritualist is from "Be-
-Lv' ginning to end a, compact mass of good evidence
that-the faces’of Spiritualism are true. "'It contains ,a
Summary of the evidence'given before the Dialectical
Socifet^'by twehty wftnes’sesof.eminence and ability; it
also gives the testimony of respectable non-Spiritualists;
therefore fits is; a-iyahiaMe publication to place in the
hands .q^-teib^Spintu^listp, arid should be selected for
that purpose rather than later numbers of the same
journal as the later numbers vrill run out of print first,
and should be ordered while they are Mill obtainable by
those who' wish to preserve them for' binding. A' few
'copies of No. 1 should be kept on hand for the benefit of
non-Spiritualists, but later numbers should be retained in
the poss.ession'of the 'early mends of the movement,
before they become scarce-and unobtainable. Covers
with stringed backs, to keep, copies clean till required
for bindirig,'2s. 6(J. each. • .
London:, E. [W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.; or J
BttKNS, "ISG Southampton-row, Holborn, W.O.
(Contents.
®Q4L MAGAZINE’,': pub-
jyWpjmteiM all tjio news.pf Spiri-J
ngjnaRartmtes-bV writerq«0f ability.
E^SdtrtbSmpten-rov^ Holbom,
ma lt t-Vft j ’ .' 'f, ’
. pm—
i^reTHT, -Itbe Cbief
'sSritualismlp the United
BgntMr: James Burns, 15,;
,fK.a
'• 1 'BKo^r^Lheapt'WcfkPy MfrucnUfiral Joiirkcd. J“
r *s t. SCga/Wnekly/aniftfiAfeiMhly Parts, xod.
/MiGAZINE foE
B Amateur Cultivators!' cSliectors, and Exhibitors
'Of 'Bfants, Flowers and KSUite, for) Gentlemen’s' Gaby
jdpners,"Florists,. Nurserymen.End Seedsmen;‘fdr?Naj
turaliste, Botanists, Bee-keepers, and Lovers , of’ the.
Country.' Conducted by’ ; SHiRLky Hibberd, Esq.,1
’F.B.H.s:' - • , t.jJ
’ ■ London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Mara-lane, p.C.’ .
And by Order of all Booksellers and 'Nfewsag?tts
Town and Country/
Lord Brongham on Spiritualism . ... ... Jr!
The-Boyal Institution . ... >. 
The Appearance of .-Spirits at Public Meetings ...
Reports of Meetings :—A Sunday Evening Meeting
of Spiritualists.—Reason, and the Bight of Private
Judgment—The Doctrine of Endless Torments—
The Psychology of “Revivals”—Trance Medium
ship—Powerful Physical Manifestations—Material
Objects Moved Without Contact with Human
Beings—The'Happiness Conferred by Spiritualism
—Healing Mediumship—Cures Recently/Effected
hv Dervishes at Scutari in.the Presence.of‘Prince
Frederick William of Prussia—Carriage, of Nows
ffom Europe to America by Spirits—-’Testimcfcydf
the Dying in. Favour of Spiritualism -u '"ti.iftj&j/
Private Stances:—Spirit Hands—’Spirit Voices—
Spirit Identity—John King iri Qhio-T-Dfoappear-;
ance of Wine—Life inOne:0f the Spheres—Where
Babies Go To^-Spiritualisih', aiui? the’ Clbrgy—Thb 1
. Naturd OflLunAqy—The .lymireiol; Spiritualism—
,, B^majk^ble Physical, Manifestations'—Dr. Ash-^
■ ‘bumet’S'Eyesight-Oa. Mefdifmiislie Murderer • ...5
Spiritua/ism ijl A’ancjcfy •■•iof ' ••• j • ...V
Leader,:—Language , ,  ■ I-.'.” ■
B6dkf NoxioES :/*U(tbfiii (ten.Yefkehr dert GeistsriSv
des,Jeuseits.;mit den Mem
Mrs.'JHarmnge’s'fBKsTOiy dm
.Pft*CEy:-9-Cb»r,rB|jet«,''i...'»;. .»' .... » ;
CqRREgppNCENeEp^The ,Bible-SpiritualismComjpl'i
*‘trovCT^y *Gf. ^ “A'R * w.'.-f :/ ...' v sL /f /r.A-'if.'/.'. -47
Answers to.Gpreespqndeni'S' ..
PARAGRAPHS;—MeRumlstic Diet, .42;' lActuro
| SMB 8TB. JHafl,!'42V’Tho‘Mi|tifcg«aTOli#CawanAsifi"
i /4p; frfej J/fcmisiAs1feri»thaiiofcbiptri!ti‘t}i8tt,,g4»i>»
iLife in tne Deep Setw44; Mr.Tuonje'inGlasgow,
• I* i(4; fNatiljnRl Sstfucittion, •»; '■Stfanelfs at <thb H^imniaii^w
:■ w i ’ y- W^l Ifcwtf."
^ -j .45
.erioan Spiritualism 46
'Printed fob me j
> HolbprnoiPu'inting IWJt/flrS,
Hplborn; in the Parjsh of St.,Arm'ewjfeboye^ar. and ’
St George the iBArtyr, London/OTld pfiblishSct oy E.
W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, ESJ.
