Eigisiered as a Newspaper.]
Che ($Ibest Del'd spacer mtiredeb toitlj Spintnalism \tt Crenf ^rifahr.
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque, 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG : 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME : Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS. U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON :
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No, 250.—(Yol. X.—No. 23.) LONDON : FRIDAY, JUNE 8, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
Vegetarianism   265
Development of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism
in Germany. By G. W. F. Wiese    265
To the Members of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists   267
A Meeting to Consider “ the Training and Treatment of
Mediums”...     267
A Strange Story     268
The Renfrewshire Witches ...      268
The Marylebone Association of Inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism:—Mr. C. 0. Massey on the Present Aspect of
the Spiritual Movement—The Discussion    ... 269
Poetry:—To a Pioneer—Immortelles    271
Correspondence:—A Ghost in Kensington Gardens—Body
and Spirit—Birds of Good and Evil Omen—Paraffin
Moulds of Spirit Faces—A Clairvoyant Sea/nce in
Brighton—The Annual Report of the National Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists—Dr. Carter Blake—Sweden-
borgianism versus Spiritualism — Reincarnation —
Canon Gilbert on Spiritualism—Form Manifestations
—The Hope of the Spiritualist—Vegetarianism ... ... 271
Captain Mackinnon’s Ghost Story    ... ... ... 276
Paragraphs:—The Dead Utilised, 267 ; Dr. Slade’s Pro¬
posal. 270; Mrs. Weldon’s Sociable Evenings, 270;
Religious Mania, 270; The Language of Mesmeric
. Sleepers, 270 ; Spiritualism in Liverpool, 275; Spirit¬
ualism in Dalston, 275; Scientific Research... ... ... 276
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress oj the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
npHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
JL oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature. Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. 0. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
\Vallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness; His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leucliteiiberg): Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.: Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.: Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain: Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham. Bart.; Mrs. Ross -Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
tlie Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. O. Carter Blake, Doe. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. JohnE. Pardon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Hollywood: Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Eabyan Dawe: Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ; Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.S.A.: Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F R.G S.;
Mr. II. D. Jeneken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.: Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury: Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson. M D. (Australia): and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .'Kingdom, 10s. XOd.;
to the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.C.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capuciues, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocea, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: Bridsh Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should he addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
April, 1877. ,
EVERIDGrE AND CO., Printers of The
Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.,
respectfully announce that they exscute ALL deseriptipns of
Printing. Estimates forwarded on application,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
88, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
Agenda for June, 1877.
Friday, 8th.—Seance for Members and Inquirers, at 8 p m.
Mr. C. E. Williams, medium.
Saturday, 8th.—Trance seance, at 3 p.m. Mr. E. W. Wallis,
medium. Subject to be chosen by the
audience.
Monday, Ilf A.—Fortnightly Meeting, at 7.30 p.m. Paper
by Signor Rondi, on “ The Training and
Treatment of Mediums.” Free to members
and their friends.
Tuesday, 12</t.—Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ „ Council Meeting, at 6.80 p.m. Business:
Election of President, Vice-Presidents, and
other officers.
Friday, 15th.—Seance for Members and Inquirers, at 8
p.m. Mr. C. E. Williams, medium,
N.B.—All applications for admission to seances should be
made to the secretary some time in advance. Inquirers are
admitted free by a written recommendation from a member.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society.is, to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—
H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.
SOCIABLE EVENINGS.
Every Monday Evening throughout the year, at 8 p.m., at the
Ln.ngham Hall, Great Portland-street, for the benefit of Mrs.
Weldon’s Orphanage. The first Concert took place on Monday
evening, November 6, 1876.
Stalls (a limited number), 5s. each; centre seats, area (a
limited number), 2s. 6d. each. Admission. Is. Transferable
tickets, for a series of three months: stalls, £2 2s.; centre
seats, area, £1 Is.; unreserved seats, 10s. 6d. Mrs. Weldon
earnestly solicits subscriptions, donations, or old clothes
towards the increase of her Orphanage, which she started
eight years ago, and which has, till now, been supported
entirely by herself. Mrs. Weldon has been obliged, for want
of a larger income, to refuse as many as five forsaken children
In one week. Tickets may be obtained, and subscriptions,
donations &c., received by JOHN Blagrovk, Secretary, Music
and Art Association, 39, Great Marlborough-street, W.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA.
The new and slightly abridged edition of
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
J2y the late Wm. Gregory, F.R.S.E., Professor of Chemistry
at Edinburgh University,
Will be out in a few days, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or"
five copies post free for 21s. Subscribers will be supplied with
early copies, in the rotation in which their orders and remit¬
tances are sent. Copies may also he had bound in half calf,
with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
WORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales’of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modern Education; or. the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Trubner & Co.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A hook for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
The SPIRITS’ BOOK, containing the
Principles of SPIRITIST DOCTRINE on the Immor¬
tality of the Soul. &c., &c., according to the Teachings of
Spirits of High Degree transmitted through various Mediums.
Collected and set in order by Allan Kardko. Translated by
Anna Blackwell. Crown 8vo., pp. 512, cloth, 7s. 6d. 
WANTED, a respectable person (Spirit¬
ualist) as working HOUSEKEEPER. A good home
for one who will treat a little girl with kindness. Ad iress,
stating age, and salary required, J. Chadwick, 80, Beever-
street, Oldham, Lancashire.
W. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
• engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
London or theproyiaces. Address, 15,■ St. Peter’s-md, Mile ,
find, London, fi. 4
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists
President.
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
{Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
COUNCIL.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The Thursday evening in each month &
devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus.*
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending the public seances ot
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can he ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for theperusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “for
ormation of circles and conduct ot seances,” and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.: quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payablein advance
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
EASTLONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Thursdays at eight Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seance, 5s. 6d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
  E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
C'AARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
J and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Ca-diff.
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh. Lancashire
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southamptnn-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, mav he had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Publishing Office: 13, Red Lion-oourt, Fleet-street,
London, E.C.
THE AMATEUR WORLD.—A monthly
journal devoted to non-professional literature, drama,
music, sports, &c. Chas. L. Wellsden, Editor and Proprietor,
1, Castledine-road, Anerley, S.E.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the snirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means ny which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion is pourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—BgstPD, U.S : COLBY AND RICH, London Spirit-
mlist Office.
11
THE SPIBITUALIST,
June 8, 1877,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S .W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory,Mrs. Makdougall,2l, Green-sti-eet, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwlck-square, S.VV. • .
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-bmld-
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C., Barrlster-at-law, 96, Portland-place. W.
Itogers, E. D., Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.W
Smith, Martin R., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Tern pieman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead. N.W.
Wason. James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper. MR.'
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-vllla, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Blimey, F. A.,24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester,
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Airs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelplii, W.C.
Orosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe.N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd,'J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New' Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, E., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., Al.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brlxton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendlnning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Green, G. F., 17, Vicarage-gardens, Plumstead.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivlmey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, AI.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred. E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Airs., 64, Berners-street, W.
Alaltby, Airs., 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-souare, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, ALA., University College, N.W.
Nosworthy, Airs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Reimers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, Airs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Straw-bridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge,Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Gxford.
Theobald, Morell, 80, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
■White, J., Hemlock-house .Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.AI., care of A. Calder, Esq , 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood. Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Mr, J. E. Andre.
Auditors.
Mr. H. Cook.
Air. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kisllngbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Ills Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bel Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaitof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-EIysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-EIysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Lake George, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Rol de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
AI. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.*
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
11. T. Child, Esq.,M.D„ 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
Al.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L.Ditson,Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Alurray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. AI. Shear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
,J. II. Gledstanes: Esq., Merignac, Gironde, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Alemphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A,
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Antheime Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de I’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F Burton, F.R.G.S., H. AI. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdl'le. Huet, 173, Rue St.Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Airs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Strati!, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—S. Pride, Esq.,
8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane. Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Proehaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec.,H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 84, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad;Espirita Central de la Republica Alexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1877.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—John Priest, Esq.
Secretary.—Mr. Samuel Pride, 8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane,
Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Auditors.—Mr. Charlton and Mr. Chatham.
Trustees.—Mr Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Chapman, and
James Wason, Esq.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. Ainsworth, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs. Nos¬
worthy, Mrs. Wharmby, Mr. Ainsworth, Air. Casson, Mr.
Davies, Mr. Foden, Mr. Fowler. Mr. Jones, Mr. A. Lament,
Air. J. Lamont, Mr. Norris, Mr. Richard Nosworthy, and
Mr. Wharmby.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
January, 1877.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDENTI¬
CAL WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.; W. H,
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world 1 Issued weekly, at No. 9, 'Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
Brighton. — apartments, pleasant
rooms, may he had, on moderate terms, at the house of
a Spiritualist, close to the sea, and near the Aquarium, Chain
Pier, Pavilion, &c. Address, “ Spiritualist,” 18, Atlingworth-
street, Marine Parade.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctually. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 3 p.m.
are discontinued, but Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &c.
Established seven years. Residence, 15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 io 5 o’clock. 178, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.     
X> EMOVAL.—MR. GEORGE EVERITT has
JLAj removed to No. 14, Bernard-street, Russell-square, W.C
Mr. E. will leave London for the Continent about the 1st of
July. 
MR. J. W. FLETCHER, Clairvoyant and
Trance Medium, No. 14, Southampton-row. Seances
attended at residence if desired. At home 11 to 5.
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (thirty years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at
his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Speaker,
• will deliver Orations and Poems to public or
private audiences in any part of the United Kingdom. For all
particulars address to him at Eagle House, 14, Sillwood-road
Brighton. ,  
TL. HENLY, Mesmerist, 5, St. James’s-
• terrace, Notting-hill. “Your treatment of insanity is
excellent.”—George Wyld, M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place,
Hyde-park, to whom reference is permitted.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance.
Manager—Mrs. A. C. Burke
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Othek
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messes. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of ct priori objections to Mr. Harrison's opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for¬
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task Itself ? To those who are un •
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of Hie
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H, Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
J[ Xttmb tl xif mb xtf ^pujtfunfem*
Volujvie Tejh. Kumber Twenty-thi^ee.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JUNE 8th, 1877.
VEGETARIANISM.
Time was when the introduction of the subject of vege- j
tarianism into these pages would have brought forth a host I
of remonstrances, accompanied by the question, “ What has |
vegetarianism to do with Spiritualism?” But by dint of |
the long-continued scientific treatment of a scientific subject, !
the concession is now generally made that the spiritual and ;
the material are linked to each other by irrefragable law; |
that they act and react upon each other. Moreover, there i
is nothing inherently wicked in matter; the idea that this j
particular portion of the creation of God should for ever be |
anathematised, was fostered in past ages among ignorant |
ascetics who knew little of the wonderful nature of the wide !
world around them, and whose reign was death, so far as |
their influence extended, to all progress in that experimental |
philosophy which has done so much to ameliorate the condi- j
tion of the inhabitants of the earth.
Dr. Carter Blake, who is an accomplished anatomist, set j
forth in these pages last week that the teeth of men are j
formed for the mastication of mixed animal and vegetable j
food, and have been so from prehistoric times. Is this point j
undisputed? Linnaeus, Ray, Cuvier, and Richard Owen !
state that our teeth are not canine, but are nearest to those |
of the ape. The ape lives entirely upon vegetable food, and I
the question might be raised whether he was not the j
remote ancestor of the old mammoth-hunters of La Nau- j
lette, who split the bones which they had previously roasted |
to extract the marrow. A jaw bone, nearly half way be- j
tween that of a man and a monkey, was dug up in one of |
the Belgian bone caves, and greatly exercised the members i
of the Anthropological Institute when produced at one of j
its meetings ; still, it may be admitted that this may have |
been an abnormal development, and that the missing link j
between man and the ape has not yet been found. If I
anatomists do not agree among themselves about the proper j
food for man, and his relationship to the ape, their authority j
can scarcely be accepted as final by others. Herbivorous
animals have a long alimentary canal; the carnivora have |
a shorter one; the bat has scarcely sufficient alimentary |
canal to swear by, but the merest apology for anything |
respectable in that way. In what part of the scale does |
man stand in this respect ?
There is another side to the argument. If it be admitted !
that the construction of man has for ages fitted him for the |
eating of a proportion of animal food, may not that con- j
struction be the result of his having improperly adapted j
himself to a repulsive kind of diet, and may not exertion in !
the opposite direction tend to the evolution by natural |
selection of individuals of a higher type, in communities j
where true affinities and affections are not crushed by ma- j
terialism ? An analagous example of action and reaction in j
evil retarding progress in happiness is presented in the j
agricultural districts. Say the parson and the squire: |
“ How can you think of giving political power to the agri- |
cultural labourer, when he has little more brains than the |
horse whose tail he decorates with blue ribbons at harvest j
time ? ” Replies the advocate of the two legged animal:
“ But your system of theology, on the one hand, and your j
prevention on the other, of the buying and selling of land j
like other property without legal impediments and expenses, j
debars him from getting a cottage and land of his own; j
thus, by depression throughout generations, you have killed j
his independence of mind and body, and you are responsible 1
for his condition.” There are faults on both sides, but the j
higher intellect in such cases is the more morally guilty of j
the two.
Again, if anatomists and physiologists are unanimous in |
asserting the structure of man to be best adapted for a I
mixed diet, how do they account for the improved health of 1
those who have testified in these pages in favour of vege¬
tarianism ? If the facts are against their theories, do they
exclaim, ‘l So much the worse for the facts!”
DEVELOPMENT OF THE PHYSICAL PHENOMENA OF
SPIRITUALISM IN GERMANY.
BY G. W. F. WIESE.
I mentioned in my last communication that I had obtained
remarkable results at some sittings which I held in a private
circle of a few friends with no professional medium present.
The manifestations have become so wonderful and have in¬
creased in power so rapidly in the course of about half a
dozen sittings, that I think them almost unprecedented in the
history of Spiritualism. For Germany at all events they are
unprecedented, I am sure, and for that reason alone they
deserve a prominent place in your paper. I hope that at the
same time you will enable me to give my countrymen a practi¬
cal proof of the use of Spiritualism when taken up and con¬
tinued from unselfish motives, with the sole desire to find
out and spread the knowledge of eternal truth.
This is not the same circle of which I wrote to you about a £
year ago. It is quite a fresh one and the members of it com¬
menced with the modest desire, or let us say “ curiosity
trying by experiment whether table turning was a factor nolsfP
They had two or three sittings without me, of which the re¬
sult was to prove the fact, but results could not be counted
upon with certainty at every sitting. When I sat with them
—five in all—I proceeded in the usual way by putting ques¬
tions as soon as the movements of the table were such as
could no longer be accounted for by the theory of unconscious
muscular activity, nor by that of unconscious cerebration.
I obtained intelligent answers, and from that moment a
communication between our circle.and the invisible powers
who moved the table was established. These beginnings, in
rapid succession led to the most surprising and almost in-
incredible manifestations.
1st sitting, April 20th, 1877.—We were six persons, three
ladies and three gentlemen, seated round a heavy square
table with four legs. After having sat half an hour, the
table began to tilt gently. Some questions were answered by
tilts and some surprising messages of a personal character
were spelt out. Upon our question which of us had the
strongest mediumistic qualities, a young nobleman, a perfect
sceptic, was designated, and remarkable messages were
addressed to him, showing that the spirit could either read
his thoughts or must know a great deal more about his
private affairs than any one of our circle did.
2nd sitting, May 1st (four present, two ladies and two
gentlemen).—After about twenty minutes, the table rose
about two feet from the floor, and kept suspended in the air
a short time, waving to and fro ; all our hands were joined
and resting on the top of it. We were obliged to rise from
our chairs. The table rose in the same way free from the
ground about six times at short intervals.
The spirit gave the name ct Helene,” and professed to be
the guardian spirit of the medium.
On our question whether the spirit could lift the table free
from the ground in the light, we received the answer, “ Nein,
Electri . . .” Here I interrupted,, saying, u Do you want
to say, ‘ Electricit^t ?*” A single powerful tilt was the
answer, meaning “Ho;” and 11 Electrisch” was spelt out.
In explanation we were informed, in the same way, that the
light had an electrical influence which counteracted the power
requisite to lift the table.
Some more short messages came, among them one that I
should cease calling out the alphabet, and that the medium
should be charged with that task. Upon our asking whether
266
June 8, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
the spirit could produce raps in, or on the table, we received
a number of weak and a few distinct raps.
3rd sitting, May 2nd (five persons present).—Raps were
heard distinctly after we had sat about a quarter of an hour.
The table rose above the ground, waving and undulating to
the right and left. The medium asked whether the spirit
could lift the table free off the ground, if we did not touch
it at all. This was answered in the affirmative by three raps,
and half a minute afterwards the table rose free from the
ground up to our hands, which we kept joined about a foot
above the surface of the table. This was repeated twice.
The spirit promised to produce musical sounds on the cords
of the “ zither” after three more sittings.
A question put in thought by a lady was answered to her
satisfaction.
4th sitting, May 4th (five persons present).—Raps were
heard a few minutes after we had taken our seats; they
became very powerful. The table rose and floated about a
foot above the ground.
Question. When can you play on the u zither ?”
Answer. In two more sittings.
Q. Will you then play an air to us ?
A. No.
Q. Some chords ?
A. No.
Q. Why not ?
A. (spelt out) 11 Hab nur einen halben Finger” (Have but
half a finger.)
Q. Can you write through the hand of 0 ?
A. Yes.
We asked whether the spirit would write through my
hand, or that of any of the ladies, but decided raps were
given in the negative. We persuaded Mr. 0 to take up
a pencil and rest his hand on a sheet of clean paper.
Scarcely two or three minutes had elapsed when his hand
began to move, which he assured us solemnly was involun¬
tary on his part, he himself having not the faintest idea
what sort of scrawls he produced on the paper. I told the
company that very probably they would turn out to b« mere
scrawls in the beginning, as writing mediumship usually
commenced in that way. At last his hand ceased moving
after having made a rapid circular pass round the whole
paper. A candle being lit, we read to our surprise the
following, in perfectly clear and intelligible characters:—
“ Fein Schutzgeist ist rein und gut.”—Helene. (Your
guardian spirit is pure and good.—Helene.)
After that there followed news of a serious character about
war being imminent, in which the medium and I, as well as
the brother of one of the ladies present (who is in the
German army) would have to take active part. We then
put the following question :—
Q. What do you know about such things of the future ?
As you are a female, we suppose politics are not your sphere.
A. (In writing). Ick henne die Geister der Diplomaten. (I
know the spirits of the diplomatists.)
When we laughed at this reply, it wrote:—<l Lackt nicht,
ikr Maedchen, ihr werdet bald weinen, Betet!” (Do not laugh,
ladies, you will soon cry, Pray!)
After some more serious communications, received in
writing, concerning the fate of one of our party, the ladies
asked, whether there were no means of averting the fate
predicted. This was followed by the answer :—“ None !
none! I do not joke. No; you must pray !” (In German.)
Then we changed the subject, and asked whether the spirit
could raise the table from the ground without our touching
it. The table rose up and floated in the air whilst our hands
were joined about a foot above it, nobody touching it.
Q. Can you do anything more ?
A. (In writing). “ Haende zusammen vielleicht konnt ihr ein
leises Liiftcken um eure Kopfe fiihlen, das bin ich.” (Join
hands. Perhaps you can feel a gentle wind about your
heads. That am I.)
Q. Shall we put our joined hands on the table or above it ?
A. “ Ueber den Tisch” (Over the table.)
We now felt a cool wind touching our hands and after¬
wards our heads at various times, coming back to us when
we asked for it. Then the table rose by itself from the floor
till it touched our hands, and floated to and fro underneath
for a short time.
IQ. Shall we now break up our sitting ?
A. 11 No : join hands; perhaps there will be something
| more.” (In German.)
;(j A strong, refreshing breeze then touched our hands and
|| faces, like that produced by a fan.
5th sitting, May 6th (five persons).—Writing came
shortly after we had sat down, as follows:—
Haende zusammen damit der Strom geht.—Helene.
(Join hands, that the current may go.—H.)
Es ist nock viel zu hell, ich kann nicht so viel thun als ich
| moechte. (There is too much light yet; I cannot do as
| much as I should like.)
Q. What are you going to do ?
A. Ich will schreiben und den Tisch keben. (I will write
| and lift the table.)
A communication of a private nature followed; it was
| chiefly of a highly amusing tenor, not complimentary to
most of us, but true to the letter, and only known to be so
| by each person addressed and concerned.
The following spontaneous message was given without
I any question put by us : 11 Das naechste mol will ich vielleicht
| zither spielen wenn das Wetter genstig und dunkel genug.
j (The next time I will perhaps play on the 11 zither,” if
I the weather is favourable and dark enough.)
The physical phenomena of this sitting consisted in the
I the table rising above our heads as high as we could reach
; when standing, and it was kept suspended in the air for a
short time, our hands merely touching it gently. The table
rose without contact up to our hands, which we kept joined
above it, and floated to and fro under our hands. This was
repeated several times, and when we tried to press the table
thus floating in the air down to the ground, our united
efforts were not sufficient to do it.
Strong raps came on the surface of the table. The spirit
professed to have produced them by a materialised finger.
The finger touched the head and eyes of the medium, and
of myself, on our asking for it, whilst we kept a closed
chain of hands all round the table. Later on we were
touched again, this time by two fingers, which played in
our hair and on our brow. The ladies were frightened at
this new phase of development, and shrieked whenever
the spirit fingers approached them.
6th sitting, May 7th, 1877 (four persons).—Writing by
subdued candle light:—
11 Warum ist K . . nicht da? sie braucht nicht zu weinen.”
(Why is K. . not here ? she need not cry.) G . . Licht
aus! (G . . extinguish the light.)
Now we received some pretty verses of Goethe, having
reference to a poem recited by one of our party.
By spontaneous writing:—“ Gustav soil nicht rauchen, der
qualm start mich in meiner existenz.” (Gustav shall not
I | smoke, the fume disturbs me in my existence.)
I had just lit a genuine Havanna, with the consent of the
11| ladies, and was indulging in the first whiffs of the delicious
nj weed. There is something so imperative, and at the same
| <| time so amusing, in the commands and rebukes of the spirit,
111 that I, as well as the others, have long given up all attempts
| jj to act against his orders. He seems to be bent upon teaching
| jj us modesty, self-restraint, and uprightness, and to subdue
111 our personal pride and vanity, hidden to others, but known
||| to him.
K| The physical phenomena of this seance consisted of
j?| repeated sounds of the cords of the zither lying on the
i|| table, whilst our hands were united in a closed chain;
jj! repeated touching of our brows, hair, and face, by tender
!?! fingers : impression of one finger in] a cup of flour placed
i |l in a cigar box closed by a moveable wooden cover, whilst we
jj! had formed a close chain before extinguishing the light.
||i We all heard distinctly the cover of the cigar box being
jsj thrown open, and a noise like that of a hand knocking about
I jj inside the box. Next we had a deeper impression of another
! finger by the side of the first one (received after we had in-
j spected the first), whilst the box remained closed from
m beginning to end; there was no noise, except three gentle
i|j raps evidently coming from the inside of the cigar box;
ij| these were heard after the lapse of some minutes. The
jj spirit informed us that this time he had not opened the lid
j|j of the box, but had formed his hand inside the box and dis-
1'* solved it again, after having made a second deeper impres-
June 8, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
267
sion of his finger, according to the request of the medium.
Afterwards the table floated in the air with the zither on it.
Of course all this took place whilst a perfect closed chain
was formed by our hands.
7th sitting, May 9th—(four persons present.) I was not
present at this sitting. Raps and communications in writing
as usual.
In answer to a question put by the medium for one of the
other ladies present, the spirit wrote: “ It is not yet decided
how her family will get on, nor can I tell her anything
certain before I have touched all of you; then some other
spirits will assist me.” The ladies then agreed to allow the
spirit hand to touch them, but were so frightened when the
spirit hand repeatedly seized their hands at the wrist and
fingers, that they broke the chain for a while, forgetting all
about re-forming it. Then the hand of the medium was
suddenly moved to write : u You must put your hands on the
table, lest I lose all power.”
The ladies were at that sitting, and have been ever since
unanimous in declaring the hand that touched them was a
lady’s hand, and not cold but lifewarm ; warmer than their
own hands were at the time.
8 th sitting, May 10 th (four persons present).
Q. Will you permit 0 , or any of us, to seize and touch
your hand ?
A. I will not. Perhaps after a long time I can permit
it, but not at present. You have known me so short a time,
and I you.
Then I took a letter, containing three questions, tightly
closed up in an envelope, out of my pocket-book, put it on
the table, and asked the spirit whether he could read and
answer its contents, which were known to myself alone.
A. No.
Q. Cannot any of the other spirits present with you
read it ?
A. I will inform you in a few days what is in your
letter.
Imagine our surprise, when, after striking a light, we
looked about for my letter everywhere in the room, under
the table, the sofa, and in all our pockets. It was nowhere to
be found.
On asking the spirit whether he had taken away the letter,
the answer was in big letters “ Ja! ” (yes); and he informed
us that it was no longer in the room or in the house; we
might search for it wherever and as long as we liked.
9th sitting, May 12th.—Raps in the table indicated the
presence of the invisibles.
Q. (By the medium in fun). I have a very difficult essay
to write, will you help me ?
A. Yes.
There followed about a page full of rapid writing which
turned out to consist of a very fair introduction to the essay
finishing up with the words :—“ However, I have no time to
dictate you all, you must sit down yourself and take your
poetry to help, you can do that better than your comrades.
Don’t be lazy.”
10th sitting, Sunday, May 13th, 1877 (five persons).—
After the spirit had written some original poetry (as we
consider it to be) containing good advice, the spirit said:—
“ Put your hands on the table, so that all the points
of your fingers rest on it.”
Shortly after we had obeyed this order and kept our little
fingers joined all round the table, the match-box was taken
from our candlestick, we heard it opened, and I was pelted
with single matches about my face; then the match-box flew
into my lap, and I was pricked—with what afterwards turned
out to be the point of the pencil—on the back of my hands
and between my fingers for some time. The candle was
taken out of the candlestick, and put into the hand of one of
the ladies. The others were all touched by the hand.
Then I requested the medium to ask the spirit whether he
could not give us some direct writing with the pencil with
which he had pricked me so forcibly. This question was
answered in the affirmative, after which followed some
instructions in writing as to how we should put our hands,
finishing with a laconic admonition to me (“ G be
quiet / ”) A minute or two afterwards we heard gentle
tracings on the paper being made. On striking a light we
read:—“ 0 , to-day you had nearly committed a foolish
i f action.” The writing was fine, and different from that of the
j | medium.
Asked whether it could write more, it wrote the following
i j verse:—
JBedenke, je grosser der Held
111 Je eh' sein Zorn fdllt,
Hen Feind obsiegen ist ein grosses Werk,
Sich selbst bezwingen ist gressere Stark.
After that the spirit bid us good-night through the hand
| I of the medium.
8, Park Strasse, Wiesbaden.
| ! TO THE MEMBERS OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The last agenda of the National Association of Spirit-
! i ualists offers food for thought to those who are members of
| | a large organisation, working together for the common good.
| I The minimum subscription to the Association was made a
I low one, that none who wished to see friendly union among
| I Spiritualists might be excluded because of monetary con-
|jj siderations; but several persons not financially hampered
j I then promptly entered their names for the smallest sum
j possible, the result being that one of the most earnest
| | workers has to contribute £50 a year, and another £25, to
I j to make up for the stringent economy of their neighbours,
j j The members should adjust to a fairer scale their relative
I | contributions, the total number of members being now
| I amply large enough to carry on all the work of this most
I j efficient and harmonious organisation, without throwing
I | undue burdens upon anybody.
j I A MEETING TO CONSIDER “THE TRAINING AND TREAT¬
MENT OF MEDIUMS.”
ju The next fortnightly meeting of the National Association of
|i! Spiritualists will be held on Monday, June 12th, at 38, Great Russell-
jj! street, London. Subject for discussion, “The Training and Treatment
of Mediums,” opened by Signor Enrico Rondi. Members and friends
I j of the National Association of Spiritualists, and of societies in alliance
jjj therewith, are entitled to free admission to these meetings. Other
i J Spiritualists should apply to the secretary.
The Countess of Caithness has returned to London from the
| ! Continent.
Mr. and Mrs. C. F. Varley, after several weeks travelling in
j( j Italy and Algeria, returned to this country a few days ago.
Mr. W. Eglinton is now at Malvern, where we hope he may soon
III recover his ordinary health.
Mr. J. J. Morse will deliver a trance address on Sunday next, June
jjj 10th, at Doughty Hall, Bedford-row, W.C., at 7 p.m. Subject—“ The
j j Order of Spiritual Teachers : its Need and Scope.” His other engage-
||! ments are—Liverpool, June 17th. Birmingham, June 24th and 25th.
ijj Wolverhampton, June 26th, 27th, 28th, and 29th.
Mrs. E. H. Britten intends leaving Boston on the 16th June, on a
jj short visit to England, and will return to America at the end of July.
|| The object of Mrs. Britten’s visit is to place her aged mother in the
| j care of her sister, who resides at Manchester. It is to be hoped that
jj! Mrs. Britten will give the London Spiritualists the opportunity of
|j welcoming her among them.
To-morrow (Saturday), at 11, Dr. Carter Blake will commence a
ji: series of twelve lectures at Westminster Hospital, on Comparative
J| Anatomy and Zoology. The first lecture will be introductory and
ijj general, the subject being—“Cuvierian Principles in Comparative
jjl Anatomy, and Modern Applications of them.” All gentlemen friends
jjj are admitted free.
The Dead Utilised.—A plan for disposing of the dead, and at the
Jjj same time utilising them, has been suggested and put into operation on
j | j a limited scale by Elder Evans, the local leader of the Shakers at New
j i Lebanon, N.Y. It is a plan that would hardly have originated with
! i one who did not make the careful tillage of the soil a part of his religion.
: j Elder Evans holds that as every man during his life draws his sus-
i j tenance from the elements and productions of the earth, he should be
j j willing in his death to contribute to the support of those who come
after him. He proposes, therefore, to bury the dead twenty feet apart
i j and plant a tree over each, so that the cemeteries of the future will de-
j ; velop into beautiful groves or profitable pieces of woodland. This plan
jjj has already been tested at New Lebanon, and quite a thrifty array of
jjj evergreens is rising above the remains of deceased Shakers. There
j might be considerable discrimination exercised if this plan became
j I generally popular. Above the strong man set the germ of a stalwart
j i oak, and over the grave of beauty the elm or willow might droop. The
j | j soft sap maple would fitly symbolise the youthful poets, overborne by
Ithe weight of genius, and carried away by the flood-tide of sentiment,
j Nature has monuments for all, and it would be much more to the credit
of dead people to help raise their own tombstones than to bankrupt their
relatives in raising monuments for them.— Cfape Cod Advertiser.
268
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 8,1877.
A STRANGE STORY.
Lord "William Petty was the third son of the old Marquis of
Lansdowne. He had attained to the age of seven or eight years, as
remarkable for the precocity of his understanding as he was unfor¬
tunate in the delicate state of his constitutional health. The Marquis,
called to London by his Parliamentary duties, had left the child at
Bowood, for the winter, with Mr. Jarvis, his tutor, and suitable
domestics. The late Dr. Priestley also, the Marquis’s librarian, made
one of the party. On an ill-omened day, beautiful and brilliant, but
intensely cold, the gamekeeper, in compliance with Lord William’s
request, took the lad before him on horseback. His lordship rode with
his waistcoat open, and chest exposed; and an inflammation on the
lungs was the immediate consequence of this exposure. On the first
appearance of indisposition, Mr. Alsop, of Caine, the family apothecary
(himself much attached to the child), was summoned to attend his
lordship. His treatment promised a favourable result, and after a
few days he left him in the forenoon, apparently out of danger. To¬
wards evening, however, the symptoms becoming decidedly worse, the
family were alarmed, and Mr. Jarvis thought it right to call for Mr.
Alsop’s immediate assistance. It was night before this gentleman
reached Bowood ; but an unclouded moon showed every object in un¬
equivocal distinctness. Mr. Alsop had passed through the lodge gate,
and was proceeding to the house, when, to his utter astonishment, he
saw Lord William coming towards him, in all the buoyancy of child¬
hood, restored, apparently, to health and vigour, “i am delighted,
my dear lord,” he exclaimed, “ to see you ; but for heaven’s sake go
immediately within doors; it is death for you to be here at this time
of night.” The child made no reply, but, turning round, was quickly
out of sight. Mr. Alsop, unspeakably surprised, hurried to the house.
Here all was distress and confusion, for Lord William had expired a
few minutes before he reached the portico.
The sad event being with all speed announced to the Marquis of
Lansdowne in London, orders were soon received at Bowood for the
interment of the corpse, and the arrangement of the funeral procession.
The former was directed to take place at High-Wickham, in the vault
which contained the remains of Lord William’s mother; the latter was
appointed to halt at two specified places during the two nights on
which it would be on the road. Mr. Jarvis and Dr. Priestley attended
the body. On the first day of the melancholy journey, the latter
gentleman, who had said little on the subject of the appearance to Mr.
Alsop, suddenly addressed his companion with considerable emotion in
nearly these words :—
“ There are some very singular circumstances connected with this
event, Mr. Jarvis, and a most remarkable coincidence between a dream
of the late Lord William and our present mournful engagement. A
few weeks ago, as I was passing by his room door one morning, he
called me to his bedside. ‘ Doctor,’ said he, ‘ what is your Christian
name?’ ‘Surely,’ said I, ‘you know it is Joseph.’ ‘Well, then,’
replied he, in a lively manner, ‘ if you are a Joseph you can interpret a
dream for me which I had last night. I dreamed, doctor, that I set
out upon a long journey ; that I stopped the first night at Hungerford,
whither I went without touching the ground ; that I flew from thence
to Salt Hill, where I remained the next night; and arrived at High-
Wickham on the third day, where my dear mamma, beautiful as an
angel, stretched out her arms and caught me within them.’ Now,”
continued the doctor, “ these are precisely the places where the dear
child’s corpse will remain on this and the succeeding night before we
reach his mother’s vault, which is finally to receive it.”—“ R. W.” in
“ The Englishman,” July Ath, 1874.
THE RENFREWSHIRE WITCHES.
The history of the horrible old witchcraft times will some day have
to be re-written by the light of accurate knowledge gained by the
study of modern spiritual phenomena. Any facts of a physical nature
witnessed in those days are ascribed by modern writers either to
imposture or to delusion, the scribes being as ignorant as some of the
Fellows of the Royal Society of the phenomena with which they are
dealing. In the following terrible narrative, quoted from Mrs. E. Lynn
Linton’s Witch Stories (Ciiapman and Hall—London, 1871), it is quite
po.'Sible that solid objects were brought abnormally into the room in
consequence of the child being a physical medium, subject also to the
worst of influences:—
“ Christian Shaw, Bargarran’s daughter, was a little girl of about
eleven years of age, ‘ of a lively character and well inclined.’ On the
17th of August, 1696, she saw the woman servant, Katharine Campbell,
steal a drink of milk from the can, whereupon she threatened to tell
her mother; but Campbell, ‘ being a young woman of a proud and
revengeful temper, and much addicted to cursing and swearing upon
any light occasion,’ turned against her vehemently, wishing ‘that the
Devil might harle her soul through hell,’ and cursing her with violent
imprecations. Five days after this, Agues Naismith, an old woman of
bad fame, came into the courtyard, and asked Christian how old she
was, and how she did, inquiring also after the health of other members
of the family. Christian gave her a pert answer, and there the matter
ended ; but the next night the young girl was taken with fits, and the
first act of the long and mournful tragedy began. In her fits she cried
out against Katherine Campbell and Agnes Naismitb, saying they Avere
cutting her side and otherwise tormenting her; then she struggled as
with an unseen enemy, and her body was, now bowed stiff and rigid,
resting in an arch on her head and her heels alone, and now shaken
with such a strange motion of rising and falling, as it had been a pair
of bellows ; her tongue was drawn into her throat, and even the great
Dr. Brisbane, of Glasgow, himself was puzzled by what name to call her
passion, for she began to vomit strange things, which she said the
vdtohes, her tormentors, forced upon her—such as crooked pins, small
|j| fowl bones, sticks of candle fir, filthy hay, gravel-stones, lumps of
| | candle-grease, and egg-shells. And still she cried out against Katherine
III Campbell and Agnes Naismith; holding long conversations with the
|| | former, whom she affirmed to be sitting close by when she was perhaps
Hi many miles away, and arguing with her out of the Bible: exhorting
ijj her to repent of her sins with more unction than logical clearness of
| ! reasoning. Agnes Naismith she took somewhat into favour again ; for
|{| the poor old woman, having been brought by the parents into the
j|j chamber where she lay, and having prayed for her a little simple
j | prayer very heartily, the afflicted damsel condescended to exempt her
[j from further persecution for the moment, saying that she was now her
j | defender and did protect her from the fury of the rest. For the crafty
j I j child had seen too well how her first venture had sped not to venture
ijj on a broader cast. One day being in her fits she made a grip with her
jlj hands as if to catch something, then exclaimed that J. P. was then
llj tormenting her, and that she had got a grip of his jerkin which was
j j! ‘ duddie ’ (tattered) at the elbows ; and immediately her mother and
jlj aunt heard the tearing of cloth, and the girl showed them in her hands
jlj two pieces of red cloth newly torn, where never a bit of red cloth had
I j j been before. Then she went off into a swoon or ‘ swerf,’ and lay as if
iji dead a considerable time. These fits continued with more or less
j j severity far into the winter of the next year, and with ever new victims
jjj claimed by her as her tormentors. Now it was Elizabeth Anderson ;
j j now James and Thomas Lindsay—the latter a young lad of eleven,
jlj ‘the gley’d or squint-eyed elf,’ as she called him ; now ‘the scabbed-
j j faced lass,’ who came to the door to ask alms ; and now the weary old
jj! Highland body, begging for a night’s lodging; then Alexander
j j Anderson, father of Elizabeth; and Jean Fulton, the grandmother;
j j I and then Margaret Lang—Pincht Margaret as she was called—‘ a Name
j j given her by the Devil, from a Pincht Cross cloath, ordinarily worn on
j j her Brow; ’ and her daughter, Margaret Semple. Of the twenty-one
j j j people accused by this wicked girl, Margaret Lang and her daughter
j j were the most remarkable—the one for her courage, her fine character
i j and powerful mind, the other for her youth, her beauty, and child-like
j i innocence of nature. When she heard that she was accused, Margaret
j j I —who had been advised to get out of the way for a time, but who had
j j answered disdainfully, ‘ Let them quake that dread, and fear that need,
j j j but I will not gang ’—went up straight to Bargarran House, and passing
j j j into the chamber where Christian lay, put her arms round her and
j j spoke to her soothingly, saying, ‘The Lord bless thee and ding the
! j Devil frae thee! ’ She then asked her pointedly if she had ever seen
j j her among her tormentors ?—to which the girl said, ‘ No, but she had
| j seen her daughter Martha.’ Afterwards she retracted this admission,
jjj and said that Margaret had really afflicted her, but that she was under
j j a spell when asked and could not confess. Martha could not take
j j things so gently. ‘ She was as well-Favoured and Gentill a Lass as
j j j you’ll look on, and about seventeen or eighteen years of Age,’ says an
j j old authority in an anonymous letter written to a couple of initials,
j | j Poor Martha ! her youth and beauty and passionate distress moved even
j j j the bigoted wretches who condemned her; but their compassion led to
jj nothing pitiful or merciful, and the poor bright, beautiful girl passed
j I into the awful doom of the rest. Then the authorities ‘ questioned ’
I j the witches ; they were pricked, according to custom and the national
I j I law; and ‘ There was not any of them, save Margaret Fulton, but
j|| marks were found on them, which were altogether insensible. That a
jjj Needle of 3 Inches length was frequently put in without their know-
j j ledge, nor would any Blood come from these places.* Elizabeth
j j Anderson, a girl of seventeen ; a beggar, James Lindsay, of fourteen ;
jjj and gley’d Thomas, his brother, not yet twelve—who for a halfpenny
jjj would turn himself widershins and stop a plough at a word—were
j j found willing and able to confess. Elizabeth Anderson was especially
j j determined that things should not be lost for the want of finding. She
j j said that about twenty days ago her father had told her to go with him
jjj to Bargarran’s yard, somewhere about noon, where they met a black
jjj man with a bonnet on his head, and a band round his neck, whom her
j j father and Agnes Naismith, then present, told her was the devil: that
j j certain people, named, were also in their company ; that their discourse
j j j was all of Christian Shaw, then lying sick, ‘ whose Life they all promis’d
Ijj to take away by the stopping of her Breath; ’ that they all danced in
j j the yard ; that her father ‘ Discharged her to tell anything she saw, or
j i j she would be Torn in Pieces : and that she was more Affraied of the
Iforsaid persons than she was of the Devil.’ This confession was made
j on the 5th of February, 1697. A few days later her imagination was
more lively. About seven years ago, she said, as she was playing
round the door of her grandmother, Jean Fulton’s bouse, she saw
‘ ane black grim man ’ go into the house to her grandmother, where he
Ij abode for a while talking. Jean bade her take the gentleman by the
hand, and he would give her ‘ ane Bony Black, new Coat; which accord-
j ingly she did.’ But his hand was cold and she was afeard : and then
he vanished away. The same thing happened once again, when the
black gentleman and her grandmother fell a-talking together by
j ‘ rounding in other's ears,’ but the girl understood not what they said.
This time she would not touch his hand for all his promises of bran
j new clothes; so ‘ the gentleman went away in a flight,’ and she saw him
no more for long after. The next time was when her father ‘ desired
her to go with him through the Country and seek their Meat ; to
which she replyed she need not seek her Meat, seeing she might have
Work: ’ but her father prevailed, and took her to a moor where above
j twenty people were assembled ; whose names she gives in a formidable
muster. Now the devil tempted her anew with meat and clothes, but
j she would not consent; so he and her father stepped aside and con¬
ferred together. Their meeting this day was for the destruction of a
certain minister’s child, which they were to effect by means of a wax
picture and pins. Another time it was for the destruction of another
minister’s child by the same means, and she heard Margaret Rodger
say, ‘ Stay a little, till I stop ane Pin in the Heart of it: ’ which accord¬
ingly she did. This time her father took her on his back over the
June 8, 1877.
THE SPIBITTJALIST.
269
water to Kilpatrick in a Flight, saying Mount and Fly. She was with
the witch crew when they drowned Brighouse by upsetting his boat, and
when they strangled a child with a sea napkin ; after which they all
danced with the devil ‘ in ane black Coat, ane Blew Bonnet, ane Blew
Band,’ who played the pipes for them, and gave them each a piece of an
unchristened bairn’s liver to eat, so that they should never confess if
apprehended. With other abominations too foul to be repeated.
“The same day, February 18th, James Lindsay, the elder of the two
brothers, confessed. Jean Fulton was his grandmother too, and he said
that one day, when she met him, she took his little round hat and plack
from him. Being loath to part with the same, he ran after her crying
for them, which she refusing, he called her an old witch, and ran away.
Whereupon she threatened him. Eight days after this, as he was
begging through the country near Inchannan, where she lived, he met
her again; and this time she had with her ‘ ane black grim man with
black cloaths, ane black Hat and blew Band,’ who offered his hand,
which James took and which he found cold as it gript him straitly.
The gentleman asked if he would serve him for a Bonny black coat
and a black hat, and several other things, to which he replied, ‘ Yes,
I’ll do’t.’ He then went to all the meetings, and saw all the people, and
did all the things that Elizabeth had spoken of—even to strangling
Montgomerie’s bairn with a sea napkin at twelve o’clock at night, while
the servant girl was watching by the cradle. Young Thomas the gley’d
following next, confessing to just the same things, even to the liver of
the ‘ uncrissened bairn,’ which all eat save Elizabeth and their two
selves: a slip-by that accounted for their confessions. And now justice
had a good handful to begin with, so the work of accusation went
briskly forward. Bargarran’s daughter still continued bringing out
crooked pins and stones and all sorts of unmentionable filth from her
mouth, and still went on quarrelling with the devil, whom she called an
old sow, and holding conversations with the apparitions of her tor¬
mentors, still mixed up fraud with epilepsy, and lies and craft and
wicked guile with hysteria, till the witch-fires were fairly lighted, and
seven of the poor witches ‘ done to death,’ among whom brave Margaret
and her beautiful child held the most prominent place. Never for a
moment did Margaret Lang lose her courage or self-possession. Seeing
a farmer whom she knew among the crowd assembled round the
gallows, she called out to him bitterly, ‘ that he would now thrive like
a green bay-tree, for there would be no innocent blood shed that day; ’
but what she meant for irony the people took for confession. When she
was burned, the answer of a spectator to one who asked if the execution
was over, showed what feeling they had about her : ‘ There’s ane o’ the
witches in hell, an’ the rest ’ll shune follow! ’ said he contentedly.
Another man, whose stick was taken to push back the legs of the poor
wretches as they were thrust out of the flames, when it was returned to
him, flung it into the flames, saying, cI’ll tak nae stick hame wi’ me to
my hous that has touched a witch.’ When all was over and the
sacrifice was complete, Bargarran’s daughter declared herself satisfied
and cured ; no more * bumbees ’ came to pinch her—no more charms of
balls of hair or waxen eggs were laid beneath her bed—no more appa¬
ritions thronged to vex her, nor had she fits of tossings, foamings, or
strange swellings as of old; the devil left off tempting her with
promises of a fine gentleman for a husband; the witches no longer
allured her by phantom aprons filled with phantom almonds ; the Lord
‘ helped the poor daft child,’ as Mrs. M had prayed, though she
was scarce worth the helping, and the world was oppressed with her
lies no more. But the blood of the murdered innocent lay red on the
ground, and cried aloud to heaven for vengeance against the murderers.
The case of Bargarran’s daughter has been always accepted as one of
the most puzzling on record; but when may not mankind be puzzled if
they have but sufficient credulity 1 Subtract from this account the
possible and the certain—the possible frauds and the certain lies—and
what is left? A diseased girl, hysterical and epileptic, full of hallu¬
cinations and pretended fancies, with a certain quickness of hand which
the tremendous gullibility of her auditory rendered yet more facile—
unscrupulous, mendacious; the only thing surprising in the whole
matter was that there was not one man of sufficient coolness of judg¬
ment, or quickness of perception, to see through the imposture and set
his grip on it ere it passed. Dickie and Mitchell, who a few years
back visited the house where all this took place, found a slit or hole in
the wooden partition between her bedroom and the room next it; a slit,
evidently made purposely, and not a natural defect in the wood, and so
placed that when the bed was made up (the bed of richly-carved oak
yet stands or stood there) it could not be seen by anyone in the room.
This little fact seems to speak volumes, and to help materially towards
establishing the questions of fraud and connivance. The remote sequel
is the only consoling feature in the case. From being the most
notorious impostor, and the most cruel, false, and deadly persecutor of
her time, Bargarran’s daughter, as Mrs. Miller, became one of the best
and most famous spinners of fine and delicate thread. She caused
certain machinery to be brought from Holland, and wrought at her
spinning wheel with all the intelligence and zeal that, earlier, had been
so miserably employed to the ruin and destruction of her fellow-
creatures. It is to be hoped that the coolness and reflection of maturity
gave her grace to repent of the sins of her girlhood, and that after¬
penitence wiped out the terrible stains of youthful lying and murder.”
Last Friday night, at a public meeting held under the presidency of
Lord Houghton, at St. James’s Hall, London, in favour of giving the
parliamentary franchise to women ratepayers, many Spiritualists were
among those assembled.
Da. Fbanz Hoffman, Professor of Philosophy at Wurzburg University,
and Honorary Member of the British National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, has published a work entitled Philosojjhische Schriften, in
which he passes in review the systems and writings of the chief philo¬
sophers from Pythagoras and Plato down to Hegel and Hartmann,
THE MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
The following paper was read by Mr. C. C. Massey on Tuesday even,
ing, the 29th May, at a meeting of the Marylebone Association of In¬
quirers into Spiritualism:—
MR. C. C. MASSEY ON THE PRESENT ASPECT OF THE SPIRITUAL MOVEMENT.
Probably at no period in the history of the movement has Spiritualism
been so discredited, or have Spiritualists been so despised, as at the
present moment. If irrepressible and perpetually recurring facts could
be stamped out by ridicule and denial, or if the voices of witnesses could
be silenced by insult, this “ disreputable thing,” this “ degrading supersti¬
tion,” this “ intellectual whoredom,” to cull a few of the epithets which
have been freely applied, would now be on the verge of extinction. And
doubtless a check has been given to the growing curiosity and disposition
to investigate among the outside public. It seems to me that there is
no use in concealing, but, on the contrary, some profit in acknowledging,
this undeniable fact. Nor is the cause far to seek. Facts, it is said,
are stubborn things. And in the long run, no doubt, they are. Over
that long course which truth has to run against prejudice, the former
alone can “ stay.” But truth, when in the stage of controversy, is im¬
portant relatively to the strength of the error which it has to overcome.
And no one who has appreciated the intellectual history of the world
for the last 150 years, and especially during the present generation,
could suppose that such facts as we proclaim could possibly gain admis¬
sion all at once, and by their intrinsic force. It is precisely because
men have lost the sense of, and the belief in, the spiritual, that it is at
once so important and so difficult to make them appreciate the evidence
of its reality. That evidence is of two kinds. The one is the evidence
that is only attainable by the spiritually-minded man, who has found
the reward of faith and aspiration in conscious communion with the
Unseen. He is the “ mystic,” the “ dreamer,’’ and is supposed to
be a far rarer phenomenon than, as I suspect, he is. The other evidence
is that which descends to the level of our senses. I believe there is,
there can be, no man who has perseveringly investigated the phenomena
of Spiritualism without coming to the conclusion that there is something
in them wholly inexplicable by the vulgar popular supposition of mere
trickery. It is, of course, easy, and of frequent experience, to go to
two or three seances, and to come away with no other result than a com¬
placent conviction of one’s own superior penetration, and a hardly less
agreeable contempt for the understandings of other people; that was
nearly my own experience at first, and it has probably been the same
with some of you. But I said to myself “ This is not the sort of evi¬
dence which has satisfied Crookes, and Varley, and Wallace, and De
Morgan, and scores of other acute and trained minds.” In other words,
I had that respect for testimony which is just what, in relation to this
subject, the materialistic bias does not admit of. The ear is deaf to
evidence which the understanding cannot assimilate, or to which
the granite block of prejudice opposes entrance. Cross-examine
any of your acquaintance, for instance, who says that Slade has been
proved to be an impostor, as to his knowledge of the evidence in that
case. He will almost certainly tell you that Professor Lankester and
Dr. Donkin saw Slade write the messages, and that the table was
a trick table. Ask him for his recollection of the evidence of Mr.
Wallace, of Mr. Joad, of Mr. Joy, of Dr. Wyld, and of myself, and
you will find that his mind is a blank. Every close observer of the
proceedings in law courts can tell the same tale. Many experienced
counsel prefer the first word to the last, because if the minds of the
jury, or sometimes of a judge, can be possessed with a particular view or
their sympathies can be engaged at the outset, evidence which makes
the other way is seldom appreciated at its value. Much more, of course,
is this so when evidence is presented to a mind predisposed against it,
and under no judicial obligation other than that loyalty to truth which
of all principles is the least developed in the moral consciousness of
mankind. Few people recognise practically a moral responsibility for
their opinions or for the judgments which they form. And those writers
and talkers who never miss an opportunity of reviling Spiritualism with
insolence and contumely, and who do so without experience, without
hearing, without judgment, and without charity, may safely be included
in that school described by Tennyson—
“ Where blind and naked ignorance
Delivers brawling judgments, unashamed,
On all things all day long.”
To be taxed with folly by fools is no new experience. And the man
who without personal knowledge of the fact treats the evidence of
Spiritualism with contempt is neither more nor less than a fool. And
indeed the utterances of such are only worth noticing at all, inasmuch as
they “ write to order,” and are undoubtedly the mouthpieces of the
prevailing sentiments which it is the mission of Spiritualism to under¬
mine and reform. Believing that faith in God and immortality, under
whatever speculative forms these truths may find expression, is
essential to the maintenance and development of a true moral conscious¬
ness in man, I confess to the conviction that these phenomena, which
are becoming notorious throughout the world, have a timely and neces<
sary purpose. The Churches with a spiritual life sustained only by
dogma and tradition, are fast losing, if they have not already
lost, their authority and their influence over the beliefs of men.
On the other hand, from the spread of education, the popular
philosophy of the day, whose hostility to every form of spiritual belief
from the first deadly, is becoming more and more overt and avowed, is
fast possessing itself of the intellect of the nation. This is no place or
time to speak at large of that philosophy, which I believe to have its
appropriate corrective for speculative minds in the higher metaphysics,
so long neglected, and now ignorantly disparaged in this country. Our
task, so far as our action upon the world is concerned, is simpler. To
bear honest and fearless witness to that which we have seen and know;
270
THE SPIRITUALIST,
June 8, 1877
to promote and protect investigation; to dispel the misconceptions
which abound respecting the facts and our beliefs concerning them; to
come to a clear understanding with ourselves about phenomena which
are still doubtful; and to clear away the abuses which surround,
disfigure, and foster public prejudice against them: this is our present
business. It is high time, for example, that we should ascertain the
whole objective fact about that most perplexing phenomenon which is so
much in favour with Spiritualists just now, but which, as the investiga¬
tion is commonly conducted, affords quite intolerable facilities for fraud
—I mean “ Materialisation.” There should, really, be no difficulty
about this; and we have reason to congratulate ourselves that the
subject is, at length, engaging the serious practical attention of |
some of the most active and influential persons in the move¬
ment. If I have taken a right view of the purpose and need
of the sensible evidence of the reality of spirit in the present r
state of the world, there can be no question about the duty L
and expediency of propagahdism; but there can be much about j1
the mode and the means. To the representatives of physical science |j
we have already given, as I think we were bound to give, the “ earliest j<
information.” They have declined collectively, and for the most part j
individually, to listen even to testimony on the subject. This was to j
be expected. The priests of science are not very differently constituted j
from the priests of religion. Not from the Inquisition itself has truth ij
had more bitter hostility to encounter than from her own professors, and 5
men of as high scientific authority in their own day, as Huxley and i (
Tyndall in ours, have imposed their own laws upon nature, and have |)
ridiculed and aspersed discoveries which conflicted with these. When i
that instructive record comes to be written as a warning against the j <
inveterate tendency of mankind to prostrate its understanding before j i
authority, and as a proof of the inevitable liability of the latter to forget j)
its responsibilities, we shall perhaps be told, as a crowning instance, j(
how the most popular representative of physical science in the 19th ij
century stigmatised an investigation of the profoundest importance to j)
the human race as “ intellectual whoredom.” Our appeal to the leaders i(
of materialistic opinion, though honestly intended and properly made, |i
suggests the preliminary formality of asking a powerful enemy in the j)
occupation of a strong position to surrender at discretion. And as a j j
preparation and condition of attacking with success, I would urge as I j
the first essential a thorough and efficient organisation. Look at i
America. Spiritualists there are said to be numbered by millions, but |
for want of organisation their strength is unknown and unfelt. The j)
majority of men will not come forward to avow and champion an un- i
popular cause unless they are sure of sympathy and support. And con- ; j
victions unavowed are too often altogether suppressed, and lack their Jj
healthy effect. Sympathy is the life of opinion. Besides which, an It
organisation is a visible entity; a nucleus which grows and grows by >
attraction. It has to be recognised as a fact, and takes place as such in I)
the estimation of many who would never otherwise have their attention \ j
directed to the subject. If we were rich enough, I would have the jj I
offices of the British National Association of Spiritualists in Pall Mall, ij i
or in Cheapside, wherever men most do congregate. Moreover, there are i - j
brave and honest men of distinction and reputation who would see in j j i
the existence of an organisation the duty and the opportunity of bearing jj j
testimony before the world. Such an one is Captain Burton, the cele¬
brated traveller, who joined the British National Association of Spirit- j j I
ualists at the height of the outcry against us during the Slade case.
Other gentlemen of culture and attainments could be named, who, at
the same critical time, took the less decisive, but hardly less significant b i
step, of entering themselves as subscribers to our reading room. Then j1
there are the advantages of discussion, of experiment, and generally of ij j
keeping alive an active interest in the subject. So I say, by all means jj:
let us organise.
But above and before all let us show the fruits of Spiritualism in our
lives. I think the Spiritualists’ standard and idea of life ought to be far I j i
higher than that which we understand by the term morality. If we
realise the truth of immortality, the wisdom and the duty which it in¬
culcates are the sacrifice of the temporal self. It is a specious but
shallow objection of those who argue against the elevating tendency of
a belief in personal immortality that it merely substitutes a selfish j> i
aspiration for selfish indulgence. You sacrifice, say they, some present j j
enjoyment for the prospect of greater enjoyment hereafter—which is
your heaven. But to the tbeosophist—and Spiritualism only attains 1) j
to religious significance when it passes into theosophy—the temporal is jj I
altogether suppressed, hereafter as well as now. Not the future life, ij j
but the higher life, is that which he represents to himself, and of which j i j
he ever strives to become conscious.
I have referred to that other and purer evidence of spirit which is jj I
the exclusive possession of those whom the world will ever call mystics jj j
and dreamers, and my conviction is that the conscious intercourse with jj j
whatever spiritual society each of us will one day enter is attainable by j j j
all of us here. It is a question of faith, of aspiration, of discipline, and i j i
of will. It is not the body, but the love and desire which the spirit j 1 j
has of the body that makes
“ The wall
That sunders ghosts and shadow-casting men.” j j j
But into these sublime ideas I must not further stray at present. 'Only jj!
I would say that we must not leave the spirits of the circle—inferior :
to ourselves, though it may be put in motion by higher agents—to jj i
fight this battle by themselves. These are our weapons; but wielding i) i
them must be those virtues, those forces, that intelligence, which are ij i
the gifts of the developed spirit.
THE DISCUSSION. j j j
Mr. Whitley presided, and at the conclusion of the paper a discussion I) j
ensued, in which Mr. Hunt, Mr. Cowper, Mr. White, and Mrs, ij!
Hallock took part. The latter gave some interesting clairvoyante ex- ij i
periences of her own at the death-bed of a friend. She also adverted j j i
to the fact that President Lincoln was a Spiritualist, and was encouraged
in his emancipation policy by spirit guidance aud advice. Mr. Massey
earnestly deprecated the practice, in which he saw fearful possibilities
of folly and danger, of resorting to spirits for guidance in the practical
affairs of life. Mrs. Hallock emphatically repudiated the construction
which Mr. Massey had put upon her remarks.
The subject of spirit identity was also discussed, Mr. Massey reply¬
ing to a question on this point that he had never personally received
what he could accept as sufficient evidence of this.
Mr. Hunt was of opinion that Mr. Massey’s experience was not
very extensive, and that he approached the question in too sceptical a
spirit.
The discussion, which ranged over a variety of topics, was kept up
for a considerable time, and elicited several interesting experiences.
Mb. Home’s disreputable book, written out of jealousy of other
mediums, some of whom are superior to himself in the estimation of
Spiritualists, has further brought down upon the movement much news¬
paper abuse in the Standard, as well as upon himself, who deserves it.
Mb. C. E. Williams has asked us to state that the statement published
in a recent number of The Spiritualist that he believed several different
spirits to control his manifestations, who went by the generic name of
“ John King,” is an error. He thinks that several “ John Kings ” con-
j trol different mediums.
Da. Slade’s Pboposal.—The following subscriptions have been
entered towards advertising in various papers Dr. Slade’s offer to
Professor Lankester:—Mr. A. Tod, <£1; A Friend, £1; Mr. C. C.
Massey, £1; H., £1; A. Joy, 5s.; Mr. Berks Hutchinson, 10s.; Sir
Charles Isham, os. About three times the total of the foregoing
amounts is necessary to put the letters in the chief journals.
Mbs. Weldon’s Sociable Evenings.—On Monday, last week, Mr.
A. S. Menier, C.E., inventor of the Military Hot-Air Balloon, de¬
livered a lecture on Aerial Navigation at one of the meetings at the
Langham Hall in aid of Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage. Mr. W. H. Le
Feuvre, C.E., one of the Aeronautical Society, took the chair; Mr.
Frederick Barnett, the inventor and promoter of the Tower Bridge;
Mr. Moy, Mr. Perigal, A. T. Thorman, Mr. Newton Gordon, Major
Boberts, Admiral Inglefield, Mr. Samuda, M.P., Mr. Thomas Lowther,
and several other gentleman, as well as ladies, were present. Admiral
Inglefield said that, in his opinion, Mr. Menier’s invention was of the
greatest value, and that he had no doubt that if the Artie explorers
had carried Mr. Menier’s hot-air balloon, Sir John Franklin aud his
men might still be alive. He proposed a vote of thanks to the lecturer
and chairman, and the proceedings, which were held on behalf of Mrs.
Weldon’s Orphanage, and which constituted the twenty-ninth soiree,
terminated. Mr. Burns will lecture on Phrenology next Monday.
Religious Mania.—Mr. John Humphreys, coroner for the eastern
division of Middlesex, held an inquest on Monday as to the death of
James Day, aged seven years, the illegitimate son of Mrs. Fisk. Mrs.
Day, mother of the woman accused of murdering the child, said her
daughter was twenty-seven years old, and some years ago was an
inmate of Colney Hatch Lunatic Asylum. Mr. J. Horton, surgeon,
described the injuries on the boy. There was,a wound on the neck
about in. deep, aud the same in length, also one on the right side,
but not so deep. On making a post-mortem examination, he found
a considerable effusion of blood on the right side of the head, showing
that a severe blow had been given, which had fractured the skull into
four pieces. The chopper produced was such as would cause such
injuries. In reply to questions put, the mother of the deceased told
him that it struck her that the deceased would be better dead, and that
was the reason she killed him. He asked her why. She replied that
he was a very good boy ; she supposed she should be hanged. He said
that he did not know that she would, when she cried bitterly. She
stated that her husband was kind to her ; she had money and all she
wanted. She had been confined in Colney Hatch Asylum when seven¬
teen, suffering from religious mania. The jury returned a verdict of
‘‘Wilful murder” against Hannah Louisa Fisk for killing the deceased,
aud a warrant was made out for her committal to Newgate.— Weekly
Times.
The Language of Mesmebic Sleepers.—“ I have now to mention a
circumstance connected with the mesmeric sleep, which does not occur
so frequently or uniformly as those which I have discussed, I mean, the
occurrence of a very unwillingness to name any person, place, or object.
The sleeper will often take a minute or two to describe rather than use
the appropriate name. He seems often to labour under a difficulty in
finding the name, but still oftener his manner indicates that he will not
use the name. Thus, while he often, if urged, gives himself a wrong
name, very often that of his mesmerist; he will not address his
mesmerist, or speak of him, under his name, but will use a circumlocu¬
tion. He will not speak of being lucid, or clairvoyant, in some cases,
but will say he is light, or bright, or warm, or sent or taken away, and
so on. And very many clairvoyants will not speak of death, but will
use the most laborious circumlocutions rather than do so, whether it be
that the dead do not appear as dead to them, or that the idea of death
is repugnant to them; and I have not had as yet sufficient opportunities
to enable me to speak confidently on this matter. When they adopt a
word or phrase they usually adhere to it, for the person or object to
which they have applied it; and hardly any very lucid subject is without
some peculiar form of expression. Thus, E. always speaks of a dead
person as shelled, and of being mesmerised as being icarmed; and I have
heard of various similar examples. In other respects the language of
clairvoyants is generally improved, and often remarkably distinct and
energetic in its character. This point is well worthy of study,”—Professor
Gregory.
an
June 8, 1877.
the spiritualist.
llwtri).
TO A PIONEER.
Tell the •world that light is gleaming,
Herald it to all mankind;
Even now its rays are stealing
Softly o’er the human mind;
Priestly lore must fade and vanish
In a light which shines so clear ;
Reason on past creeds would famish,
Weak are they who forms revere.
Tell the truth in words of burning
Unto earth’s remotest lands ;
And behold in love returning
Heavenly aid from angel bands ;
Bright are they, and good and noble,
Striving deeds of love to do,
To aid the faithful, sooth the troubled
Ones of earth, dear friend, through, you.
The Hague, May 28th. Henry Slade.
IMMORTELLES.
[Suggested by the continual supply of fresh flowers and immortelles in Woodston
Churchyard).
Is death the herald of some new romance ?
Replete with music, poesy, and flowers ?
The opening psalm of heaven’s endless hours ?—
The paradise of churches or of chance ?
Or is it but the gate where souls advance
Thenceforward into noiseless mystery,
Evolving happiness from chastity
In the visionary process of deep trance ?
What say the worms ?—’tis theirs the vulgar gain,-—
But stay ! the choice invisibles live on !
And sing sweet home, whilst sorrowing followers weep!
The blood is not the life: the flesh is but the chain,
Linking us to scenes where brief rewards are won—
Until the day dawns that knows not sleep !
How sweet to linger by the tombs awhile !
At eventide—when angels haunt the fane,—
When loved departed ones steal back again
To illumine their spent clay with a smile !
What holy radiance !—how free from guile !—
Mingling with the sheen of the pale Summer moon,
’Till light becomes celestial as a noon
In the dreamland spheres ! where joyous spirits toil;
But lo ! the visions wander voiceless here!
And only yield their secrets to the few—
The charm’d interpreters of the free’d soul’s song,—
They flash their new life on us, but to cheer;
But oh! if short, how grand, the fond review !—
These shadow forms, untouched, but strong.
Must laughter cease where corpse and coffin lie,
And only sorrows swift hot rain prevail ?—
Shy herbs be tear-wash’d, where brown brambles trail,
And no glad music, echoing, reach the sky ?
Ah! no!—the tombs preach life and majesty!
Cold wasted bones betray man’s beauteous change—
Death’s transformation scene—sublime, if strange !—
The fruitful gala of eternity !
Sweep softly! truant winds! o’er grass and grave!
Respect the lessening dust of child and sire;
Bloom! fondling daisies! in thy best array!
’Tis sacred ground—where ashes of the brave
Blend with things earthly, by the village spire,
Whilst souls reach onward, to God’s golden day !
From J. T. Markley’s Stray Thoughts on Many Themes.
xcscooccccccccccrxxcccccccc:
ittomsponnence.
[Great freedom is given lo correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal audits readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be kept by the writers.)
A GHOST IN KENSINGTON GARDENS.
Sin,—The following occurrence maybe of interest to some of your j) j
readers, and may possibly elicit some tradition relating to the super¬
natural in connection with the locality; and as I think that all
apparently supernatural occurrences should be recorded, especially
those of a late date, I deem it proper to communicate the following
to you.
Last Saturday evening I was walking with a friend in the north part
of Kensington-gardens, about midway between the Round-pond and hj
the Bayswater-road; it was about a quarter past nine, and—with the
exception of some couples, apparently sweethearts, who occupied the
various seats—the gardens were almost deserted. Suddenly, I perceived
among the trees in front of us, and a little to the right, a misty i)i
appearance like a column of smoke. It gradually seemed to condense,
and glided, while yet undetined, upon the pathway before us, where it ! I
appeared almost instantaneously to take shape as a gentleman of the
last century. The apparition was dressed in a three-cornered hat, a red | j |
velvet coat with large lace ruffles at the breast and sleeves; the left j) j
shoulder of the coat and shirt was turned back, revealing a ghastly
wound, reaching from the ear to the middle of the chest; the waistcoat i j
appeared to be of some kind of brocade. In the left hand the apparition I) j
held a sword, from which a bright blue light streamed. The left hand uj
pointed to the gaping wound in the neck; the eyes were cast down j l j
upon the ground; while the face appeared to be that of a young man of | j|
from 25 to 30 years of age. I did not distinctly observe the lower
extremities. After thus standing on the path for perhaps a minute, the
ghost (if such indeed it was) dissolved into mist, which slowly faded
away. My companion did not see anything, but felt a cold shudder run
through him, though I had not then informed him of what I saw.
Charles Long, Member of the
British National Association of Spiritualists.
53, Chippenham-road, St. Peter’s-park, W.
June 4th, 1877. -  
BODY AND SPIRIT.
Sir,—A gentleman has just been relating to me the case of a friend
with an arm cut off from the shoulder, who is certain that he has a
spiritual arm, which he sees and actually feels with his other hand. He
can touch anything, and even pull up things with the spiritual or
phantom arm and hand. He says the spirit pervades the whole body,
and has the same form, so will exist after the body dies. His surprise
is that others do not see the spirit arm as he does. The relator says he
has inquired of another person whose legs are cut off, and who has
exactly the same impression in respect to his legs, that though bis body
cannot stand upright his spirit still can. Neither the relator nor the
maimed persons know anything of Spiritualism. Now, although a man’s
arm taken off is not renewed, yet the parts severed from many other
creatures are, and may not the spirit form of the lost part be the source
and explanation of it ? Anyhow the matter is very suggestive.
H. G-. Atkinson.
Boulogne.    ■■<
BIRDS OF GOOD AND EVIL OMEN.
Sir,—In the very interesting autobiography of my dear old friend
Barry Cornwall, the writer and inspirational poet, I find the following
entry from his journal, June 1st, 1828 :—
“ Mr. Wrangham breakfasted at Rogers’s (the poet) some mornings
ago, and learned there that Campbell, the poet, had lost his wife. Mr.
Wrangham heard that Campbell had mentioned that some pigeons
which frequented his house deserted the place soon after his wife fell ill,
and have never since returned. On the day of her death, in the place
of the pigeons which had flown away, and which were a blue or grey or
some such colour, came two pigeons perfectly milk-white, and settled on
her bedroom window. After remaining there some time—much longer
than is usual with birds where there are persons moving to and fro in a
room—they also flew off. She expressed a wish that they should return ;
‘ but although I cannot have them I have you,1 she said, turning to her
husband. In a minute or two afterwards she died.”
I think it worth while to record an incident like this, connected with
such remarkable persons, if only for its being pretty and poetical, and
connected with poets. Further, at the risk of being thought super¬
stitious, I confess that I think there is often something more than coinci¬
dence in such matters. Is it coincidence that the vulture not only scents
out or is attracted in some way to the dead, but also to the dying ? and
the same is supposed of the shark. (See Mr. Proctor’s “ Song of the
Admiral.”) From the fine sensitive nature of instinct any delicate
affinity may be attributed to it. The dove or pigeon has always
been considered a sacred bird, in one instance representing the Holy
Ghost, in another being selected to go forth from the ark, and where the
Greek Christian religion prevails, as in Russia, the pigeon is held
sacred. St. Petersburg swarms with pigeons, but no one is allowed to
destroy them. My friend was the least superstitious of men, and yet
we see that he thought it worth while to record such a remarkable in¬
cident, and I have no doubt but that many of the readers of this will
be able to relate instances of a similar character.
"When my father died I was cast down, and I was struck with the fact
of crows flocking about the window and striking against it. No doubt it
was the time when the crows go forth to the field, but such unusual con¬
duct as I witnessed did impress me as at least a most singular coinci¬
dence. We shall never get on until we study more closely the instincts
of animals as analogous to a determining formative principle throughout
nature, such as chemical affinity. Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S.
Boulogne, France. — ■ ■ ■ ■
PARAFFIN MOULDS OF SPIRIT FACES.
Sir,—On Thursday, May 24th, in the hope of its being in time before
you went to press, I sent you the following telegram ; “ Splendid moidd
dipped before our eyes, lovely young girl's face. Paraffin 194° Fahrenheit."
We have now, to-day, obtained another, much better than the first.
That of Thursday did not reach further back than about the middle of
the cheeks, though the front part of the face was complete, and beautiful
beyond expression ; but the outlying parts, the neck and hair, were in a
score of fragments, which to put together again was a real Chinese
puzzle. They were too thin, and the dropping of the mould off from
the face into the cold water had thus shattered them. John King has
explained that the paraffin, which melts at about 45° Centigrade
(112° Fahr.), was too hot (it was at 90° Cent., or 194° Fahr.), not for
the spirit-face to bear, because it felt no inconvenience from this
heat—which was but little below that of boiling water— nor from any
amount of heat, but because it made the paraffin so thin that very
little of it adhered, while the subsequent dippings would partially
redissolve what had already adhered. He told us to make it next
time about 60°.
We saio the whole operation; saw, with oar eyes saw the exquisite
face of one of these angelic girl-spirits (which I have reason for not
naming) which were so familiar to us, come out at the middle opening
of the curtain, under John King’s light, held by him just over the two
basins standing on the small table at which we sat—the one filled
nearly to the brim with about fifteen pounds weight of the melted
paraffin, the other with cold water. She was evidently timid, and her
first dip, as we could see, was very slight. John had told us that she
had had to make a “ great effort," and that it was a great \‘ act of
courage for a young girl" for iiie first time. It was thrilling for us to
see a young girl thus plunge her face, close before our eyes, into
paraffin nearly at boiling water heat, even though we had been
assured that she would not suffer from any degree of heat. Her eyes
were open, and she appears to have kept them so. She afterwards
gave three or four more dips, retiring once or twice into the cabinet, to
“ get more strength” as John told us.
He directed us to have every thing again ready the next day—yester¬
day. But he then advised us to put it off till the next—to-day, because
“ She had not quite got over the effort." He presently added: “But
she says she will go on at once, if you wish it, for she is so anxious to
please and satisfy our dear friend" (the Count). Of course we adjourned
it, and we had, in lieu of it, a splendid show of Nathalie, my mother,
and Glaucus, by John’s light; in which there was beautiful and cha¬
racteristic action by the latter two, which I will not pause here to
describe.
It was well we did thus postpone till to-day, for it gave us the
pleasure of making our good, dear, and venerable friend, M. de Yeh,
also a witness of this splendid phenomenon, which has never been wit¬
nessed before, and which has sent him rejoicing on his way to Dresden.
This time the spirit (whom, I repeat, I have reasons for not naming,
because she shrinks from publicity, just as might do a shrinking and
delicate young maiden of our own plane) dipped her head boldly, and
several times. We encouraged her by our exclamations of pleasure
and thanks for what we were seeing ; I called her—“ La belle, bonne et
brave" After she had dipped several times, and quite deep, as we
could see, John King told the Count to hold out his hand—“ so,’’
suiting the action to the word; and the Count spread them out, palms
upward, over the water basin, and the mould, with the face behind it,
was placed in them. He gave a slight movement on the sides, so as to
detach it, and, lo, there remained in his hands the mould, which he
then let down into the cold water. The spirit’s materialised face was
gone from behind the mould. (Try, if you like, how you could detach
your hair out of liquid paraffin.) When we, soon after, lighted a
candle, there it was, floating, perfect, as far back as behind the ears
(though one ear was imperfect). She afterwards came out, by John’s
light; and we were, of course, earnest in our felicitations and thanks.
As we looked at the translucent mask held up against the window, we
could see in it a beauty more than human. There was a certain some¬
thing in it—what in French would be called a cachet—of celestial;
fitting well in with what John King has told us, that when we see them
thus by his light, they show as they show in the spirit-life, and as we
shall see them when we get there.
This language may sound to you as that of enthusiasm. It is cool and
calm and critical. And there is the mould, to speak for itself—if ever
you see it: because only three copies are authorised, viz., one for the
Count, one for M. De Veh, and one for another friend; but, alas, none
for me. No doubt, for a good reason, and a reason involving no want
of kindness, as I have been strongly and warmly assured. It may be
because, in my earnest desire to extend the knowledge of the beautiful
things we thus see in private, I might spread it—popularise or vulgarise
it, as it were, further than this particular delicate and shrinking young
girl spirit is disposed to like. But I was told to-day that it should be
made up to me by my getting that of my own mother. We are also
more than half promised that of Glaucus, in regard to whom we are half-
promised his entire head and neck, for which we must provide a suitable
vessel or pail of melted paraffin. “ And that will puzzle your moulders,"
added John King—referring to the plaster moulders, to whom our
paraffin moulds are taken for them to form in the liquid alabaster.
John King has also told us that he is about to leave us for some eight
or ten days. He promises also, later, to give us his own mould. He
added, “ These are better than photographs, are they not
You are holding Monday evening discussions over these materialisa¬
tions—what you have taken to calling “ form manifestations.” I advise
you not to close yet awhile your discussions—still less to do so with any
sort of arbitrary authoritative decrees or programmes. Take what God
sends us through the gracious spirits who are conducting this divine
work. Take and be thankful, and wait in patience and perseverance,
without thrusting forward upon the controlling spirits our own require¬
ments and conditions and rules and methods and scientific processes.
We have had John King’s so-called “ lamp,” or luminous stone, also
moulded in paraffin, some eight or ten times. We have the casts, and
some of the moulds. And they all involve this miraculous fact, of a
circular stone of nearly four inches in diameter having passed instan¬
taneously out of a hole in the rear (corresponding to the handle by which
it was held) of three-quarters of an inch. And all this before our eyes.
J. L. O’Sullivan.
Paris, 26th May.
Postscript, May 28.—John King has left us to-day for an absence of
eight or ten days. He promises that after his return he will give us
moulds of four other spirits, including my mother, and last of all himself,
and not merely of their faces, but of the whole head, for which purpose he
directs that a vessel be prepared, two feet deep by eighteen inches wide,
so that the whole head can be plunged into (the paraffin; of course
another similar one for the cold water. It will be a nut to crack for
Dr. Carpenter how any of these heads unconsciously-cerebrated itself
out of the hole left in the mould by the neck. J. L. O’S.
A CLAIRVOYANT SEANCE IN BRIGHTON.
Sm,—The following brief description of a seance may be interesting.
The circle was composed of two ladies and gentlemen of middle age,
two young ladies of about seventeen, a youth, and a boy; it is desirable
to state this, as it accounts for the peculiar variety of the phenomena
presented, which, according to the usual law, was in accordance with
the variety of mental conditions present. The phenomena were mainly
of a clairvoyant nature, but the clairvoyance was supplemented by
descriptions and explanations from the spirits when required. There
were three strong clairvoyants in the circle, one of the younger ladies
being also a trance, and the other a highly impressional medium.
Beyond forming an unconnected circle round a small table, no
formalities were observed. Proceedings commenced with a few messages
through the table from John King. Then a spirit relative of some
present entranced one of the mediums, and attempted to speak, but
failed. Johnny, the spirit of a clown, then controlled, and replied to
questions. Next, the two young ladies were taken up to see Johnny’s
spirit home; the home and garden were described.
Now a spirit bridal party fills the room. (A f ew explanatory particu¬
lars may be necessary. A relative of some of the circle, a young,
beautiful, and amiable lady, was some years ago soon to be wedded to
the man of her choice, but having incautiously exposed her slippered
feet to the wet grass of a lawn on a dewy morning, the cold thus caught
threw her into a galloping consumption, which speedily transferred her
to the spirit world. Her affianced, through a sudden attack of fever,
followed her a few months after, and was in his turn followed a little later
by his dog, a very fine and intelligent mastiff, who was faithfully
attached to them beth). They now appear in our room, the bride in
renewed and surpassing loveliness, and in complete bridal costume, the
groom at her side, the faithful dog in front, with glossy coat and a
circlet of flowers round his neck, a bishop in full lawn, with a troop of
smiling friends on the flanks and behind them. The wedding, we are
told, has not yet, but is about to come off, and they have chosen this
method of giving the necessary intimation to their earth friends. Our
congratulations are heartily paid and benignantly received; the scene
disappears and makes way for others.
The presence of the dog may perhaps excite some comment among
those who have not had evidence of the continued existence of intelligent
animals ; he is, however, a frequent visitor, and has, moreover, assumed
to himself the duty of constant attendance and guard upon one of the
young lady mediums (a niece of the bride) during her walks.
The next scene in these tableaux vivants is presented by Johnny and
Joey, the two clowns, who appear standing on a table unfurling and dis¬
playing to view a magnificent banner, with a representation of a brilliant
sunrise, and, inscribed on a scroll, “ The Sun of Spiritualism.” The
younger clairvoyants are now taken to Egypt (some of the guides of the
circle are Egyptians); they are shown a banqueting scene in the
palace, and then conveyed to the ruins of Karnac, which they describe.
Next is presented to them a view of ancient Egypt, with a pyramid
sheathed in gold, glistening with indescribable beauty in the rays of the
southern sun. Again, the glory fades away, and the ruins reappear.
The spirit of an Egyptian priestess now appears in the room, standing
upon a cloud; she is young and of great beauty; above her head is
coiled a golden serpent (emblem of wisdom); suspended from her right
] (! hand is a golden censer with incense; from her left a bunch of keys—
!) • emblematic (as we are informed) of her ability to unlock the mysteries
| (| of the ancient Egyptian religion, that religion of which the sage Hermes
|(j Trismegistus prophetically said, “O Egypt! Egypt! of thy religion
! >j fables alone shall remain and things incredible to posterity.” Com-
j j munications in ancient character are being frequently given from this
j y\ spirit, and another through one of the mediums, and in reply to a wish
j(| that they could be translated, an assurance was given that the transla-
i| tion would be made in due season.
Next appears a radiant planetary spirit. Her appearance is difficult
of description; what seemed to be flickering flames of ruddy golden
| light (if the expression may be used) radiated from behind her,
covering her with an exceeding radiance. She stood, looking down
awhile on the circle, then enclosed herself in what seemed like a bivalve
I (j shell of silvery light, and disappeared. We were informed that she was
j )j from the planet Saturn.
m A bright and shining spirit next appears, throwing down influences
|(i on the circle. Numbers of other spirits are present, including Robert
!>j Burns and Judge Edmonds, guides of one of the sitters. The judge
| \ \ plants himself for a short time in front of one of the mediums, and holds
I (i her with a fixed look of such power that (to use her own words) it makes
j) j her eyes both ache and water. Her increased development is the object.
: )\ By the door enters a tall and handsome old gentleman : he is upwards
j \j of ninety years of age, and carries a gold-headed cane, but the cane
i) | itself is not straighter than he—the grandfather of one of the sitters.
In A jovial-looking clerical spirit stands behind the youth above-mentioned.
| 0 One of the sitters, in very weak health, is being mesmerised and
i) i strengthened by benevolent spirits, and others are covered with beauti-
| (i ful flowers, brought in profusion by friends from their homes in the
j spheres. A dignified Chinese, with a pig-tail reaching nearly to the
I )| ground, approaches and addresses one of the mediums ; she hears him
! (| clairaudiently, but the monosyllabic utterance is unintelligible. Asked
| if he can make some perfume, he bows, enters within the circle, collects
i/J some invisible substance, rubs it between his palms, scatters it around,
i (i and a smell as of incense becomes perceptible; he then produces some
111 fresh clover, the scent of which is perceptible only to the clairsentient of
|) | the party. A pillar of fire now appears on the table: we are all specu-
I ( lating “ what,” “ whence,” and “ why ? ” when the impressional medium
|v says, “ One of the clowns is inside the fire.” The words are no sooner
:): uttered than the fiery pillar opens, and a clown’s head is thrust out, the
I (: face beaming with gratification at the success of his novel surprise. A
i | j Turk next approaches; he places some gold ornaments in the hair of
; \ i one of the ladies, and throws over her shoulders a red and gold scarf.
; (i The clairvoyantes are now taken away to the scene of the war in the
|) | east. In one place they see the Russians crossing a river, and driving
j)j the Turks before them; in another they see a town on fire; and in a
Kj third a hot engagement of opposing troops, which they describe as
:) i horrible and sickening. The Turk controls the trance medium (rather
i)j roughly), and states that these are actual scenes which they witness;
j(j In reply to a question, he states also his opinion (which must, of course,
} be taken quantum valeat) that his people will ultimately be victorious.
ill A fresh scene is now presented to the clairvoyantes: on the two sides of
June fc, 1877.
THE SPlElfUALlST.
273
the scene are the opposing forces; a deep gloom envelopes the Russians;
a bright light is spread over the Turks, and this, we are assured, is
emblematic of the conditions at the final close of the war. . . . With
thanks and adieux to our spirit friends the circle now broke up.
Not having noticed any description of a seance of this kind in your
columns, we have thought that an account might be of interest to such
Spiritualists as have not had any similar experience. This account is
necessarily somewhat brief and abrupt. On the other hand it is strictly
accurate; the clairvoyantes agreed in their descriptions; and further
corroboration was frequently added through the table and the trance
medium.—We are, sir, your obedient servants,
Albert Snow.
18, Atlingworth-street, Brighton.
William Dinning.
2, Eastern Quadrant, Brighton.
THE ANNUAL REPORT OP THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP SPIRITUALISTS.
Sir,—There is a slight omission in the report to the annual meeting
on the 29th ult. which it would be well to rectify.
The number of members of the Association in May, 1876, was reported
to be 442. This was the registered, not the actual number. The regis¬
tered number this year is 552.
By accident, also, the names of the auditors whose signatures are
attached to the balance-sheet have not been inserted. They are as
follows, viz.:—Morell Theobald, public accountant; J. H. Andre and
Henry Cook, members’ auditors. E. Kisltngbury,
Secretary to the British National Association of Spiritualists.
DR. CARTER BLAKE.
Sir,—If anything could confirm the truth of the old Ennian maxim,
Amicus certus in re incertd cernitur, it is the kindness which I have
received during my late illness from many members of the British
National Association of Spiritualists. To all, therefore, who have so
heartily sympathised with me (some of whom I only know by name), I
return my most sincere and grateful thanks. C. Carter Blake.
SWEDENBORGIANISM VERSUS SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—Mr. C. W. Pearce has missed the point of my letter to Mr.
Gorman, published in your issue of the 25th ult., viz,, that I see no use
in entering into the question raised in the late Mr. Smithson’s pamphlet,
because even if I swallow the pamphlet whole, as set forth on its title-page,
my Spiritualism remains exactly where it was before, my faith in it not
being dependent on “ authority ” alone (as is Mr. Smithson’s faith in
the Scriptures), but mainly on personal knowledge and experience.
I do not know whether or no “ the Swedenborgian is willing to dis¬
cuss the question upon the merits of the teachings of Spiritualism,”
but it is quite clear from the title-page that Mr. Smithson does not pro¬
fess to do so in this pamphlet, for he evidently starts from the premiss
that if intercourse with spirits is condemned by “ the Scriptures,” it
must be wrong. To the best of my knowledge and belief, at least four-
fifths of those calling themselves Spiritualists would reject this premiss
in toto, and Mr. Pearce must, I should think, be aware that you cannot
begin an argument until the disputants have agreed on the premisses.
Whether or no the Spiritualist is justified in rejecting the premiss
referred to, is another question altogether, and one which neither Mr.
Smithson nor I have touched upon.
Mr. Pearce draws a parallel between Mr. Lankester and myself, which
stands thus—Mr. Lankester “ refuses credence ” to Dr. Slade’s facts
because they disagree with Lankester’s preconceived scientific (?) theories
and dogmas; and prosecutes Dr. Slade. I refuse credence to Mr.
Smithson’s preconceived theological theories and dogmas, unless they
agree with the facts of Spiritualism; and I have not yet prosecuted any
Swedenborgian. Our arguments may “ proceed upon parallel lines,” to
a certain Umited extent, but they proceed in diametrically opposite
directions.
I cannot see that I am at all called on to “ show whether the respective
authorities really disagree.” Mr. Smithson says that they do, and, for
the purpose of his argument, I accept his statement.
And, I see no reason for supposing that he and I differ as to the
meaning of the word “regeneration.” A. Joy.
69, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.G., 1st June, 1877.
REINCARNATION.
Sir,—Will you kindly grant me space for the publication of the
following extract from a remarkable discourse delivered through the
mediumship of Mr. Simon De Main on Sunday evening, the 13th ult.,
at High Grange. The ideas promulgated are entirely new and original
to our circle, and forcibly demonstrate that an intelligence was pre¬
sent superior to any of the sitters or medium. Our knowledge of re¬
incarnation was very limited previous to the delivery of this discourse,
and as the medium and sitters are all working men who have
devoted little attention to the doctrine, there was no bias of mind in
its favour.
“ It has often been asserted that reincarnation is but the repro¬
duction of a Pagan notion—that it is but an ancient belief that man
returned from spirit life to become purged by passing through another
existence in the material world. It is, however, a grand and
glorious fact, which man’s mind immured in creeds and materialism
cannot comprehend.
“Man is an expression of divine wisdom, and woman an expression
of divine love. Wisdom without love is imperfect. When man reaches
maturity he is not satisfied until he becomes united with his counter¬
part, and if by affinity the male and female elements unite, they will
never be separated. They were united in a previous existence, and if
they become united on the earth plane they pass through their material
existence pleasantly and harmoniously, and instead of being united
until “ death do part,” their souls are as one throughout eternity—the
tie will never be broken.
“ How many are united in the bonds of matrimony whose existence
becomes almost intolerable because of the want of mutual affinity ?
When they pass to spirit life they will be as far asunder as the Poles,
and perchance they may deem it necessary to return to earth to
obtain that counterpart without which they cannot be perfectly
happy.
“ What becomes of infants who never had an hour’s experience on
earth ? They must again return to earth to benefit by experience.
All God’s children have a right to the same privileges. The child who
thus passes away cannot possess that knowledge which is essential to
progress, for every individual soul must come in contact with matter,
or it will be ignorant of certain laws of nature. It has been urged
that reincarnation necessarily implies retrogression. Man’s spirit
cannot retrograde. If he desires to return to earth, and to pass through
the various troubles and trials of earth, when he passes again to spirit
life he will occupy a higher sphere than he did previously. Man is
not compelled to become incarnate, but every time he passes through
this experience he becomes more perfect intellectually and spiritually.
If no aspiration or desire to benefit humanity is iu the mind of the
spirit, it is not compulsory so to do; but when the advanced ones have
a desire to return to benefit and elevate humanity they can do so.
John the Baptist was supposed to be the incarnation of Elisha.
Philanthropic souls, full of love for humanity, take advantage of the
privilege, and in blessing humanity they thus confer everlasting bless¬
ings on themselves, and when they lay aside the material casket they
are enabled to aspire to higher spheres of spirit life.”
C. G. Oyston.
Hunwick, Willington, Durham.
[We have taken the liberty of abridging the above, which was a long letter
upon speculative matters.—Ed.]
CANON GILBERT AND SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—This rev. gentleman, by the promulgation of his seventh “ test ”
for ascertaining the reality of spirit-communion, has completely over¬
thrown the anti-spiritualistic superstructure which he has laboured so
hard to erect upon the few flimsy considerations advanced by him, and
has but succeeded in more firmly establishing Spiritualism in the affec¬
tions of its thoughtful advocates.
He considers it a crucial test “ that persons should advance in good¬
ness and humility in proportion to the spirit manifestations received.”
There are thousands of intelligent men and women who gratefully
acknowledge the immense benefits which have been conferred upon them
by the recognition of the fact of spirit-communion, and a reverent study
of the spiritual phenomena and philosophy. Physically, they have
improved by the adoption of habits of life, the necessity for which has
been impressed upon them from time to time during their attendance at
the spirit circle; mentally, they have been strengthened by the neces¬
sity for close and accurate reasoning upon the phenomena presented in
their experience (I am not now speaking of mere curiosity-mongers);
morally, they have been led to see that true religion consists in the
widest observance of the golden rule, and not in ceremonious praying,
psalm-singing, and genuflection; spiritually, they have had set before
their aspirations ideals of purity and goodness infinitely more lofty than
those of any sect or church in Christendom.
As of old time, so now, these truths, so refreshing amid the arid
wastes of popular theology, have caught hold with a powerful grip even
of the “ publicans and sinners ” whom no church—Roman Catholic or
Protestant—was able to lead to salvation, and forced them to part with
one vicious habit after another, until at length they sit ‘ ‘clothed and in their
right mind.” And, as of old time, so now, the “ scribes and pharisees ”
(the self-conceited theologists of the present day, who so conclusively
prove their fellowship with their Master, Jesus, by turning their backs
disdainfully upon such as he would gladly have sat at meat with) find to
their great surprise that those whom they thought were last, are
frequently found to be among the first. A. J. Smart.
Cardiff. — —
Sir,—As one of those who heard the Rev. Canon Gilbert’s sermon on
Spiritualism, delivered at St. Mary’s, Moorfields, on Sunday morning
last, I was forcibly struck by his careful omission to refer to any of
the numerous well authenticated phenomena which would not admit of
a rational explanation other than as due to psychological causes. The
various elementary phases of genuine phenomena which he admitted,
but explained as due to unconscious muscular action excited by ex¬
pectancy, were such as would satisfy few intelligent investigators as to
their origin being other than a mundane one; while his treatment of
the subject was, at least to those who carefully studied Spiritualism,
such as to evince either an imperfect knowledge or a biassed mind,
because he ignored those points which would not fit in with his views.
As an instance, I would ask why Canon Gilbert did not deal with the
results of the researches of Mr. Wm. Crookes, F.R.S., which demon¬
strated by actual experiment that the phenomena were not due to un¬
conscious muscular action, and did not depend upon possible de¬
ception on the part of the medium or sitters. Again, why ignore the
facts set forth by such investigators as C. F. Varley, F.R.S.; Alfred
Russell "Wallace, F.R.G.S.; T. P. Barkas, F.G.S.; Serjeant Cox, and a
host of others ?
With all due deference to the Rev. Canon Gilbert, I feel that unless
such men as he grapple with the problem in its entirety in a philo¬
sophical manner, they will but furnish instances of the blind leading
the blind. Thomas Blyton.
72, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E., 6th May, 1877.
274
THE SPIBITUALIST,
June 8* 1877*
FORM MANIFESTATIONS.
Sir,—I have received the following letter:— E. Kislingbury.
“Miss E. Kislingbury, Res. Secy. Nat. Asso. of Spiritualists.
“Dear Madam,—I have read with a considerable degree of interest
the discussions lately carried on with reference to materialisations, or as
they are now to be called ‘ form manifestations,’ and I should like to
supplement the remarks of Mr. J. T. Rhodes in his communication read
by you at the last meeting of the Association. I have had some admir¬
able opportunities for observing the phenomena occurring in this town
through the mediumship of Miss Fairlamb. In order to show that I
have some capacity for observation, I may mention that last year I was
the special correspondent of the South Australian Advertiser, at the
Centennial Exhibition at Philadelphia, having left Adelaide in that
capacity last March.
“ I wish in this communication to call attention to the remarks of Dr.
Wyld, as found on page 248 of The Spiritualist of to-day’s date. He
argues that * the fact of a materialisation occurring in the presence of a
medium, and both medium and materialisation being at one and the
same time visible, did not prove that a foreign spirit was present; it
might only illustrate the well established fact of the ‘ double.’ Further,
although the materialisation in many cases might be unlike the medium,
viz., taller, stouter, or even of a different age and apparent sex, this did
not demonstrate the presence of a foreign spirit, because spirit might be
able to personate or create out of the surrounding elements the portrait
of any person thought of or desired.’ Of course this may occasionally
be the case, but I do not think that * the majority of spiritual phenomena
are created by the spirits of the living persons present.’ I presume that
Dr. Wyld will admit that the spirits which manifest themselves are
separate entities; that each spirit is perfect in itself, or rather contains
within itself the elements of perfectability. If this be admitted, I think
we have proof upon proof that it is impossible for the ‘ double ’ of the
medium to produce the manifestations which may be almost daily wit¬
nessed. The ‘ double ’ theory would not account for the presence out¬
side the cabinet of two, three, or more persons, as well as that of the
medium; it would not account for the medium being visible before our
eyes, and the spirit form also there, six feet away, and both speaking at
the same time. This I saw on Tuesday evening, 15th inst. Miss Fair-
lamb was on the floor controlled by ‘ Geordy,’ while the spirit-form
* Cissy ’ was some distance away, and talking in the direct voice. The
light was rather too low, but I could distinctly see, and of this I am
absolutely certain, that the strong Scotch accent of * Geordy ’ came from
the lips of the medium, and the small piping voice of ‘ Cissy ’ from the
form, which shortly afterwards faded away before our eyes.
“ I have seen many other materialisations which would be equally
satisfactory to me, but I will not attempt here to recapitulate them. I
will simply corroborate what Mr. Rhodes states as to the seance when
‘ Minnie,’ ‘ Cissy,’ and ‘ Sam,’ the male form, appeared, as I was
present on the occasion and took note of all that occurred.
Lorimer E. Harcus.
228, Westgate-road, Newcastle-on-Tyne, May 25th, 1877,
Sir,—I regret that I did not remember the following facts until the
meeting on Monday evening last was over, as they bore on the subject
then in discussion. About three years ago, at one of the most remark¬
able seances held at my own house, in a small back room, only two
friends were present, besides Mr. Williams (the medium) and myself.
We used no cabinet or folding-doors, but a small curtain, which scarcely
covered the medium, who sat in the window recess. John King
appeared almost at once, with his lamp brighter than I had ever seen it.
I said to him—“John, what can you do for us this evening ?” His
answer was—What can I not do for you under such conditions as
these!” And, certainly, he fulfilled this augury. He commenced by
taking my hand in his own, and, gazing with an intense gaze into my
eyes, said, calling me by my Christian name, as is his wont, when there
are no strangers present—“ Charlotte, what colour are my eyes ? Look !
look, and see!’’ I answered—“ They seem very dark, almost black.”
He then said—“ You know the medium’s eyes are light. A man cannot
change the colour of his eyes. Is not this a test At this moment, as
he still held my hand in his, the lid of the large musical-box was
slammed down by the spirit Peter, and John was so startled that I felt
the vibration from him. I said—“Why, John, you seem to have a
nervous system ?” “ So I have,” he replied; “ the same as you have.”
Charlotte Fitz-Gerald.
19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park-square,
May 30th.  
THE HOPE OF THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sib,—The recent discussions at the Great Russell-street Rooms on
form-manifestations, interesting as they have been, seem to me to bear
within them the seeds of an outcome as purely materialistic as that of
the teaching which it is surely the mission of Spiritualism to combat.
In raising the question of the various kinds of form-presentation, the
chief object in view was rather to establish facts, than to attempt to
elaborate theories by which they might be accounted for. It was
necessary to show that so-called materialisations are not all of one
kind, but of various degrees and orders, capable of differentiation. It
was desirable to gain recognition for the fact that in some cases the
form presented and the medium are one, in whatever transcendental
way that oneness may be explained. An earlier recognition of these
differences would have made the seizures which have led to the pre¬
tended exposures of imposture in mediums nothing less than a verifica¬
tion of our own theories.
The usefulness of this kind of discussion, where evidence is accumu¬
lated, and experiences are brought to light and compared, cannot be
over-estimated. But signs have appeared of a strong tendency in the
minds of some speakers to ignore as much as possible the action of any
111 but material influences in these manifestations, and of a desire to reduce
11 Spiritualism to the level of science. Now, I hold that Spiritualism
j \ | differs from mere psychology in this, that it is a religion as well as a
f| science, and that in proportion as Spiritualists forget this, they are
!) j helping to weaken its influence as a moral regenerator. I know there
| \ i are some who say that we do not want Spiritualism to teach us morality;
; 11 its value lies in its physical facts, and in these only; these we can get
|) I to know something about, all beyond is unknowable. And so we are
K| landed in the same region of agnosticism as the materialists.
|)j It maybe as well to remark that those who assume the title of
| i agnostics in religion, claim for themselves the great virtue of humility,
! (| since they will not pretend to know what cannot be known. But is it
1 not more true to all human experience to say, “ there is that which we
I I know, or can know, and that which we feel instinctively, and therefore
j jj believe, though we cannot prove it to others, still less should we dogma-
|)| tise about it.” To recognise two separate domains of knowledge and
! < | belief, the boundaries of which are undefined and variable, and to be
|)i careful that we do not utterly confound the one with the other, is
j )| surely both wiser and truer than to deny the existence of, or the
| ( possibility of knowing, that which we do not yet fully understand. It is
| >! just tliis lowering of all thought to the physical plane, and ignoring the
! j j reality of anything higher, which is the very essence of materialism, and
s which, if introduced into Spiritualism, will nip in the bud the promise
])| of that which should be its flower and crown, the strengthening of belief
j(j in higher, though incomprehensible influences, in an all-directing, if
(j unknowable, Providence; in a word, in creative spirit, which is the lord,
| ) j and not the slave, of matter. Spiritualism does not claim to have appre-
j 11 hended these things, but it does claim to have found a basis of know-
) ledge on which belief may rest, and which it would be suicidal in
! I Spiritualists themselves to destroy. If we encourage what I must call
|(| a growing affectation of unbelief in our own facts, and are continually
i > | wasting our strength in endless disputations on points about which no
! (| real Spiritualist feels any doubt, we shall end by finding ourselves
|' i unable to meet the attacks of outsiders, or to impress them with the
I ^ | importance and beauty of our subject. If Spiritualism is worth having,
j (j it is worth holding fast; and we should endeavour to put it forward in
| j its best aspects, and not as though we had no longer any faith in that
i 11 which we profess to advocate. Emily Kisungbury.
I | 38, Great Russell-street, London.
hi VEGETARIANISM.
I | Sir,—I am glad to see that your article on “ Vegetable Diet ” is elicit-
I (j ing some valuable testimony from those of your readers who have tried
i ji that system of regimen. I have myself lived without “ flesh meat ” for
| j i more than a year, but the results of my experiment were complicated by
II i the existence of influences distinct from that of diet in such a way that
i I could not arrive at any satisfactory opinion of its value in my own
hi case; therefore I will not trouble you with any particulars. “Man
i does not live by bread alone,” and although regimen has an important
I (| influence upon the health, there are many other influences which must
ju not be disregarded—such as climate, natural organisation, mental and
i>| moral surroundings, habits, and occupation. The great difficulty is to
(i distinguish what results are post, and what propter; and if there be
| (j any bias in the mind this is the rock on which it generally founders or
III flounders.
i j I hold the belief, based chiefly upon moral and not physiological con-
|)! siderations, that the human race, by a process of evolution, will one day
| I cease to rank among the carnivora, but this is a different thing from the
| (i belief that every individual belonging to it can now subsist in that state
of comparative harmony with his surroundings which we call health,
j( while abstaining from animal food. Upon that question I am open to
jU conviction, but as yet unconvinced. And this brings me to the object of
i j my letter, viz., the statement of what I conceive to be practical bearings
j (! of the question.
|(| My definition of “good diet” is like all conceptions involving the
] 11 idea of goodness or badness, a qualified one. An unalterable standard,
|: | even were it discoverable, would not suit men’s diversified situations and
i 5 i surroundings. It could only suit one state of life— and that an ideal and
i; i unattainable one—the state of perfection. A perfectly healthy man, in
!|| the fullest meaning of the word, would require a perfectly healthy
1)1 society to live in—a perfect climate, a perfect world—or he would be a
111 very unenviable individual. Imagine a physique, with all the sensitive-
! w ness to pain and pleasure which perfect health implies, subjected to the
I; | impure food and air, bad music, and all the other malific influences of
j) i modern civic life! How keenly it would sufler ! The idea that men
!'] can make or choose their surroundings is only a partial truth. As
j j Goethe has said, “Only mankind together is the true man,” and society
| < | is bound together by an iron chain, which, though often invisible, is none
l) | the less binding. AH progress must be in a measure solidaire, and no
single individual can go far ahead of his species in any direction,
I j| be it in dietetics, or what not, without feeling the pressure. Let each
I )j one, therefore, pull “ according to his strength.” Direction is every-
i 11 thing, and he w'ho succeeds in procuring some degree of unanimity as
I (| to the goal, amongst his yoke-fellows, does perhaps more to advance the
:) j army, than the enthusiast who thinks only of pushing forward his own
|) j theories to the utmost length of his tether. This may seem to some
| (; an immoral doctrine, spreading, as it does, over many other vexed
i; questions relating to the savoir vicre. I will only state one or two of
j; i ray deductions from it. I think the first thing to be done towards the
| (I promotion of vegetarianism is to make it possible to obtain a decent
II meal of vegetable food in some of our great cities, I wonder the
j (j “Vegetarian Society’’does not see to this. While meat is the most
: expensive, and proportionately the least nourishing part of a citizen’s
) | dinner, a “ vegetarian restaurant ” might be made a commercial as well
i as a philanthropic success, and the best possible means of propagating
}| the doctrine,
June 8, 1877.
THE SP1KITU AL1ST.
275
Secondly, let it be remembered that there are a few other reforms
needed besides a reformed regimen, and that no hard and fast rule will
meet all the exigencies of life. Gh F. Green.
Plumstead, Kent. ■
Sir,—The different views expressed on this important subject strongly
point to one valuable conclusion through all diversities of opinion,
namely, the advisability of the reduction of the quantity of animal food
eaten by nearly all classes of society. No doubt the art of cookery has
hitherto dealt chiefly with meat; the palate been made the master
of the law, and the stomach takes its revenge occasionally more or less
seriously. Every-day repetition of the same kind of food is, I believe,
a general mistake. Since I, for instance, adopted the plan of living
some days of the week on vegetables only or fish, the salutary effect has
been most positive. That some constitutions may thus find out which
substance should be the leading one is equally clear ; but after reading
glowing accounts of this or that system of diet, the sudden adoption of
them might bring about disastrous results. The gradually increasing
over doses of meat on our tables demands quick reform. Another gross
mistake is that when the stomach has got its share of food, the palate,
by the artful dodges of cookery, tricks us into taking more. In conclu¬
sion, I must touch upon a point which has been overlooked by the
advocates of vegetarianism—the fate of those poor mortals who are pre¬
disposed by nature to grow fat. The general exclusion of meat diet in
their case, would soon raise a cry for the Banting-cure from many a
victim. If those who make the effects of food their study could draw
up a bill of fare for “ preventing the spiritually inclined from over¬
ballasting himself in his pilgrimage through the earth-plane, within the
enticing fields of vegetarian diet,” he would be a real benefactor, and
earn the gratitude of many, and among them C. Reimers.
Manchester, Juno 3rd, 1877.
Sir,—Man is a cosmopolite animal. His diet must be suited to his
condition, situation, and the kind of work he has to do. He could not
live on greens at the North Pole; neither would “Old English roast
beef” be very acceptable at Ashantee. In physiological structure he
appears most adapted for a mixed diet, and a mixed diet is best for all
sorts and conditions of men. Vegetarians should look at this week’s
Graphic, and note the condition of the vegetable-feeding Indian, and
compare his appearance with the flesh-eating coolie. One is in a healthy
condition ; the other is at the point of death from starvation. How is
the vegetarian to live where a blade of glass will not grow ? Had not
he better shoot a tiger and eat him rather than die ? My experiences of
a solely vegetable diet are unfavourable to it. The body is more liable
to disease, especially indigestion, and is in a fit condition to receive in¬
fection. A man may exist on vegetables, but as he has not the digestive
organs of a cow, he does not chew the cud; so he either gives his poor
stomach double work, or else he becomes a walking scarecrow, as a poor
vegetable-eating shoemaker did who resided in this town a few years ago.
The only safe rule is to adapt our living to the conditions under which
we are placed, and to the climate in which we live; then, all other
things being equal, we shall, as a rule, have healthy bodies and sound
minds; in fact, become fit to make good Spiritualists. Delta.
Hyde, near Manchester, 30th May, 1877.
Sir,—I wish to state the result of ray experience on vegetarianism.
Except on Christmas Day last, I have not eaten any flesh meat for more
than a year, and I have found so much benefit from abstaining from it,
that I have made up my mind to have done with flesh eating for ever.
One of your correspondents suggests a month’s trial. I do not consider
a month is enough to give the subject a fair trial; there is not time to
get used to the change and realise the benefits. For the first two or
three months I felt inclined to go back to the old system of diet, and did
not realise the good results. Now I have no desire for flesh meat, and
feel much better without it. Another correspondent thinks flesh meat
necessary for those who have to ” rough it through life.” In reference
to this, allow me to say that during their last war the German soldiers
made some splendid marches, and fought many successful battles on
vegetable sausages. So far as I can form an opinion, I would prefer
vegetable diet as the best suited for any work—rough or smooth, mental
or manual. I hope you will not consider it a digression if I conclude
by stating that vegetarianism is one of many good things into which I
have been drawn through Spiritualism. Before I became a Spiritualist
and a vegetarian, I looked forward to a time when I should die and go
to heaven. Since I became both I feel as if heaven had come to me, as
if I were in it, and it in me. The world seems very beautiful; its sweet
sounds aud fair scenes possess an increasing power to please and to
charm. I am over 40 years old. My business hours are from 7 a.m.
till 5.30 p.m. I come in for a good share of life’s wear and tear, but
thanks to the philosophy of Spiritualism, and the healthy sustaining
power of a vegetable diet, my daily life is bright and peaceful, and
during the night’s repose, as a rule, I enjoy not “ nightmare,’’ but
“ A sleep full of sweet dreams, and health and quiet breathing.”
Thomas McKinney.
Elm-street, London-read, Peterboro’, June 4th, 1877.
Sir,—As you ask for the experience of vegetarians, I offer mine. I
had always been a heavy eater of flesh, and moderately free in the use
of beer and spirits. About four months ago my friend, Mr. S. Pride,
of this town, introduced the subject of vegetarianism to my notice, and,
for the curiosity of the thing, I thought I would try it; the conse¬
quence is I am now a confirmed vegetarian, and am fully convinced
that vegetables, grains, and fruit, are the most natural, and therefore
best, food for man. Beer and spirits I do not take now, neither do I
seem to require any stimulants,
I was never in better health, and as for the enjoyment of eating my
food, I am sure every vegetarian will agree with me that it is far be¬
yond that obtained from eating flesh. I can read and study with an
amount of pleasure and lightness of feeling never experienced before. I
live chiefly on good wheatmeal bread, oatmeal, and Indian meal
porridge, peas, beans, potatoes, boiled wheat, and fruit.
I feel certain vegetarian diet is most conducive to health, happiness,
long life, and purity, and it certainly makes a wonderful difference to
the pocket. The deductions of chemical analysis show that more
nutriment can be obtained from vegetable food for a penny than from
the flesh of animals for a shilling. It is a fact beyond dispute that a
great part of the hard work of the world is performed by persons
whose dietary is wholly vegetable. I think Spiritualism and vege¬
tarianism should go hand in hand, and would advise every one to give
vegetarianism a trial. “ Prove all things, and hold fast to that which
is good.” B. B. Scott.
27, Kemble-street, Liverpool.
Sir,—I see that some of our friends are going in for vegetarian diet.
I hope and trust that they will watch themselves very carefully, for
two friends of mine who tried the system about twenty-four years ago,
finding their health failing, endeavoured to retrace their steps. The
one died, the other escaped.
I knew one man, in the service of the Atlantic Telegraph Company,
at Valencia, in Ireland, in the year 1858, who could not eat meat.
His breath resembled in smell that of a cow. His disposition was
amiable—particularly so ; but he was not a genius.
The exception in this case, I think, proves the rule, or tends in that
direction. C. F. Varley, F.R.S.
Mr. James Coates is doing much good in Liverpool and its district
by giving popular lectures on mesmerism.
Spiritualism in Liverpool.—Last Sunday evening, Meyerbeer
Hall, in Hardman-street, Liverpool, was again filled with an intelli¬
gent and respectable audience, to listen to an address by Dr. Hitch-
man on the question, “ Is God a Person 1 ” The doctor gave numerous
illustrations of the human conception of Deity in all nations and age's
—Thibetan, Assyrian, Hebrew, Mexican, Asiatic, Peruvian, Hindoo,
Christian, and others. He thought that if God and Satan were not
identical beings in Hebrew records, neither science nor reason were
adequate to prove the existence of a personal God in respect of locality,
image, quality, reason, individuality, picture, attribute, or perception.
His conclusion was this :—“How Thou art and seemest to Thine own
being I can never know, any more than I can assume Thy nature.”
The lecturer made frequent references to the present war of Crescent
and Cross, which elicited unanimous approbation, protesting that “ as
literature, science, and art, were the true votaries of beauty, the
followers of peace, truth, and goodness, were the real worshippers of
God. And though we pass not the bounds of this present nature,
there is in our inner life a fine inextinguishable power, or native in¬
stinct, which guides us evermore beyond the ken of knowledge and
experience. Even now, Sordello takes up the asbestos lamp from the
inmost chamber of the tomb of Paraclesus, and we are conscious of
spirituality within and without us,
 all ambitious, upwards tending,
Like plants in mines, which never saw the sun ;
But dream of him, and guess where he may be,
And do their best to climb and get to him.”
—Liverpool Daily Post, May 30th, 1877.
Spiritualism in Dalston.—On Thursday evening last week a special
general meeting of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism was convened by circular, to consider the necessity for the early
removal to new premises. Mr. John Rouse having been elected
chairman, read the notice convening the meeting, aud explained the
necessity for action, notice to quit possession of the premises by the
24th instant having been served upon the tenants, the property being
required for construction of a branch line by the Great Eastern Railway
Company. He added that the Council had asked Mr. Thos. Blyton, the
hon. secretary, to provide suitable rooms in his own residence so as to
accommodate the meetings of the Association. Mr. Blyton was pre¬
pared to do so if the general body of members desired the arrangement;
the Council therefore had resolved to recommend the plan for accept¬
ance by the members. On the motion of Mr. R. A. Marsh, seconded
by Mr. J. Tozeland, it was unanimously resolved that the Association
remove its place of meetings to'rooms to be provided by Mr. Thomas
Blyton. The hon. secretary remarked that several members and
friends of the Association had tendered him assistance, which would
enable him to provide the necessary accommodation and means of
comfort, which he hoped would prove equal to those which the Asso¬
ciation had enjoyed since its formation in 1870. A cordial vote of
thanks to Mr. Blyton for his readiness to assist the Association was
proposed by Mr. T. Garrard, seconded by Mr. J. Tozeland, and carried
unanimously. Mr. Blyton said that he trusted the members as a body
would always evince their appreciation of any services which he might
render them by their taking an active part in all the proceedings of the
Association, and endeavouring to interest themselves, their friends
and acquaintances in the general welfare. The business part of the
meeting then closed.—Mr. James Burns, of the Progressive Library,
delivered an interesting lecture upon “The Progressive Study of
Spiritualism.” The chair was taken by Mr. Thos. Blyton. At the
close of the lecture, Messrs. R. A. Marsh, J. J. Morse, J. Tozeland,
John Rouse, and others, made some observations. A unanimous vote
of thanks to Mr. Burns for his lecture was passed, and the meeting
broke up.
27?
THE SPIRITUALIST,
CAPTAIN MACKINNON’S GHOST STORY.
It is not a little in support of the various theories of the
supernatural, that nearly every one at some period of their
lives has either encountered something ghostly and appa¬
rently unaccountable, or has heard a well-authenticated story
of such occurrences among friends. One such it was my lot
to hear directly after its occurrence now many years ago.
In many respects it is not at all an orthodox ghost story,
for the place where it occurred was neither old nor ruined,
nor lore-laden, being one of the hill sanatoriums of India, only
discovered then about thirty years, and the hero was neither
handsome, pale, nor unhappy, but, on the contrary, a stout,
red-faced, merry fellow, a little noisy according to the taste
of ladies, but one of the most popular among men of all the
gallant regiment of Lancers.
Certainly, every way considered, Captain, or Jack, Mac-
kinnon, as he was commonly called, was just the last ideal
hero for loves or ghosts, and yet, by one of those strange
chances by which life is always scattering our theories to the
winds, the following <£ owre true tale” of him came direct H
to me from one of his brother officers. i
The hills I write of contain woods that were a very para- j
dise for sporting men at the time, and Jack Mackinnon i
would try his luck among the bravest with the elks, ibexes, I
bisons, and tigers to be found there. One day he resolved !
to make an expedition to a lonely place where he heard of j
much game, and went for a sojourn there of some days. He j
started only with servants and beaters; not that he was fond !
of solitude, but simply because a dance given at the principal j
station had a greater attraction for his lighter and more |
nimbly-tripping companions. s j
A bungalow, or rather a better kind of hut, built by one j
of the earliest explorers, at the head of the ghaut by which j
he had scaled the mountain range, gave our hero the shelter |
he needed, and at a collection of native sheds, where a few ||
of the thinly-scattered aborigines of the place dwelt, he could j
get fresh buffalo milk. It was said he always preferred
something stronger, but in that case he must have provided jj
himself. ||
An awfully lonely place it was, with its dark forests, and j
the mountains breaking up, as it seemed, for it was below j
the edge of the plateau, and every now and then you came to j
a ledge hanging over an abyss bottomless to human vision, ;
veiled with mists and rank verdure. And if the grandeur j
and still solitude of the scenery were overpowering, still more |
so was the companionship possible at any moment. A herd |
of bison might have raced bellowing down a slope, or a j
murderous panther have leapt from an impenetrable thicket. I
But Jack Mackinnon had a stout heart, also a trusty rifle |(
and an able body of retainers. Still he did not like the j
look of the bungalow. It was damp, dark, worm-eaten, rat- j
haunted he was sure. “Was it no one’s duty to keep the |
place in order?” he asked of his retainers. They, unwilling j
from the first to have come there, answered sulkily that it j
was a deserted place ; no one had lived in it for years ; they j
had warned Master that he would not like it; would he jj
not leave it even thus late ? But the Master answered with jj
British pluck and a bad word, that having come there he jj
should stay were it the Inferno itself. Perhaps some one un- ij
seen heard these words. Well, the darkness crept on, and as jj
I said before it was not a comfortable house. A damp floor, j
a camp stool, a tumbler of dirty castor oil, with a lighted j
wick in it for all illumination, were not inducements to sit j
up reading or writing, so after dinner—a good dinner j
although cooked in rustic fashion under a tree—the Captain jj
made his arrangements for the pipe of peace, and then to jj
bed. They were to be up very early next morning, while jj
the timid ibex yet fed in dewy corners undisturbed, and the jj
elks lingered in grassy dells—no sport after the sun was up jj
except by beating the jungles, and like every true sportsman, j j
Jack Mackinnon liked tracking best. But now that he has jj
given his last instructions, has emphatically repeated them, jj
and his servants have gone, he is left with his rifle and his jj
favourite dog. jj
Perhaps he sleeps too soon after his dinner, or perhaps he jj
has bad dreams ; something is certainly wrong ; he tosses jj
uneasily and cannot rest. “ No clocks here; no moon either; j j
how beastly dark ! Hi! Ponto, where are you ? ” he exclaims; i'
June 8, 1877.
jj and his dog, who is lying close to his bed, raises his head
[j and licks his master’s hand. “ Bark ! Ponto, can’t you ?
j I want to hear some noise besides my own voice,” he con-
j tinues, but Ponto only licks his lips. He turns on the other
j side, and dozes off, but after what seems only a minute he
j starts up again. “ Good heaven, there is some one coming
j here,” for in the distance he had heard a voice call “ Boy ! ”
the common appellation for all male servants in India, like
garcon, in France. “ Boy! ” he shouts in his turn, to
wake his own people, but there is no answer, although he
imagined them to have been sleeping in the next room.
No—no answer to him, but just as he was getting up to see
where his servants could be, another call, twice repeated, of
“ Boy, boy ! ” fell on his ear. It was not like a traveller’s
rousing voice, but rather a melancholy wail, still from a dis¬
tance, but nearer than the first, and it came again, nearer.
“ Boy, boy ! ” “ Ponto! why don’t you bark ? ” his master
wished to say, but the words died on his lips ; he could only
put out his hand and feel his dog, who sprang upon the bed
eagerly, crept close to him, and gave a low growl as the voice,
nearer still, called, “ Boy, Boy! ” Once more Mackinnon
stretched out his hand, and seizing his rifle, dragged that
also to his side, and once more the unearthly voice, in the
same room now, repeated the call, and curdling all the blood
in Mackinnon’s veins, took from him all power of using the
weapon. A cold perspiration bathed him, the dog trembled
in every limb, his hand lay paralysed on his rifle. The
voice came nearer—was calling in his ear ! he saw no form,
he felt no breath, but his heart stopped beating with horror,
and he fell into a swoon, pulling, with a last convulsive
effort, the sheet over his head.
It was full broad daylight when he again drew a long
breath, and extricated himself, half-suffocated, from the
coverings, his dog and his rifle duly ensconced beside him.
This time his shout of “ Boy” quickly brought his body
servant humble and apologetic before him.
“ And this is what you call daybreak ?” he angrily ex¬
claimed. The boy admitted they had overslept themselves.
“ And where did you sleep ?” continued the master; u it was
not here.” The “ boy” hesitated; further pressed, he
answered trembling, “ Master, there is one Pishash (demon
or ghost) here. White people don’t mind these things;
black people very afraid. We all slept in the little mund
(village) down there; black people can’t sleep in this house.”
On further inquiry he informed his master that a white
gentleman had been murdered in the house many years ago,
or had died in some sudden and mysterious way, but he
could not or would not give any further particulars.
Jack Mackinnon thought much, but said nothing. After
breakfast, however, to the extreme relief of his retinue, he
announced that he felt unwell, and should go home. On his
return he confided his adventure to his brother officer, who
told it to me, but on repeating it to one or two others, and
meeting the jocular remark, “ But how much brandy and
soda did you take, Jack, after dinner ? you’ve forgotten to
tell us that, and it gives strange dreams sometimes,” he
grew angry, and declined to speak on the subject any more.
Inquiries made respecting the house elicited the facts the
servant had stated. An officer had died there, whether by
fair or foul means was never clearly proved, but he was
known to have made himself obnoxious to the natives, and
it was strongly suspected that he died either by poison or
violence at the hands of his servants.
Any way the house had acquired a bad name, and though
I resided on the hills many years after, I never heard of any
one returning to it, and I believe that it has now fallen to
utter ruin. C. B. X.
The Marylebone Society of Inquirers into Spiritualism intends to
hold a concert in a few weeks’ time.
Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, of 44, Eastbourne-terrace, Hyde Park, writes
that at a recent seance with Mr. Fletcher, much evidence of spirit
identity was given to persons unknown to the medium, but that the
facts themselves are of such a private nature that she cannot publish
them.
Scientific Research.—Few people feel interested in the details of a
scientific inquiry, and duly realise the fact that what they regard as
food only fit for the shrunken mind of a specialist, must necessarily
precede those gushing results they thirst after.—Rhy's Lectures on
Welsh Philology, 8vo (Triibner), 1877, p. 87.
June 8, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell. M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. Od.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing Interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate, essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. 'W.‘
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OUTER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.O.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams. Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritnal-
sm to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols.. crown 8vo., 16s.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supcmaturaiism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be-
leving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and iScience; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
ana Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEG’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals Iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different pianets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumshipof Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbeUevers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. "The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s, fid.; cheap edition,
7s. fid. .
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s, 6d.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumshin of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILIT Y, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. Cd.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevier. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tnke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crcsiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS; A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Savilie, M.A 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, eta 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
5s. Cd.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations .* . . . . 15 0
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . . .76
The Seer. „ III, „ . , . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . , . . .76
The Thinker. „ V. „ . . . . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Dam . . . .76
i Stellar Kay to the Summer Land . . . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . « .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . .36
Harbinger of Health , . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .36
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .60
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .50
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . , .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology. . . . .30
Morning Lectures . . . . , . .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
t
Oriental Religions (Johnson) ....
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritdaust Newspaper
Keys of the Creeds . . . . .
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A hook containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism
History ot American Socialisms (Noyes) ....
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) ....
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) ....
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen .
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.Ay Trin. Coll., Cam.
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . .
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. .
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officei
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D.
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . .
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . ... . .
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale .
: d.
24 0
io g
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1 Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mir. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
AMERICAN PAMPHLETS.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. Is.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. Is. 6d.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
Is.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. Is. 6d.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D, Gunning. 6d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM by Dr. R T.
Hallock. Soiled, Is.
ESSAYS, MORAL, SPIRITUAL AND DIVINE, by
Thomas R. Hazard. Parts 2 and 3, 6d. each.
THE LIFE OF MARY WHITTEY, the Catholic
Medium, by A. B. Dorman, of Connecticut. Is.
THE VOICE OF PRAYER, a Poem by W. S. Barlow.
6d.
NEW TESTAMENT MIRACLES AND MODERN
MIRACLES COMPARED, by J. H. Fowler. 2s.
PHILOSOPHY OF SPECIAL PROVIDENCES, A
Vision, by Andrew Jackson Davis. In paper wrapper, Is.
"DEAL LIFE IN SPIRIT-LAND.—Being
JL\i Life-Experiences, Scenes, Incidents, and Conditions
illustrative of Spirit-Life and the principles of the Spiritual
Philosophy. Of practical value to any who are anxious to
study the theories of Spiritualists and Mediums, for the purpose
of deducing a consistent system of faith concerning the
future, its rewards and punishments, &e., as it establishes a
basis in reason for its propositions, and asks no blind accep¬
tance of statements, but enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Given inspirationally through Mrs. Maria M. King. Cloth,
5s. Cd. Spiritualist newspaper branch office.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, the two
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F R S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.8.,and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post free, 6£d. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.   
Price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible iden¬
tical WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
THE SPIRIT U A LIST,
June 8, 1877
iv
HE GREAT QUESTION OF THE DAT.
How to Prevent Premature Death from Disease, or
Prevention of the Propagation of Infectious Diseases. Startling
but True.
How long are we to he left in sanitary matters at the mercy
of the ignorant and careless ? The Times states that 100,000
cases annually of illness from typhoid fever alone may he set
down as preventable. Upwards of 500,000 persons have died
of this preventable disease since the death of PRINCE
ALBERT THE GREAT AND GOOD. Under the Mosaic
law the nations were in a higher position in sanitary matters
than the world to-day, while their appliances were rude in
comparison to ours.
TNQUESTS. — A STARTLING ARRAY OF
JL PREVENTABLE DEATH.—Why should Fever, that vile
slayer of millions of the human race, not be as much and more
hunted up, and its career stopped, as the solitary wretch who
causes his fellow a violent death ? The murderer, as he is
called, is quickly made example of by the law. , Fevers are
almost universally acknowledged to be preventable diseases;
how is it that they are allowed to level their thousands every
year, and millions to suffer almost without protest ? The most
ordinary observer must be struck with the huge blunder.
WHO’S TO BLAME ? - For the means of preventing prema¬
ture death from disease read a large illustrated sheet given
with each bottle of ENO'S FRUIT SALT; the information is
invaluable. The Fruit Salt (one of nature’s own products)
keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of the most
valuable means of keeping the blood free from fevers and
blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever discovered. As a
means of preserving and restoring health it is unequalled; and
it is, moreover, a pleasant, refreshing, and invigorating
beverage. After a patient and careful observation of its effects
when used, I have no hesitation in stating that, if its GREAT
VALUE in keeping the body healthy was universally known,
not a household in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it,
Ii^NO’S FRUIT SALT.—A gentleman writes•
Li “In cases of bilious headaches,, followed by severe
attacks of fever, ENO’S FRUIT SALT has acted like a charm
when all other treatment failed. The day is not far distant
when the neglect of its use in all fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered. criminal.”—See
Stomach and its Trials, 10th edition, post free 14 stamps.
What every TRAVELLING TRUNK and
Household in the world ought to
contain—a bottle of ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
Without such a simple precaution the jeopardy of life is
Immensely increased.
As a HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and
INVIGORATING BEVERAGE, or as a GENTLE LAXA¬
TIVE and TONIC in the VARIOUS FORMS of INDIGES¬
TION, use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
(PREPARED FROM SOCKD RIPE FRUIT). .
It is the best preventive and cure for all Functional Derange¬
ments of the Liver, Temporary Congestion arising from Alco¬
holic Beverages, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions,
Impure Blood, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverishness
or Feverish Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Con¬
stipation, Vomiting, Sea Sickness, Thirst, &c., and to remove
the effects of Errors of Eating and Drinking; also Gouty .or
Rheumatic Poisons from the Blood, the neglect of which often
results in Apoplexy, Heart Disease, and Sudden Death.
. Notwithstanding its medicinal value, the FRUIT SALT
must be looked upon as essential as breathing fresh air, or as
a simple and safe beverage under all circumstances, and may
be taken as a sparkling and refreshing draught in the same
way as lemonade, soda water, potass water, &c., onlyit is much
cheaper and better in every sense of the term, to an unlimited
extent. Being a genuine proauct of nature, itisa true or natural
way of restoring or preserving health.
To Europeans who propose visiting or residing in HOT
CLIMATES, I consider the FRUIT SALT to be an indispens¬
able necessary, for by its use the system is relieved of poisonous
matter, the result of eating to nearly the same extent, and of
too rich food, as they do in a colder country, while so much
heat-making food is not required in the warmer climate. By
keeping ihe system clear, the Fruit Salt takes away the
groundwork of malarious diseases, and all liver complaints,
and neutralises poisonous matter. Out of a large number of
Testimonials we select the following:—
A M.D. (EDINB.) and MR.C.S., L A.C., London, writes
“ I am much pleased with your Fruit Salt, having tried it on
myself. Your theory and remarks are most reasonable.
Having nearly died of Typhoid, when studying at College,
being tbe only one out of sixteen who recovered, I. mean to go
in well for purifying the blood.- Though I am sixty-three, I
have not the least doubt it will be very serviceable to me.”
A Gentleman writes:—“Ifeel quite certain, if your FRUIT
SALT was known in INDIA and the COLONIES, that the
sale would not be limited to thousands of bottles per annum,
but MANY MILLIONS. India alone would use more than
all England.’,
“Your Fruit Salt is beyond all praise. I wish you would
sell it here; it would make its own way by its own merit.”—
T. A. Somerby, Councillor-at-law, 20, Old State House, Boston,
U.S.A.
A lady writes: “Everything, medicine or food, ceased to
act properly for at least three months before I commenced
taking it; the little food I could take generally punished me or
returned. My life was one of great suffering, so that I must
have' succumbed before long. To me and our family it has
been a great earthly blessing. I feel I cannot say too much
for it. The least I can do is to do my best to make the Fruit
Salt known to other sufferers. I am getting better rapidly,
and expect to totally recover, after spending hundreds of
pounds and travelling about for twelve years.”
Messrs. Gibson and Son, Chemists, of Hexham, say : “ Since
we introduced your Fruit Salt at Hexham a few months ago,
we have sold upwards of 1,000 bottles, and it gives general
satisfaction, as customers who get it almost alwaj s recommend
it to their friends. "We have had numerous instances of its
great efficacy in the cure of bilious headaches, indigestion, or
stomach complaints, &c.”
“ 14, Rue dela Paix, Paris, Jan. 16,1877.
“ A gentleman called in yesterday. He is a constant
sufferer from Chronic Dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of
Mineral Waters. I recommended him to give your Salt a trial
which he did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried your Salt,
and for the future shall never be without it in the house.
“ M. BERAL."
’ Sold by all Chemists, price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Part's—PHARMACIE DE BERAL, 14, RUE
DE LA PAIX.
THE REALITY OF SPIRIT
PROVED FROM RECORDS AND WORKS ON THE
SUBJECT.
BY “ M.A. (OXON.).”
Introductory Chapter.—The general aspect of the subject:
its many-sidedness. Certain broad views to be more par¬
ticularly illustrated in subsequent sections. The claims and
present position of Spiritualism.
SECTION t
Historical.—A retrospect of the history of the subjfct, illus¬
trated from Epes Sargent’s Planchette (reviewed), Mrs.
Hardihge Britten's History of American Spiritualism.,
Wallace’s Miracles and Modern Spiritualism. Howitt's
History of the Supernatural, Shorter’s Two Worlds, Judge
. Edmond’s Tracts.
SECTION II.
Scientific.—Dealing with some aspects of the phenomena of
Spiritualism in reference to theories and explanations that
have been given. Hudson Tuttle’s jlrcana of Spiritualism,
(reviewed), Hare’s Spiritualism Scientifically Explained,
Crooke's Researches, De. Morgan’s From Matter to Spirit.
SECTION III.
Phenomenal.—Dealing with published accounts of form-
manifestation, especially from Olcott’s People from the
Other World (reviewed), Epes Sargent’s Proof PalpaMe of
Immortality, Wolfe’s Startling Facts in Modern Spirit¬
ualism.
SECTION IV.
ReLIOIOUS.—Showing the religious side of the subject as
brought out in Crowell’s Primitive Christianity and Modern
Spiritualism,(reviewed), Dale Owen’s Address to the Clergy
in his Debdteable Land, S. 0. Hall's Use of Spiritualism.
SECTION V. ' ’
Clairvoyance.—Dealing with the inherent powers of the
incarnate human spirit, especially that of clear-seeing or
supersensuous perception, as exemplided in'simple dear-
sight or psychometrical'y in Denton’s Soul of Things, and
1 Andrew J. Davis’s Magic Staff (reviewed), Caliagnet’s
Arcana de Id vie future.
. SECTION VI.
Occultism.—Healing further with certain occult powers of
the human, spirit, and with phenomena attributable to them,
p as shown in Art-Magic, Ghost-Land (reviewed), and further
illustrated by records of phenomena hitherto unpublished.
THE TRANS-CORPOREaL ACTION OF SPIRIT,
Especially during Sleep: Immediately Before, and at
the Time of Death: and’ under some Strong Passion
or Emotion.
[This will form a considerable section, distinct from the rest
of tbe book: and will include a large number of facts, new
and old, arranged on the principle of reference to their deter¬
mining cause, where such can he ascertained,]
NOTE.—The above scheme of the book of essays and
reviews previously announced, is a draft only, subject to any
alterations that may be deemed desirable. It is published
in compliance with a request from many sources for informa¬
tion as to the title and scope of the work. The title now
affixed explains what is intended. The scope of the work is
to notice some aspects'of Spiritualism as they are presented in
the works of other authors; and so to point out and summarise
the best books cn the subject.
Though the plan may be modified, it will not bo substan¬
tially Chauged. •
| (The sections which deal with the phenomenal and religious
aspects will be so arranged as not to trench on the works
announced for future publication—Spirit Teachings and
Researches in the Phenomena and Philosophy of Spiritualism.
M. A. OXON.
The volume will be published at 10s. The names of sub¬
scribers should be sent to F. Percival, 15, Conduit-street, "W.
London, May, 1877.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to he found in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, hut cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number, of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just- large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations.
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any communications that may he obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind' sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably he table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent, being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,’’.and ask whether the arrangement is ’under¬
stood,. If threesignals.be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage ? ” Should three signals he given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should he put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifes’ations ? ” Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “Who is the medium?” When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should he put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the. alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the failings of humanity.
THE SPIRITUALIST FUND.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION FOR 1877 AND 1878.
yj b. u.
Le Comte.de Bullet   50 0 0
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.    20 0 0
Martin R. Smith, Esq    20 0 0
Alexander Tod, Esq,       15 0 0
Charles Blackburn, Esq    10 0 0
Alexander Oalder, Esq    10 0 0
N. F. Dawe, Esq  io o 0
G. C. Joad, Esq   /  10 0 0
The Hon. A. Aksakof      10 0 0
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D  10 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart   10 0 0
M. R. I   10 0 0
James Mylne, Esq.'      ; 10 0 0
X   i  10 0 0
B. .....  6 6 0
C. T         5 6 0
George Sutherland, Esq    5 5 0
T. E. Partridge, Esq.........;     5 0 0
Thomas Grant, Esq 1 ;  5 0 0
The Countess of Caithness............  5 0 0
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun    5 0 0
A Friend           500
B    3    3 0 0
Mrs. E. Dixon      2 2 0
The Rev. W. Whitear  ...A.  2 2 0
Dr. Baikie          2 2 0
Miss Whitear   2 2 0
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., M.R.1  2 2 0
Mrs.’Lowe         2 2 0
S.J.H        2 2 0
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S.   2 2 0
Ennesfallen.... t... 2 2 0
W. C. Pickersgill, Esq..  2 0 0
W.          2 0 0
g.v.      200
S. T. Speer, Esq., M.D.......   2 0 0
W. M, Buchanan, Esq., M.D  2 0 0
A. Vacher, Esq. ......7...'....    2 0 0
Colonel .Olcoit    2 0 0
The Baroness von Vay   1 10 0
George Lee, Esq    11 0
G. R. Tapp, Esq ' 1 1 0
Mrs. Maltby....    110
B. W. Pycock, Esq   .’  110
Mrs. Nosworthy     110
C. T. Hook, Esq.    110
Major Menars    1 1 o
A.Glendinning, Esq    110
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S.    1 10
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq., M.S.TeLE    110
Mrs. Hennings    110
Dr. George Wyld      110
Miss Allen   1 1 C
W. P. Adshead, Esq...    110
John Mould, Esq  110
J. P. Turner, Esq  110
J. T. Dodd, Esq    110
Mrs. Jeffreys       110
J. C. Eno i     ;  110
Miss Douglas       10 0
John Scott, Esq     10 0
J. C. Ferguson, Esq.   1 o 0
A. C. Swinton, Esq    1 o 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory   1 o 0
Mrs. Tyndall       10 0
Lieut.-Col. Jacoby    10 0
John Chapman, Esq   1  10 0
G. F. Green, Esq      o 10 6
Mrs. E. K. Beeby     0 10 6
R. Catling     0 10 6
E. R       0 10 6
J. Hare, Esq        0 10 0
M. J.Walhouse, Esq     0 10 0
A Friend        0 10 0
A Friend    0 10 0
T. H  0 10 0
Miss Pearce     0 5 0
J. T. M.      0 5 0
Subscriptions to this Fund should he remitted to W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
The food that we live on. in¬
structive, astonishing, true. A POEM of five hundred
lines. Composed and designed by Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Includingsome Vegetarian Society fly-sheets. Price Is. Sold
for the benefit of the society, and obtainable of Sir Charles
Isham, Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allbn, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT- „
- UALISVI EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney. '
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
Just published, price 7s. 6d.
THE RELIGION OF JESUS compared with
THE CHRISTIANITY OF TO-DAY. By Frederick
A. Binney.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
"ORIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob-
JL> tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr,
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George's-
road.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEAR’S TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skin.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pear’s, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Aye
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
