AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE,
[REGISTEEED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 78.—(Vol. IV.—No. 8.) LONDON: FEBRUARY 20, 1874. Published Weekly; Price Threepence
(Contents.
Literary Notice—Modem Spiritualism in the Light of the New Church 85
Six Weeks in a Trance     ...    ... 87
Miss Lottie Fowler’s Life and Experiences ...      88
Recovery of Property through a Spirit Message  90
Testimonial to Mr. T. Blyton  i      91
Home Experiences in Spiritualism ...     ... 91
Trance at,d Clairvoyant Mediumship      92
Sensations of a Trance Medium ... ... ...   93
Mr. Crookes on Spiritualism         93
A Trance Lecture     ...   94
Trance Poetry      ...    ... ... ito ... 94
Correspondence—Spiritual Policy, 94; Dr. Gully on Spirit Forms 98; A
Seance at Birmingham^ ...      96
Spiritualism at Camden Town ...     96
Paragraphs.
Crown 8vo. pp. 126, Cloth 2s. 6d.
HINTS for the “EVIDENCES of SPIRITUALISM.”
By M.P.
London: Triibner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fkitz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents On applica¬
tion.
London : Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1873.
JPmicfenf.—James 'Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
Secretary.
Mr. John Davidson, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
Treatwer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Archibald Lament.
Mr. "William Meredith.
Mr. G. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. R. Casson.
Mr, D, Gay.
Mr. T. B. Griffin.
Mr. Riece.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Casson.
Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. John Lament.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
Mr. Bretherton. I * Mr. H. J. Charlton.
T
HE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in Connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
Of them as from .time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
tebreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
Of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination Of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874,
M
RS. CORA L. V. TAPPAN’S SUNDAY EVENING
INSPIRATIONAL DISCOURSES.
New Course.
AT CLEVELAND HALL, OLEVELAND-STREET, OXFORD-STREET.
Committee:—
Dr. Gully, M.D., Hill Side, Streatham, Chairman.
N. F. Dawe, Esq., Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
J. T. Hoskins, Esq., 5, Counaught-square, W.
T. H. Noyes, jun., Esq., “United University Club,” Suffolk-street
Pall-mall, S.W.
Thomas Slater, Esq!, 136, Euston-road, N.W.
Mrs. Honywood, 52, Warwick-»quare, S.W., Treasurer.
Webster Glynes, Esq., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C., Hon. Secretary.
At an influential meeting, recently held, tno above-mentioned persons
were appointed a working Committee, with power to add to their number,
for inaugurating a further course of 12 Discourses by Mrs. Tappan, on
Sunday evenings.
The lectures commenced on the 18th January, and they will be Con¬
tinued up to the 5th April next. Doors open at 6.15 p.m., to commence
at 7 precisely.
It is estimated that the expense of holding the course will be £144, or
£12 a night.
Of this amount it is expected that £50 only will be obtained from the
admission of the general public.
The balance of £94 must therefore be procured from other sources.
The Committee make an earnest appeal for support, and solicit liberal
donations from the friends of the movement.
Tickets sold at the doors, also at Chappell’s or Ollivier’s, Bond-street, or
Burns’s, 15, Southampton-row, Holborn.
In order to prevent interruption it Is requested that no person leave be¬
fore the conclusion of the service. No admittance after the discourse has
begun.
Donations thankfully received by the Treasurer or Hon. Secretary.
Reserved seats 2s. and Is. each.
Body of the Hall fret. . , ,
PLANCHETTE.—ENDLESS AMUSEMENT for Old
and Young. _ Physical science is, as yet, baffled by the mysterious
performances of this little instrument. It writes intelligent answers to
questions which the operators do not hear. In polished-mahogany, whole¬
sale and retail from Sturmbey and Co., Constitution-hill, Birmingham.
Post free,' 51 stamps.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec-
TURES giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISTS.—Sunday Evening Services are Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o'clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
R. Pearce, Hon. Sec.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits,
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and .on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
MRS. CORA L. V. TAPPAN’S INSPIRATIONAL
DISCOURSES at the Cleveland Hall, Cleveland-street, Oxford-
street. The Committee have arranged for the delivery pf these dis¬
courses at 7 o’clock every Sunday evening till Ajiril 5th, inclusive.
The expenses are not nearly covered by the sale of tickets and col¬
lections.
Donations or Subscriptions in aid will be received by the Treasurer,
Mrs. Hony wood, 52, War wick-square, S.W. .
Tickets can be had at the doers; also at Chappells; at Oliviers, Bond-
street, and at Burns’s, 15, Southampton-row, Holborh. Reserved seats 2s>
and Is. each. Body of the hall free, .
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 20, 1874.
Lately published,
WHAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Mental
Philosophy and Psychology. Yol. I. The MECHANISM of MAN
By EDWARD W. COX, Serj eant-at-Law. Price 8s. 6d.
Contents.
CHAP.
1. Introduction.
2. What am I?
3. The Man.
4. How we Grow.
t». How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
' Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind.
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the Wm.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
31. Soul—Spirit—Anima.
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. The Natural and the Supernatural,
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul,.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul,
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery.
45. Conclusions.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 187(f.)
President.—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Mrs. C. A. Blyton,
Mr. George Blyton,
Mrs. Amelia Comer,
Mrs. Theresa Wood,
Council:
Mr. A. M. Greene,
Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mr. A. M. Greene, Secretary, pro. tem.
A DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on hear¬
ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, and in¬
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might be
demonstrated. Accordingly, a praliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the loth September, 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter careful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modem Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations {vide Rule IX). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordi-
nary seance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on the first Thursday
evening ifi each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Rooms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelope
should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and charming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and no
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Herald.
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably re&d..—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “ What am I ? ”—Leicester Mercury
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflectiv readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest.—South Wales Daily Hews.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book, is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
In marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
London: Longman and Co., Paternoster-rpw.
Just published,
The second volume of “what am i ?”
A Popular Introduction to Psychology and Mental Philosophy. By
EDWARD W. COX, Sergeant-at-Law. Brice 10s. 6d.
This Volume completes the work. It treats of the Mechanism of Man in
action. The following are the
Contents
CHAP.
Preface.
1. Introductory.
2. Ofthe Intelligent Motive Forces.
3. The Conditions of Existence.
4. The Mechanism in Health, j
5. Of Sleep.
6. Of Dreams.
7. Of .some of the Phenomena of
Sleep and Dreams
8. Of Delirium.
9. Of Insanity.
10. Of Natural Somnambulism.
11. Of Artificial Somnambulism. I.
The Condition.
12. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
II. Clairvoyance.
13. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
III. The Mental Phenomena.
14. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IV. Catalepsy.
15. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
V. Insensibility and Uncon¬
sciousness.
VOL. I. MAY BE
London: Longman <
CHAP.
16. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VI. History.
17. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VII. Healing Power.
18. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VIII. Supersensuous Percep¬
tion.
19. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IX. Thought Reading.
20. Of Trance.
21. Of Unconscious Cerebration.
22. Of Psychic Force.
23. Of Psychic Force. I. The
Proofs..
24. Of Psychic Force. II. Its Phy¬
siology.
25. Of Psychic Force. III. The
Directing Inteligence.
26. Other Psychic Phenomena. I.
Communicated.
27. Other Psychic Phenomena. II.
Experiments.
28. The Summing Up
29. The Conclusions.
HAD, PRICE 8s. 6d.
it Co., Paternoster-row.
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Weekly Journal. Edited by J. Tyebman.
Price Threepence. To.be had of W. H, Terry, 96, Russell-street Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
T^lALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
1 J' SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly ; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and. Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
Mr. A. M. GREENE, Secretary pro. tem.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
V
ERY
into
soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
England the subject attracted attention in Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assocciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. I Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy,8vo.,
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d. • .
Emanuel Swedenborg: his life and
WRITINGS. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History the
Doctrines and the other-world Experinces of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav¬
ings, by C. H. Jebns—L.Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
Price 2s. 6d.
Glimpses of a brighter land.—
Showing the harmony of things spiritual with things material.
“ The tone of the book is exceedingly pure and good.”—Christian Spiri¬
tualist.
*** A list of spiritual and mesmeric works on application.
London: Bailliere and Co., King William-street, Strand.
b
(r^
B
ei/la e]/b
% \mt4b xr| Jrugrm #${ uf JSjttfjiijmBm
VOX.UJVIE FOUR. J^UJVIBEI^ EIQHT.
LONDON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20th, 1874.
Cjre Spmtxralbt
Established in 1869. I
iltteiars Native.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. tTen initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch
Beduced terms for extended periods..
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions^:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of '•'■The Spiritualist" in
London or in ike provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordlered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Keamey-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.'
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 184, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &e., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &e., 118 Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.j
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road,
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst.—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-ttreet.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher.
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny,
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 10s., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
TJ1EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects :—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the "Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—Fitzroy-square, W.
Modern Spiritism in the Light of the New Qhurch. A
lecture by the Reverend Professor R. L. Tafel, A.M.,
Ph.D. London: Janies Speirs. 1874.
This pamphlet, written by a Swedenborgian minister.
Professor Tafel, recognises the reality of the phenomena
of Spiritualism. Most of the Swedenborgians do the
same, but hold the opinion that open communion with
the world of spirits is bad rather than good. Dr.
Tafel’s pamphlet is extremely interesting, because he
attempts to explain spiritual manifestations by the aid
of a philosophical system founded more or less upon the
doctrines of- Swedenborg. He says :—
It is a first principle of the philosophy of the New Church
that every natural effect or every pnenomenon in the natural
world is due to a spiritual cause which is in the spiritual
world, and that every cause in the spiritual world is produced
from a first end which is in God. It therefore makes a dis¬
tinction between God, the spiritual world, and the natural
world ; and it teaches that as the end is in the cause and pro¬
duces it, so God is in the spiritual world, and creates and
forms it; and as the end by the cause produces and animates
the effect, so also God, by the spiritual world, produces and
animates the natural world.
We learn further from the doctrines of the New Church
that, as is the case in general, so also it is in particular, and
that as the- natural world in general is produced and animated
by the spiritual world in general as its cause, so also every
particular object of which the natural world is composed, and
consequently every object of the three kingdoms of nature, is
produced and animated by a corresponding object of the
spiritual world which is its cause; that every plant -conse¬
quently is produced and animated by a vegetative soul from
the spiritual world, every animal by an animal soul, and every
man by a human soul; arid that this relation between soul and
body, or spirit and matter, extends also to every object of the
mineral kingdom, and to all the gases and substances which
enter into the composition of water and of the various atmo¬
spheric mediums ; so that there is absolutely nothing in the
whole natural world which does not correspond to a certain
object in the spiritual world, by which it is produced and pre¬
served in order.
Swedenborg teaches that there are two kinds of influx from
the spiritual into the natural world, a general and a particular
influx. The general influx, he says, may be compared to the
influx of the sun’s rays into the various objects of nature ; this
influx is the same into all the objects of nature, but it is re¬
ceived differently according to the forms into which it flows;
when it flows into the seeds of a fruit-tree, it developes
these seeds into the form of a fruit-tree, but when
it flows into the seeds of a poisonous plant the sun’s
influx is changed into poison. Such also, Swedenborg says,
is the case with the influx of the spiritual sun into the souls
of men, and into those of the objects of the three kingdoms
of nature. The influx of the spiritual sun consists of spiri¬
tual heat and light, or of good and truth, which from the
Lord, who is in the centre of the spiritual sun, flow into the
hearts of all men. According to the seeds in the soul of every
man which he receives by inheritance from his parents and
their ancestors, the life from the Lord, or the good and truth
flowing from God into man, either preserve their original
nature, or else they are changed into the opposite evil and
falsity. But the nature of every man since the Fall is utterly
perverted, and instead of being born into love of the Lord
and charity towards the neighbour, every man is born into
86
THE SPIRITUALIST.
' Feb. 20,1874.
the love of self and of the world. If, therefore, the general
influx from the Lord, or the life of the Lord, was allowed to
flow into the hereditary vessels or seeds in man’s soul, this
life, or this good and truth, would at once he perverted into
the opposite, and men from their very infancy would become
worse than the fiercest beasts. It was, therefore, provided
that the general influx of life from the Lord should
not flow into the hereditary vessels of man’s soul, but that,
instead of this general influx, there should be a particular
influx into man’s soul. This particular influx does not take
place into man’s hereditary nature, but into his actual
nature, or into the nature which man contracts by his own
words and deeds. Everything that man sees and hears,
and everything which he speaks and does, enters into
his memory and remains there to eternity. Particular
influx, therefore, takes place into man’s memory, and general
influx into man’s hereditary nature. In order to make
man subject to this particular influx, and to prevent the
general influx from flowing into his hereditary nature, there
are appointed over every man by the Lord spirits and angels,
and these spirits and angels are the mediums through whom
man receives life from the Lord. These spirits and these
angels take possession of everything contained in man’s
memory ; the spirits appropriating everything that is evil and
false in man’s memory, and the angels appropriating his
goods and bis truths. Such spirits and angels are appointed
by the Lord over every man as harmonise most with his genius
and nature. The spirits enjoy their own wills, that is, their
own lusts and appetites, but the memory which they took
with them from the natural world is in a quiescent state, and
they put on the memory of the man with whom they are.
The evil spirits that are with man have therefore full
cognizance of everything evil and everything false which is
in the man, while the angels have cognizance of everything
good and true. The angels instil true thoughts and good
affections into the soul of man, and the evil spirits false
thoughts, and evil affections ; the angels, therefore, are ever
intent upon increasing the store of good and truth in man,
and the evil spirits his stock of evil and falsities. Between
these two powers in man, of which one tries to pull him to the
right, and the other to the left, man is in a state of equili¬
brium, and the Lord keeps him in a state of freedom of
choice, so that he can listen either to the angels or to the evil
spirits. The struggle between the good and evil spirits in his
soul is what is called temptation ; and when man listens to
the evil spirits, he is said to yield in temptations, and when
he listens to the angels, he is said to conquer.
Particular influx, then, consists in angels and spirits taking
possession of man’s memory, and directing the general influx
from the Lord into man’s memory, instead of allowing it to
flow into the hereditary vessels of his soul. This particular
influx, however, reaches only as far as man’s affections and
thoughts, and no angel or spirit is allowed to flow into man’s
body, and thus determine man’s acts and words. (Cf. Arcana
Ccelestia, 5850, 6192.)
Although it is of a somewhat mystical nature, the
whole drift of the pamphlet is that spirits instead of
influencing men in the normal manner, obtain undue
control over their actions, the general result being evil.
Like most theologians, he assumes that the evil powers
are stronger than the good, and except in the case of
Emanuel Swedenborg, assumes that good spirits can¬
not control the actions of men in the same way that the
alleged evil spirits are said to influence them. Although
there is a great deal of truth in the writings of Sweden¬
borg, throwing light upon the nature of the spirit
world, Swedenborg was but a medium, and when the
knowledge of Spiritualism shall have advanced to such an
extent as to take the position of an established science,
it will throw light upon the errors and mistakes of
Swedenborg, and enable us to a large extent to separate
the chaff from the wheat in his writings. Was
Swedenborg controlled by such a very divine spirit
when a revelation was given to him from heaven that
the English bishops had plotted together to stop the
circulation of his works in England, and were conse¬
quently condemned for the act by spiritual powers ?
The absurd notion which Swedenborg had taken into
his head Jwas confirmed instead of dissipated by the
spiritual influences around him, just as erroneous
opinions of our modern mediums are sometimes con¬
firmed instead of dissipated by the spirits around them.
Consequently, when by hard study, we have found out
the causes of these errors in modern mediumship, we
shall also be able to point out how Swedenborg made
these mistakes, and to break up the assumption of
Swedenborgian preachers that Swedenborg is an in¬
fallible authority. When by the light of his inspira¬
tion, Swedenborg uttered such vile slanders against
those very good and upright people, the Quakers, is Dr.
Tafel prepared to say that those utterances were in¬
spired by the divine Master, under whose influence
Swedenborg professed to gain the knowledge of spiritual
things ? Swedenborg was nothing more than a very
good medium, who obtained spirit messages of a sym¬
bolical nature, and of very great value when his mind
was in a passive state, but on those occasions when he
became excited upon any particular point, his messages
appeared to grow proportionately unreliable. His
writings on physical science are also full of great mis¬
takes, although considering the age in which he lived
they are, taken as a whole, of a high order of merit.
Swedenborgians say that everything in the natural
world is connected with its analogues in the spiritual
world, which is not improbably true. But Dr. Tafel
carries this system of correspondences to what appears
to the uninitiated to be a ridiculous extent. Eor in¬
stance, in describing the phenomena of dark seances, he
gives us the spiritual meanings of the hands of the
sitters, of the table, and of the guitars, which some¬
times fly about the room. He says:—
The correspondences used are those of the hand, which sig¬
nifies power, and of a table, which signifies reception of
spiritual and celestial things, and of guitars, &c., which sig
nify confession of the Lord and of spiritual things. These
are the correspondences of these objects in a good sense, but
they have also a correspondence in an evil sense ; hands then
signify the power of falsity from evil, table the reception of
the tbings of hell, and guitars, &c., the declaration of lies,
falsehoods, phantasies, &c.
By what rule does Dr. Tafel make these revelations ?
Does he spin these ideas out of his own inner con¬
sciousness or has any body printed a dictionary to
which the laity can refer to learn the spiritual analogues
of material things ? Would any other Swedenborgian
give the same interpretation that Dr. Tafel, with papal
authority, gives in the paragraph just quoted ? Or has
any Swedenborgian a special and separate interpreta¬
tion of his own ? Further, will Dr. Tafel answer this
important question.—If the spiritual meaning of a
guitar is “ the declaration of lies,” what is the spiritual
meaning of a fiddle ?
While there is much in the writings of Swedenborg
of very great value, so much so that Swedenborgians
probably have a more accurate knowledge of the real
nature of spirit-life than any other of the orthodox
sects, whereby Swedenborgianism is made a kind of
half-way house between orthodoxy and Spiritualism,
Swedenborg’s writings are not infallible. Instead of
his writings having power to explode modern Spiri¬
tualism, modern Spiritualism will in time make the
errors of Swedenborg so clear that he who runs may
read.
Me. Peakychand Mittea, a merchant of great influence
in Calcutta, has been elected as one of the honorary corre¬
sponding members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists,
Feb. 20, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
87
“ SIX WEEKS IN A TRANCE.”
From the “ New York World," January 5th, 1872.
On the 10th day of November, Miss Bonney sent for
Mrs. Dutton and informed her that her time had come
to leave the body. She told Mr. Preston also, and Mrs.
Preston, and Mr: Ryan and his wife. No one
made any remark except Mr. Preston, who said, “ Why
will you talk so? I am tired of hearing it.” She
laughed at his incredulity, and went on to give direc¬
tions regarding her treatment while in the trance. She
said they must keep a fire burning in the stove in the
sitting-room, adjoining the bed-room in which she lay,
and that the heat must be kept up to sixty or seventy
degrees. No persons, except two or three whom she
named, must be permitted to view her body or he ad¬
mitted to the house; otherwise “ the spirits would not
work,” She said she should prove that a person could
die to all appearances, visit the spirit world, and re¬
occupy the body. She should be absent not less than six
weeks. At two o’clock on the morning following (the
11th of November), her spirit would be entirely sepa¬
rated from the body; the moment would be known to
them by the ringing of ghostly bells. Prom that time
till her return, Mrs. Dutton, accompanied by one of the
family, must be always within hearing. Then she
gave particular descriptions of the appearance of her
body at various stages, how the tongue would protrude,
and the eyes, how her flesh would turn black, but
would, after a time, bear large spots of white, shortly
preceding her return. It was early in the afternoon
when she gave these particulars. She was weighed,
and steadied the scales at 208 pounds. She finished
her usual work, ate a hearty supper soon after dark,
took a bath, disrobed, and retired at ten o’clock^ She
gave her last directions while in bed, and while still
speaking her breathing became shorter by degrees. At
two o’clock, as she predicted, her pulse ceased to beat.
These particulars of her last hours are given by Mr.
Ryan and others who were with her. They are also
the authority for the statement that when her breathing
had entirely ceased the tinkling sound of a bell was
heard proceeding from some unexplored quarter of the
house.
So the predictions were fulfilled to the very letter, if
these statements are to be relied on—and they are no
more remarkable than some statements made by gentle¬
men not connected with the family who were subse¬
quently radmitted to the room, gentlemen who have
borne the highest character, whose word no one who
knows them would think of doubting. Besides, as I
have said, Mr. Preston, Mr. Ryan, and Mrs. Dutton
are neither of them believed to be capable of lending
themselves to a deception.
"Was this poor girl so chagrined by the doubt
expressed by Mr. Preston and others, as to be impelled
to take her life by means of poison ?
Nothing was known to the general public until nearly
a month after this occurrence. Mrs. Dutton remained
all the time with the body, proving extraordinary de¬
votion and faith, watching twenty days, with only a
few hours sleep daily. Mr. H. B. Simmonds, a wealthy
and esteemed gentleman, residing here with a promi¬
nent physician from Rochester, were admitted to see the
body under a pledge of secrecy. The physician declared
that the woman was dead, but admitted the strange¬
ness of the protruding eyes. Mr. Preston has declared
in writing,—in which assertion he is supported by
members of his family,—that at different times in the
first five weeks the strange tinkling of bells was heard
by all in the house. Mr. Ryan declares that at one of
his visits to the room where the body lay, his arms and
legs suddenly swelled to such enormous size that he
was unable to put on his coat or his boots for several
days afterward. All these stories are believed by many
of the Spiritualists and others, who have thronged
hitherto from all quarters to view the body. The
strange watch went on week after week unchanged,
the body of Miss Bonney lying without breath or
motion but apparently without decomposition, although
the room was all the time warm. So far as appear¬
ances may be taken this had long ago been realised. The
confident assertions of the Spiritualists that the body
would quicken into life and that great revelations would
be made to a hitherto benighted world were spread far
and near, and the case became, soon after first being
made public, the theme of conversation of thousands of
firesides in western New York. There were many
wild stories circulated, but the fact that the main
features of them all were based upon the direct ut¬
terances of men against whose veracity none had ever
made charges, brought the matter into a region of dis¬
cussion quite different from that in which it would
otherwise be treated.
It was not long before the local newspapers took the
matter up, and presently that all-enlightening
functionary, the coroner, was urged to investigate.
One Dr. Bissell, of Geneseo, was until three days ago,
the official in whose bailiwick the body lay. But
although many newspapers asserted that there was a
corpse in Mr. Preston’s house that had come to death
by mysterious means, Dr. Bissell had no official noti¬
fication, and held to the belief that it was no business
of his. Yielding at last to the clamour, however, he
visited Mr. Preston’s house in company with Dr. W.
E. Lauderdale, of Geneseo, and requested permission to
view the body. They were at once admitted, the
family expressing their readiness to give any informa¬
tion that could be desired respecting the manner of de¬
parture or death. The story was told as I have given
it substantially, and the two doctors entered the room,
accompanied by Mrs. Dutton, a Mr. English, of Batavia,
and Mr. H. B. Simmonds. Upon entering the room they
detected what they describe as the “ odour of a dissect¬
ing room.” The body lay on its back, slightly in¬
clined to the right side. The head and face had
swollen, and were of a dark yellow colour, the tongue and
eyes protruding, and there were- some white and
some livid spots on the limbs. A copious discharge of
blood from the mouth had saturated the pillow. The
coroner, after making his examination went away con¬
vinced that the body had long been lifeless, but there
was nothing to justify him in holding an inquest.
On the first day of this month the term of office of a
new coroner commenced, and it is said that he will soon
order a post-mortem examination unless the family
cause the body to be interred. ' But they persist in
watching by the corpse, with faith somewhat weakened
since the six weeks which Miss Bonney predicted as the
probable length of time of her absence has expired, but
still with strong hopes of her returning to life. Mr.
Preston stated to our correspondent yesterday that
they should observe the injunction laid upon them by
Miss Bonney as long as the authorities would permit
them to keep the body in the house, and be had not
much fear of interference.
88
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Ebb. 20, 1874.
It is impossible to converse with the members of the
family who have so stubbornly held to the belief in the
return to life without imbibing the fullest faith in their
honesty. The charges of murder for the purpose of
deceiving the public into a belief in Spiritualism, which
have been published in some respectable newspapers in
this locality are, it appears to me, utterly preposterous.
Many persons of the orthodox religious denominations
have pressed this horrible supposition upon my atten¬
tion, and two clergymen have considered that it was
not improbable, from the fact that the Spiritualists had
•been so blasphemous as to declare that the event would
prove more important to the world than the crucifixion
and resurrection of Jesus Christ. Not less improbable
is another theory-—advocated also, I hear, from the
pulpit—which admits death to have resulted from a
fanatical determination to die. Those who give this as
a solution of the mystery, support it by giving in¬
stances of the death of criminals who imagined they
were being executed. But I hear of no precedent for
a death coming on gradually during four hours of pain¬
less, motionless silence. Those who still hope for the
return of life to the body tell of a similar case of trance
near Rochester, that occurred not many years ago.
Like Miss Bonney, the person is said to have lain four
or five weeks without breath or motion, her body (she
was also an unmarried lady) changing as Miss Bonney’s
has changed, and finallyreturning to life and motion,
as it is hoped Miss Bonney’s will return. The facts in
this case were given a few days ago by the Rochester
Democrat, which guarantees the statement as true in
every particular, but withholds the name at the request
of the friends of the lady. The Democrat states that
the young lady has never said what were her sensations
during the long period in which she remained apparently
lifeless, but has promised to write everything, to be
read after her death. Should this story—which, not¬
withstanding the high authority, will, I think, find few
believers—be found to be true, the faith of the Spiri¬
tualists in Miss Bonney’s case will not appear so pre¬
posterous as the the mies of some of their detractors.
The belief that Miss Bonney committed suicide has,
I have said, become the point of discussion with the
greater number of unbiassed persons who are interested
in this case. But against it there are some facts that
should not be lost sight of. Miss Bonney announced
early in the afternoon of the 10th of November that
she should leave the body at two o’clock in the morn¬
ing following. She had of course taken no poison then,
else it would have betrayed its efiects before the time.
She was not seen to take anything afterward excepting
her supper,, which she ate with the family. It is not
denied even by her own people that she may have
swallowed poison without their knowledge, but they are
most positive in their assertions that none of her actions
during the evening, or when she was becoming lifeless,
showed the effects of a drug, and one of these witnesses
is a lady physician of experience. Besides, no one, in
all the madness of defamation that has heaped upon
the family foul play, has pretended to trace poison to
that house. There is no proof, certainly, that she did
not take poison so timed as to cause the departure from
life at the hour appointed, and the presumption is that
she did. But she was kind and gentle—not one to
cause her friends weeks of needless anxiety over her
corpse—if she contemplated suicide. She was healthy,
cheerful, and in love with life, and she had never shown
the qualities of mind that would lead to the belief that
she could coolly contemplate self-slaughter. I doubt if
a post-mortem examination at this late day would find
poison, if it was indeed the agent of death. If it
should result in this the case will be the most remark¬
able in the history of suicides.
Since the above was put in type, we learn that Miss
Bonney’s body has been consigned to the grave.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER’S LIFE AND EXPERIENCES.
From the Edinburgh Courant, Feb. 13th.
Miss Lottie Fowleb is about the average height,
has a graceful figure, is sprightly in disposition, and
like all Americans profuse in language. If you call
upon her, rightly divining the purpose of your visit,
she will at once launch qut into the subject of
Spiritualism, and with a fluency which even ladies
might envy pour out the tale of her career.
She is a native of Boston, Massachusetts. Her father
was of a good family, and she was brought up reli¬
giously. Indeed, so scrupulously was the spiritual wel¬
fare of the household looked after, that, at the early age
of seven years she was placed in the convent of Notre
Dame, Montreal, where, in the exercise of a virtue and
a Christianity which were probably too strict, as they
were premature, vicarious, and ascetic, she remained
till she attained her thirteenth year. Education fol¬
lowing close on the heels of religion, she was sent away
to a grammar school. Under the tuition of suitable
instructors she lingered till the young ideas had fairly
shooted; and then, returning to her home, she was per¬
mitted to stay there till her twentieth year had been
passed.
Hitherto she had been a sceptic as regards the occult
mysteries of Spiritualism. She was incredulous and
sceptical, and would admit of no supernatural pheno¬
mena being visible. But she had reason to alter her
belief, or rather prejudice, as in this case it seemed to
be. At a party she happened, along with others, to
place her hands on a table. The influence of “ the
spirits ft speedily became manifest, but not by means of
table-turning, spirit-rapping, spirit-floating, or any
such fantastic method. The influence under which she
became prostrate and helpless was a somniferous
power, which, against her will, literally entranced her.
Moreover, in this spell-bound condition she began to
laugh hysterically; became, unconscious; and could re¬
member no more. When she regained consciousness
the people said she had told very strange things—things
the knowledge of which had been confined to her own
family, and circumstances attending her own birth,
which were unknown to all but a select circle. These
facts made her anxious to investigate the subject of
Spiritualism. Experiments succeeded inquiries. At
the next meeting she again became entranced, and pro¬
mising that she would show the company who in the
room had a bald head, proceeded to a gentleman who
wore a wig, and made him blush for the poverty of his
scalp. This “ spiritual intuition ” induced the lady to
undertake work of an onerous kind. She had for two
years been living with an old Uurse; and with the con¬
sent of this venerable dame she determined to give
public sittings free of charge. For two years she con¬
tinued to do so ; and at .the end of that time, convinced
that she was sufficiently strong in the spiritualistic faith
to make an impression on the public, she accordingly
commenced a public career, which has since been re-
| garded as remarkable. At one of her first seances, in
Feb. 20, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
89
the entranced state into which the “ spirits ” usually
throw her, she went straight up to a gentleman and de¬
liberately said—“ Sir, there is -a spirit who tells me
that you waylaid a man on his way from California,
and that you murdered him. The spirit says he will
forgiv.e you if you find out his wife and children and
refund the money l” The gentleman addressed
with such boldness went out and disappeared. His
friends became alarmed for his safety, advertised for
him, and adopted every possible means for the discovery
of his whereabouts: These were, however, of no avail;
and his disappearance to this day remains an unsolved
mystery. In Worcester, U.S., she was consulted by a
man who disbelieved in Spiritualism as to the death of
his girl; and when she had gone into a trance, she told
him that the child would be found at the bottom of a
well; It was singular that on going to the well indi¬
cated the gentleman found his child at the bottom of it.
Another circumstance connected with her marvellous
feats was the manner in which her “ double I—so to
speak—was observed going up the stairs of a hotel,
while she herself was entranced in another hotel some
fifty miles distant. But of all her acts, that which she
narrates in connection with Bridgport, a large manu¬
facturing town in Massachusetts, where Barnum, the
great showman, was born, is probably the most wonder¬
ful. In the course of a private sitting a person con¬
sulted her on a medical matter while she was in a som¬
niferous state, and received this remarkable answer :—
“ You work in a dangerous place; within six weeks
there will be an explosion and loss of life. A spirit
tells me to warn the superintendent to look over the
works and see if there is any likely cause of an accident.”
The applicant went to the- superintendent and said that
Miss Fowler told her there was to be an explosion.
As it approached the time at which she predicted there
would be an explosion, the girls in the factory refused
to go to work. Contrary to everybody’s expectation—
for the prediction of the lady was not kept in a closet—
close upon the prophesied time a magazine burst, and
one of the boldest of the workpeople, who persisted in
attending as usual, was blown to pieces. The superin¬
tendent of the factory was so enraged that he made a
complaint against Lottie Fowler to the legal authorities,
requesting that she might be arrested. Miss Fowler
replied that'he might have her arrested, if that was his
determination; but at the same time she must state
that she had only done her duty in saving the lives of
the workpeople, and would repeat the favour she had
done them, supposing that were necessary. The result
of the dispute was that Lottie, on whose side the popu¬
lace willingly ranged themselves, was formally taken to
prison, and then admitted to bail—her security being a
leading lawyer—while she was arraigned for the offence
of inducing workpeople to forsake their employment by
prevailing upon their superstitious credulity. The
trial approached, the court-house was crowded, excite¬
ment pervaded the town, its Catholic priest declared
Miss Fowler to be inspired by divine power, reporters
swarmed from all parts of the country, the superinten¬
dent was hissed, and Miss Fowler was cheered; The
evidence was concluded, and a verdict—received with
infinite delight by the people—was given in favour of
the accused. So great was the hero-worship of which
this lady Spiritualist was the subject, that an enthu¬
siast from Baltimore offered five dollars for the chair in
which she sat in the course of the trial!
Miss Fowler, after relating such facts as these, and
which bring her story down to 1871, diversified her
narrative with some observations regarding the American
people. Her experience of them in her native town,
in Baltimore, Washington, Alexandria, and other places
both north and south, enables her to state that they
are much more volatile, talkative, and radical, in
business and society, as well as in politics, than the
British people. The women are not nearly so timid
and retiring, and usually give their opinions with a
readiness which lays them open to the European charge
of forwardness. A great many of them consider their
ability to discharge the functions of physicians, ministers,
and lawyers fully as great as that of men, and would
certainly stick at no masculine task, provided that the
muscular power of males was not absolutely necessary.
Miss Fowler is scarcely a woman’s rights’ advocate
herself; and if ladies are to be doctors, she would insist
upon their confining their skill and attention to their
own sex alone. Indeed, having herself been employed
as a medical “medium” in hospitals, she believes that
ladies would be better able to discover the diseases of
female patients than doctors, and she mentions several
instances of lady doctors having been useful in this way.
Resuming her story, she said that two years ago she
left Baltimore and arrived at Liverpool, and thence
proceeded to London. Ho one in that vast city did she
know, with the exception of the editor of a Spiritualistic
magazine, who, having heard of her reputation, and
convinced that she might do something to impress the
public in favour of the “ cause,” took her under his pro¬
tection until she had made her way in the metropolis.
Her first performance was suggested by a rather singular
circumstance. She accidentally came across a poor
man who was unable to bury his daughter. The idea
struck her of holding a public seance in his behoof, and
so successful did the affair turn out, that £6 were
handed to the necessitous individual. Afterwards she
held numerous public seances at the house of Mr. Burns,
Southampton-row. Owing to the stiffness which she
thought characterised the English people, these meetings
were not at first congenial. But in three months, she
adds, she had abundant reason to alter her convictions.
She was introduced to many of the nobility and those
who compose the flower of intellectual society in London.
Seances took place at the house of Mrs. Makdougall
G-regory, wife of Professor Gregory. A German Prince
told her that he had been a believer in Spiritualism for
fifteen years, and that many of his countrymen, including
gentlemen in authority, held the same views. That
Prince she describes as the most spiritual man she ever
saw. Conspicuous among others to whom she was
introduced was the Austrian Minister, Count Wimpffen,
many noblemen, and others. Some Scotch gentlemen
induced her to pay Caledonia a visit. She has done so.
Arriving in Edinburgh, her first impressions were that
it was the most beautiful city she had ever seen; and
further acquaintance with it had not led her to modify
that opinion. A party of scientific men were chiefly
instrumental in bringing her to the metropolis of the
north. They were desirous of learning something of
the subject of Spiritualism, and making a thorough
investigation into it, and have had already several
interviews with her. Her stay in Edinburgh will
extend over several weeks.
The testimonial to Judge Edmonds had reached Hew
York, but bad not been delivered into his hands when the last
mail lor England left that city.
90
THE SPIBITTTALIST.
Pm 20, 1874.
EECOYERY OP PROPERTY THROUGH A SPIRIT
MESSAGE.
When the gates of the eternal world are opened a little
way by Spiritualism, permitting fleeting glimpses to be ob¬
tained of life in the land beyond the grave, new inquirers
frequently ask not for revelations of mental or spiritual
truth, but say—“ Why do not the spirits tell us something
useful”—which means “how to make money,” or “howto
escape the duty of work.” The following narrative from the
San Francisco Chronicle of January 22nd last, shows that the
requirements of this very materialistic class of mind are some¬
times met:—
When Foster, the Spiritualist medium, first came to this
city and hung out his shingle at the Grand Hotel, he was an
object of much curiosity. Among those who went to witness
the marvellous manifestations, which it was claimed were
daily made, was a well-known gentleman, whose name we are
not authorised to give. The gentleman had heard of the
slip-of-paper trick, and believing that he knew a thing or two
more than Foster did, he resolved to play a sharp game with
him. Before going to the medium’s room, he Wrote a name
on a slip of paper, which he wrapped and folded tightly in a
piece of tinfoil. When he got there, in company with several
other friends, he handed the little roll of tinfoil to Foster
and awaited events.
The little paper inside the tinfoil contained merely the full
name of the gentleman’s mother—her maiden and married
name. Foster took it, pressed it to his forehead in that
dreamy, listless way he has, and then laid it on the table.
Presently he said, “ Yes, sir, t have a message for you. There
is the spirit of a lady here who wishes me to write you this
message.” Here Foster took ,up a pencil, and with many
jerks and quirks wrote:—
“Do not remove the remains of your father and myself.
Let us rest where we are. Your heart is right, but your
judgment is wrong. ^ -.”
The message was signed by both the maiden name and the
married name of the gentleman’s mother. The gentleman
turned as white as a sheet, for he at once recognised the
message as having been written in the name of his deceased
mother. He had long been intending to remove her remains
and those of his father from an eastern cemetery to his vault
at Lone Mountain. He had not thought of the matter at all
that day. Foster had never seen him before. Neither
Foster, nor any one else—not even the gentleman’s wife—
knew what the mother’s maiden name had been. Hence the
clearness, the strange ontline of the message, and above all,
the aptness with which it referred to his project with regard
to the remains of his parents, gave the astonished gentleman
something to think about for days to come.
He did not wait for an answer to his tin-foil puzzle, but
started away, very much in the condition of the young man
who went to church to scofl, but finally concluded to remain
and pray.
Next day the gentleman met his friend, the Hon. Chas. E.
De Long, who had just then returned from Japan. To him
he told his remarkable experience of the day before. De
Long laughed at him for his apparent credulity, and scouted
the idea that spirits had anything to do with the message.
Nettled at this, the gentleman invited Mr. De' Long to go with
him and see Foster and judge for himself. That night they
both, in company with Howard Coit, called at the Grand
Hotel, and were shown into Foster’s rooms. Mr. De Long
was wholly unknown to Foster. They all sat down to the
table, and after Foster had smoked a while at his cigar, he
said : “ I can only get one message to-night, and that is for a
person named Ida. Do either of you know who Ida is?”
Mr. De Long looked at Foster with rather a startled look,
and said, “ Well, yes, I rather think I do. My wife’s name is
Ida.”
“ Well,” said Foster, “ then this message is for her, and it
is important. But she will have to come here and receive it.”
This was just enough to excite De Long’s curiosity, and
after endeavouring in vain to get Foster to reveal the message
to him, he consented to bring his wife the next night to
receive the important communication in person. Accordingly
the next evening the same two, accompanied by Mrs. De
Long, were ushered into Foster’s parlour. They were soon
seated around the table, waiting eagerly for the spirits to
arrive. After Foster had smoked for several minutes in
silence, he suddenly said, “ The same message comes to me,
It is for Ida. This is the lady, is it?” he asked, as of the
spirit. “ Oh, you will write the message, will you ? Well,
all right,” and with this he took up a pen and dashed off the
following :—
To my Daughter Ida,—Ten years ago I entrusted a large
sum of money to Thomas Madden to invest for me in certain
lands. After my death he failed to account for the invest¬
ment to my executors. The money was invested, and twelve
hundred and fifty acres of land were bought, and one-half of
this land now belongs to you. I paid Madden on account of
my share of the purchase, 650 dollars. He must be made to
make a settlement.—Your father, Vineyard.
Both Mr. and Mrs. De Long sat and heard this communica¬
tion read with astonished faces. Mrs. De Long knew that in
life her father had had business dealings with Mr. Madden,
but to what extent, or even the nature of them, she did not
know. She was terribly frightened at the denouement, for she
knew that Foster did not know who she was, nor who her
father might have been, and when the communication came
in so remarkable a way, the effect upon the whole party may
be better imagined than described.
Mr. De Long had just enough faith in the correctness of
Mrs. De Long’s communication to want to see what there was
in it, anyway. So the next day he called on Mr. Madden; at
the Occidental Hotel. Without saying what especial reason he
had for asking the question, he asked Mr. Madden if there
was not yet some unsettled business between himself and the
estate of the late Mr. Vineyard. Mr. Madden thought for a
moment, and then he said there was. He said several years
ago he and Mr. Vineyard had purchased a tract of land
together, and their interest was yet undivided. The land
had increased and was still increasing, enormously in value,
and he supposed Mr. Vineyard’s daughter desired to let her
interest lie untouched, which was the reason why the matter
had never been settled up. Besides, she had been absent for
a long time from the country, and was not here to have the
matter settled. When informed that Mrs. De Long had only
just learned Of this investment of her father’s, Mr. Madden
expressed much surprise. He said he supposed she and her
husband and the executors knew all about it, but were simply
letting the matter rest for the property to increase in value.
Mr. Madden then said that he was ready to make a settlement
at any time. This Was readily assented to by Mr. De Long,
and accordingly, On Saturday last, Mr. Madden transferred a
deed for 625 acres of the land to Mrs. de Long, her heirs and
assigns for ever. Having done this, Mr. Madden offered the
lady eighteen thousand dollars for the property, but having
been informed that it is worth at least twenty-five thousand
dollars, she declined to sell.
Meanwhile, Foster is overrun with people anxious to inter¬
view their deceased parents, for the purpose of finding out if
the old folks are quite sure that their estates have been fully
and properly settled.
The Boston Daily Advertiser of Feb. 3rd says i—
At last the spirit mediums are relinquishing the diverting
but unprofitable tippings and rappings with which they have
so long solely concerned themselves, and are turning their
superior knowledge to practical account. Mr. De Long, our
late representative in Japan, was recently induced to visit the
notorious Foster, in San Francisco, and although he entered
the presence of the medium prepared to doubt and scoff, he
remained, if not to pray, at least to give thanks. For Mr.
Foster had a message for Mr. De Long’s wife from that lady’s
dead father, informing her that before his death he had en¬
trusted to one Thomas Madden, a large sum of money fdr in¬
vestment, which had not been accounted for to his executors.
Mrs. De Long remembered that her father had had business
dealings with Mr. Madden, and consequently she, in company
with her husband, called on that gentleman and asked him if
there was not some unsettled business between himself and
i the late Mr. Vineyard. Mr. Madden promptly said there
was ; that they had purchased a tract of land together, and
that their interest was still undivided, and he furthermore
explained that he had made no return to the executors
because he supposed they were content to let the property
stand as an investment. Mrs. De Long thought, however, that
a settlement had better be effected at once, and the feccommo-
dating Mr. Madden thereupon gave her a deed of a parcel of
real estate, for which he offered an equivalent in cash of
18,000 dollars. Mr. De Long asserts that neither he nor his
wife knew anything about Foster until a friend invited him
to visit the medium ; that Foster could have known nothing
about his family affairs, and that but for the spirit revelation
his wife would be poorer by 18,000 dollars than she is to-day.
Feb. 20, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
91
TESTIMONIAL TO ME, T. BLYTON.
A Movement is on foot to present a testimonial to Mr.
Thomas Blyton, who, as is well known to the readers of the
Spiritualist, has acted for three years as Secretary and
Treasurer of the Dalston Association of Enquirers into
Spiritualism, without fee or reward. This association, thanks
to his able and careful assistance, has been so well conducted,
that it is the only one connected with Spiritualism in London
that has carried on its operations unremittingly for years,
without running into debt—thereby doing not only good work
for the cause, but performing that work in such a way as to
entail no burden upon its members or the public.
It is only right, however, to state that Mr. Blyton has been
ably supported by the other officers of the association. Mr.
Thomas Wilks, the late President, and Mr. A. E. Lovell, who
now fills that office, also the members of the Council, have all
given valuable aid by their regular attendance at, the meetings,
and their attention to the business of the association.
Organisations of this kind, which, under careful manage¬
ment, are self-supporting, deserve well of Spiritualists gene¬
rally. What they do is done well and effectually, and in
refusing to attempt what is beyond their means, they set
a good example, which is thoroughly deserving of support.
As many Spiritualists, who are not members of the Dalston
Association, have had experience of the good work which it
has been doing for some years past, it is not intended to limit
subscriptions in aid of this testimonial to members only, it
being thought that many others who have had experience of
the kindly offices of Mr. Blyton, and the'hearty aid he has
rendered generally to the cause of Spiritualism, will be glad to
recognise his services.
Subscriptions in aid of the Blyton Testimonial Fund will
be thankfully received by Mrs. Amelia Corner, 8, St. Thomas’-
square, Hackney, E. ; Mr. Thomas Wilks, Circulating Library,
Dalston-lane, E. ; and Mr. G. R. Tapp, 18, Queen Margaret’s-
grove, Mildmay-park, N.
HOME EXPERIENCES IN SPIRITUALISM.
BY E. LOUISA S. NOSWORTHY.
The perfect conviction that Spiritualism is true, comes,
I think, most strongly to those who have found their proofs
in the privacy of home ; and if, as in our case, their medium
has been a little child, and that child one of the most artless,
truthful, and simple-minded, such persons know that God has
vouchsafed to them revealings of the future beyond the
grave, on which they may rest as on messages delivered by
angels. Another incident in the mediumship of my daughter,
the little Beatrice, who has once before appeared in the
pages of this paper, in connection with the subject of
“ haunted furniture,^ may be of interest.
In the bed-room occupied by the child hangs an engraving
of the celebrated historical picture by Fisk, “ The Trial of
Thomas, Earl of Strafford.” Some months ago Beatrice
complained to me of very disagreeable manifestations she
had seen in relation to this picture. “ The man in the middle
often moved,” and she saw him at times “ kneeling with his
head cut off, and another man holding it up.”
These manifestations, seen only by the child, caused her
great trouble, and inspired her with fear. For my own satis¬
faction, and as a test, I examined her closely on her know¬
ledge of the subject of the picture, and found that she had
not the most distant idea- of what it represented ; moreover, I
discovered, that if in her school studies she had read the brief
story of the Earl of Strafford’s life, and death on the scaffold,
as it appears in such childish histories as Beatrice has used, it
has passed from her memory, leaving no recollection even of
his name.
I did not at this point attempt to enlighten her ; I simply
led her to the picture, and asked her to point out the man she
had seen in the woful plight which gave her such pain; at
once she ^pointed out the commanding figure of the earl.
From time to time the child has been troubled in the manner
I have related over a period of three or four months, but about
ten days ago, a change took place in her usual vision ; after
seeing the decapitated figure as before, a mist covered the
picture, which, clearing away, she saw in characters of
shining gold these words,—“ Blessed are the merciful, they
shall obtain mercy ; ” at the same time a deep sad voice said,
“ Have I been merciful ? ”
On her relating this experience to me, I determined to hold
a seance with Beatrice, although for months past we have
given up seances, fearing they would injure the growth and
health of our little girl. Being now, however, deeply inter¬
ested in finding out who the spirit was who so visited the en¬
graving, and so troubled my child, I held a seance in the
nursery. Very soon Beatrice passed into the trance state, and
was controlled by a male spirit of grave and serene demeanour.
At once he ordered the younger children to leave the room
lest, as he afterwards said, they might be frightened at. what
he had to communicate. At this part of my narrative I must
express my regret that I had no shorthand writer near, to
take down the singular words which fell from the lips of the
mere babe who was speaking.
The spirit controlling her has called himself Edward Lee.
He states his age to be twenty-eight ; we have before received
most interesting communications from him. On this occasion
he proceeded at once to inform me, that knowing the pain
Beatrice had experienced on account of visitations connected
with a picture, he had determined to watch her room during
the night. Accordingly, on his proceeding to the room for this
purpose, he was “ at once sensible of the presence of something
dark.” He firmly desired the dark spirit to depart, and was
obeyed; Edward Lee following the other spirit, said—“Do
you trouble that picture, and cause the child medium to see
unpleasant things ?” “ I do,’’answered the other. “Whatisyour
name ?” asked the bright spirit. “ It is Thomas Wentworth,”
said the other. Then the brighter spirit remonstrated with
his erring brother on the folly, nay cruelty, of the course he
was taking in thus striving to avenge the wrongs of his earth-
life on innocent persons, for it appeared that Thomas Went¬
worth confessed he visited all copies of the picture which
represents his trial for the purpose of troubling mediums if he
could find such in juxtaposition with one of the pictures. In
deep sorrow Edward Lee quitted the erring spirit of the once
haughty Earl, promising, however, to meet him again and aid
him if possible to rise from his present dark and fallen con¬
dition. Pondering sorrowfully over the state of Thomas
Wentworth, the higher spirit saw that he had mighty difficul¬
ties to grapple with in an attempt to raise one who had always
thought himself in the right, who had looked on his earthly
policy as perfect, and used his earthly power in an unmerciful
and an arbitrary manner. One person he had served faithfully
and had offered to give his life for ; that person had accepted
the sacrifice, had signed away his life, and Thomas Wentworth
awoke in the future he had prepared for himself, to find that
the sacrifice of that life on the scaffold, did not atone for his
oppressive rule on earth over those who had been put under
him. Thus talked the child, and I wish it to be understood
that I do not hold myself in any way responsible for the
opinions she expressed in the trance state on the character
and deeds of the Earl of Strafford, of whom, if even I held
any opinion, it was that he had been enrolled among the army
of martyrs. In her own proper identity I am convinced that
Beatrice knows nothing about the Earl of Strafford. To con¬
tinue the history of this (to me) memorable seance, the spirit,
Edward Lee, arming himself with three texts of Scripture,
applicable to his case : met again the gloomy spirit of the Earl.
“ Have you brought me any comfort ?” said the unhappy
spirit. “ I have brought you these words to think about,” was
the reply: “ Blessed are the merciful, they shall obtain mercy ”
“ Call you this comfort,” groaned the other, “it drives me to
despair; I never exercised mercy, and if I am to obtain it
only as I have shown it, I am lost; that which I denied to
others was by Charles I. denied to me, and I have never forgiven
him.” “ You lower yourself by this want of forgiveness,” said
the bright spirit, “but let me tell you another truth—
* Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom oj
heaven.' ” “ No comfort, but again the reverse is in that pro¬
mise for me ; if there is anything I was not, you have men¬
tioned it in the words ‘ poor in spirit.’ I was one of the
proudest and most haughty of men. Again you have utterly
crushed me.” “Yet another truth,” said the ministering spirit.
“Blessed are the peacemakers, they shall be called the children
of God." “ That text hurts me not,’’ said the Earl’s spirit,
“ as the others have done. I .cannot accuse myself of destroy¬
ing peace ; I cannot think that I helped in any way to pro¬
mote war.” “ You are in error,” responded he whom I may
term “ the angel,”—for with the words and looks of an angel
he has ever come to us,—“ you are in error, you have worked
to destroy peace; the peace of a child was destroyed when
you visited that picture, and you intended it to be so. You
have violated this last text also in the manifestations you
have shown in the picture. Let me remind you j et of
another condemnatory utterance—‘ Whoso shall offend one of
these little ones which believe in Me, it were better for him that
a millstone were hanged about Ms neck, and he were drowned
92
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 20, 1874.
in the depth of the sea' " The poor spirit, then, with a sigh
of anguish, expressed dread that there was no hope. “ Thomas
Wentworth,” replied the angel, “ have you ever said the Lord’s
prayer, or thought of it?” “ Never,” answered Wentworth,
“ since I passed from earth life.” “ Repeat it noW.”
As soon as this request was complied with, the angel
arrested his fallen brother at the words, “forgive us
our trespasses as we forgive them that trespass against
us.” “ These words,” said he, “ must be prayed from your
heart, and if you can forgive, you will rise to a brighter
estate. Already you have admitted the wrong of your past
life; I now counsel you to forgive the king, who helped
you to cut short your earthly career, and sent you to the
scaffold.”
Thus ended the interview between the two spirits. I have
endeavoured to give it as accurately as possible. The spirit
Edward Lee remained a considerable time in possession of
the child, and discoursed to me on the character of the Earl of
Strafford. The Earl, he said, had been incapable of falsehood,
but he possessed firmness to such a degree that it became a
blemish; it had made him arrogant, ^elf-sufficient, and un¬
merciful ; such spirits are very difficult to influence, and take
a long time to rise. Much did I ,marvel to hear such childish
lips discuss a character of history on which but two or three
days ago I had found her profoundly ignorant. ■ Let the
sneerers at trance mediumship (and it is my lot to meet
many) find me a solution, if they can, of this mystery. If this
child be not a creature of such organisation that spirits are
able to take up a temporary abode in her" being, and speak
through her lips, what is she ? Whence comes the power by
which she utters thoughts beyond her years, and makes reve¬
lations of facts that have occurred in her family before
her birth ?
A short time ago we were all much startled to find Beatrice
allude in the trance state to an incident that occurred fifteen
years ago, and which has never been mentioned by us since it
took place.
Avon Lea, Claughton, near Birkenhead.
TRANCE AND CL AIR Y 0 Y ANT MEDIUMSHIP.
The following messages were given at two private
seances through the non-professional mediumship of
Mrs. Earl Bird, of 11, Park-grove, Shepherd’s-lane,
Brixton, S.W. When in the clairvoyant state, Mrs.
Bird has symbolical visions, many of them of a similar
nature to those recorded by Swedenborg. In many of
these cases, very probably, the medium is mesmerised
by a spirit, and what the spirit thinks or wills, the
medium sees. At times Mrs. Bird sees distant scenes by
clairvoyance, by which means she once, when in Lon¬
don, minutely described what was taking place in a
private house in Norwich.
January 11th, 1874.
Medium, Mrs. Bird. Present, Mr. Bird, Miss Bird, F. G.
Stevens.
Dear and much-beloved friends, with whom my heart ever
beats in unison, I greet you, and wish you, not only a happy
new year, but also one that shall be fruitful in opening np
many spiritual gifts within yourselves, which may bring to
you rich and abundant blessing from the higher and purer
spheres.
I perceive that your circle is small to-night, but. in this
greeting I include those who I have met so pleasantly within
the years that are past.
However much adverse and untoward circumstances con¬
nected with your physical and material existence, may seem¬
ingly keep us apart, and throw our spirit-circle out of joint
somewhat, yet let me assure you, not only for myself, but for
those who have so successfully communicated with you in
times past, that our spirits are one in sympathy and in love.
We wait and watch until favourable opportunity shall give
us the happiness of revealing ourselves more fully to your
understandings and your hearts. Be not discouraged, dear
friends, but continue to persevere. There is a time to sow,
and a time to reap ; and if you have to wait somewhat for the
gathering in of the fruit of all these sittings, fear not,—keep
sowing and your harvest of satisfaction shall come assuredly.
I am no great orator, and have some difficulty in speaking
through a medium, yet can I not refrain from offering you
my congratulations, and expressing my desire for your well¬
doing and happiness at the beginning of anotherjyear.
Consider me ever to be your trusty friend and brother,
Lorenzo.
The medium now passed into the clairvoyant state, and spoke
as follows:—
Roses in January 1 Not winter roses either, but warm-
tinted roses, flushed with many colours, beautiful and bright
as the summer itself, and in such abundance too. Trailing
branches almost like ivy leaves, but studded with roses and
rose-buds ! There seem to be some half-dozen of these long
sprays held downwards from above, dropping into the centre
of your circle; and now that I look higher, I perceive that
they are held by a hand, a small white hand. Above this,
and looking down upon you, is a face that surpasseth anything
I ever saw in its gentle purity and loveliness. It is a girl’s
face, an angel’s face. ’Tis a messenger of peace and love to
our circle to-night, a kind of herald bringing rose-sprays,
instead of a trumpet, and circling them round you. Beginning
in the centre, making a larger circle each time until they dis¬
appear on the outside, and raising them above your heads, I
see other forms and faces. They take the extreme ends of
these trailing plants, crossing them over and interlacing
them, until there is a kind of net-work above your heads,
every thread of which is held by a spirit hand,—a spirit
friend of your own, and so the circle is complete, including
even myself beneath it. And under this canopy of love and
roses, I feel my heart exalted, and my spirit drinks in a
portion of the joy of those who hover around us. My soul
expands to the heavenly warmth that is diffused about me,
and as I ask what it means, I hear a voice speaking. If I can
utter the same prayer that she utters, I will, for I know who
it is. Mr. Stevens, thy mother speaks.
“ Still with the ever abiding love that only mothers feel, I
watch thee on thy way, trying to inspire thee with thoughts
and desires that shall elevate thee above things sensual, and
praying to thy Father which is in Heaven that He will be
the guide of thy youth ; shielding thee from the evil that is
in thy way; enlightening thy understanding so that thou
mayest perceive the things that are for thy good ; and giving
thee heavenly wisdom that thou mayest be able to choose the
good and to refuse the evil; and that thy heart may be
established in the things that are true, and take fast hold of
that which is good, so that when temptation is strong upon
thee, or disappointment, sorrow or losses shall come, thou
mayest be able to bear all that is in thine earthly lot.
“ I pray for thee that thy manhood may be fruitful in good
words and works; that thou mayest be a ready and a willing
servant of thy heavenly Master ; that the spiritual gifts that
are in thee may be developed for the good of those around
thee ; that one desire shall possess thee—the elevation and the
happiness of thy fellows ; so that if thy life reach on to an old
age, thou mayest look back without one regret, and look for¬
ward with hopes increasing every day; thy spiritual vision
being opened to see the faces that wait for thee ; thine ears
made ready to hear the music of that land of joy and song ;
so that the failing of thine earthly senses shall be but the open¬
ing of the spiritual, and thou shalt stand on a higher and
holier plane.
“ Oh, heavenly Father, bless my boy. Oh, guardian spirits of
his, sustain and help him, on his way, and if 1 vacate my
place at his side, may it be [granted that one stronger, and
wiser than I shall fill it.”
The medium again passed into the clairvoyant state, and con¬
tinued her deseription of the spiritual sights around her, as
follows:—
It is a lady, add her curls are all about my head.
I will now try to find those who held the other ends of the
branches. She held one.
Oh, they look like two stars, and I can scarcely look at
them they are brilliant angel women.
The one standing on the right hand of Earl seems to be en¬
shrouded in a kind of brilliant light. It is of a gold colour,
shaded with a deep brown. Her hair is of the same shade,
and her face and neck are very fair. Her hand holds one of
these same rose-sprigs. On the other hand is a beautiful
form covered with a rose-coloured light,shaded from a deep pink
to a very pale light. This light descends upon their heads in
a great flood, falling down upon the form and draping itself
into garments, all shaded off in the colours I describe.
The one in the golden light is his sister, and the other is my
sister. There are a number of others behind, but these keep
the first circle. I notice that all our spirit friends present are
females.
Feb. 20, 1874.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
93
Next to my sister, and joining hands with her, holding
between them one of the ends, is your friend Lilian, and her
raiment is blue with as many shades of blue in it as you can
find in the sky on a cloudless day, being thrown about her
just as the clouds throw up their beauty, white-fringed and
soft and lovely. Behind you is Fanny’s friend Letitia. What
is rather singular is that she has drawn this, “rose-cord” I
must call it, over your head to rest there, and her right arm
stretches away with it. Nobody holds the other end, and it
drops upon your table, and I know that her hand is held out
to Fanny.
In front of me, and almost touching my knees, coming into,
our circle quite suddenly, are Kathleen and Rose Rogers, and
they have caught hold of the loose ends, six in all, and are
shaking them right merrily. Indeed so heartily are they
twisting and shaking these beautiful rose-sprays, that the
roses are flying in all directions.^ They disappear from my
sight in the beautiful entanglement of these boughs. They
wish me to say that they shall be able to take hold of these
again some night, and give messages for their own family
when some one of their own family is present.
January 18th, 1874.
Medium, Mrs. Bird. Present, Mr. Bird, Miss Bird, and
F. G-. Stevens.
Oh, don’t take me any further. I cannot endure this
journey. I pray you take me back. The atmosphere is foul,
and the pressure of unpleasant sensations upon me is more
than 1 can endure.
Oh, is the worst over ?
I can go no further. The way is too dark and groping, and
I know not who are my guides. There is such a strange
creature in front of me. Going before me, and apparently
clearing the way for me, is a horrible bird, something like an
owl, with immense wings. It seems to be leading the way to
somewhere and to some person ; the place and the person too
being strange to me. I have been wrapped over, head and
all, with a dark heavy mantle, not being permitted to see
that which is on either side of me. Just keeping in view
this hideous monster bird I spoke of, we seem to have passed
through a very long dark archway, and why they have
brought me here I know not.
Oh, all my head aches, and a giddy sick feeling comes over
me, as I stoop down to speak to a wretched man, stretched
here at my feet. Now that I am in some measure released, I
look for my guides, and ask them what it means.
Lorenzo here ! Oh, then I am safe. And here is our faith¬
ful friend Housley!
Oh, have you dragged me through these horrible states and
scenes ? Is it you that have been urging me forward, when I
have been almost suffocated with the foulness of the air; and
nearly expiring with a sensation of horror 1 Did you cause
me to walk through that unwholesome water, and place before
me for a guide that hideous screeching owl ? Oh, horror of
horrors ! to be thus announced into the spirit-world to-night,
and still not to release me ! Can I put this down to kindness?
Can I call you friends, that you use me thus ? ’Tis the valley
of the shadow of death ! My friends answer not, and have
disappeared from my sight; and now a darkness settles down
upon me that makes me shiver. All that is left is this poor
wretched man. How I shrink from him.
Yet left alone with him as I am, I suppose I must speak to
him. . What shall I call him ?
I know not by what name to address you. Oh, I battle
with my disgust, by great effort I put down the feeling of
aversion. Ah—h 1 It almost amounted to sickness, but
obeying the instincts of my better nature, and prompted by a
feeling of sympathy for his state, I will speak to him. I will
even come closer to him, take his hand, and call him brother.
Hark, he is speaking to me, and as he speaks the mystery
is being cleared to me. I am gradually becoming myself
again, and I perceive that I have been passing through his
dying sensations, and taking upon myself the state of this
wretched man in his last moments on earth. Yes, yes I this is
a true description, although I am spared half the horror of the
death scene of; some men—the death of a life ill-spent,
worse than useless—a life that has been full of dark deeds
and wrong doings. Oh, it is living like a bird of prey,
clutching at, and taking hold by, every means, honest or dis¬
honest, that would bring gold. He robs the fatherless and
the widow that .his riches may increase, and that he may
make himself a name upon earth he is a robber all his life.
Unwise man, fool, not to consider that thou wast robbing
thine own soul, and making for thyself fetters that even now
bind thee and keep thee in this state of horror. Lean and
hungry thou art, soul-famished, yet still looking greedily after
thy gold ; and stretching out thy withered hand, trying even
yet to take hold of that which thou canst never reach, for
between it and thee, thy foe that thou always dreaded—even
Death, has fixed a great gulf. So why weary thyself with
looking ? Why torment thyself ? Thine earthly gains thou
hast left for ever, and if thou art wise, thou wilt give up this
fruitless desire, and come back again.
Turn thy back on this earth-sphere, and ask what thou
shalt do, that thou mayest be clothed and fed, and set onward
again with a higher purpose in thy heart. Ask of thy
heavenly teaehers how thou shalt become rich in spiritual
things, and take thy proper stand amongst those who are
advancing to higher and holier spheres.
I must leave thee, and when thou shalt come to thy right
mind, and have gained sufficient strength, thou wilt be guided
and helped to find thy work; and methinks that work should
be—ah 1 I tremble for thee, for thy heart must well nigh fail
thee—thy work should be to undo and to give back that
which thou hast wrongfully and selfishly taken from others.
Here the guardian spiHt Lorenzo took possession of the
medium, and spoke as follows:—
“ Just a word with you friends. There is a purpose in our
bringing the medium, at times, under these unpleasant con¬
trols. No harm will result from them, but there is no other
way of giving these teachings, or influencing your medium to
speak on these subjects, without her being passed through all
the sensations of these painful experiences. We shall inter¬
sperse your higher and more beautiful visions with these
contrasts. ’ ’ Lorenzo,
SENSATIONS OF A TRANCE MEDIUM.
William Tennant, a Presbyterian clergyman, of Bruns¬
wick, N. J., was three days in a trance. He tells us, that
while conversing with his brother on the state of his soul, and
the fears he entertained for his future welfare, he found him¬
self, in an instant, in another state of existence, under the di¬
rection of a superior Being, who ordered him to follow. He
was immediately wafted along, he knew not how, till he beheld,
at a distance, an ineffable glory, the impression of which he
found it impossible to communicate to mortal man. “ I im¬
mediately reflected on my happy change, and thought, Well,
blessed be God! I am safe at last, notwithstanding all my
fears. I saw an innumerable host of happy beings, surround¬
ing the inexpressible glory, in acts of adoration and joyous
worship ; but I did not see any bodily shape or representation
in the glorious appearance. I heard things unutterable. I
heard their songs and hallelujahs of thanksgiving and praise,
with unspeakable rapture. I felt joy unutterable and full of
glory. I then applied to my conductor, and requested leave
to join the happy throng; on which he tapped me on the
shoulder, and said, ‘ You must return to earth.’ This seemed
like a sword through my heart. In an instant, I recollect to
have seen my brother disputing with the doctor. The three
days during which I had appeared lifeless, seemed to be of
not more than ten or twenty minutes. The idea of returning
to this world of sorrow and trouble gave me such a shock that
I fainted repeatedly. Such was the effect on my mind of what
I had seen and heard, that if it be possible for a human being
to live entirely above the world and the things of it, for some
time afterward I was that person. The ravishing sound of the
songs and hallelujahs that I heard, and the very words that
were uttered, were not out of my ears f<?r at least three years.
All the kingdoms of the earth were, in my sight, as nothing
and vanity ; and so great were my ideas of heavenly glory,
that nothing which did not, in some measure, relate to it,
could command my serious attention.”—Religio-Philosophical
Journal.
MR. CROOKES ON SPIRITUALISM.
' The circumstance of Mr. Crookes’s recent article having
been so largely quoted in the Daily Telegraph, has of course
tended to remove a large amount of popular prejudice against
Spiritualism, and has done a proportionate amount of good to
the cause. The circumstance is rather remarkable that the
most adverse review of the article, appeared not in any outside
journal, but in the columns of the Spiritualist, since we ap¬
proached the subject from a critical stand-point. Mr. Crookes
in his article spoke with the tone of one having authority—of
one who came to introduce accuracy among people who previ¬
ously had been treating the phenomena as miraculous. None
are so ready to question the foundations of authority as Spiri-
94
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 20, 1874.
tualists, hence it was a fair position to question if the old
workers in the movement are not as reliable as the new, and
whether Mr. Crookes’s statements about spirit-hands melting,
and the law of gravitation not acting invariably, were accurate.
If Dr. Carpenter, who knows very little about chemistry, were
to do something of value to that science, but at the same time
tell the chemists that he had come among them to introduce
accuracy into their observations, and to explode their ideas
about the miraculous, it is probable that Mr. Crookes, as the
editor of the Chemical News, would criticise such claims on the
part of Dr. Carpenter, and that his criticisms would be just.
Still, the cases are not exactly parallel, because Dr. Carpenter
might do good to the science of chemistry, without risking
professional reputation or subjecting himself to a breeze of
unpopularity, whilst Mr. Crookes braved both these dangers
in, telling a great deal of truth about Spiritualism, conse¬
quently, while on the one hand the remarks of Mr. Crookes
call for fair scientific criticism, it should be remembered that
they have another aspect, and that he has done considerable
good to the cause by publishing what he knows, in a standard
orthodox scientific journal.
A TRANCE LECTURE.
Last Sunday night, Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan delivered an
inspirational address at the Cleveland Hall, Cleveland-street,
Portman-road, under the presidency of Mr. Thomas Slater.
After the singing of a preliminary hymn, and the reading of
a chapter in the New Testament, Mrs. Tappan passed into
the trance state, and uttered an inspirational prayer.
Mrs. Tappan then delivered an able discourse, in which she
reviewed the early history of many of the chief nations of the
earth, showing that all the manifestations of modern
Spiritualism had their parallel at all times, more especially at
periods when new religions began to rise. She spoke of the
diviners of Egypt and Persia, and of the spells and incanta¬
tions of their sorcerers; and she narrated how the Persian
dervishes of ancient times, who led pure and abstemious lives,
were certainly acquainted with the art of communicating with
the world of spirits. She then told how the Hebrews were
acquainted with the same art, and spoke of a secret order—the
Cabala, who were acquainted with the nature of spiritual
powers, and who perpetuated writings which were said to have
been dictated by the divine mind itself. She entered slightly
into details respecting Buddha, the reformer of Brahmanism,
who came before men with the gifts of the spirit, who worked
miracles, and who disseminated teachings of wonderful purity.
She stated that Confucius was not inspired, but only a teacher
of moral excellence. She then pointed out how in'Germany,
and other parts of Europe, spiritual manifestations accompa¬
nied many great religious revivals, which were also seen in
connection with the Quaker and Shaker sects in America.
The attendance at these Sunday evening meetings is very
good—better than ever.
On Tuesday last week, Professor Rutherford, M.D., in
the course of a lecture at the Royal Institution, stated that it
was a fact, and not a popular error, that strong nervous ex¬
citement will make the hair to stand on end. By means of the
electric microscope he exhibited a muscular fibre stretching
from the root of a hair of a cat to the surface of the skin, and
said that the contraction of the fibre would pull the bulb on
one side, thereby causing the hair to stand erect.
The Pioneer of Progress states that the “Spirit Teach¬
ings” published in the Spiritualist are contributed by Dr.
Sexton. This is an error; they do not come from him, but
are given through the mediumship of the friend of Mr.
Serjeant Cox whose presence caused Serjeant Cox’s dining-
table to rise in the air, as stated in the last number of this
journal. If the editor of the Pioneer knew the name of the
gentleman, who does not desire publicity, it would be a breach
of etiquette to make it known.
The Spiritualist is always on sale at Mr. Allen’s, between
five and six o’clock on Thursday evenings; so London sub¬
scribers receive their post copies from him early every Friday
morning. Consequently, whether ordered by post or through
a bookseller, subscribers in the provinces should receive their
copies by Saturday morning at latest, or the delay is the fault
of their agent. The best plan in the provinces is to order the
Spiritualist through a local newsvendor, and to insist upon
having it regularly and punctually, thus bringing Spiritualism
and its periodicals prominently under the notice of the pub¬
lishing trade,
Stance
The following trance message, extracted from the preface to Mr. T. L.
Harris’s Lyric of the Golden Age, deals with the question of the manner
in which spirit poetry is passed through the brain of a medium:—,
"We have wrought
This poem with a deep interior art;
Something it hath for every mental state;
In this ’tis like the Bible. Many minds
Have poured the effluence of their living joy
And the exceeding splendour of their life
Beyond the planets, through the Medium’s mind
To make it what it is; and he hath been
Illumined to behold in solemn trance
The soul of every truth whereof he sings.
He is its author in the outward sense,
For it was formed and fashioned in his brain,
As stars and suns are fashioned in the skies,
But Spirits, too, claim its paternity;
They made his mind their instrument, whose chords
Vibrated wondrously when deathless hands
"Woke the far-sounding octaves. Shelley came,
And Keats and Byron; yea, a deathless choir
"Who throng the ante-courts of Paradise
And worship in the Heaven beyond the sun.
’Twas in their sphere the Poem had its birth;
Its outer shape but partially unveils
The grand interior archetypal form.
The language is the Medium’s, and he kept
His individuality and wrought
In the deep chambers of his inmost brain
Language and imagery, that he might give
Fit drapery to the thought that Heaven sent down.
In deep-trance slumbers when the world asleep
Lay in the arms of Night, and wept or smiled,
His liberated soul rose from its dust.
We led him far beyond the vails and floods
And labyrinths of sleep; the clouds of death
And all the shadowed dwellers in the world
Were far beneath him; through his consciousness
Streamed the celestial sunrise; hills and vales
And groves and seas and fljwer-bespangled meads,
Cities and temples of celestial space
Were mirrored in his mind. Oppressed with wealth
Of spiritual imagery, he strove
In his interior being to become
A clear mind-crystal, bathed in every tint
And seven-fold lustre of the Light Divine,
And, as a dew-bead twinkling in the morn,
Witn diamond clearness, to reflect the day.
So grew the Poem through his consciousness
Into expression. In it-we fulfil
Last summer’s promise.
God alone is great,
He is the primal splendour who illumes
The full-orbed intellect; He gave the power'
To plan and execute; the work is His,
Its faults grow from our creature finiteness.
Would it were worthier of its origin.
’Tis but a wandering Voice, the harbinger
Of a great Poem that, Messiah-like,
Shall tread down Evil with its feet of fire,
And clasp all sufferers to its heart of love
The latches of whose shoes it may not loose.
Five years will lead their, swift revolving dance
In choral music round the brightening world
Before that Poem shall unfold its form,
And we will make the Medium worthy it,
And give it as his spiritual powers
Wake from their slumber. For the time, farewell
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers,]
SPIB.ITTTAL POLICY.
Sir,—I hope you will allow me, in a very few words, to
caution your readers against accepting the arguments against
national organisation, in Mr. Howitt’s letter of October 13th,
without very considerable reservations. They appear to be
founded upon three false assumptions, i. e., that the association
seeks to press upon local societies and its own members some
special creed or sectarian policy ; that because national
organisations are apt to break down in America, therefore
their failure may be predicted on this side of the Atlantic ;
that associative effort on a grand scale is in itself immoral.
Now it cannot be too often repeated that the council of the
British National specially disclaims any right or desire to in¬
terfere with the free action of local and provincial societies
that are now, or may hereafter be established. Following the
admirable precedents of other reforming bodies, it aims at
the affiliation of such societies ; and by way of earnestly
inviting their hearty co-operation, and thus cementing that
bond of union which should subsist amongst all Spiritualists,
psychologists, and earnest inquirers throughout the United
Kingdom, it proposes that eaeh io<jal or provincial society
Feb. 20, 1874.
THE SPIEITTIALIST.
95
should have the power of appointing from its own body a
representative, who shall be ex officio a member of the
council. Moreover, every ordinary member of the British
National will from the month of May, in the year 1875,
notwithstanding that he or she may be residing at a distance
from London, have an equal share in the appointment of
officers and others to take the place of the retiring members
of the governing body. The annual election will be conducted
upon the principles of the ballot for those actually present at
the business meeting, secret voting papers for the benefit of
absentees ; and, as I at least hope, that cumulative or pro¬
portional representation, which has worked so well at the
English and Scotch School Board elections. How, then, one
may well ask, with such provisoes against underhand jobbing,
or overbearing dictation, can we be justly accused of striving
to “ break the divine unity of action by an interference against
which all history protests ? ” Our object, on the contrary, is
to standby the ancient lines of procedure, and, by so doing,
to combine the pecuniary and other inestimable advantages
of a vigorous centralisation with the no less appreciable
benefits of independent local effort, and independent local
self-government.
If there be any lesson which history teaches, it is that great
principles can only be widely promulgated and ultimately in¬
corporated into our national life by a legitimate use of such
wise secular instrumentalities as have been proved, by experi¬
ence, to conduce to the attainment of beneficial results. Cer¬
tainly neither the Free Traders, nor the Reform Leagues, nor
the Liberation Society would ever have achieved their great
partial successes and have thus paved the way for still more
glorious triumphs in the near future, had it not been for those
qualities of indomitable perseverance, self-discipline, fore¬
sight, generalship, and oratorical ability evoked by the consti¬
tution of their respective societies. That R. Dale Owen, a
gentleman of vast knowledge of public affairs, cordially sym¬
pathises with our undertaking, is attested by the fact of his
having accepted the position of honorary member. This is an
incident which should not be lost sight of ; for it may be fairly
taken for granted that he is thoroughly cognizant of the un-
happy divisions that, through excess of zeal, ill-regulated en¬
thusiasm, or what not, have somewhat crippled the energies
of sober-minded reformers in the United States. And yet,
notwithstanding, he seems to place implicit reliance upon our
matured plan of operations, because he, an ex-minister in the
diplomatic service, knows very well that old countries inherit
a certain intuitive genius for organisation, exhibiting itself in
steady concentration upon specific issues, in a ready accept¬
ance of defeat upon a division, in tendencies towards sagacious
comprehensive statesmanship, which are in the natural course
of things less conspicuous in younger and more restless com¬
munities.
In the third place, after what has been said, it is perhaps
unnecessary to disclaim on the part of the Council, any low
motives of mere worldly ambition. Nevertheless, it is not
only excusable that a good citizen should endeavour to win
the approval of his friends and neighbours ; but it his duty to
adopt, for the effectuation of that noble purpose, such means
as commend themselves to the approval of his own conscience.
I maintain that, provided only he adhere as closely as possible
to the path of truth and straightforward honesty, a desire to be
placed in offices of trust, in positions of responsibility, in
Parliament and so forth, so far from deserving censure, merits
universal and unqualified approbation. Let us then dismiss
those shallow and rather untenable theories, which being
founded on erroneous conceptions of human nature and mis-
takeh views of civic obligation, will not bear the light of free
impartial criticism.
I cannot conclude this letter without animadverting upon
the indefensible attitude of Mr. Burns towards the ne#
national organisation, which has been working so indefatig-
ably at the rules, prospectus, &c., for the last four months. It
might have been expected that a person who is always trum¬
peting to the world his own sincerity and disinterestedness
would have taken some pains to ascertain the real character
of our proceedings before denouncing them as being prosecuted
in a spirit of “ worldlyism.” For my own part, it is right to
say that I have on many occasions spoken kindly about Mr.
Burns. I have reasoned with him, and endeavoured to con¬
ciliate him—all in vain. Considering that he does not hesi¬
tate to publish in his Medium unscrupulous mis-statements
respecting both the Association and the members of Mrs.
Tappan’s committee; that he vilifies his superiors by position,
by intellectual capacity, and by zeal for Spiritualism, in ways
{it once most openly audacious and basely underhand; con¬
sidering, moreover, that, despite the most anxiously forbear¬
ing treatment on our part, he persists in wrong-doing, I,
like many others, have slowly and reluctantly arrived at the
conclusion that he is not a gentlemen of the highest type.
If, instead of vaunting a republicanism, which in England is
only too often a synonymous term for all that is violent,
offensive, and illiberal, he would begin at once to prosecute
the task of self-reform; if he would, at least, make some
attempt, however feeble, to be candid in his dealings ; if, too,
for a time he would resign the editorship of the Medium into
the hands of some individual more inspired by the teach¬
ings of Christianity—that blessed religion which, with pre¬
tentious and ignorant abuse, he affects to reduce to the
level of a mere sect; then, indeed, one might pardon the
commission of seventy times seven offences. As matters
stand, however, he is guilty of the sin against the Holy
Ghost, or, in other words, he intentionally and perpetually
violates the excellent moral laws of nature, foreshadowed
in the preordained plan, and created by the volition of the
Unique Benevolent Sustainer of the Universe.
Jambs Thornton Hoskins.
Reform Club, Pall Mall.
DR. (HILLY ON SPIRIT FORMS.
Sir,—A paragraph of Mr. Crookes’s letter in your issue of
6th February, beginning “ I was in hopes,” seems to convey a
rebuke to those who have been at a certain number of Miss
Cook’s seances, for not coming forward to testify to the good
faith of the medium herself, and of her surroundings at those
meetings. In the paragraph immediately preceding this, Mr.
Crookes says that in all the arguments brought forward on
either side touching the phenomena of Miss Cook’s medium-
ship, he saw very few/hcte stated “of which it could be said
there, at least, is absolute proof and he pronounces all that
has hitherto been put forward (on either side, I presume) to be
mere conjecture, strong assertion, exaggeration, &c. Truly
this is but cold inducement for any one who has been present
at many seances to come forward with statements of what he
has seen, since until the spirit before the curtain and the
medium behind it have been seen with the eye of flesh at one
and the same time, no such thing as “ absolute proof ” of the
two existing at the same moment can be given. I have my¬
self, repeatedly—at least on three several occasions—heard
the moaning and sobbing behind the curtain to which Mr.
Crookes refers, whilst “ Katie ” was standing outside of it;
but I should have thought that this evidence would not,
according to Mr. Crookes’s meaning, be “ absolute ” proof,
and might have been conjecture, exaggeration, &c.
Whilst Mr. Crookes thus doubts whether any one of us who
have been present at the seances in question has offered
anything but conjecture, exaggeration, and such like, it is
pleasant to hear that he is “ thoroughly convinced of the
perfect truth and honesty of Miss Cook.” That being the
case, I am strong in the assertion that the tests hitherto
applied to the good faith of the medium are not likely to be
improved by any which any other person can contrive, short
of the double simultaneous vision of spirit and medium
referred to. Supposing the cabinet to have been thoroughly
searched and the medium’s clothing inspected by any.of the
bystanders, the only possible deception must be effected by
the medium herself divesting herself of her close-fitting black
garments, boots, stockings, and hair of the head, and donning
a loose-flowing snow-white dress of totally different texture ;
a white turban instead of black hair, bare instead of booted
feet, contriving a stature increased by three inches, and hands
very much larger than Miss Cook’s. Supposing, also, that
she effected all these changes—that she, on occasions when
requested, has, besides, added a lock of light-coloured hair to
her head, and changed her dress from a long to a short sleeve,
and vice versa, it remains to say in how much time she man¬
ages all these elaborate changes. The space of time between
the seating of the medium behind the curtain, the drawing
of the latter, and the appearance of the figure outside
varies from five to twelve or fifteen minutes. It must
be a very long experienced trickster who could make
such an alteration in herself in that time, and there is
not the smallest proof that Miss Cook knew or cared
anything about Spiritualism or its phenomena three months
before she first exhibited the faculty of a medium. But if it
be incredible that she should throw off her daily clothes and
put on her thaumaturgic garments in five to fifteen minutes,
what credit can be given to the notion that she divests herself
of the spirit-robes and puts on the whole of her close-fitting
96
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 20, 1874.
daily dress, stockings, boots, and all, in less tban one minute
after she has been seen before the curtain as a spirit figure, as
I have repeatedly certified, by counting from the instant of her
disappearance to the three raps by which Katie intimates that
the cabinet maybe entered, and the medium withdrawn? Is
any one prepared to state, as his deliberate belief, that such a
transformation in such space of time by a body of flesh is
possible, under the previous circumstances of inspection ?
To answer in the affirmative is one of those instances in
which incredulity includes the most intense credulity, and
exhibits the passion of prejudice rather than the seeking for
truth. Then, again, all who have attended these seances
are aware with what anxious care arrangements were always
made by which the smallest movements by the medium within
were rendered detectable by the sitters outside, by means of
tapes attached to the medium’s body, and extended along the
floor, and held by some one present; and, on one or
two occasions, by the extension of the medium’s own dark
hair, not to mention the precise tying and sealing of the wrists,
concerning which test I am unable to comprehend the gist of
.Mr. Crookes’s remarks, unless it points to the spirit character
of the figure “Katie” as distinct from the medium, in
which case I congratulate him on his more advanced belief
in the neighbourhood of such an unscientific entity.
Each one who has attended Miss Cook’s seances is familiar
with the tests which I have thus cursorily run over, and I
venture to state that each one (except one lord, and one other
who is not noble) has been satisfied that, however else pro¬
duced, the form presented has not been caused by Miss Cook
putting off one set of clothes and putting on another. But
reading Mr. Crookes’s note, we, the former sitters, and all
outsiders, are indirectly—nay, directly—reminded that all
these tests are nothing worth, and convey no proof of the
separate being of the medium and the form which appears
outside the curtain. How this announcement squares with
his belief in ‘ the perfect truth and honesty of Miss Cook,’ I
know not. The tests, as given to us, prove that truth and
honesty ; but what if the tests lead only to conjecture, exag¬
geration, &c. ? For my part those tests have abundantly
satisfied me that Miss Cook is a medium of extraordinary
power,—that the form which appears is not her, and has a
totally separate existence; that the medium is a perfectly
guileless person, incapable, by reason of her moral principle,
as well as by physical impossibility, of perpetrating the
deception which has been so foully laid to her charge. To
that charge, specifically, with all its adornment of ponderous
and silly jokes, and placard printing, I make no allusion.
There are things sometimes lying on the road, to which it is
well, for sentient reasons, to give a wide birth. Meantime, I
shall await with interest the result of the meetings to which
Mr. Crookes, and, I believe, Mr. Yarley also, have been invited
by Mr. Luxmoore, to make observations on Miss Cook’s
mediumship, and shall be well pleased if they arrive at such
‘ absolute proof’'as Mr. Crookes thinks necessary.”
J. M. Gully.
A SEANCE AT BIRMINGHAM.
Sir,—I have much pleasure in sending you the following ac¬
count of a seance which took place at Mr. Franklin’s circle,
held on Monday evening, Feb. 2. The medium, Mr. Evans,
was, according to a previous arrangement, carefully searched;
lie turned out the contents of his pockets and took off his coat.
Then each of the sitters (including myself), turned out the
contents of their pockets, so that any attempt at deception
either on the part of the medium or the sitters must have been
detected. There were present, including the medium, nine
persons, and after we had arranged ourselves round the table
the gas was turned out. Then all joined hands on the
table. Afte singing several well-known spiritual songs the
medium was powerfully controlled by his spirit guide, who
when in the earth life was a well-known florist and seedsman,
who had been a resident in Birmingham some twenty-five years.
On the gas being relit we found on the table several beautiful
botanical specimens, perfectly fresh with the soil adhering to
the roots, including a garden daisy, three pansy roots, a root
of house leek, and a beautiful branch about ten inches in
length of some shrub not familiar to any of us, thickly covered
with scarlet berries. At a previous sitting we had a cocoa-nut
brought through the agency of the same medium. There is
also at the Spiritual Institute a bunch of hothouse grapes
which were brought by the spirit at a private circle near Bir¬
mingham. A gardener who was present, after carefully
examining them to see if the “bloom” was disturbed, ex¬
pressed himself perfectly satisfied that they had not been
touched by mortal hands.
Before concluding the report of our first seance under “ test,”
I will, with your permission, inform your readers that during
the last few months the beautiful philosophy of Spiritualism
has been exciting the attention of many sceptical minds in
money-grubbing Birmingham. Services are held every Sunday
evening at the Athenaeum Hall, Temple-street, conducted by
Mr. John Collier, who has delivered a course of lectures the
most beautiful and logical I have ever heard. Like other
associations of a similar character we have much, very much,
to contend against; we are literally hemmed in with opposi¬
tion, and held up to ridicule. Notwithstanding all this, we
know that in the end all will “ work together for good,”
for “ great is truth, and it shall prevail.” Not the least of the
difficulties we have to contend against is want of funds, but
we will never advertise the state of our finances after the
manner of a well-known publisher in the great metropolis.
John Watson,
Aaron Franklin,
Midland Spiritual Institute,
58, Suffolk-street, Birmingham.
SPIRITUALISM AT CAMDEN TOWN.
On Tuesday evening a discourse was given under spirit in¬
fluence by Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, from the United States,
at Milton Hall, Camden Town; Mr. W. Tebb occupied the
chair. The lecture was extempore, the subject being chosen
by the audience. A committee of five gentlemen was elected,
two being Spiritualists and three non-Spiritualists, who re¬
tired to the committee-room, and chose three subjects, and
from these the audience chose one, the title being “ The tem¬
poral future.” Mrs. Tappan asked for the title to be a little
more defined; the “temporal future’’might refer to people,
planets, or systems of planets. The proposer of the subject
explained that it referred to the temporal future of humanity.
Mrs. Tappan then delivered a long and able discourse
on this very difficult subject.
The audience were then invited to ask questions of [Mrs.
Tappan. In answer to one as to whether the spirits had the
same powers of penetration as mortals had, Mrs. Tappan re¬
plied that spirits see spiritually; for every natural substance
there is a spiritual, and it is the outside covering of all sub¬
stances, we, that is embodied mortals, see with our eyes;
the essence of those substances we do not see, but the spirits
do. Spirits see the essence of all things.
A gentleman in the audience complained that they had
not heard anything respecting Spiritualism. He was pleased
with the discourse, but he could have heard the same thing
elsewhere. He did not think they had got what they came
for. They had been invited to ask questions, but it was im¬
possible to do so when they knew nothing of the subject. He
thought they should know a few days previously what the
subject was to be. They ought to know that night what the
subject for next week’s lecture was to be that they might look
into the question. (Hear, hear.)
Mrs. Tappan pointed out that the subject had been chosen
by the committee. Had they chosen the subject “ Spiritual¬
ism,” every sceptic would have said, “ 0 yes, she can speak
upon Spiritualism.”
In answer to a question as to the way in which she used
the word inspiration, she said she was inspired by the direct
influence of her spirit guides, who were mortals, divested of
their external forms. In answer to another question, she said
there had been twelve spirits who had been with her from
youth, and when any subject was chosen that spirit spoke that
was best acquainted with the subject.
A poem was then given by Mrs. Tappan, on a subject
chosen by the audience—“ The Ministry of Guardian Angels ”
—which was a beautiful composition, and was received with
much applause.
The Misses Maltby kindly volunteered at the piano while
the subject for the discourse was being chosen.
A vote of thanks to Mrs. Tappan closed the proceedings.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND OLAIRYOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Revealing Startling Facts
to the public, can be consulted on either Medical or Business Affairs con¬
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 12 to 5. Terms, One Guinea.
Address, care of Mr. Middleton’s “ City Temperance Hotel,” foot of Lord
Cockburn-street, Edinburgh.
Feb. 20, 1874
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
HTJGI-H McLEOB, M.D., Psychometric, Impressional, and
healing by the laying on of hands; in which departments of Medium-
ship Dr/McLeod is prepared to give the highest references. Terms, 5s.
each person. Visits by arrangement. Hours 10 till 4. 22, Bohert-street,
Hampstead-road, N.W.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bemard-street, Bussell-square. Private Seances attended'.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Tears estab¬
lished) attends PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—19, Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy-
square.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5.s; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
R. W. Q-. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—194, Comwall-road, Notting-hill, W. (Hammersmith line).
Please write.
~\r. JOHN HUNTER and DR, MESMER maybe
consulted upon all forms of illness, through MR. ROBERT HARPER,
from whom Mesmeric Treatment and Eclectic Medicines may be obtained,
at 114, Wardour-street, Oxford-street, W. Fees, 10s. and upwards. Hours,
one to five o’clock daily.
'RS. EMPSON, Medical Clairvoyant and Mag-
SL netic Healer, undertakes the Diagnosis and the Cure of Diseases
(if curable). Patients at a distance may obtain diagnosis and advice by
sending magnetic link and fee of 10s. Address, 114, Wardour-street,
Oxford-street, W. Hours, one to five o’clock daily.
IpOR SALE, PRICE £5, BREECHES’ BIBLE
(Geneva edition), 1610, black letter, with copious annotations through¬
out. Illustrated with plates. In perfect condition. To he seen on applica¬
tion to T. Blyton, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING- of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the "26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Association are
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tem., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Richard Fitton, Secretary pro tem.
Now Beady, Price Sixpence.
GOD AND IMMORTALITY, viewed in relation to
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
A Discourse delivered in the City Hall Saloon, Glasgow, on Sunday
Evening, February 23rd, 1873, by
GEORGE SEXTON, M.A., M.D., LL.D., D.SC.,
Honorary Member of L'Accademia Dei Quiriti, at Borne, die.
BY THE SAME AUTHOR—
Price Threepence,
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF MACBETH.
A Lecture delivered before the Psychological Society of Glasgow, on
May 4th, 1869.
‘We advise all playgoers and dramatic readers to give a glance at this
pamphlet; they will be well paid for their trouble, and will see the phases
of Macbeth’s character far better than any actor of the present day can
delineate them.”—Theatrical Journal.
“The lecture is a full, careful, and philosophical treatise on the
Shakespearian tragedy. Dr. Sexton makes the most patient analysis of the
character of the Thane; and in his conclusions, generally speaking, the
student will readily acquiesce.—The Era.
“OHOTOGRAPHIC COPIES OF THE ILLUMINATED
JL ADDRESS to be presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain to
Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham, Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
JNSPIRATIONAL
LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
• (Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“The prayer over he commenced an eloquent and philosophical address
on modem Spiritualism.”—North-Western Daily Times.
“ The medium then passed into what is termed the trance state, and in
clear and forcible language, with a readiness of expression and fluency of
utterance delivered a discourse on Spiritualism.”—Liverpool Daily A Ibion.
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lecturer, or what¬
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram¬
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—1 Humanity; its Nature and its Needs ’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!”—South Wales Press.
“ Those who are intellectually inclined, and desire to know what Spirit
ualism is as taught by the spirits, will learn more in an hour’s conversation
with Mr. Morse’s guides than in months of misdirected seeking.”—Medium.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character/’—Spiritualist.
“ Mr. Morse is what is called a speaking-medium, of no mean order, for
he kept crowded audiences intently listening each evening for above an hour
and a half to his certainly most powerful and accomplished addresses.”—
Darlington and Richmond Herald.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
MR. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
Mr. Morse holds a seance every Friday evening, at 8 o’clock, at 15, Southamp¬
ton-row, "W.C., when he is in London, where letters, &c., may be addressed,
or to his private residence, Warwick Cottage, Old Ford, Bow, E.
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER, LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the chtjhch).
Newspapersand Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Spiritualist Newspaper.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Patemoster-row.
WORK BY THE SAME AUTHOR,
An elegant little volume, bound in blue and gold, carmine edges,
Price 4s. 6d.
LYRICS AND BUCOLICS. The Eclogues of Virgil,
a selection from the Odes of Horace, and the Legend of the Sibyll.
“Mr. Noyes’ qualifications are of no mean order. In the first place, he
has the essential one of thoroughly entering into and "appreciating the true
spirit of his master, and even where, as we have said, he exceeds what
we conceive to be the limits of a translation, we attribute it rather to his
being carried away by his own muse than to his misunderstanding his
author’s. And here we have a second and no less important qualifi¬
cation for success. Mr. Noyes has a genuine poetic vein of his own, and
his lines have almost always the ring of true metal.”—Standard,
April 1th, 1868.
“There is a certain freedom and swing in these translations, which not
only more resembles the brisk spirit and ringing tone of the original, but
is truly refreshing after the stiff rendering which had been generally made
of Horace’s choicest composition."—Aoncfore Review, Feb. 15th, 1868.
“ The Translations from Horace are spirited and musical. His light
Epicureanism and gay Stoicism are happily hit off.”—Daily News,
March 3d, 1868.
_ “ Mr. Noyes’ Version of Virgil’s Pastorals may fairly take its place by the
side of Mr. Connington’s translation of the .iEneid. The lovers of such
poetry have here as pleasant a bouquet as can well be set before them,”—
Speculator, March 1th, 1868.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russell-stbeet, Mhlboubne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
Aaron franklin, preserver of birds and
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE. Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’-heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. Aaeon Franklin, 100, Suf-
folk-street, Birmingham.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E, respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingslaud.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
IV
THE SPIEITTIALIST. Feb. 20, IS^.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because -within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H.Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.GKS., Q-. "WheatleyBennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. R. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D. ; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.Q.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.O.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. 'Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S; Yeomans,Esq.
“ Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported: 
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’  
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
Shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle,
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want, of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
6. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, And it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
Tne best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences Of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
jnediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STERLING.
Head Qtfte.-EROWN STREET and MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
FIRE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates
Bonus Returns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Renewed Premiums.
- EIDELIT¥( GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty ofif>ffsons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices Jor Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM-'STREET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities
TO OWNERS OF HOUSE PROPERTY.
E. BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
11, PARK GROVE, SHEPHERD’S LANE, BRIXTON,
RESPECTFULLY solicits the patronage of Owners of
House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixton
Road, and near the Railway Station—offering special facilities for the
prompt letting of Houses of every description.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833,
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS. —Handsomely-printed Blue
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion, may be obtained in packets, each containing 400, price 2s. 6d. per
packet. They are especially useful for distribution at public meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, reading-rooms, clubs, and places of
public resort.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's-churchyard, London, E.C.
A NEW ERA IN JOURNALISM!
THE FREE SPEAKER, a High Class Family News¬
paper. Weekly—One Penny.
SPECIAL POLITICAL AND SOCIAL ARTICLES,
BY INDEPENDENT WRITERS.
Full Reports of Home, Foreign, and General News. Law and Police.
FREEDOM OF CORRESPONDENCE.
WEEKLY TALES BY THE FIRST WRITERS.
Publishing Office: 125, Fleet-street. Advertisement Office: 106, Shoe-lane.
LUNACY LAW REFORM.
LL PERSONS cognisant of cases of INCARCERATION,
under a false plea of Insanity, or of MALTREATMENT OF
LUNATICS, or who are ready to co-operate in obtaining AMENDMENT
OF THE LUNACY LAWS, are earnestly requested to communicate with
MRS. LOUISA LOWE,
97, BURTON ROAD, BRIXTON.
The following Extract from the “Act to Amend the Law relating to Luna¬
tics” is a fair specimen of Lunacy Legislation :—
“ It shall be lawful for the Proprietor or Superintendent of any licensed
house with the previous assent in writing of two or more of the Commis¬
sioners, or in the Case of a House licensed by Justices, of two or more of
the Visitors to entertain and keep in such house as a Boarder for such time as
may be specified in the assent, any person who may have been within Five
Years immediately preceding the giving of such assent, a Patient in any
asylum, hospital, or licensed house, or under care as a Single Patient''—25
& 26 Viet., ch. iii., sec. 18.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London, E.C.
