AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[EEGISTEEED FOB TBANSMISSION ABEOAB.]
No. 118.—(Vol. V.—No. 22.) LONDON: NOVEMBER 27, 1874. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
Some Eemarbs on Certain Objections to the National Association of
Spiritualists. By J. M. Gully, M.D. Mr. Howitt Objects—Mr. Jones
Objects—Mr. S. C. Hail Objects—Tone and Language of the Objectors
—Mr. Atkinson Objects—Mr. Burns Objects—Summary  253
The Story of a Haunted House. By Eugene Crowell, M.D 257
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Meeting of the Council—
Offices for the National Association—The [Avoidance of Debt by the
Association      258
Beview. Primitive Christianity and Modern Spiritualism, by Eugene
Crowell, M.D 259
The Eoyal Irish Constabulary Defied by SpiritsGreat Disturbancss
by Spirits in the North of Ireland—The Cookstown Ghost—
Stone-Throwing by Spirits—A Shutter Taken Down by Invisible
Power under the Eyes of Armed Men—Heavy Stones Bolling About
the House—Movements of Domestic Articles—Attempts to Account
for the Disturbances—The Spirit will not Show Himself—Church¬
wardens and Clergymen Called in—The Investigators at Fault—The
Malicious Nature of the Disturbances—Amount of Property De¬
stroyed—A Test Manifestation with a Saucepan and Potatoes—Excep¬
tional Difficulties in Investigating—Latest News from Cookstown ... 259
The Investigation pf the Cookstown Spiritual Disturbances ...  263
Spiritualism in Dolland  264
.A Spiritualistic Funeral    ...  264
Answers to Correspondents ... ... ...  •  264
Paragraphs:—Obituary Notice, 259; Lecture by Mrs. Jackson, 262;
Private Spirit Circles, 263; Mrs. Tappan’s Lectures, 263; The
National Association Soirte, 263; The Illustrated Spiritual Periodical,
264; Liverpool Psychological Society .'  264
RAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSURANCE
COMPANY, LIMITED.
{Incorporated under Act of Parliament, 25 <f- 26 Viet., cap. 89 )
42, POULTEY (OOENEB OF OLD JEWEY), LONDON.
SIMPLE FORM OF ASSURANCE.
Single premium covering the whole life, but payable in two instalments
if preferred.
Cost of assurance reduced by two-thirds.
Profits divided amongst the members.
Trustees.—James Abbiss, Esq., Andrew Johnston, Esq., K. Biddulph
Martin, Esq., Sir John Murray. Bart., James White, Esq.
Directors.—Sir John Murray, Bart. {Chairman), Michael Angelo, Esq.,
William Berry, Esq., John Brown, Esq., Courtenay Clarke, Esq., Arthur
lago, Esq., Lord Frederick H. Kerr, M. E. Marsden, Esn., xi. i> . Martin,
Esq., M.A., F.S.S., Captain W. S. M. Eayner, H. Osborne White, Esq.,
Major J. O. Wray.
Consulting Actuary.—Peter Gray, Esq., F.B.A.S., Hon. Fellow Institute of
Actuaries.
Medical Officer.—Thos. Boor Crosby, M.D., F.B.C.S., England.
Bankers.—Messrs. Martin and Co., 68, Lombard-street.
Solicitors.—Messrs. Carr, Bannister, Davidson and Morriss.
Auditors.—Eobert Lucas Nash, Esq., H. W. S. Whiffin, Esq. (Messrs.
Lovelock and Whiffin).
Managing Director.—Mr. William Burr, F.E.S.
CLASS.
53
aw
n
Weekly Allow¬
ance for
Total
Disable¬
ment.
Partial
Disable¬
ment,
PEEMIUMS.
Single
Paymnt
By Two Instals.
Present
Paymt
Paymt
within
Two Yrs
1 A. B ” Insuring a sum
if Killed, and Allow-;
ance Weekly if in-'
jured.
£
1000
500
250
100
£ s.d.
6 0 0
3 0 0
1 10 0
10 0
£ s. d.
1 10 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
£ s. d.
3 0 0
1 14 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
£ s. d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
£ s. d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
* A.” Death only.
1000
500
110
0 11 6
0 11 6
0 6 6
0 11 6
0 6 6
‘B.” Weekly Allow¬
ance only. ,
6 0 0
3 0 0
1 10 0
0 18 0
2 2 0
13 0
12 6
0 12 6
12 6
0 12 6
AGENT—ME. THOMAS BLYTON,
12, St. Philip’s-road, Dalston, London, E.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVEE PLACE, PAEK EOAD, EEGENT’S PAEK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on he shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
beral discount for cash.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested io communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London,
N.W., of whom copies of the Constitution and Eules may be had upon
application.
N.B.—THE SUBSCRIPTION FOR THE CURRENT TEAR, 1874, WILL NOT BE
CLAIMED FROM MEMBERS JOINING AFTER THIS DATE.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITU ALISTS
WILL hold a SOIREE, on, the 3rd DECEMBER, at the
CO-OPEEATIYE HALL, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
All Spiritualist friends, many of whom have been dispersed during the
summer and autumn, are invited to a friendly and sociable winter
gathering.
The ladies of the Association will preside at the tea-tables. Volunteers
are requested to send in their names to the Hon. Secretary.
J. M. GULLY, Esq., M.D., IN the CHAIR.
Tea served at 6.30. Chair to be taken at 8 o’clock.
Admission—to include tea, Is. 6d. After 7.30., 6d. Eight Is. 6d. tickets
for 10s.
Tickets to he had of Mr. George Farmer, 4, Kingsgate-street. Holborn,
W. C., of Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W., of Mrs.
Maltby, 8, Granville-terrace, Shaftesbury-road, Hammersmith, and of Mr.
J. W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town.
Friends are requested to supply themelves with tickets in advance.
E. Kislingburt, ) — „ wjl
Algernon Jot, jm S s'
INSPIRATIONAL DISCOURSES,
BY MBS. CUBA L. V. TAPPAN, ON SUNDAY EVENINGS.
There will be 36’ Lectures, delivered on Sunday Evenings, commencing
October 25th, and ending in June next, divided into courses of
Twelve Lectures,
■AT THE CAVENDISH BOOMS,
71, Mortimer-Street, Eegent-street, London. Doors open at 6.30;
Commence at 7 p.m.
Committee.
A lexander Calder, Esq., The Elms, Putney-hill, S. W.—Chairman.
N. Fabyan Dawe, Esq., Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.; Dr.
Gully, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.: Mrs. Honywood, 52, Warwick-square,
Pimlico, S.W.; Martin E. Smith, Esq., Heathlands. Wimbledon Common,
S.W.; Thomas Slater, Esq., 136, Euston-road, N.W.; G. N. Strawbridge,
Esq., and Mrs. Strawbridge, Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Webster Glynes, Esq., 4, Gray’s Inn-square, W.C.
{Hon. Secretary and Treasurer.)
A subscriber of £5 will be entitled for the whole series to a reserved
seat for himself and friend.
Tickets to admit one person for a course of 12 lectures only, will be
issued at 24s., and 12s. each.
There will be a limited number of 6d. seats.
Tickets to be obtained of the Treasurer, Mr. Webster Glynes, 4, Gray’s
inn-square, on application enclosing post office order.
Single Tickets sold at the doors.
Persons desirous of obtaining seats are requested to come early.
The hymns used in the service will be taken from the “ Spiritual Lyre,”
sold at the doors.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Soutbampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FEANCIS EAVENSCEOFT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 27, 1874,
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Beaeees foe 1874.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
Secretary,—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.—Mr. Archibald Lament, Mr. William Meredith,
Mr. G. Wharmby, Mr. Dinsdale, Mr. R. Casson, Mr. D. Gay, Mr. T. B.
G-riffin, Mr. Eiece, Mr. Davis, Mr. Knox, Mr. Garland, Mr. Dean, Mrs.
Dinsdale, Mrs. Casson, Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—M.v. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
^ALSTON ASSOCIATION OP ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary. 3s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary. 6s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
A. M. GREENE, Hon. Secretary.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
TO.THE READERS |0F “THE MEDIUM.,> Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
or Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.") Published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny.
Animal magnetism and magnetic lucid
SOMNAMBULISM, with Observations and Illustrative Instances of
Analagous Phenomena occurring spontaneously, by Edwin Lee, M.D., etc.
cr. 8vo, cloth new, published at 7s. 6d. Longmans, 1866. Offered for a short
time at 3s. 6d. by Henry Kimpton, 82, High Holborn, London. Other
books on kindred subjects in stock.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “An
Idyll of the world,’’and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 63., First Series.
FAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Just published, price 2s.
CURATIVE MESMERISM,
< BY
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, or from
Bailliere & Co., King William-street, Strand.
Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d., or with gilt edges 4s.
THE ANGELS.
CONTENTS.
I.—What are Angels ? II.—The Origin of Angels, III.—Seership, IV.—
The Intermediate State. V.—Will the natural body rise? VI.—What do the
Augejsdo? (1). For men on earth; (2) For spirits in the world of spirits;
(3) In Heaven.
James Speirs, 36, Bloomsbury-slreet, London.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, wall supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
SPIRITUALISM AND REFORM. “ The Banner of Light”
Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Century. Issued every Saturday, by Colby and Rich, No. 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, Mass.U.S. Terms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Year, 3,00 dollars. Six Months, 1,50 dollars. Turoe Months, 75 cents.
C. & R. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, ProgresEive and
Reformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
TRUBNER AND CO.’S PUBLICATIONS.
THE HONEYMOON. Remembrance of a Bridal Tour through Scotland
By the Count de Medina Pomar. Now ready. In two vols., Crown 8vo
Price 21s.
MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN’S WORKS.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD. With
Narrative Illustrations. An enlarged English Copyright Edition.
Post 8vo„ p.p. 412, cloth, 7s. 6d.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS WORLD AND THE
NEXT. With Illustrative Narrations. Crown 8vo., pp. 456, cloth, 9s.
THREADING MY WAY: Twenty-Seven Years of Autobiography. Crown
8vo., pp. 344, cloth, 7s. 6d.
“ A very pleasant little book.’’—Saturday Review.
THE CREED OF CHRISTENDOM its Foundations contrasted with its
Superstructure By W. R. Greg. Third Edition. With a ne w Intro¬
duction. Two Vols., crown 8vo, pp. 272 and 290, cloth, 15s.
ENIGMAS OF LIFE. By W. R. Greg. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo., pp. xxi.—
308, cloth, 10s. 6d.
Contents:—Realizable Ideals—Malthus Notwithstanding—Non-Survival
of the Fittest—Limits and Directions of Human Development—The Sig¬
nificance of Life—De Profundis—Elsewhere—Appendix.
THE DESTINY OF MAN, The Storm King, and other Poems. B
Frederick Griffin. Fcap. 8vo., pp. vi. and 90, cloth, 2s. 6d.
London: Trubner & Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-bill.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
6, BLANDFORD-STREET, baker-street, w.
A discussion will take place at above address as follows :—
Wednesday, Nov. \lth.—“Atheism, its influence on Society.” Opened by
Mr. Cain.
November, 18<A—“The Theological Devil.” Opened by Mr. Freehold.
November, H5th.—“Readings from the Poets, &c., &c.”
December, 2nd.—“Astrology—Is it true?” Opened by Mr. T. W.
Shearing.
December, 9<A—“ Protestantism and Prostitution.” Opened by Mr. G.
F. Tilby.
Charles Hunt, Hon. Secretary.^ i
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
6, BLANDFORD-STREET, BAKER-STREET, W.
TWO weekly seances are held at these rooms, on Tuesday
and Friday evenings. Admission, 6d, and 3d.—-See Advertisement.
A discussion class on Wednesday evenings. All friends, whether
Spiritualists or not, are invited to take part in these friendly meetings.
The object of the committee and of the members generally is, to spread
abroad a knowledge of the great and precious truths of Spiritualism. We
unite and labour for this purpose, and earnestly hope for the co-operation
of all who are solicitous, that their fellow men should become acquainted
with the fact of spirit-life and spirit-communion.
Subscription, Is. per quarter, for which valuable and interesting works
on Spiritualism, &c., are lent to read.
Charles J. Hunt, Hon. Secretary.
THE WONDER OF THE AGE. JUST ISSUED.
mHE TWO DISCOVERIES, OR KEY TO PINE’S
JL SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH.
This Key not only unlocks the abstruse labyrinths of Mathematical
Science, but enables every person, who values the privilege, to converse as
freely in domestic retirement with friends in spirit life, as when they were
on earth; and contains a series of communications of the most intense
interest, received by this new Invention, with an engraving of the
instrument.
BY CLEMENT PINE.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, and Stationers’ Hall
court, E.C. .
Also published by the Author at Bridgewater. To be had of all Booksellers.
In substantial paper covers, 152 pp., 8v6. Price Is. postage 2d. Stereo¬
typed and copyright secured.
THE SPIRITUAL DEPARTMENT contains the confessions and
conditions of eight spirits, well known to the Author in Earth-life, who had
deviated from the path of duty; also _the experiences of as many more
spirits well known to him, who had performed their duty on earth, and
experienced a happy entrance into ‘the spirit realm. The conditions of
spiritual existence, even their divine unions in marriage, are completely
exemplified by this new mode.
The mathematical discovery increases the accuracy of astronomical
observations, tenfold, by a process so simple as to Suit the public
schools.
“PTnE’S SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH.”
THIS is so popular that orders are coming in rapidly
from all parts of the Queendom. So send your orders as soon as
possible, accompanied with a P. O. order, as follows:—For No 1, £2 7s. 6d,
No. 2, £1 12s. 6d; No. 3, 17s. 6d.; No. 4, 10s.; addressed to CLEMENT
PINE, Taunton-road, Bridgwater.
N.B.—The above prices include a box (2s. 6d.) in which are full instruc¬
tions, returnable as therein directed, excepting the No. 4. All orders will
be executed in rotation as promptly as possible.
HENRY B. B U S H,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER. LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &o.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for Newspaper.
VOJL.UjVIE FIVE. . j^UjVlBEF( TWENTY-TWO.
LONDON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 27th, 1874
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Eeduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, hut preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ava. Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Aye Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregulanty in the supply of “ The Spiritualist" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor oi' his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Oadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
,, Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 1S4, Bourke-street.
„ Mr H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. 0. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. 0. A. Durham, news agent, &e., 118 Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street,
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Bruaswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. -T. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt. Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may bo had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
J^EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—Fitzroy-square, W.
SOME REMARKS ON CERTAIN OBJECTIONS TO
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
BY J. M. GULLY, M.D.
If hard words and loud voices could utterly do
away with the National Association of Spiritualists, it
ought to he at this present in the land of past beings,
for the fuller investigation of which it was instituted.
But I have still the hope that, like the' subject of
Spiritualism itself, it will survive the stages of ridicule
and abuse through which everything here below seems
destined to pass; and it may even come out of the fire
annealed and better able to bear knocks than ever.
The objections made to its existence are divisible into
those which bear upon its tendency to produce sectarian
bigotry, and those which attach to the exclusion of the
dogmas of the ordinary Christian faith as subjects for
inquiry and discussion within it. As I am able to see
it, these two classes of objections antagonise each other.
If ever there was a subject more productive of sectarian
bigotry and hatred than another, it is the whole body of
Christian dogmas ; and, with Mr. Howitt, I make the
appeal to history for the truth of this position. That
history tells us that so long as the early followers of
Christ’s teaching confined themselves to the endeavour
to live the life that He pictured and led, abiding in
community of goods and in community of prayer, they
extracted from their pagan fellow-countrymen through¬
out the Roman empire the glorious exclamation, “ See
how these Christians love each other! ” Remark that
from the very commencement of the era these Christians
lived in communities, and there is reliable historical
evidence that they were very sufficiently organised
communities. A convert from paganism did Hot spring
up here and there and remain isolated, propagating
his beliefs “ through the press,” as Mr. Atkinson sug¬
gests—through the Medium or Spiritualist of the day—-
or leaving the grand secret of good he had found to
extend as it could, without co-operation on his part
with any one else, as Mr. Howitt holds to be the true
method of spreading a truth. No ; for inter-sustain¬
ment, for the fulfilment of Christ’s injunction to
live for each other, for safety under persecution, when
each could inform the other of coming peril,
and for the uprising of the incense of prayer
from many devoted souls at the same time, the
early Christian associations required very considerable
organisation. For the arrangement of places of
meeting (constantly by stealth), for the equal distribu¬
tion of the goods of all among all, for the times and
places for confession to each other of their sins, and for
the interchange of the holy love which their Master
had bid them to make, these communities needed
officers, and out of their body they chose such, and they
were called episcopal, overseers. In process of time
these overseers took more upon themselves than they
should have done, and as the simple, practical following
of Christ’s life gave them no opportunity of dominating,
they began to teach, as matters of necessity for salva-
254
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 27, 1874.
tion, dogmatic beliefs, mystical, inscrutable, but on that
account the more certain to bind the members in intel¬
lectual slavery; whilst in the same process of time,
borrowing from Jew and pagan alike, these managers
of the affairs of the early Christians took on themselves
the priestly office, and behold the descent of our modern
bishops, apostolic succession, laying on of hands, and
all that sort of thing!
Passing along the centuries of the era, the result of
this second arrangement was the substitution of dogmas
by authority for straitness of life, of wrangling and
internecine persecution for the early bond of love,
until, under the first Christian emperor of Rome, we
find that his commencing duty in that character was to
call a council for the sole purpose of dragging Arians
and Athanasians (Christians ?) from each others’ throats
by the awe of his imperial power. The picture differs
somewhat from those night and stealthy meetings when
Christianity was as yet a life, and not a branch of
theology ! Add to that picture the pagans standing by
and sneeringly exclaiming, “ See how these Christians
hate each other!”
ME. HOWITT OBJECTS.
Mr. Howitt attributes the good which is to be found
in civilised societies to the teaching of Jesus Christ—
his teaching by deed as well as word. I heartily concur
in this opinion; but I as strongly traverse his state¬
ment that the world is the scene of the redundant
virtue which he so glowingly dwells upon; and it
would not be a difficult task to show that the most
shocking, sanguinary, awfully wicked crimes have, for
more than fifteen hundred years, not only been con¬
nected with, but actually sprung from, the dogmatic
' Christianity as held by the different churches. I will
say more : that, spite of this kind of Christianity, there
is not a crime however hideous, a vice however brutal
and beastly, which may not be found now in our
Christian societies, as they were found in the old pagan
communities. Belief in mystery has taken the place
of volition over thought, word, and deed, exercised
yearly, daily, hourly; yet he who holds the belief, and
he who lives the life, alike claim to be Christians.
Mr. Howitt asserts that what happened in the early
Christian societies (the Christians of life, not of beliefs
and dogmas) will happen in our Spiritualist circles, if
we organise for the investigation of the comforting
facts which it has pleased God in these days to place
before us regarding our life hereafter. He is right
enough in his vaticination, on two conditions : first, if
in our Association we permit the discussion of dogmas
at all, or do anything but investigate facts ; second, if
we are weak enough to admit of the existence of a
leader among us, be he ever so gifted, ever so brilliant,
ever so loud professing of this, that, or the other belief,
were he even Mr. Howitt himself! But our Associa¬
tion is made for facilitating the investigation of facts
alone, of which, Heaven knows ! we have as yet all too
few on which to build the flimsiest card-house of creed
or dogmatic mystery. Let any of the bug-a-boos of
Southcottism and other follies, which we are told will
be among us all at once, arise, I for one, and many
another I could name, will shout him down, not permit
him to speak, tell him our subject is Spiritualism and
Spiritualism only, and only its facts. (By the way,
will Mr. Howitt inform us of his authority for saying
that Smith, Southcott, Turner, and the other insane
people on whom he dwells so tediously were “ all real
Spiritualists ?”) And does not Mr. Howitt perceive
that but for the dogma of Mary bearing Jesus with¬
out an earthly father, Joanna Southcott, could never
have been the victim of the mad idea that she was
pregnant by the Holy Ghost? It is amid the jumble
of church dogmatics that we must seek for sources of
insane creeds of this kind, and impudent assumptions of
other kinds, and not amid the practical searchings of
the Association of Spiritualists. I hold, therefore, that
that article of the Association which alluded to the
teachings of Jesus as sympathetically good and true,
but refused to discuss any other points of the Christianity
of ordinary belief in the churches, ought never to have
been expunged ; and had I been present at the meet¬
ing at which it was removed, I should have protested
against its removal. It simply said this : “ We hold
by the ethical teachings and the duty life of Christ,
but we cannot admit discussions on the subject of
Christianity beyond thatto do otherwise would have
been to make the Association a bear-garden, or a fiery
furnace of uncharitable contest.
Though we might cry down or cast out some idiot
who, we are promised, will surely come amongst us, it
would not be so easy to get rid of a score of bigoted
respectabilities, from Papists to Glassites, each having
his peculiar notions of Christian orthodoxy, and com¬
bating and hating all the others who differed from him
by a hair’s breadth, like the homoousian and homoiousian
heroes of the earlier days of dogmatic Christianity;
men like these would effectually prevent the experi¬
mental investigation for which alone the Association was
suggested. There are abundant outlets for disputants
of this kind and on these subjects, without opening to
them our meetings, which were intended for other in¬
quiries. I wonder how much of the facts of Spiritualism
would occupy our meetings, if Messrs. Howitt, Jones,
and Hall, with a free sprinkling of all sects known got
possession of the floor ? Por the reason, therefore, of
the primary and sole object which the Association had
in view when it was formed, for the reason of the
peaceful pursuit of that object, undisturbed by the
intervention of opinions instead of facts, I can see
nothing but wisdom in excluding all the matters
which are embraced within the tumultuous and com¬
bative circle of dogmatic—that is, orthodox—Christian
theology; there is abundance of the Seibit oe Cheist
in the world without that, and of that spirit I challenge
Mr. Howitt and his fellow objectors to find a more
devoted believer and worshipper than myself: it is the
divinity brooding over the surface of society and ever
striving to find entrance into the immortal spirits of
men, to give them happiness in their shrouded state,
and light and wisdom in the everlasting plains of the
spirit land hereafter.
Well, then, these two sides of Christianity being
thus exposed to view, there can be no doubt that the
practice of Christ’s spirit in duty and life is fixed,
unmistakable, plainly before the world, as his own life
and words were ; nor is there less doubt that Christian
theology is just as changeable, conflicting, flickering in
colour and light as there are dogmas, opinions, sects, and
“views,” as they are called. Now, when a man loudly
proclaims his Cnristianity and denounces all who do not
think exactly as he may think on the many-sided
subject, one is justified in putting him in the presence
of others who are equally loud and denunciatory but
with other “ views,” and require them to settle which
is the Christian, and which is furthest from salvation.
Nov. 27, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
255
As Mr. Howitt proclaims himself very loudly indeed a
Christian, I would, have him step over some fine day
from the Pincian hill of Rome on which he resides, to
the Vatican in which Pius IX. lives, and submit him¬
self to an examination by that domineering person
concerning his title to be a Christian. Or let him
explain his opinions to his Grace of Canterbury, or to
the Rev. Mr. Maconochie, and get from them each
a verdict as to the quality of his Christianity. It might
be well even to ask the Greek Patriarch of Constanti¬
nople, and the President of the Wesleyan Conference
what they think of his Christianity.
ME. JONES OBJECTS.
In like manner, -Mr. Jones loudly proclaims his
Christianity as an objection to the Association. I would
like him to be examined by the above-named theological
potentates, as to his claim to make so much assertion of
his Christianity. Possibly he might fail to make them
comprehend his “ views,” for his peculiar style of
composition renders them most obscure to me. I only
hear him say very often that he is “ a Christian.” And
so am I, though I say less about it.
ME. S. C. HALE OBJECTS.
Mr. Hall objects also on the Christian ground; but
he tells us fairly in what his Christianity consists—
viz., in belief of the miracles of the New Testament, and
that he now believes them (not having credited them
before), because he has seen the phenomena of modern
Spiritualism at seances. There is little doubt where Pope,
Patriarch, President and Pusey would place this shred
of Christianity, and this rag of a reason for it! Granting
all the miracles aforesaid to be authentic (including the
cursing and withering of the fig-tree, because it bore no
fruit out of its season), I, who hold by the grand
teachings, and by the endeavour to act up to the life of
Jesus as constituting the idea of Christianity, am
utterly unable to see the connection between that
teaching and life and the miracles recorded. His divine
nature is proved to me by that teaching and life much
more than by all the miracles that could be authenti¬
cated—at best, they are the most vulgar arguments for
any kind of religion. A Roman Catholic missionary
to India, once stated to me how, in striving to convert
a Hindoo gentleman to his faith, he urged the miracles
of the New Testament, as proofs of the divine origin of
the Christian religion; to all which the Hindoo listened
most respectfully, and then replied, “ Oh, yes, I quite
believe all you say might have been, but we have much
greater miracles than those in our religion.” I could
not credit any one’s charity, purity, honesty, high-mind¬
edness, truthfulness, loving-kindness, pity, self-sacrifice,
any divine virtue that shone in the life of Jesus, one iota
more because he believed in the miracles; the godlike
is the life alone: nay, I would say further, the miracles
have nothing godlike in them : the Great God—omni¬
potent and omniscient—can, and, so far as investigation
of His works teaches, does act by irrevocable law, and
is not likely to have recourse to a tour de force such as
the infraction of His own laws would be, when His
spirit is ever there to teach the seeking spirit of man.
Modern Spiritualism contains no miracles; it is the
opening of another book of the divine laws which bind
us to the Central Spirit of God, and shows us that, as
our spirits are derived from His, so, like His, are they
immortal, and destined to live for ever with Him. The
laws of this bond are the subject-study of Spiritualists:
and I, for one, have the strongest conviction that when
my spirit is in prayer it is communing with God’s spirit,
as a portion of Him, and deriving light and power from
the communion ; and this conviction I have, if Messrs.
Howitt, Hall, and Jones will permit it as possible, spite
of my opinion that it is better to keep theological con¬
troversy out of the practical inquiries of the Association.
They may be sure there is a law at the bottom of Spi¬
ritualism : there never was a phenomenon yet without
a law : we want to pry into that law, as in duty bound,
and we don’twant to be drawn aside by other questions.
Tet we may be all as good Christians as our objectors
for all that.
And here let me put a case. Let our three objectors
go before the congregated churches and announce them¬
selves as Christians and Spiritualists : they would soon
find how speedily and entirely the latter character
stripped them of the former in the opinion of their
judges, and how soon they would be hissed out of sight
as victims of Satan. And let Mr. Howitt remark that
this was the denunciation of the churches long before
there was any idea of an Association. Sic vos non vobis
occurs to me at once; and the moral is Christ’s—“judge
nbt that you be not judged;” and the remark, “ if ad¬
verse criticism is impressible, strive to criticise chari¬
tably.”
TONE AND LANGUAGE OE THE OBJECTOES.
This brings me to remark on the tone and language
in which two, at least, of our objectors have con¬
veyed their objections. I will not use the word
“ coarse ” to Mr. Howitt’s words of animadver¬
sion, though they verge on that undesirable quality:
but they are so vehement as to be violent, and
they are so forcible as to be feeble. Mere invective
converts and convinces only the weakest understandings,
and that only by the process of terror. Ey the intro¬
duction of some of his readings in the dismal history of
insanities growing out of Christian theology, he has
overdone his case and not injured ours; he asserts as
positive what has not yet taken place; and however I
may respect his opinion on passing things, I am not pre¬
pared to acknowledge his prophetic gift. His protest is
violent; but, though he lives near the Pope of Rome, he
is not yet the Pope of Spiritualism; and I trust the
Spiritualists will never, in all their history, allow popes
or leaders in their midst. Fulmination of curses, ex-
communications, encyclicals, syllabuses, and such like
amenities of the Roman curia, seated at the Yatican,
may have filled the air in those regions with this infec¬
tion of denunciation; but Mr. Howitt may rest assured
that Englishmen living in their own land are not to be
frightened by words of vituperation and injustice hurled
from the land of anathemas, excommunications, and
priestly tyranny. Kind, generous, Christian sugges¬
tions and expostulations, he may be sure, will do much
more with educated minds than hard words, fiery accu¬
sations and prophecies of evil as if they were already
fulfilled.
As for Mr. Jones’s utterances against the Association,
they are more funny than forcible; the mixture of jest
and abuse exhibited in rather a rambling way cannot
surely, at this intellectual date of the world, have
injured us very much, although he claims to be our
deadliest and most destructive foe, and speaks as if his
“attack” was a fact to be dreaded above all things. I
have some faith that we shall survive it; and meantime
it is a pity that he presses so much upon the misfortunes
of the Association meetings having interfered with those
which he had planned, and at which he proposed to be
256
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 27, 1874,
“ the self-elected leader.” It would also have been
more graceful had he failed to lay so much stress on
the small exchequer of the Association; which hopes
to gain much more knowledge than pence, and at all
events will not measure its character by its coin: it
is formed for the search after spiritual facts, not for
commercial profits. Poverty is no crime in the spirit
world, though it is in Surrey. The Association must
put on its armour—I don’t say what it will be made
of—in preparation for further “ attacks” from the same
source, that is all.
MR. ATKINSON OBJECTS.
Another objector, at the eleventh hour, appears in
Mr. Atkinson; but he does not found his objection on the
“ Christian” argument; it would be wonderful if he
did! In his adverse remarks he makes a confusion
between the house and the subject that is to live in it.
He says Spiritualism “ has no end in view, and ought
not to have.” Indeed! I think if he will take the
trouble to ask Spiritualists individually (as he desires
they should exist), or collectively (as I think they should
exist), he will receive the universal reply, “ The end we
have in view is to ascertain the nature and explanation
of those phenomena which have recently opened upon
our senses, and to find if there are means and ways for
the development of further phenomena.” Of course
“ no man can foresee ” what the upshot of the inquiry
may be, but since there are initiatory facts at hand,
surely it is a reasonable aim and end, to inquire
whether there are any more to be obtained in the same
line of phenomena. The “ nonsense,” as Mr. Atkinson
kindly calls it, which Mr. Morse uttered, amounted to
this,—that whereas facts were lying about in all direc¬
tions among spiritualistic inquirers, it would be well to
gather them together and give facility for their collec¬
tion by the formation of an edifice wherein they might
all be lodged; the inquirers forming the house,
and their facts being the contents of it, from which
house these could be made known to all who were or
were not curious about them. Mr. Atkinson says that
this could be done better by droppings of individuals
into the press, and that the Association would beget
“ cliques.” But are there not “ cliques” in ’the press
already ? Can he read the spiritualistic publications
and not see the fact in every one of them ? He accuses
the Association of “ starting with a fixed code or
religion;” I defy him to find such anywhere in its
archives; it is the very absence of such that brings
Messrs. Howitt, Jones, and Hall down in anathema
upon it. Even if the end of Association were only,
as he says, “ to give respectability or dignity” to the
subjects it undertakes to inquire into, is there harm in
that ? He must further prove that “ respectability
and dignity” interfere with and prevent inquiry. He
says “ very little comes of the debates of scientific
societies;” I had a belief, with very many others, that
Newton’s, Herschel’s, and Davy’s great discoveries had
all been read and debated in some such societies ; but,
as he adds, “ when men and women are bent on build¬
ing a ‘ folly,’ any argument (and it seems any state¬
ment) is acceptable,” be it true or not. He says “ it
begins by causing a great division in the party.” Oh !
then there was a u party,” and it was not “ lecturers
each taking his own course !” And if each did take
his own course, is he not still at liberty to do so ? The
Association has no “ code or religion,” and still less has
it the thunder of excommunication to hurl at those of
other persons and societies. All it ofiers isa medium by
which the facts ascertained by each Spiritualist may find
access to the knowledge of all, by constant communion
with similar aggregations in the provinces, and by the
friendly reunion of them all in personal meeting once
or twice a year. What does Mr. Atkinson mean by
“ Spiritualism becoming popular enough ?” I am
aware that he has never publicly declared himself a
Spiritualist, and it may very reasonably be doubted
whether he is one ; therefore it is possible the subject
is as popular as it ought to be, in his opinion. But
we, declared and sincere Spiritualists, do not think it is
as popular as it ought to be; we know that if Mr.
Atkinson would speak of Spiritualism to the next
hundred persons he may meet, he would get a sneer, or
vituperation from ninety-nine of them; and we don’t
think that marks it as “ popular enough.” In a short
space Mr. Atkinson has brought together a number of
untenable statements and unreasonable conclusions in
a way which makes one think he' has been prompted,
and made to utter a matter to which he has not given
examination and thought. I regret it the more, as my
recollections go back to his bold utterances, many years
ago, when he thought for himself and feared not to tell
his thought after it had been well elaborated; in those
days the world called his words “ nonsense,” even as he
now calls another man’s words “ nonsense ;” internally
I cheered him on for his fearlessness and philosophy,
and left the criticism of “ nonsense” to the people of
dulness and bad taste of that day.
MR. BURNS OBJECTS.
Mr. Burns has opposed the Association on the ground
that it is not “ spiritually” organised. I confess my igno¬
rance how men still in the flesh could set about to orga¬
nise otherwise than we have done. Shortcomings there
must always be, so long as our spirits are mingled and
weighted with our bodies, and possibly afterwards too.
But with those spirits so mingled, and for the further
investigation of the spirit’s life, attributes, and com¬
munion, we associated as we have done; it may have been
or may not have been “ spiritually,” but it occurs to me
as the only way, being what we are—bodies and spirits.
Although Mr. Burns admits Mr. Jones’s “ Christian”
objections into his columns, he is far too sincere a man
to join in them ; every one knows that he accepts the life
teaching, but not the mysterious dogmas of Christianity.
For myself, I may say that I regret the opposition of
Mr. Burns, because he is an energetic worker in the
cause of Spiritualism, and has great mental activity
and business-like qualities, such as would help any
organisation which has in view the investigation and
promulgation of facts. However, he is pursuing that
investigation and extension in the columns of his own
journal in the same manner in which the Association
proposes to do it, viz., by the ascertaining of facts and
the exclusion of polemics : and Spiritualists will thank
him for his efforts, I have no doubt. He is evidently a
good Christian without saying much about it, since he
allows Mr. Jones to make his terrible “ attacks” in the
columns of the Medium, in spite of that gentleman
not long ago having denounced the paper in public,
and thrust it behind him, with the remark, “Don’t let
me see that thing.”
SUMMARY.
From what precedes, it will be seen that much
indefiniteness hangs over the objections of the several
objectors, and that on that account it would be difficult
Nov. 27, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
257
to meet the requirements of them all. Before we
could meet Mr. Howitt’s, Mr. Hall’s, and Mrs. Jones’s
requirements, we must learn from them what quality,
phase, development and doctrines of Christianity should
constitute the Christian character of the Association;
and supposing it to be possible to please those three
gentlemen on this point, we should have to frame con¬
ditions which would let in Christians of some other fifty
different “views,” for it is not reasonable, having
squared our corporate laws to meet these three gentle¬
men, we should not square them to meet thirty other
Spiritualists with as many “views.” What would be
the result of such a rencontre of “ views,” we may
prognosticate from every-day experience of the oral
and written utterances, to and of each other, of Papal,
Catholic-Anglican, Evangelical-Anglican, Non-Con,
Plymouth, et id genus omne, of Christian combatants:
and very sorrily would the investigation of Spiritualism
come off amid such a Babel of opinions, tongues, and
pens. The only alternative was to exclude the subject
altogether, whilst stating that we held the moral
teachings of Jesus in honour and belief; there could
hot be much quarrelling about those. As for Turners,
Smiths, Southcotts, and such like insane people, as
they all went mad upon some theological points which
the objectors in question maintain should not be
excluded from our programme, it is possible that
similar lunatics might spring up in our midst if we did
what they desire us to do, include those points. The
morality of Jesus Christ never drove any one mad yet;
the theologies which His followers heaped on it have
made millions of mad and wicked people. I never met
a man who really believed and loved the moral teachings
of Jesus who was otherwise than worthy and high-
minded ; but some of the meanest and most false
scoundrels that have fallen in my pathway, have been
creatures who hung with the greatest persistency upon
orthodox theologies, and mouthed the most about Christ
and Christianity.
The truth is, there is nothing in the Christianity of
duty and life which wars with the examination of any
subject of human interest whatever, least of all with
the investigation of facts which confirm the reality of
that life beyond the grave for which Christ himself told
us our present life should be one constant preparation.
Prom Him, too, we have the grand motive for goodness
of life, viz., the love of God, of which the most potent
proof was the love of our neighbour. But if under
the name of “ holy truths” man denounces man, for
that each does not hold the opinions of the other, what
becomes of this motive and the proof of its existence ?
Let a man live the life of Christ and he will find him¬
self perfectly safe in the midst of our Association, the
corns of his opinions untrodden upon, and the prospect
of life beyond the grave certified and brightened to his
pure and upright spirit. Spiritualism stands in the
way of no pure and practical religion, however much
it puzzles priests and priest-ridden people.
As the Association is formed, exists, and will continue
to exist, the objections of Mr. Atkinson have a chance
of being tested by time and experience, and as we ad¬
vance in the investigation of our subject, we will in¬
form him when we think it “ popular enough.” As
for the objection of hard-working Mr. Burns, we can
but strive against our bodies to do our work “spiritually.”
At all events it will be seen by the latest resolutions of
the Council that we are “ spiritual” enough not to run
into material debt.
THE STORY OF A HAUNTED HOUSE*
BY EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
The following narration I received from the lips of the two
witnesses to the occurrences, Mr. and Mrs. B , with whom
I am intimately acquainted, and for whose veracity I will vouch
as I would for that of members of my own family. I know no
more truthful persons : they are intelligent and well-informed,
and up to the time these events transpired, had no faith what¬
ever in ghosts or so-called supernatural agencies. I will here
copy from my notes, taken about two years after the occur¬
rence of the events, and at the time they were related to me
by them.
In the year 1869, a gentleman and his wife, without children,
who had but recently arrived in Brooklyn, N. Y., rented a
house in the southern portion of the city, into which they
moved. The building stood apart, with no other buildings on
the same block, and was an old-fashioned country dwelling,
and had been vacant for some time when Mr. B engaged
it, without any knowledge of its previous history.
A portion of their furniture had been brought into the
house, ftnd Mrs. B in the afternoon was alone, engaged in
arranging it, when she was startled by the sounds of voices in
the basement, apparently of persons engaged in a dispute.
These in a moment were followed by a sound as of something
falling to the ground. She thought some person had entered
with her husband by the basement door, and that he had been
assaulted, and under this impression she rushed down the
stairs, only to find the basement empty, and the doors securely
fastened from the inside.
She was not in the least superstitious, but was bewildered
by the strangeness of the occurrence, and upon the return of
her husband related the circumstance to him. Mr. B 
smiled at the supposed hallucination of his wife, and nothing
more was said about it until they sat down to their evening
meal, when Mrs. B jestingly remarked, “If there are
ghosts here, I hope they will not begrudge us our food.”
Instantly three loud raps were heard upon the door at the
opposite side of the room, which opened to the basement
stairs, followed by a gurgling, choking sound, which, commenc¬
ing at the door, seemed to continue and approach the table
where they were seated. Here it ceased. Their supper, as
may be supposed, was a hurried and light one.
They had arranged their bed temporarily in a room on the
main floor, and upon retiring, the door between their room
and the next was left open, as also was the one opposite this,
opening to the kitchen, and soon after the light was extin¬
guished, all the eovers to the stove openings appeared from the
sounds to be dancing and jumping,^hile various other kitchen
utensils were apparently thrown about the room. Mr. B——
arose and struck a light, and entered the kitchen, where every
article was precisely as it had been placed by his wife. He
returned to bed, but had not yet slept, when suddenly they
were aroused by the sound of some heavy body falling upon
the floor in the room above them. It seemed as if all the
ceiling of that room had been thrown down at once. They
both rushed upstairs, where they found all quiet, and the
ceiling in perfect condition. No furniture nor anything move-
able had yet been carried into these upper rooms, and nothing
was visible but bare walls.
This ended the disturbances for that night, and the next
day Mr. B. repaired to the house of a friend, to whom he
related his experiences. It so happened that this friend had
some knowledge of circles for spirit manifestations, and he
proposed that he, with two other gentlemen, should come over
in the evening, and that they, together with Mr. and Mrs.
B , should hold a seance, and see what would come of it.
This proposal, after some hesitation on the part of Mr. B 
was agreed to, and in the evening the parties assembled and
seated themselves around a table, with their hands resting upon
it. Baps were soon heard, and after a few minutes, upon in¬
quiring who it was that had made the disturbances the previous
night, the answer was given : “ Aunt Jane S  made the
noises.” “ Who is she ?” was asked; when, at that moment
Mr. B was seized with a sensation of choking, as if a hand¬
kerchief had been passed around his throat and tightly drawn,
and the difficulty of breathing was so great that both he and
the others were much alarmed for his safety, but it passed
away as suddenly as it occurred, and then by the raps, it
was communicated that Aunt Jane S  (the name in full
being given), formerly occupied that dwelling alone ; that a
Mr. J and his two sons had murdered her by choking her
* Extracted from Crowell’s “ Identity of Primitive Christianity and
Modern Spiritualism.” London: Trubner & Co.
258
THE SPIRITUALIST. Nov. 27, 1874.
■with a handkerchief; the object being to obtain her money ;
that it was the sons who performed the deed, while the
father looked on; and that they had obtained all her money,
excepting one deposit that had been made in a corner of the
cellar, and if they would dig for that they could have it.
Upon, this she was requested to move the table and to place
it over the spot where the treasure was buried, supposing that
by retaining their hands upon it she possibly might effect
this, but great was their surprise when they saw the table
arise in the air, free itself from their hands, and passing over
a moderately-sized stove, descend upon the floor in one corner
of the room. They then inquired further, and were told that
the deposit was covered with short boards and some pieces of
old cloth, and the whole with earth.
The parties now left—Mr. and Mrs. B with them, as
they had determined not to pass another night in the house—
after appointing the afternoon of the ensuing day, as the time
for exploration. When the hour arrived, provided with
a spade, they all entered the cellar, and soon penetrated to the
boards and old cloth at the spot designated. These they
removed, and one of the gentlemen present forced the spade
further into the earth, when at this moment a loud sepulchral
groan fell upon their ears. The spade was dropped, and each
gazed wildly at the other, fully impressed that this was more
than they had bargained for, but nothing more then occurring
they regained their courage, and Mr. B  took the spade,
and in his turn vigorously forced it into the earth, but here
another groan, if possible more unearthly than the former,
fairly electrified them, while the effect upon Mrs. B , who
held the lamp, was to cause her to drop it, and they were
plunged into total darkness. They were
“ Five minds with but a sfbgle thought;
Five hearts that beat as one,”
as they started for the stairs, leading from this abode of
terror. There was no time for interchanging courtesies, and
the only lady among them, Mrs. B , was the last to make
her exit.
Mrs. B now made inquiries of the neighbours as to who
had formerly inhabited the place, when he was informed that
for many years the sole occupant had been a woman, whom
they called Aunt Jane S ; that she was exceedingly
penurious; that she died suddenly, no one being present; and
that no cause could be assigned for her death; that after her
decease, sums of money were found buried under almost every
tree, of which there were a dozen or more upon the place.
Upon inquiring about the Mr. J  whom the spirit
accused, Mr. B found it was the name of the person from
whom he had taken the premises; that he had two grown
sons, and that his sudden accession to wealth shortly after the
death of the old woman, had been a common topic of remark
amongst his neighbours.
Noises and disturbances of one kind and another daily
occurred while Mr. B  remained in possession of the
house, but as they lodged elsewhere they escaped the nocturnal
annoyances, and in about ten days they removed from the
house altogether.
The question will arise in the mind of the reader, “ Why
did not Mr. B take further steps to discover and appro¬
priate the buried treasure ? ” This question arose in my own
mind when Mr. and Mrs. B  related the story to me, and
I made the inquiry, and the answer was, “ We never believed
in ghosts until then, and even then we saw nothing. All the
evidence we had were the noises, movements of tables and
other objects, and the rapping ; but these, together with the
suspicion that a murder had been committed, produced such a
feeling of horror that we had but one desire, and that was to
remove as soon and as far as possible from the place/ and we
have had no desire since to revisit the spot.”
It may also be asked, “ Why did not Mr. B follow up
the trail against Mr. J   and his sons ? ” The reply is,
“ Evidence like this is not admissible in a court of justice ; he i
did not consider the investigation of this case particularly his
duty; not being a Spiritualist, he neither had faith in nor
understood the philosophy of these disturbances and revela¬
tions, and prudently, and naturally, being a stranger in
Brooklyn, he desired to avoid all ridicule and trouble, and so
abstained from action in the premises. There can be no
doubt that when public opinion becomes more enlightened and
will tolerate the narration of such occurrences in society, that
the ends of justice will often be promoted through similar
revelations.”
A letter from Newry, Ireland, says that there are only
three or four Spiritualists there, most of them working men.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETIira- OF IHE COUNCIL.
Last Monday night a special Council Meeting of the British
National Association of Spiritualists was held at Lawson’s
Booms, Gower-street, London, under the presidency of Mr.
Alexander Calder. The other members present were Mr.
Martin B. Smith, Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mr. Webster
Glynes, Mr. G. Nelson Strawbridge, Miss Anna Blackwell, Miss
Eislingbury, Mr. Edmund D. Bogers, Mr. Keningale Cook,
Mr. B. Harper, Mr. Edward T. Bennett, and Mr. Joseph Free¬
man. Miss Blackwell introduced a brother of Mr. Andrew
Jackson Davis, of New Fork ; the visitor, of course, took no
part in the proceedings and did not vote.
OFFICES FOE THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
Before the regular proceedings began, the honorary secre¬
tary stated that none of the ordinary business of the Council
could be transacted that evening, but only the business for
which the meeting had been specially called.
The Chairman said that before the business began, Mr.
Bennett would make a short statement as to what was doing
in the matter of offices.
Mr. E. T. Bennett, secretary to the Offices Committee, said
that various members of the committee had been to examine
premises which had been offered to the Association ; they con¬
sisted of all the upper part of a house, seven rooms in all, for
£65 a year; it was close to Mudie’s Library, above a dyer’s
shop, but had a separate and private entrance; the rooms had
once been occupied by the Doric Club. Three or four of the
rooms would do for the resident secretary. The largest room
measured 21 feet by 11 feet, and a folding door could be made
to enlarge it. Perhaps a lease could be obtained. Other
premises had been offered, but not so suitable.*
Mr. Harper said that the terms were very moderate for the
locality.
THE AYOIDANCE OF DEBT BY THE ASSOCIATION.
Mr. Webster Glynes said—I conceive that there is nothing
more important to us as a Council or Association than to look
after our finances, and see that they are well in hand. I have
looked in vain through the rules for anything which will meet
the particular objects which have lately been discussed by our
Association, namely, the liability which will fall on members
in respect to various responsibilities in taking offices; I there¬
fore wish to propose rules which I think will make the Asso¬
ciation safe. It cannot be a matter of small importance to
see that we do not overstep the balance we have in hand; we
ought to have stringent rules, to so bind us as to prevent the
zealousness of officers, to pledge ourselves beyond the funds
in hand to amounts which we could not get without litigation
or trouble. The object is to provide that no debt or liability
be incurred unless sanctioned by a majority of the members
of the Council. Thus when the Association resolves to incur
any expenditure, the Council will have the protection that
they cannot be pledged to the outlay unless there is a
sufficiently large actual balance in hand above all the liabili¬
ties ; thus we can never get into debt, and shall have an in¬
ducement to exert ourselves to extend the Association. One
of my rules provides that in case any gentlemen should in any
way make the Council liable for a debt without authority,
those gentlemen shall take upon themselves the responsibility.
I think also that it would be a very wholesome rule that every
month we shall have a financial statement of the position of
the Association laid before us, especially as our contemplated
expenses are heavy. I therefore move that these four rules
be adopted:—
XXA.—That no debt or liability to pay any sum of money be incurred,
nor any contract or engagement whatsoever be entered into, by or on
behalf of the Association, or the Council thereof, unless the same shall
first have been submitted to the Council at some monthly meeting,
and sanctioned by a resolution of the majority of the members present
thereat.
XXb.—That no such debt or liability, contract or engagement be sanctioned
by the Council unless it shall appear from the statement of the Treasurer's
account that, after making deduction for all liabilities then existing, a
sufficient balance shall be actually in his hand to meet the expenditure pro¬
posed to be incurred.
XXc.—That if any debt or liability be incurred, or any contract or
engagement entered into contrary to the beforegoing rules, then the person
*Has there been a full consideration of the point whether this is the most
suitable locality for offices, far from any railway station ? Ought the
Committee, before deciding, to be limited to the choice of one or two places
offered it by chance, whereas by advertising once in two or three daily
papers many offers might be made ? Might not the neighbourhood of
Cfaaring-cross be more mutually accessible to West-end and East-end
London Spiritualists ?—Ed.
Nov. 27, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
259
or persons so incurring or entering into the same, shall he personally liable
for the discharge and satisfaction thereof.
XXd.—That a statement of the financial position of the Association he
laid before the council at every monthly meeting.
The Chairman said that the rules should be taken sepa¬
rately.
Mr. Glynes accordingly moved that the first rule be adopted,
and this was seconded by Mr. Martin Smith.
Mr. George King and Mr. E. D. Rogers thought the object
in view in proposing the rules to be a good one, but that the
words “ nor any contract or engagement whatever be entered
into,” also the words “ at some monthly meeting,” should be
struck out, otherwise every bill would have to be brought
before the Council first, and a committee authorised by the
Council to spend a certain sum, say in getting up a soiree,
could do nothing.
A long discussion followed, in the course of which Mr.
Martin Smith moved the adoption of an addition to the rule,
in harmony with the ideas of Mr. Rogers.
Mr. Rogers said that as shortening it came to the same
thing, he thought that the best course to adopt.
The Chairman thought the rule to be a good one ; without
it somebody might pledge the Association to a large amount,
so that a man of substance, like Mr. Strawbridge, might ,wake
up some fine morning and find people coming to “squeeze ”
him.
A division took place, in which seven voted for the amend¬
ment of Messrs. Rogers and King and five against it. The
amendment was consequently carried.
Mr. Glynes then moved that the Rule XXb be adopted.
Mr. G. N. Strawbridge seconded the motion and said: I was
the originator of the substance of the rules, on which I con¬
sulted my friend Mr. Glynes, and took advantage of his pro¬
fessional legal knowledge; I regret that the whole of them
have not been put because I think that you cannot alter one
without impairing the rest, and I was glad to see that the
first was seconded by an able man of business like Mr. Martin
Smith. I appeal to every man of business whether the rules
do not speak for themselves, and ought not to be carried as
they are ? I have had only too much experience on the Stock
Exchange how dangerous it is to belong to any Association
where there is a possibility of the members incurring liability.
Mr. E. T. Bennett thoroughly approved of the principles
enunciated by the mover and seconder, but thought that the
rule in the form put would not be workable; for instance,
under it they could not take the lease of premises at £100
a year for seven years, without having £700 actually in hand,
although the annual income of the Association might be
amply large enough to clear the rent. Could not the rule be
modified to meet a case of that kind ?
Mr. Martin Smith thought the rule would be a stone round
the neck of the Association; it was too stringent, too hard
and fast. They must trust a little to the good sense of the
Council. He would move an amendment that the Council
should call a special meeting before incurring any special
liability; thus all the members would have notice of it, and
time to think it over; the Council then could not be carried
away by excess of zeal, nor in the warmth of the moment, urged
by some good speaker, do something to be regretted next
morning. He would move an amendment to that effect.
After some discussion the amendment was not pressed, but
another adopted, namely, that 'Rule XXb be struck out
altogether.
Rules XXc and XXn were then adopted unanimously.
Mr. George King pointed out that the Bye-Laws arranged
that the balance in hand should be stated at each meeting,
but Mr.'.Glynes remarked that,1 that did not_ necessarily show
the financial position of the Association.
The proceedings then closed.
The Irish police, disguised and in uniform, have watched
the hannted house at Cookstown ini-ide and outside, by day
and night, without success.
Obit CAEy Notice.—H Passed to spirit life, November 19,
at her residence, 85, Islington, Liverpool, Lucy Ann, the wife
of Mr. Archibald Lamont.” Mrs. Lament’s removal will be
much lamented by a large circle of friends, not less on account
of her social and domestic virtues, than of her mediumship,
which was of a high order; she was a trance speaker, a healer,
and a personating medium. The funeral took place at Toxteth
Cemetery, on Sunday morning, at nine o’clock, and was
largely attended by friends connected with Spiritualism, as
well as others. A profusion of beautiful flowers was strewn on
the coffin and in the grave by the friends of the departed one.
2&ebteto.
Pkimitive Christianity and Modern Spiritualism, by
Eugene Crowell, M.D. London : Triibner and Co.
New York : G. W. Carlton and Co.
This book, published last week in London, is a splendid
addition to the literature of Spiritualism, equal in
quality to Mr. Dale Owen’s Debatable Land, but differ¬
ing in kind. It is more a scientific than a theological
work, yet in every chapter the spiritual manifestations
recorded in the Bible are paralleled by those taking
place now. The religious standpoint taken by the '
author is broad and liberal, and the philosophical
portion of the book deals ably with questions of great
interest to Spiritualists, such as the difficulty particular
spirits have in communicating at particular times,
through particular media, hence the comparative
scarcity of good instances of proof of spirit identity.
The author seems to be strongly attached to locality,
for he appears not to know of the most startling mani¬
festations which have taken place recently in England,
or the discoveries elicited thereby, tending to establish
general principles; he, however, republishes in full
from The Spiritualist how some furniture was haunted
at the residence of Mrs. Nosworthy of Birkenhead.
Dr. Crowell publishes evidence to show that Sir Walter
Scott was a medium; he also gives a good case of a
blind boy becoming clairvoyant, another example tend¬
ing to illustrate an important subject mooted in these
pages some time since by the Baroness Adelma Yay.
There is a rich and well-selected store of records of
spiritual manifestations, many of which occurred be¬
neath his own observation, and many have never before
been published; one of these, about a haunted house,
is quoted in the present number of The Spiritualist
for the benefit of readers in Cookstown and the North
of Ireland, who are now learning “ sermons in stones,”
after a manner never contemplated by the poet, and
who cannot do better than to study with all diligence
the book now under notice, as well as Mr. Dale Owen’s
Debatable Land and Footfalls on the- Boundary of
Another World, published by Triibner and Co.
THE ROYAL IRISH CONSTABULARY DEFIED BY
SPIRITS.
GREAT DISTURBANCES BY SPIRITS IN THE NORTH OF IRELAND.
Some violent disturbances, evidently produced by a spirit
or spirits, have been going on for a long time at the house of
Mr. Allen, grocer, Cookstown, Ireland, and the power at work
appears to be malicious. The following account of the occur¬
rences is taken from the Belfast News Letter of Nov. 16th.
The News Letter is the oldest and most important journal in
the north of Ireland, and the property of the Mayor, Mr. J. A.
Henderson. The report may therefore be considered to be
reliable. Moreover, the narrative fits in with others of a like
nature; only a few weeks ago we recorded some similar occur¬
rences in America, and Mr. William Howitt once published a
pamphlet full of authenticated cases of stone-throwing by
spirits. Two or three years ago, we printed an account of stone¬
throwing by spirits at Peckham, in which case windows were
broken over and over again, in broad daylight, under the eyes
of the police:—
THE COOKSTOWN GHOST.
Cookstown has lately been singled out for the attention of a
visitor whose freaks and doings have caused no little wonder¬
ment and curiosity. Were the time a little further advanced,
the narrative of the manifestations which have so completely
upset the ordinary tranquillity of the community might be
260
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 27, 1874,
embodied in a fairly espiting Christmas story. It would
abound with mystery and weirdness and incomprehensi¬
bility. The story, however, would lack the orthodox moral;
it would be wanting in an end; the inexplicable would remain
unexplained, for the simple reason that at present it admits
not of solution. The stranger has not as yet made himself
visible to any eye, but his presence is too obtrusively indicated
by uncanny acts, to be either unnoticed or uncared for. The
absolute identity of the unseen is, therefore, a matter of grave
conjecture, public opinion being strongly divided as to whether
he is a ghost, a spirit, or simply an atom of depraved humanity
indulging in a fanciful and certainly much-to-be-condemned
form of amusement. According to all preconceived notions
of ghostdom, a form from that land of shades should assume
a spectral, faintly-illumined, human aspect, having a peculiar
predilection for the witching hour of midnight, ‘ ‘ when church¬
yards yawn and graves give up their dead.” Such is not the
case in this instance, for in no shape or entity is our unquiet
friend ever observable, while neither cock-crow, the sun at
noonday, nor the hush of twilight, exercises controlling power
over his actions. If a ghost then he be, he has undoubtedly
got a dispensation freeing him from all the thraldom of his
kindred genus. By some, who have sufficient nerve and
courage to become facetious on the subject, it is asserted that
a spirit has broken loose from the mystic store-room of Mrs.
Guppy—one which disdains the further confinement of dark
seances and the undignified monotony of table-rapping.
There are others again who are quite incredulous, and hem
and haw, and hint and declare, that the thing is not so ghost¬
like or mysterious as it seems; that, in fact, if they just had
their way Oookstown would soon resume its wonted serenity,
and be no more troubled with this paradoxical, invisible
apparition. Whatever the agent may be though, certain it is
that the household selected for its scene of operations, has
been put to infinite pain and annoyance. And not all the
sympathy, and kindness, and assistance, of friends and neigh¬
bours are at all able to relieve them from their unwelcome guest,
or prevent them from suffering unpleasantnesses which, seem¬
ingly trivial in themselves, are yet perfectly torturing in their
recurrence and strangeness. The unknown is of the most evil
and malign disposition, with a well-developed tendency to
destroy and to revel in mischief pure and simple. If it be a
ghost, or a spirit, at liberty to wander “ fancy free,” an unac¬
countable partiality is shown for one habitation, and a very
petty, perverse propensity for interfering with the delf, the
cooking and other domestic matters. In fact the spirit seems
most at home in the kitchen, as if it were the shade of some
departed scullery-maid, whom “ habit’s iron law ” had com¬
pelled to return to earth, but whose sole remembered capacity
was the smashing of the crockery-ware.
STONE-THROWING BY SPIRITS—A SHUTTER TAKEN DOWN BY INVI¬
SIBLE POWER UNDER THE EYES OF ARMED MEN.
The haunted house is situate on Old Town Hill, and is
occupied by a Mr. Allen, who carries on a respectable business
as a grocer. If not exactly in the sere and yellow leaf, Mr.
Allen is somewhat stricken in years. Intelligent and candid
in his walk of life, he has gained the esteem of all who know
him; and the fact that he should be the object of such bewil¬
dering occurrences as have and are almost daily taking place,
creates all the more commiseration, and a feeling very much
akin to indignation, in the town. The manifestations of
something unusual and untoward, first became noticeable some
eighteen months ago. The phenomena were then mainly con¬
fined to breaking the windows. It may be thought there was
nothing very extraordinary and ghostlike in such a procedure,
but there was. When several panes were broken, and the how
and means escaped attention, a strict watch was put upon the
windows, but all was useless ; the cause was still undiscover-
able. Sometimes stones were used as the media, but by whom
or what nobody could see ; and more frequently again the glass
broke, apparently of its own accord. Even the frames began
at last to get abused, more especmlly at the rear of the house,
and the strictest and most constant guard could make nothing
of it. The house, by the way, is a small two-story building,
with three windows behind, and the ordinary shop and front
windows before. The yard is small, and surrounded by a wall
ten feet high, from whence extend the open fields. All the
glass at the back of the premises having been repeatedly
broken, and every effort at protection avoided, one of the
windows was barricaded with a shutter, to which was affixed
a bell, in such a position that if the shutter were moved, the
bell must ring. Men were also placed at each window with
loaded guns, so that it was impossible for any individual to
approach without being at once observed and in their power.
Notwithstanding this, the shutter was taken down, the bell
simply noting the fact when it was accomplished, and that in
such a gentle, tinkling monotone as to be almost unheard. In
the front of the premises glass was broken with the same
security and freedom from observation.
HEAVY STONES ROLLING ABOUT THE HOUSE—MOVEMENTS OF
DOMESTIC ARTICLES.
Fear now commenced to grow into serious alarm, which in •
no way decreased, as other incidents, equally, if not more
bewildering in their character, became of daily occurrence.
Bowls took a fancy to rotate, with various degrees of swiftness,
upon the tables, and then, as if smitten with the same idea of
self-martyrdom, shot off at a tangent, ending sharply and for
ever their symmetrical usefulness upon the floor. Coats,
which formerly hung with all staidness and propriety upon
their respective pins, now shivered and fluttered, as if seized
with an ague, and again expanded in all their proportions, as
if each were enveloping an invisible Falstaff or an aspiring
Claimant. Hats took unto themselves wings, and bodily flew
away. In sooth, the natural order of affairs in the house was
completely deranged, and the more agitated became the inani¬
mate articles, the more excited became, naturally enough, the
members of the family. Every conceivable project that could
be devised for elucidating these mysteries failed utterly in
pointing out a cause which could be understood. Even the
potatoes boiling in a pot on the fire became mashed, and
leaped behind! the fire. And when ten or twelve were
entered for boiling, a tot up in a few minutes revealed the
startling fact that several had altogether and unaccountably
disappeared, though many pairs of straining eyes were watch¬
ing with almost painful eagerness every motion of the immov¬
able pot. Latterly, also, large stones, weighing on an average
about three pounds or three pounds and a half, have rolled
slowly down the stairs, bobbing with leisurely ease from step
to step. These have been sometimes damp and wet with
clay, as if just removed from a ditch or roadway, and at other
times dry and clean, as if preserved from the weather for a
considerable space of time.
ATTEMPTS TO ACCOUNT FOR THE DISTURBANCES.
The following portion of the report shows that some have
thought that the disturbances are greatest when one member
of the family is present: possibly one or more members of the
family may have medium power without knowing it, in which
case the manifestations would be stronger when they are
near:—
No persons have been in the upper portion of the house
where such events have happened, and not the vaguest shadow
upon which to found a belief in the collusion or complicity of
any parties in the causing of them has been at all afforded.
These manifestations will serve to show the cruel and persis¬
tent manner in which Mr. Allen and his family have been
afflicted, (although they are far from exhausting the minor
details of a system of persecution as vexatious and hard to be
borne, as it is strange and unexplainable both in cause and
result. The family consist of Mr. and Mrs. Allen, two sons,
and a daughter. One of the male branches, a young man of
twenty-two or thereabouts, resides constantly with his father,
and is said to be an apt student of the art of legerdemain.
Humour will insist on mixing him up with the occurrences,
but they have been known to take place when he was away
working on the farm. Mr. Allen has ceased to accept, or even
to listen to any interpretation or explanation of the facts. He
is not by any means a nervous man, nor superstitious in his
way of thinking; but, having seen these things occur, and
being utterly unable to assert a reason for them, he would at
the present moment be an easily manipulated disciple' of the
most ardent Spiritualist. The whole affair in its recital might
seem quite a ludicrous matter, were it not for the very great
pain suffered by those most concerned. That the people of
the town are much excited by it, and anxiously awaiting its
denouement, is unquestionable. The usual morning salute in
meeting a friend is now invariably accompanied by the query,
“ Anything new from the ghost ? ” “ Is all quiet at Allen’s ? ”
And not alone in Cookstown, but in all the district for miles
round, the doings of the ghost are canvassed and criticised
with the greatest interest. It has been shrewdly suggested
that a Belfast detective might soon purge the premises
of the spirit, but Mr. Allen scouts the possibility of such
aid as not only useless, but absurd. Perhaps he is right, but
in all human probability I think he is wrong. This being the
Nov. 27, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
261
market day, the great topic was, of course, actively discussed,
and theories beyond number asserted each as the true and par¬
ticular explanation of the whole business. Meanwhile the
ghost is not yet laid, but more of him anon.
THE SPIRIT WILL NOT SHOW HIMSELF—CHURCHWARDENS AND
CLERGYMEN CALLED IN—THE INVESTIGATORS AT FAULT.
In the News Letter of Nov. 19th is a later account of the
disturbances, in which the reporter complains of the invisi¬
bility of the spirit, not knowing that such seldom show them¬
selves except at seances withja materialisation medium. A fort¬
night ago, Mr. Henry M. Dunphy, a gentleman well known in
Irish as well as London literary circles, published an article in
these pages about a spirit in Dublin, who was invisible to all
but one clairvoyant.
The reporter makes a wild attempt to connect the disturb¬
ances with Dr. Tyndall, a gentleman of whose dealings with
Spiritualism and general characteristics the News Letter dis¬
played a remarkably accurate knowledge in leading articles
during the late visit of the British Association to Belfast. At
all events its readers have now good evidence of the neglect Of
duty of men of science (with a few honourable exceptions) in
not investigating such facts :—
To say that we have a ghost amongst us is, I think, not strictly
correct, as nothing, not even any of those shadowy forms,
flitting along through dark corridors, and disappearing in a
solid wall, or sinking suddenly into the ground, which is the
stereotyped programme of all respectable ghosts, nor any other
approved “ appearance,” through the medium of which such
unwelcome visitors are supposed to show themselves to
mortals, has as yet been seen by anybody ; but we are aware
that an unseen agency is at work in our midst which defies all
our efforts to unravel. We cannot even get a glimpse of a re¬
tiring figure in white; we hear no unearthly sounds, no blood¬
freezing noises; not even the rustle of an unseen garment;
in fact, nothing that is said to indicate or designate the pres¬
ence of a spirit from the world of the “departed dead.” Some
think it is not a ghost at all, but a conglomeration of atoms
which became unmanageable in the hands of Dr. Tyndall
during some of his experiments in Belfast; but that solution of
the matter is considered doubtful.
Clergymen, doctors, elders, churchwardens, and business
men, of all grades and degrees of ability, have tried their hand
at lifting the veil, but all with the same result, leaving the
matter as mysterious as they found it.
The general impression just now seems to be that the mani¬
festations, as we have tbem, are the work of a Satanic agency,
evoked by some person or persons unknown; that the agent
has now the whip hand of his employer, and that things are
to go on as at present ad infinitum, or till a more practised
hand reduces him to obedience. That this notion is gaining
ground is not to be wondered at, inasmuch as, of the hundreds
of mysterious things which have happened, not the most
remote clue has been found to connect a single one of them
with any human being; and the supposition that these were
the result of human agency has long ago been discarded by
the sufferers, and is fast dying out in the minds of the public
generally.
When any one suggests that a clever trickster might, by a
skilful manipulation, execute all that has been done and escape
detection, that possibly a detective might be able to throw
light on the mystery, or perhaps refused to believe the possible
intervention of Satan in such petty household matters, some
of our wiseacres look grave, make quotations from Scripture,
not forgetting the witch of En-dor, and instance multitudes of
cases of a similar kind, as either coming within their own ex¬
perience, or as related by their fathers or grandfathers, all
corroborative of the possibility of these things occurring
through supernatural agencies.
THE MALICIOUS NATURE OF THE DISTURBANCES—AMOUNT OF
PROPERTY DESTROYED—A TEST MANIFESTATION WITH A SAUCE¬
PAN AND POTATOES.
Be this as it may, during a period of nearly eighteen months
the most unaccountable proceedings have been going on, and
at the present time we seem to be no nearer a solution of them
than at the commencement. During this time an immense
quantity of wearing apparel has been cut up into fragments,
said to be value for upwards of £60—in one particular case to
the amount of £4 10s. One time a new hat would be cut
round and round, and found lying out in the street a few
minutes after having been used, without the apparent possi¬
bility of any person having done it. Coats, trousers, vests,
blankets, shawls similarly destroyed without a shadow of
suspicion resting on any person. This continued at intervals
till within the last two months, when the work of destruction
assumed another form, which brought it into public notice.
The window smashing then commenced—first the front windows
were demolished, not all at once, but leisurely, generally one
pane at a time. At first it was thought some miscreants were at
work, but the premises were so closely watched that this idea
was dismissed, and especially as the glass was frequently
broken under the eyes of the watchers, when it would have
been utterly impossible for the perpetrator to escape instant de¬
tection. Shutters were then put on, and the work of demolition
immediately commenced in the rear of the house, and con¬
tinued till nothing but the bare sashes remained. Several
plans were tried to discover the supposed actors in these
scenes; but, despite the presence of a watcher at each
window, and the protection of shutters on the outside,
the glass-breaking went on, and no clue obtained. Not
even the prints of a foot or mark of any description could
be discovered within a reasonable distance; in fact, the
whole circumstances were of the most inexplicable description,
and completely excluded the whole work from the bounds of
human possibility. It is worthy of notice, at the same time,
that the ghosts took exactly the same means to break the
windows that an ordinary mortal would adopt—namely, by
flinging a stone through it; but with this striking difference
in the result—as a rule the fragments of glass were found on
the outside, and the stone in the inside; in a few instances
both in the inside, and in fewer cases still no stone could be
discovered. This phenomenon, I think, would baffle the
sagacity of even a Belfast detective to comprehend. Mean¬
while, if possible, a darker mystery enveloped the proceedings
inside. Of course the house was searched again and again—
every comer minutely examined from roof to floor, but without
the slightest discovery of a suspicious character being made.
And, notwithstanding that the upper part of the house was
thoroughly secured, and no means of communication with the
outside practicable, sounds as of weighty bodies falling on the
floor above have frequently been heard when all the inmates
of the house were positively known to be downstairs, and when
the place was examined with the view of discovering the
cause, no signs of anything unusual could be seen. Stones,
varying in size from a small paving-stone to one weighing
twelve pounds, came downstairs at intervals, and at various
times of the day, without apparently any greater impetus than
what would be acquired by their^own weight; and sometimes
several have been found on the topmost step, piled up one on
top of the other, so delicately balanced that the slightest
touch would cause them to topple over. Where these came
from is the mystery. About the stones themselves there is
nothing remarkable. They are invariably such as might be
found at any time convenient to the house, or in any old ditch
in the fields adjoining. Eleven potatoes are counted into a
pot, the lid tied down, and intently watched; but, behold,
when the contents are examined, a few minutes after, only
six are to be found. A crock of cream of its own free will and
accord splits open without being handled, and the contents
runout.
EXCEPTIONAL DIFFICULTIES IN INVESTIGATING.
It is said a spirit-charmer, when on the premises a few days
ago, had a very important part of his pants cut away, and the
back part of one of his boots lopped off in a twinkling. For some
time the shop was free from the intrusion of this troublesome
visitor, but now no corner is free from some disaster. Only a
few days ago, a churn filled with milk was, for safety, locked
up in the shop, and the keys taken by one of the members of
the family to her bedroom. In the morning, however, the
churn was found standing bottom upwards, and the floor
covered with its contents. About the same time, a quantity
of new cloth was cut up, so as to completely destroy it. The
cuts had the appearance of having been done by a keen, long-
bladed knife, forming clean wavy lines, passing through
several folds at the same time. Scores of transactions of this
kind might be enumerated, but the outline just given will
afford some idea of the perplexing nature of the proceedings,
and, so far, the perfect impossibility of elucidating them.
I need not say that these astonishing things are regarded
with the utmost concern by the people of Cookstown, or that
the universal feeling abroad is one of sincere sympathy with
Mr. Alien and his family; for, however one may be inclined
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 27, 1874.
262
to dispute the cause, the results are the same, and these un¬
deniably point to an agency of some kind as malignant in
design and execution as the parties concerned are powerless
to understand or prevent its operations. One thing is certain.
If these proceedings are being inflicted on a rpan who
has the respect and esteem of all who know him, by
human agency, it is a reproach on the town that
the perpetrators have not been unmasked; and if by
supernatural means, who will undertake to explain it ?
And now that the matter is fairly made public, it is pos¬
sible some person may be able to advise us how to exorcise
the Cookstown ghost, as we are heartily tired of its pranks,
and would willingly make a present of it to Moneymore or any
other neighbouring town which feels inclined for the attentions
of such a visitor.
It is pleasing to see that the narrative speaks well of Mr.
Allen and his family, for plenty of similar disturbances are on
record, and in ignorant communities unjust suspicions against
the chief sufferers have sometimes taken root; only a few
weeks ago we published how similar disturbances took place in
the presence of a poor scared child, who chanced to be a
medium ; consequently, the poor little girl, to escape persecu¬
tion, threw herself into the river in the attempt to drown her¬
self. Sometimes these manifestations are attached to places
rather than to persons ; the place is then said to be “ haunted,”
and in several cases on inquiring into the history of the im¬
mediate locality, it has been discovered that a crime has been
committed on the spot. See Mrs. De Morgan’s From Matter
to Spirit (Longmans.) We would not advise anybody to form
a spirit-circle in the house, since a person possessing incipient
mediumship might be injured by developing it near low in¬
fluences. It might or might not be safe for fully developed
mediums to go there; their own spirit guides should first be
consulted as to whether they would be able to protect them
from the power in the house. The simplest plan for Mr. Allen
to adopt is, when they are rolling stones about, to ask them to
give one knock for “ No,” three for “ Yes,” or to give raps at
particular letters when he calls over the alphabet. Then ask
them who they are and what they want. They should be dealt
with kindly, and the investigation be carried on in a most
serious and not a flippant spirit, for communion between the
two worlds is a very serious thing.
Among experienced Spiritualists it is very generally believed
to be a law that “ the lower the spirit the greater is its power
over common matter;” the lowest spirits sometimes use their
power mischievously at their own idle pleasure, and sometimes
use it for good purposes, under the guidance and instruction
of higher and better spirits, by which good work they gradu¬
ally raise themselves, and by working off their sins take a
higher place in spirit-life, in accordance with the universal
law of eternal progression.
THE LATEST NEWS FBOM COOKSTOWN.
The Belfast News Letter of last Monday says :—
The far-famed unknown continues to hold its revels in the
same scenes, and from its activity, shows no symptoms of
removing to greener fields or newer pastures, but bids fair to
hold its present locale strictly in accordance with the terms
of its first announcement—namely, for the space of a year
and a day. By the way, this notice was affixed to the door
of its habitation for the time being, and consisted of a slip of
paper on which the handwriting bore an unmistakable re¬
semblance to the caligraphy ordinarily done by an expert
human hand. A wearing coat and a pair of boots were locked
up for the night to make certain of their perfect safety for the
next day’s use, as far as lock and key could guarantee it.
When produced in the morning, and examined, no marks of
their having been tampered with were apparent. The owner,
as any other person would do, I presume, thoughtlessly laid
one of his boots by his side on the floor while he drew the
other on; but lo! when he lifted it again, the upper part was
cut away. The coat had been thrown on a chair to wait its turn,
but when taken up was found to be minus a sleeve. The in¬
ference from, this is, that so long as anything is well secured
it is out of danger, or when it is out of the reach of human
hands the ghost does not hurt it. But most people reason
about it in this way. Any clumsy ghost could perform the
mutilation at its leisure in a room by itself, and secured
against intrusion, but to cut and hack in broad daylight, and
in the twinkling of an eye, shows the exalted grade of the
unearthly visitor. This is no skulking, cowardly ghost, that
is only fitted for a paltry hole and corner business, but a chief
among his fellows, a master in his line, who could cut off an
eyebrow and you looking at him without knowing that any¬
thing has happened.
A very simple but, as it turned out, not efficacious plan
was suggested by ah old woman, a few days ago, to prevent
the stones from making a promenade of the stairs. To effect
this desirable object she affirmed that it was only necessary to
reverse the operation—namely, by throwing one of them up
again, when she hoped it would vanish into thin air at the top
of the stairs—a preliminary incantation, of course, preceding
the performance. Some party, however, who disbelieved in
the virtue of the charm prepared warm work for her by heating
the stone, and the instant she touched it she declared it was
not five minutes out of the pit. The rest of the work remains
unfinished.
Meanwhile, up to the time I write, the work of destruction
proceeds as vigorously as ever, setting at complete defiance all
efforts to discover the cause. A slight rustle is heard in the
sitting-room, and it is discovered that a pair of window
curtains is destroyed, as if a handful had been torn from the
middle of each. A hat is laid down, and in a few minutes it
is found with the brim cut through to the band, and torn away
on each side. A pair of boots is missing, and discovered in the
garden hacked into pieces. The natural consequence of the con¬
tinuance of this miserable business is that people seem to be re¬
lapsing into old superstitious notions of a hundred years ago. Old
ghost stories that used to entertain our grandfathers when they
were children are revived and circulated, and children run from
the deepening gloom of the evening and take up their stations
in the chimney corner. Only a short time ago such books as
“Cornelius Agrippa” were supposed to have become com¬
pletely obsolete, and, indeed, when mentioned at all, their ex¬
istence at any time was by many considered extremely doubtful;
but now it is somewhat astonishing to see the numbers of
hard-featured, squint-eyed old fellows who appear in town, and
not only admit that they have seen the book and read it, but
even profess to know by means of it how the ghost might be
laid by the heels. They confidently say it is evidently some
person very young in the science of spirit-rapping, who,
though successful in evoking the spirit, has not sufficient
experience to compel its return to the precincts of its own
dominions.
The small party who still stick to the opinion that other
than ghostly agencies are at work are getting into disrepute,
and the feeling is strengthening that it is unsafe to jest about
so serious ajmatter, or to make any remarks derogatory to the
character of a depraved spirit. In the face of this, neverthe¬
less, the chairman of a meeting, consisting of nearly one thou¬
sand individuals, a few nights ago, had the temerity to state
publicly that if he had possession of the house for one week,
he would undertake to purge it of its present visitor. Yet the
manifestations are so confounding on the one hand, and the
disposition to shrink from the belief that any wicked man may
carry out a scheme of revenge by raising up a spirit from the
land from whose bourne, it is said, no traveller returns, that
another section of the community are just on the balance,
ready to renounce their former cherished opinions, or to see
them confirmed beyond dispute. Hence the great interest
felt in the issue of the present unparalleled proceedings in this
part of the country.
Lecture by Mrs. Jackson.—Last Sunday night Mrs.
Jackson lectured at Doughty Hall, Bedford-row, Holbom,
on “ The Origin of Evil.” She argued that evil was a
negative force, tending to spur mankind to exertion, the
result being the gradual amelioration of the condition of
society. She argued that, as St. Michael once slew the dragon,
the representative of the principle of evil, in like manner
would evil be finally overcome. She reviewed the present
position of English society, of the war between capital and
labour, arguing that society had entered upon a revolutionary
stage, upon a time of suffering, and that revolutions were not
likely to be extinguished by rose-water. Mr. Whitley presided.
Lectures in connection with Spiritualism are given at the
Doughty Hall every Sunday evening at seven o’clock, admis¬
sion free,
THE SPIBITUALIST.
263
Nov. 27, 1874.
THE INVESTIGATION OF THE COOKSTOWN
SPIRITUAL DISTURBANCES.
During the last visit of the British Association to
Belfast, it was published that Professor Tyndall and
Mr. Herbert Spencer contemplated taking steps to
form a psychological society, but the plan was not
carried out. However, Dr. M'Cann read a paper before
the Anthropological Department, recommending the
establishment of a Psychological Sub-section, on the
ground that at- present sufficient opportunity was not
granted for the consideration of psychological subjects;
the general feeling, however, was that such a step was
not necessary. When Mr. F. W. Rudler reported this
decision"to the Anthropological Institute of Great Bri¬
tain and Ireland a few days ago, the verdict of the
Belfast Department was applauded. Further, Professor
Tyndall, in his opening address at Belfast, told the
audience that he knew what Spiritualism was, by sum¬
ming it up in a statement to which he stands fully
committed as a scientific man, especially as it was
uttered in the most responsible' hour of his life.
Seeing, then, that the. most eminent scientific men of
the day know all about it, the mayor of Cookstown and
its inhabitants, in public meeting assembled, should
call upon them for a categorical explanation of all the
facts. If the philosophers require to see them, well
and good. Let a committee be appointed. It might
consist, say, of Professor Tyndall, who claims to have
produced artificial spiritual manifestations by means of
his whiskers and a wine-glass; Dr. Carpenter also
might act, since he is noted for his modesty, and the
accurate way in which he describes experiments to
Chelsea audiences. Professor Clerk Maxwell has deeply
studied the question why the wind does not blow through
the thousands of minute holes in all woven fabrics,
so he might be thrust into the house first by his col¬
leagues, to face the invisible cloth-cutter, whilst the
others observe through telescopes what takes place, and
record the readings by the aid of cathetometers and chro¬
nometers. Professor Busk shouldnot be forgotten, since
he is president of the Anthropological Institute,
and, according to the Daily Telegraph, once made,
in, his official capacity, a violent attack on ((the
people called Spiritualists Colonel Lane Fox
should be added, since he has confessed that he
could not account for the raps made through
Mrs. Bassett’s mediumship at the house of Lady
Paulett; he likewise once candidly confessed to a
Belfast audience that he did not mind admitting that
“ Christianity is not a kettle of fish,” so he understands
things theological. Professor Herschel and Professor
Everett should not be forgotten, for the one has studied
the meteoric hot stones of the heavens above, and the
latter the hot stones of the earth below, so that it is to
be hoped they will find ready to their hands the
hot stones of the old woman of Cookstown. Professor
Andrews should be added to the list, since he is the
principal of Queen’s College, Belfast; ho is of scientific
eminence, chiefly inconsequence of having proved him¬
self cleverer than anybody else in checking the levity
of spirits by compressing them in tubes ; his testimony
will be well received in ,the locality, for all his orations
are constantly interrupted by rounds of applause,
according to all records of the Belfast News Letter re¬
porters, who not being elairaudiant mediums, take down
only sounds which reach the ears of Belfast people,
whilst those ears are in their normal condition. There
is nothing to bo said against this Committee, since
several of the proposed members have given the most
authoritative public decisions on psychological subjects,
and not one of them is a Spiritualist. Mr. Henderson,
the Mayor of Belfast might be added, to bring common
sense to the investigation ; if the old woman of Cooks¬
town pointed out a hot stone to any of the others,
they might perchance be hampered by scientific theories;
they might question whether the stone were actually
before their eyes, or—like Bishop Berkeley and Professor
Huxley—whether a series of impressions were reaching
the consciousness of each in a certain order, so that no
material stone might really be there at all. While
they were thus “ scientifically investigating,” as it
is humorously called—and the term has an awe-
striking effect on the populace—the Mayor would put
the stone in his coat-tail pocket, and look out for more.
Evidently, the people of Cookstown cannot do better
than to call upon the Professors at Queen’s College and
elsewhere, for an explanation of the phenomena; and
what their report may lack in clearness, may possibly
be compensated for by the learned words it will contain,
the confusion as to the nature of the Cookstown
disturbances it will produce in the minds of the vulgar,
and the idea it will give to the general public of the
immense learning of its authors, which, after all, is the
great point to be achieved.
Private Spirit Circl'es.—A correspondent writes from
a large provincial town :—“ I find private mediums and circles
are getting very ‘ chary,’ and it is now very difficult to get an
entrance into any circle, even if you are well known as a
friend.” This is the case everywhere, and is the natural effect
of the persecution of several non-professional mediums, who
neither in their own homes nor out of them have found them¬
selves safe from the onslaughts of outsiders on whom they
conferred benefits out of kindness. A great deal in the shape
of remarkable spiritual manifestations is going on in strict
privacy. It does not do to let the phenomena develope too
fast in public, but time must he allowed to permit the general
public to grow up to and verify the stages already attained.
Mrs. Tappan’s Lectures.—Mrs. Tappan’s inspirational
lectures at the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-street, Regent-
street, every Sunday evening, at seven oclock, are deeply in¬
teresting. She is under spirit control, and when all the con¬
ditions are good, Mrs. Tappan hursts into torrents of eloquence,
and utters impromptu poems worthy of Shelley ; take, for in¬
stance, the poem, “ Beautiful White Mother Death,” reported
some time ago in these pages ; or the depth of thought in the
poem, “ Creation,” printed a fortnight ago. The lecture
committee has done good service to the cause of Spiritualism
by engaging Mrs. Tappan, who otherwise would have returned
to America, and it should he well supported in its efforts.
The judicious and pleasing nature of Mrs. Tappan’s lectures
renders them the best to be brought under the notice of
inquirers who have seen nothing of public trance speaking, as
they always make a pleasing impression.
The National Association Soiree.—Ne^t Thursday the
soiree of the British National Association of Spiritualists will
be held at the Co-operative Hall, Castle-street, Oxford-street,
and particulars relating to it are given in the advertise¬
ment on the front page. Its object is to afford Spiritualists
an opportunity of uniting in social harmony, for the promotion
of friendly feeling, so nothing much will be done in the way
of business ; the fault of soirees, hitherto, having been that
there has been by far too much platform speaking.. Dr. Gully
will deliver an address, and as he seldom speaks in public, and
has always something to say worth hearing, many will doubt¬
less attend on that account. Perhaps one or more other
speakers may address the meeting. The rates of admission are
very cheap, to suit everybody, and there will be no evening
dress. Some good music has been volunteered, and there will
be long intervals between the various pieces, for conversation.
Some objects of interest will probably be .exhibited, but it is
not yet exactly known of what nature. Mr. Harrison will
probably exhibit some beautiful specimens of work, by artists
who will take part in illustrating the proposed new spiritual
periodical.
264
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 27, 1874.
spiritualism: ir Holland.
Mb. Malcolm Taylor writes to us from Amsterdam, of the
progress of Mr. Bastian and himself on the Continent:—
“ We have met with splendid success here among the Dutch,
and, finding a wide field, have sown to the best of our abilities
the good seed that will no doubt in time bring forth a
harvest.
“We have'given seances almost every evening at some one or
other of the largest cities, and find the minds of the people
very much interested in the philosophy and phenomena of
Spiritualism. The believers (or knowers, I should say) of its
truth are also many, some having been acquainted with the
workings of the spirit for forty years back,
“ We find the literature of Spiritualism, especially the pub¬
lications in French and German, read and circulated exten¬
sively ; the English not so much, Mr. Eiko being the only
one we know of who takes the English periodicals.
“ They have a great many mediums developing in their
midst, writing and healing ones principally, with two or three
possessing physical powers, and who get tangible demonstra¬
tion. The friends we find very hospitable and kind-hearted
to jus, and zealous in the furthering, by their efforts, the
good cause. We remain here a week longer, then return to
our head quarters, the Hague, and finish up there.
“ We shall go thence to Arnheim, and will stop there a week
or two, and shall give a seance or two in the neighbourhood,
then go to Brussels, where we expect to remain about a week.
“ We shall then go on our intended trip up the Bhine, stop¬
ping, perhaps, but not for certain, at Wiesbaden, Prince Witt¬
genstein, to whom we had written, having answered that he
would be away.* We shall return, via Paris (stopping there a
day or two), then back to London. We have had many won¬
derful manifestations at our seances, which we desire others to
speak about, as we understand they intend to do.
“ We are both enjoying the strange sights which come
before us in our travels, and with the exception of Mr. Bastian
being weak with the exhaustion of constant sitting, we keep
good health.”
Last Monday night Dr. George Sexton gave an intel¬
lectual and interesting lecture in Brighton on the subject of
Spiritualism;
Dn. Monck writes:—“ I have, in response to the advice
of friends, decided to settle in London, and have rooms where
I can hold seances at any time.” He intends giving daylight
seances, in addition to accepting evening engagements.
The Illjjstkated Spirit pal Periodical.—“ I have
received many letters from Spiritualists, unanimously and
strongly expressing the opinion that the proposed periodical
is a desirable thing, and for the good of the movement. During
the last three days, orders for it have been coming in steadily,
the general demand being for quantities of one, two, or three
each person. Several English friends are now incurring very
heavy and necessary expenses in establishing a permanent
place of meeting in London for Spiritualists, and it is not de¬
sired that they should incur more over the proposed magazine,
therefore it is to be hoped the general public at home and
abroad will take up the matter; the periodical will not be
wholly devoted to home purposes, but will attempt also to
meet the wants of Spiritualists residing on the Continent, in
America, in Australia, and other parts of the world, so these
are requested to remember the expenses our home capitalists
are now incurring, from which they will receive benefit
through the records given in The Spiritualist'. Messrs. Chap¬
man and Lament, after careful consultation, have decided that
the idea is good, and have resolved to work among the Spirit¬
ualists of Liverpool to help to carry out the plan. I have
many particulars of interest to give, as well as a list of sub¬
scribers, but The Spiritualist has such pressure on its space
this week, that these must be deferred till the next number.
In the mean time the public are requested to respond by send¬
ing in all the orders possible.—William H. Habbison, 11,
Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Many letters are kept over for want of space this week.
All the letters received for publication on the subject of the article
we recently imprudently printed without comment, have been
given in these pages. There iwas, however, one private one
from Miss Hay in favour of the article, which she said might be
published if we liked.
* Prince Wittgenstein is now in Switzerland.—Ed.
A SPIRITUALISTIC FUNERAL.
Me. William Bone, a visitor to Brighton, and a member of
the Spiritualistic body, died on the 18th inst.,in the 40th year
of his age, and was yesterday buried in the Brighton extra¬
mural cemetery. The deceased’s body was conveyed to the
cemetery in a gothic funeral car. Upon this car was the black
coffin, covered with a velvet pall, upon which a crimson cross
was placed. The car was followed by two mourning coaches,
in which were Messrs. Gill, Bray, Dexter, Dr. Stowell, the Rev.
Dr. Monck, Mrs. Bone (widow of the deceased), and Mrs. Bray.
The gentlemen who took part in the ceremony wore as mourn¬
ing white gloves and violet neckties, and the hatbands worn
by the bearers were also white. At the cemetery several other
well-known Spiritualists fell in at the rear of the carriages. A
chapter from the Epistle of St. Paul to the Corinthians was
read, a hymn was sung, and Dr. Monck read a long address.
The procession was then reformed, and proceeded to the
grave, where the coffin was at once lowered, and, after the
Lord’s Prayer, the gentleman who was conducting the service
committed the body, “ ashes to ashes, dust to dust.” In a
trance state, a further address was then delivered by Dr.
Monck. The mourners present having cast chaplets of
flowers upon the grave, the ceremony ended with the benedic¬
tion. The inscription upon the coffin was as follows:—
In Memoriam.—William Bone, Brighton, passed away to the Spirit-
world, November 18th, 1874, aged 40 years.
*• There is no death—what seems so'is transition !
This life of mortal breath
Is but a suburb of the life elysium,
Whose portal we call death.”
Liverpool Psychological Society.—On Sunday last,
November 22nd, Dr. William Hitchman again performed the
duties of platform speaker at the Liverpool Society, both
afternoon'and evening, to large and respectable audiences,
especially on the latter occasion. The subject of the first
discourse was “ On the Relations of Spirit and Matter,” and
the second was called “Man—whence, where, whither? ” The
afternoon visitors, it is hoped, received some not unexpected
accessions to their previous knowledge of atoms, molecules,
matter, force, protoplasmic energy, rhythmic vibrations of
brain, and electricity of the nervous system, together with
animal maguetism. The subsequent assembly of auditors
was treated to a philosophical demonstration of the potential
of our very selves—without atomic weights—here and else¬
where, brought within human ken, scientifically, by the facts
and phenomena of Spiritualism. Dr. Hitchman has now given
more than one hundred lectures on spiritual science, or
philosophy, without fee or reward.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
Treasurer.—Herbert N. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane
Offices.—64, BERNERS STREET.
Hon. Sec.—Mrs. Lowe (Louisa)
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition, price 3s.
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz.
London Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and ICth of every month, at 36, Rue de la CatMdrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fondb par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
The rise and progress of spiritualism in
ENGLAND, by BENJAMIN COLEMAN. The author gives some
important facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which he was identified, and an account of some of the most remarkable
of his personal experiences. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane; George Farmer,
4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn. Price One Shilling.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
• SELLER, STATIONER. AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of Tlie Spiritualist, 39. Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
Now ready, price Sixpence,
The day of Pentecost and its phenomena.
A Sermon-Lecture by Frederic Rowland Young, Minister of the
Free Christian Church, New Swindon, and formerly Editor of the
Christian Spiritualist. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Nov. 27, 1874,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can he consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
12 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 21, Princes-
street, Hanover- square, two doors from Regent-street.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m! Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenmgs, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock qach
evening. Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bernard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROCESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (30 Tears estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS from Two till Five o’clock, at his
residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington, W. Consulta¬
tions by letter.
MR. W. G. SCORE Y, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
T V. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational speaker,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return in
or about the month of June next. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—War wick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.
DR. M’LEOD and sibyl—magnetic healing
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefitted. By letters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfield, Esq., 15,
Lower Belgrave-street, Pimlico. S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture. Terms 2 guineas.
QEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
k_5 39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
MESSRS. PECK AND SADLER, Trance and Physical
Mediums, are open to Engagements for Private or Public Seances.
Terms as per arrangements. Messrs. Peck and Sadler also give Public
Seances every Monday, Tuesday, and Saturday Evenings, at Eight o’clock,
Tickets Is. each (limited number only), and Thursday evenings at Eight
o’clock, Tickets 2s. 6d. each. Tickets to be had at 157, Bute road. Seances
at 126, Cowbridge-road, Canton, Cardiff.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists' of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tybrman.
Price Threepence. To beh ad of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
YISITORS to LONDON will find Comfortable Bedrooms
and Good Attendance at Mrs. Jackson’s Table d'lTote. Moderate
Charges. 3, Torrington-sireet, Torrington-square, London, W.C.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world, Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
PENTON TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT.
26, PENTON-STREET, N.
EVERITT & SON desire the attention of their friends and the public
generally to the new and varied stock of Autumn and winter goods they
have just received.
Strong durable hard wearing overcoats from 35s.
Strong winter trousers from 14s 6d.
We have a large stock of fancy materials suitable for every article of
Gentlemen’s attire.
Our £2 2s. woaded black cloth frock coats and £1 black doe trousers
which have given such great satisfaction for the last twenty-five years, are
still noted for good quality and durability.
A trial is respectfully solinted.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
A Vice-Presidents.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood. ,
Eyeritt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21, Green-street Grosvenor-square, W
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple,E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buUdings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfield, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thornham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, BA., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath. S.E.
Davies, Rev. C.Maurice. D.D, 44,Netherwood-rd., West Kensington-pk., W.
Dawe, N, F., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendc Middlesex, N. W.
Fitton, Richard, 34 Walnut-s'reet, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel E, 6, Loughborough-road] North,
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A.S , 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton^
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-stieet, Hyde-park, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Kislingbury,- Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-pjace, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.C
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road, St. John’s-wood.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., Olub-chambers, Regent street.'
Rogers* E. Dawson, 29. Dalyell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, M.A., M.D., LL.D., &e., 17, Trafalgar-road,'01dKent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-erescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, Hazel Down, Teignmoutb.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Up ton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, .S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietkens, E. A., 18, Oakley-square, N.W.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., ana 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. {Home Corres¬
pondence)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. {Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary (pro tern.).
Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London, N.W.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. 1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz bei Potschach, Sjtyria, via Gratz
Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Bussian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Havdinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor (Progressive Spiritualist), Melbourne, Australia.
Mrs 'Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Babco Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. C mstant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Berne, Switzerland
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 3.556, Boston, U.S. A.
W Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Rue de Rome, Paris
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue'de Lille, Paris.
M, Edouard Buguet, 5, Boulevard, Montmartre, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Gr. C. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 35, Leipsic
Mons. Buguet, Paris.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
EYIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. R. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Byte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. 'J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs..Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.” '
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceedingfr om
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’
how to Dorm spirit circles.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
hall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
ouch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
6. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
Nov. 27, 1874.'
THE “ PIONEER OF PROGRESS ” PRINTING ANf)
PUBLISHING COMPANY,
4, KINGSGATE STREET, HOLBORN, LONDON, W'.C. ,
In the Printing Department every arrangement has been made for the
prompt execution of all orders. Printing of all kinds done cheaply and
well. Estimates given. / ,
In the Publishing Department is kept a complete' assortment of
Spiritual, Progressive, Reform and Miscellaneous books at wholesale and
retail prices. London and country agents supplied with all kinds of
Spiritual Literature in one parcel immediately on publication. Terms:
Cash Payments. Catalogues of books, giving prices, &c., may be had upon
application.   
TO SPIRITUALISTS AND OTHERS.—AH who desire
to read the literature of Spiritualism and other progressive move¬
ments, should subscribe to
THE “PIONEER OF PROGRESS” LIBRARY,
Which contains a large collection of Spiritual and other Progres¬
sive Works. Additions of new and choice books are being made
daily.
Terms: £1 Is. per annum. 10s. 6d. Half-yearly. 2s. Monthly. Cata¬
logues 3d. each.
EVERY THURSDAY MORNING.
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS,”
A Weekly Record of Spiritualism, ScientiQc and Ethical.
And contains articles by Mrs. Cora-L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton, “Fritz,”
Rev. Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes, Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, arid other
general information.
ONE. PENNY.
Published at 4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn; Wholesale Agent, F. Pitman
20, Paternoster-row, London, E.C., and can be ordered of any bookseller.
INVESTIGATORS AND ENQUIRERS into Spiritualism may obtain
gratis, all information concerning the various societies, national' and local
seances, mediums, lecturers, <fcc.
All communications to be addressed, George Farmer, 4, Kingsgate-street,
Holborn,'W.C.
In handsome Cloth, price 2s. 6d. post free.
Psychopathy or, the true healing art.
By JOSEPH ASHMAN, 1
Principal of the Psychopathic Institution, 254, Marylebone-ioad, London,
N.W.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—Introduction.
Dissatisfaction with Ordinary Systems of Medicine—The Nature of
Diseasd—One primal Principle of Cure—Weakness and Strength—Man
like an Engine—What is Vital Force?—Health, Breath, the Blood—The
Vital Principle beyond these.
Chapter II.—The Vital Principle.
The Stomach—Man a Plant—The Internal Sun—Man a Microcosm-
Caloric—Arterial Combustion—Temperature of the Body—The Nervous
System a Source of Heat—Nerve Force—Difference between the Gan¬
glionic and the Cerebral and Cerebro-Spinal Nerves — Office of the
Ganglia and the Cerebellum—Nature of the Vis Nervosa—The Soul
Force.
Chapter III.—On the Nature and Cure of Disease.
The Perfect Magnet—The Healthy Organism—The Source of Vital
Force—How produced—The Vital Force and Nerve-aura may be Com¬
municated—The Influence of the Old on the Young—The Hand a Psychial
Instrument—The Philosophy of Hand-Shaking.
Chapter IV.—Healing.
Two Vital Fluids—Their Signs—The Vital Magnetic Fluid: Mode of
Applying it—The Power of the Hand over the Temperature of the Body—
The Nerves the Medium of Influence—Process without Contact—
Healing at a Distance: Marvellous Cures—The Impartation of the Aura
to Water, &c.—Necessity of Passivity and Benevolence—Concluding
Remarks.
London: J. Burns, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.
Ready by January 1st, 1875. Suitable for a New-Year’s Gift Book. Anew
work on
SPIRITUALISM, SCIENCE, AND CHRISTIANITY;
showing their Harmony and Relationship, and will be specially
adapted for circulation amongst members of Christian Churches. It will
also be essentially a guide-book for enquirers, and will treat of the fol¬
lowing topics relative to the subject, in a scientific manner:—Spirit Circles,
Mediumship, Physical Manifestations, Test Mediumship, Healing Mediums,
Speaking and Writing Mediumship, Moral Influence of Mediumship, Dan¬
gers of Modiumship, Obsession, Identity of Spirits, Good and Bad Spirits,
Contradictions of Spirits, the Ultimate of Spiritualism, and many other
points of interest both to Spiritualists and Enquirers. Published price,
3s. 6d.; to Subscribers, 2s.; or 12 Copies for £1 Is.
All orders to be sent, with remittance, address to GEORGE FARMER, 4,
Kingsgate-street, Holbom, London, W. C.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 69 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4£d. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Full wood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andre w-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.C.
