A FjECOFjD Of THE PROQREgg Of THE gCIEf<CE /.ND ETHICf OF gPIf^lTUyVLIgM.
No. 23.—Vol. I. LONDON : SATURDAY, JULY 15, 1871.
EEICHENBACH’S MAGNETIC FLAMES, AND THE
LEVITATION OF THE HUMAN BODY.
BY LORD LINDSAY. (
The following experiment/with Mr. Home may pos¬
sibly be of interest to some of your readers :—
On the evening of the 11th July, I was showing
some experiments in my laboratory to Lord Adare, Mr.
Bergheim, Mr. Home, and my brother-in-law.
It occurred to me to try if Home was able to see a
magnet in the dark. This is an experiment which I
believe was made by Reichenbach, and although, like
myself, he was never able to distinguish the light, yet
he found a number of persons who did see it under test
conditions.
I asked Mr. Home, and he expressed himself
willing to try the experiment. I then took into one
of my rooms, which was totally dark, a large per¬
manent magnet, and having removed the armature,
, I placed it on the-floor near the wall, at a consider¬
able distance from the door.
Mr. Home was then brought into the room, and
■ remained standing near the door for some moments.
He then said that he saw some sort of light on
the floor in a corner of the room, and immediately
said to me—“Give me your' hand, and I will show
,. you exactly where I see it.” He then led me
straight across the room, and without the least hesita-
& tioni stooped down and placed my hand on the
ipagnet,
P ; I-have been trying for more than two years to get a
satisfactory result in this experiment, but hitherto with
V enly doubtful success.
The instrument used, was., ay large, compound magnet
capable of sustaining a weight of about 20 lbs.
I may mention that on another occasion^ I was
sitting with Mr. Home and Lord Adare, and a cousin
of his. During the ^sitting Mr. Home went into a
trance, and in that state was carried out of the window
in the room next to where we were, and was brought
in at our window. The distance between the windows
was about 7ft. 6in., and there was not the slightest
foothold between them, nor was there more than a 12-
inch projection to each window, which served as a
ledge to put flowers on.
We heard the window in the next room lifted up, and
almost immediately after we saw Home floating in the
air outside our window.
The moon was shining full into the room ; my back
was to the light, and I saw the shadow on the wall of
the window-sill, and Home’s feet about six inches
above it. He remained in this position for a few
seconds, then raised the window and glided into the
room, feet foremost, and sat down.
Lord Adare then went into the next room to look at
the window from which he had been carried. It was
raised about eighteen inches, and he expressed his
wonder how Mr. Home had been taken through so
narrow an aperture.
Home said (still in trance), “ I will show you
and then, with his back to the window, he leaned back,
and was shot out of the aperture head first with the
body rigid, and then returned quite quietly.
The window is about seventy feet from the ground.
I very much doubt whether any skilful tight-rope
dancer would like to attempt a feat of this description,
where the only means of crossing would be by a peri¬
lous leap, orjbeing borne across in such a manner as
I have described, placing the question of the light
aside. Lindsay.
July 14,1871.
FURTHER EXPERIMENTS BY MR. CROOKES.
Since the publication of his article in The Quarterly
Journal of Science a fortnight ago, Mr. William Crookes,
F.R.S., has made some further experiments in connec¬
tion with Spiritual phenomena, though he neither admits
nor denies the spiritual origin of the manifestations.
To do away with the objection, that the contact of
the hand of the medium with the lever in his spring-
balance experiment might, by some inexplicable possi¬
bility, produce the observed results by muscular action,
he tried the. following experiment:—Over the centre of
the fulcrum he placed a glass vessel full of water, and
by means of an iron stand, quite detached from all the
rest of the apparatus, a vessel of copper was held so that
it dipped into the water without touching the sides of
the glass vessel. The bottom of this copper vessel was
perforated with holes, in consequence of which it was
partially filled with water. The following cut shows
the whole arrangement.
When Mr. D. D. Home placed his hands inside the
copper.vessel, any force passing through his hands to
the apparatus, had to traverse the water, Whence no
muscular action of his could have any effect upon .the
spring balance. With the/apparatus thus arranged;
the lever oscillated as in his previous experiments,
the average strain registered being three or four
pounds.
Every depression of the index finger qf the spring
balance, also depressed a wire pointer, so arranged that
it could slide down a little brass rod. The result was
that this pointer registered accurately the weight pro¬
ducing each depression.
As will be seen in an article printed on another
page, Dr. Hare of Philadelphia once performed an
experiment nearly the same as this, but his experiment
was less satisfactory, because he placed the vessel of
water on the long arm of the lever, in a place where
the immersion of the hands would cause a certain
amount of strain to be indicated by the spring balance.
While Mr. Crookes was trying the above experiment,
it occurred to him to ask Mr. Home to put his hands on
the table, but not to touch the apparatus at all. Under
these conditions, the lever moved as before.
Last Friday night Mr. Crookes tried some more ex¬
periments in the presence of some friends, amongst
whom were his brother, and Mr. Durham, teacher of
chemistry and physics at the City of London School.
The medium was a private lady.
The weight experiment was tried without the basin
of water. The medium put her hands on the short end
of the lever, where any pressure would have decreased
instead of increased the weight registered at the other
end of the lever. He put his hands on hers, to see that
she did not move them. The other end of the board
went down at least a dozen times, taking about four
seconds for each oscillation; most of the movements
were equivalent to about two pounds, but occasionally
there was a stronger one, the strongest registering 61-
lbs. Everybody present watched the medium and her
hands. The fingers were at the extreme end of the
board, and were never near the fulcrum. Once or twice
the end of the board, under the fingers, rose, with the
fulcrum, from the table, whilst the other end was
being pulled down.
The same accordion used in the experiments with
Mr. Home, played key-end downwards, when held at
the other end by several of those present in turn. This
playing was done beneath the table. Then the hands
of all present were placed on the top of the table, and
the accordion floated about under the table with
nobody touching it; all the hands were visibly on the
top of the table at the time. While the accordion thus
floated, it sounded strong notes and discords, but played
no tune.
All this shows how very carefully Mr. Crookes is
pursuing his experiments; not satisfied with obtain¬
ing results with one medium only, he has been trying
them over again in the presence of another.
A PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
In the first number of this journal, published nearly
two years ago, a leading article called attention to the
necessity of forming a Psychological Society to investi¬
gate Spiritual phenomena, for the purpose of bringing
the manifestations now so common into the realm of
law and order. As will be seen by the correspondence
on another page, several highly intelligent gentlemen
desire that such a society should be formed. From the
general feeling which prevails, and because Spiritualists,
as a rule, are well-educated people, no doubt a large
‘ body of subscribers to such a society will at once come
forward when a good foundation for active work is laid.
The Anthropological Institute ought to have taken up
the work several years ago, as it certainly comes
naturally within their province, but now it is probably
too late for them to take action in the matter, because
most of their members - being uneducated in psycho¬
logical. Science, and de^cient in knowledge of the reality
of the elementary facts of the case'," if the institution
began now to devote attention to the subject, for the
next two years its meetings .would be a series of battles
with those members who possess no knowledge of lead¬
ing psychological facts. This task of educating the
uninformed would, be sheer waste of time; hence the
necessity of forming a new society, composed of those
who possess elementary knowledge, and who wish to
begin at once to search experimentally for laws and
principles. The formation'of a separate society will be
a great loss in funds and members to the Anthropological
Institute, which is to be regretted, since its members
have done so much good work for years in studying
man and his nature scientifically, whereby they have
brought together a mass of information of great prac¬
tical value to the world.
The members of the new society should consist, for
the most part, of. those who admit the phenomena of
Spiritualism. Those better informed and more ex¬
perienced students who know the phenomena to be
produced by spirits, should be permitted to say so, and
to work upon that hypothesis in any papers they may
contribute. Probably the best plan of action on the
part of the society would be to begin by examining
mesmerists, mediums, and others, to collect as much
general information as possible, and afterwards to begin
a series of observations and experiments. Among the
scientific men who might probably be willing to accept
office on the Council of such a society are Mr. C. F.
Yarley, Mr. W. Crookes, Lord Lindsay, Mr. A. R.
Wallace, and Mr. William Huggins; there are also
many other gentlemen, not directly connected with the
scientific world, like Mr. Serjeant Cox, who would be
most useful men on the Council. The preceding
names are given by us without authority from any of
the gentlemen mentioned, and without consultation
with them. The annual subscription of the members
of the society would probably be two guineas, as usual.
If those ladies and gentlemen who would like to join
such a society will write to the editor of this journal
and say so, he will hand the letters to Messrs. Yarley
and Cox, who wish to see a psychological society
formed, and if the support thus volunteered is strong,
they may perhaps be willing to take action in the
matter.
Miss Flobence Cook, of 6, Bruce-villas, Eleanor-road,
Hackney, E., began to sit for Spiritual manifestations a few
weeks ago. Her mediumship is as yet in its incipient stage,
but the manifestations which have already occurred in her
presence are some of them so remarkable that it is evident
that very great powers are being conferred upon her by the
spirits.
Mb. J. M. Peebles.—Mr. J. M. Peebles reached Lon¬
don a few days since from America, chiefly to gather facts for
the next Year Book of Spiritualism, 1872, and to arrange for
the publication of Higgins’ Anacalypsis. He remains in
Europe only four or five weeks, during which period he will
visit Paris. He wishes Spiritualists to aid him by sending in¬
formation for the Year Book, and short articles suited for its
pages, to him at 15, Southampton-row, Bloomsbury, London.
He desires, if possible, to make preliminary arrangements for
a “ World’s Convention ” of Spiritualists.
178
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 15, 1871.
DR. HARE’S EXPERIMENTS IN SPIRITUALISM.
In the year 1858, Mr. Charles Partridge, of 346,
Broadway, New York, published a book written by
Dr. Robert Hare, entitled Experimental Investigation
of the Spirit Manifestations, Demonstrating the Ex¬
istence of Spirits and their Communion with Mortals.
The experiments of Dr. Hare strongly support and
confirm those just made by Messrs. Crookes, Huggins,
and Cox.
Mr. Robert Hare, M.D., was Professor of Chemistry
in the University of Pennsylvania; he was a graduate
of Yale College and of Harvard University, also an
associate of the Smithsonian Institute, and a member of
several learned societies. Appleton’s New American
Cyclopaedia says of him:—
“Robert Hare was an American chemist and physicist;
born in Philadelphia, Jan. 17th, 1781, and died there May
15th, 1858. His tastes led him to scientific pursuits. At the
early age of twenty, he communicated to the Chemical Sociejty
of Philadelphia a description of his first and most important
scientific invention—the oxyhydrogen blowpipe, which was
afterwards named by Prof. Silliman the compound blowpipe.
This attracted at once the attention and commendation of the
most eminent scientific men in Europe, and for this invention
he received the Rumford medal from the American Academy
at Boston. In 1818, he was appointed Professor of Chemistry
in the Medical School of the University of Pennsylvania, and
held that office for twenty-nine years. His course of instruc¬
tion was marked by the originality of his experiments and of
the apparatus he employed. His instruments, often designed
and sometimes made by himself, were furnished in great pro¬
fusion. He left these to the Smithsonian Institution, of which
he was one of the few life-members. The perfection of the
forms of some of his apparatus was acknowledged by Fara¬
day, who, after various attempts to introduce improvements,
adopted them in preference to any forms he could devise.
Dr. Hare was a very frequent and able contributor to scientific
periodicals, especially to the American Journal of Science.
His attention was not confined exclusively to scientific sub¬
jects, for he sometimes discussed important, political, and
financial questions. He was a frequent speaker at meetings
of scientific men; and in conversation, especially when it
assumed an argumentative character, he discoursed with great
ability. The external features of Dr. Hare were in harmony
with the strength and massiveness of his intellectual qualities.
His frame was powerful, and remarkable for its muscular de¬
velopment, and his head was large and finely formed. During
the last few years of his life, while most of his faculties re¬
tained their original vigour, others, either through the effect
of age or long-continued application, appear to have been
somewhat weakened. He was induced to attend one of the
exhibitions of what is called a medium; and having received,
as he thought, correct replies to questions of which no one
knew the answer but himself, he became a believer in Spiritual
manifestations, and with his characteristic fearlessness in ad¬
vocating what he considered to be truth, he lectured and pub¬
lished on the subject.”
Like many of tbe statements in popular literature
about Spiritualism, tbe preceding assertion that Dr.
Hare witnessed tbe manifestations once only, in tbe
presence of one medium, is not true. He investigated
Spiritualism thoroughly with many media, at bis own
bouse and in tbe bouses of bis friends, and published
tbe results of bis numerous experiments in the thick
book now under notice.
Dr. Hare thus describes one of bis earliest experi¬
ments :—
“ I contrived an apparatus which, if spirits were actually
concerned in the phenomena, would enable them to exercise
their physical and intellectual power independently of control
by any medium.
“ Upon a pasteboard disk A, My. 1, more than a foot in
diameter, the letters cut out from an alphabet card were nailed
around the circumference, as much as possible deranged from
the usual alphabetic order. About the centre a small pulley,
B, was secured, of about two and a half inches in diameter,
fitting on an axletree which passed through the legs of the
table, D, about six inches from the top. Two weights were
provided—one of about eight pounds, E, the other about two
pounds, F. These were attached one to each end of a cord
wound about the pulley, and placed upon the floor immediately
under it. Upon the table a screen, H, of sheet-zinc was
fastened, behind which the medium was to be seated, so that
she could not gee the letters on the disk. A stationary vertical
wire, K, attached to the axle, served for an index.
“ On tilting the table the cord would be unwound from the
pulley on the side of the larger weight, being wound up simul¬
taneously to an equivalent extent on the side of the small
weight, causing the pulley and disk to rotate about the axle.
Restoring the table to its normal position, the smaller weight
being allowed to act unresisted upon the cord and pulley, the
rotation would be reversed. Of course, any person actuating
the table, and seeing the letters, could cause the disk so to
rotate as to bring any letter under the index; but should the
letters be concealed from the operator, no letter required
could be brought under the index at will. Hence it was so
contrived that neither the medium seated at the table behind
the screen, nor any other person so seated, could, by tilting
the table, bring any letter of the alphabet under the index,
nor spell out any word requested.
“ These arrangements being made, an accomplished lady,
capable of serving in the required capacity, was so kind as to
assist me by taking her seat behind the screen, while I took
my seat in front of the disk.
“ I then said, ‘ If there be any spirit present, please to indi¬
cate the affirmative by causing the letter Y to come under the
index ? ’ Forthwith this letter was brought under the index.
“ ‘ Will the spirit do us the favour to give the initials of his
name ? ’ The letters R. H. were successively brought under
the index. ‘ My honoured father ? ’ said I. The letter Y was
again brought under the index.
“ ‘Will my father do me the favour to bring the letters
under the index in alphabetical order ? E Immediately the disk
began to revolve so as to produce the desired result. After it
had proceeded as far as the middle of the alphabet, I requested
that the name of Washington should be spelt out by the same
process. This feat was accordingly performed, as well as
others of like nature.”
In this experiment the hands of the medium were
placed on the table at N., and table was tilted in the
usual way by the spirits, by lifting the legs from T,
or R.
Dr. Hare adds:
“ I urged that the experiment was of immense importance,
if considered as proving a spirit to be present, and to have
actuated the apparatus, affording thus precise experimental
proof of the immortality of the soul; that a matter of such
moment should not be considered as conclusively decided
until every possible additional means of verification should be
employed.
“ This led my companions to accuse me of extreme incre¬
dulity. The medium said she should not deem it worth while
to sit for me again, and one of the gentlemen sat himself down
by the fire-side, declaring me to be ‘ insusceptible of conviction,
and that he would now give me up.’
“ Nevertheless, the medium, relenting, gave me another
sitting, at her own dwelling, a few days afterwards, when I
had improved the apparatus by employing two stationary
weights by which the cord actuating, the pulley, as in the
drill-bow process, was made to pull it round by a horizontal
motion of the table supported on castors, instead of the tilting
motion. The results confirmed those previously received.
“ On the following week I took my apparatus to the house
of a Spiritualist, where a circle was to meet. The apparatus
being duly arranged, a lady whom I had never noticed before,
and by whom my apparatus was seen for the first time, sat
down at my table behind the screen. The spirit of an uncle
who had left this life was invoked by this medium. Her
invocation was successful; the spirit spelt his name out in
full; other names were spelt out at request. Here was
repetition of the former demonstration.
“Although the requisite letters were ultimately found,
there was evidently some difficulty, as if there was some
groping for them with an imperfect light. This has been ex¬
plained since by my father’s spirit. He alleges that, preferably,
the eyes of the medium would be employed, but that, although
with difficulty, he used mine as a substitute.
“ But, although, with a view to convince the sceptical, spirits
will occasionally give manifestations when the vision or
muscular control of the medium is nullified, it is more difficult
for them to operate in this way; moreover it is more difficult
for some spirits than for others.
“ Those spirits by whom I obtained my test manifestations
were interested in my success. Others have refused to aid me
in like manner. One who has assisted me with much zeal has
communicated that he would work my apparatus when ar¬
ranged for a test, but that, as it caused much more exertion,
and of course retardation, be advised that the test arrangement
should not be interposed when it could be avoided.”
Dr. Hare further says:—
“ The table, Miy. 2, at this stage of my inquiry, was not
more than thirty inches in length. I had improved the con¬
struction in the following way:
“ Two of the legs were furnished with castors, through holes
duly bored. Through perforations in the other two legs a rod
was introduced, serving as an axle to two wheels of about five
inches in diameter. One of these wheels, A, was grooved so
as to carry a band which extended around the pulley of the
disk B. Hence, pushing the table nine inches horizontally,
by the necessary rotation of the supporting wheels, caused the
disk to make a complete revolution. It was while the table
was of the size above-mentioned that I first saw the violent
action to which they might be subjected without any corre¬
sponding or commensurate visible cause. The hand of the
medium being laid upon the table at about half-way between
the centre and the nearest edge, it moved as if it were ani¬
mated, jumping like a restive horse.
“ Having my apparatus thus prepared, a medium sat at my
table, the screen intercepting her view of the disk. No mani¬
festation took place through the disk, though other indications
of the presence of spirits were given. Hence, inducing the
medium to sit at an ordinary table, I inquired if any change
could be made which would enable them to communicate
through my apparatus. The reply through the alphabetic
card was, ‘ Let the medium see the letters.’ At first, it struck
me that this would make the experiment abortive, as it would
remove the condition by which alone independency of inter¬
ference by the medium was secured. However, it soon occurred
that, by means of a metallic plate, K, made quite true, and
some brass balls, like billiard balls, with which I was provided,
I could neutralise the power of the medium to move the table,
so that she could not influence the selection of the letters,
though permitted to see them.
“ Accordingly, as soon, almost as the medium placed her
hands on the plate resting on the ball, and without any other
communication with the table, the disk began to revolve in
such a way as to bring the letters under the index in due
alphabetic^ order. Afterwards various names were spelled
and communications were made. At subsequent sittings, the
grandfather and brother of the medium manifested their pre¬
sence successively by spelling their names on the disk. My
father, by means of this apparatus, gave me the name of an
uncle who was killed by the Arabs nearly seventy years ago.
In order that, without any possibility of contact with the legs,
the medium might sit at the table, the length was subsequently
extended to six feet, being so made as to separate into three
parts, for convenience in carrying from one place to another.
“ A board or tray on castors was sometimes used as a sup¬
port for the hands of the medium, being interposed between
the hands and the table. On one occasion, where the hands
of the medium were supported by the plate and ball upon this
tray, it was moved briskly to and fro upon the table, the
hands of the medium and the ball and plate accompanying the
motion.
“ On various subsequent occasions, I have had this experi¬
ment of putting the hands of the medium on a plate and balls
repeated, and with the same result. The interposition of the
plate and balls makes it much more difficult for spirits to
move a table than when the hands are directly applied. In
the latter case, the spirits actuate the hands primarily, and
the table or apparatus secondarily; but when the hands are
incapacitated from influencing the motion, the spirit has to
assail the inanimate matter directly, assisted only by the ema¬
nation from the medium. In this attack upon ponderable
matter, the spirits of the second sphere are the most capable;
but even with their assistance, the condition of the medium
must be very favourable to render success possible.”
His experiment with, a spring balance and a vessel of
water is thus described :—
‘ ‘ My much esteemed friend, Professor Henry, having
treated this result as incredible, I was induced to repeat it
with the greatest precision and caution. The board A, B,
Miy. 3, as already described, being about four feet in length,
Fiq 3.
is supported on a rod E, as a fulcrum, at about one foot from one
end, and of course three feet from the other ; a glass vase F,
about nine inches in diameter and five inches in height,
having a knob to hold it by when inverted, had this knob in¬
serted in a hole made in the board six inches nearly from the
fulcrum. Thus the vase rested on the board, mouth upward,
A wire-gauze cage, H,—such as is used to keep flies from
sugar—was so arranged by well-known means as to slide up
and down on two rods, K, one on each side of the trestle
supporting the fulcrum. By these arrangements it was so
adjusted as to descend into the vase until within an inch and
a half of the bottom, while the inferiority of its dimensions
prevented it from coming elsewhere within an inch of the
sides of the vase. Water was poured into the vase so as to
rise into the cage till within about one inch and a half of the
brim.
“A well-known medium (Gordon) was induced to plunge his
hands, clasped together, to the bottom of the cage, holding
them perfectly still. As soon as the conditions were attained,
the apparatus being untouched by any one excepting the
medium as described, I invoked the aid of my spirit friends.
A downward force was repeatedly exerted upon the end of the
board appended to the balance equal to three pounds’ weight
nearly.
“ It will be perceived that in this manifestation the medium
had no means of communication with the board, beside the
water. It was not until he became quite still that the invo¬
cation was made. . . . The distance of the hook of the scale
from the fulcrum on which the board turned was six times as
great as that of the cage in which the hands were situated.
Consequently a force of 3 X 6 = 18 pounds must have been
exerted.
“ This experiment has since'been repeated again and again,
but on a smaller scale, when not only the downward force was
exercised, but the spelling of words was accomplished.
“ On one occasion, when no result ensued, it appeared to
arise from the water being so cold as to chill tbe medium, be¬
cause, on warming it up to a comfortable temperature, the
desired manifestations were obtained.”
In this experiment due allowance was made by calcu¬
lation for the increase of weight registered by the spring
balance, due to the displacement of the water in H, by
the hands.
Dr. Hare’s valuable book is now out of print both in
this country and America, but there is a copy in the
British Museum Library. In the United States some
steps are now being taking to republish the work, and
no doubt there will be a moderate demand for copies
among English readers.
A FAREWELL MEETING TO MRS. HARDINGE.
A i'ahewell meeting to Mrs. Hardinge, which will
assume the form of a conversazione, will take place on
Friday, July 28th, at St. George’s Hall, Langham-place,
Regent-street, London, under the presidency of Mr.
Gerald Massey. There will be short addresses from
various Spiritualists, and the proceedings will be assisted
by a party of vocalists. The chief feature of the
evening will be the valedictory address of Mrs. Har¬
dinge, who intends to leave England for America early
in August.
Mr. J. M. Peebles is now in England, and will be
present at the meeting. His visit is a short one, and
he came over in company with Mr. Evans, the chief
of the “ Shaker ” community in America, who probably
may also be present at the meeting, and give some
information about the remarkable sect he represents,
whose tenets are known in England chiefly through the
writings of Artemus Ward, whose description may or
may not be a burlesque. Spiritual manifestations have
been common among the Shakers for a long time.
Mr. Laurence Oliphant and Mr. T. L. Harris are now
travelling together on the continent; should they be in
England towards the close of the month, we suggest
that they be invited to attend the meeting.
The real hard work that Mrs. Hardinge has done in
July 15, 1871.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
179
England, in aid of Spiritualism, deserves recognition of
the highest and warmest kind. An address and a
purse will he presented to her, and subscriptions should
he sent to Mr. IST. E. Daw, 15, Southampton-row,
Bloomsbury, W.C. Those Spiritualists who can send
interesting ohjects for exhibition at the conversazione
should send word at once to Mr. Daw.
We suggest that the speakers, singers, and musicians
at the meeting, shall he limited as to time, so that the !
proceedings shall close at about ten o’clock. In the
very good farewell meeting once given to Mr. Peebles, it
will be remembered how the lengthy programme and
speeches made it wearisome towards the close.
Some further particulars about the coming meeting
will be found among the advertisements on the last
page. A second edition of the Spiritmlist, containing a
long report of the meeting, and other news, will be
published on Monday afternoon, July 31st, 1871.
THE TRANSPORTATION OP LIVING- HUMAN
BODIES.
By Benjamin Coleman.
In the June number of The Spiritualist it is seriously
recorded and formally attested by eleven witnesses, that
whilst a dark seance was being held on the evening of
the third of June last, at a house in Lamb’s Conduit-
street, in a room measuring twelve feet by ten feet, the
doors and windows being closed and fastened, Mrs.
Guppy was brought by invisible agency and placed in
a standing position on the centre of the table, around
which the whole party were closely seated shoulder to
shoulder. It is also stated that she was in a state of
unconsciousness, and in complete deshaMlle, without
bonnet, shawl, or shoes, holding a household account
book in one hand, and a pen with the ink still wet in
the other; and that she was thus brought bodily, the
witnesses believe, in an instant of time from a room in
the basement of her own residence at Highbury-hill
Park; the distance, in a straight line, being between
two and three miles.
This extraordinary event was preceded fourteen days
before by a similar incident, when Mr. Herne, the
medium, “was caught away” whilst walking in the
neighbourhood of Islington in open day, and conveyed
by invisible agency to a room in Mr. Guppy’s house at
Highbury, the doors and windows being all closed.
Having made the strictest inquiries respecting these
very remarkable events I am, as I have previously said,
as certain of their having happened as I can be of any
fact which I have not myself witnessed.
My reasons for this belief I have already stated, but
I may as well now briefly repeat them.*
I have been present at many seances with Mrs.
Guppy, whose mediumistic powers, in a certain phase,
are unequalled by any living person known to me; and
at these meetings the invisible operators have answered
my requests by bringing, on the instant, a great variety
of fresh and preserved fruits, and a profusion of flowers,
as many as 200 or 300 heads at a time ! I have had
pure sea-water brought in a minute after I had asked
for it! I have been covered with snow, a large quan¬
tity at the same time being dashed upon the table, clear
and sparkling, and which exhibited no signs of having
ever been touched by human hands. At the house of a
distinguished physician, after we had been seated for
more than an hour, the whole party forming a chain by
touching each other’s hands, some pieces of ice came
down with great force upon the table; some of the
lumps being the size of my fist, and the quantity large
enough to require the services of a man-servant to
carry it away on a small tray.-j-
All this while the doors and windows, and in some
instances the fire-place also, were fast closed, and all
possibility of external communication excluded.
I have also had a living animal brought into the
room under similar conditions ; and very recently, in
company with Dr. G. S. Thomson, of Clifton, we made
a test experiment which precludes the possibility of
mistake as to the existence and presence of an invisible
intelligent agent. We were in the garden, and just
before entering the house for a seance, I suggested that
some flowers which were growing should be marked; a
string was accordingly tied round a lupin, the only plant
of that kind in the garden, and a wire was twisted
round one of a root of pinks. We left the garden
together, and passing through the back-room and hall
to the drawing-room in the front part of the house, we
seated ourselves at the table. Dr. Thomson having
locked the door, and the identical flowers were, at our
request, brought to us by invisible agency.
The foregoing are but a few examples of my own
experiences, whilst I have heard of others still more
strange.
Pondering these extraordinary facts it appeared to
me a logical inference that if heavy inanimate bodies
could be transported from place to place, passing
through all obstructions with as much ease as if bricks
and mortar were mere vapour, there was no reason
why the same force should not transport a human body
* See The Spiritualist for June.—ED.
t We were present when this occurred. Mrs. Guppy and her friends had
een seated before a large fire for half an hour before the sitting began.—Ed.
in like manner. Had I been fettered by scientific
education I could not have allowed so “ preposterous ”
and “ impossible ” an event to have entered my brain.
But reasoning from facts,—though mistrusting my own
convictions that anything so incredible could happen,—
I nevertheless said to several of my friends I believed
these, wonders would culminate in Mrs. Guppy herself—
who is one of the largest and heaviest women of my
acquaintance—being carried away; and in a note I
wrote to her on the 21st of May last, a fortnight before
the actual event, I said—“ You know I have predicted
that the spirits will some day carry you away.”
This event has now absolutely happened; and it
adds another to the many existing proofs that, no
material substances are obstacles to spiritual forces;
this then is the stupendous fact which confronts the
scientific world at the present moment.
How will they deal with it ? You, the professor of
physics, who have already decided what is possible and
what is impossible, may avoid the enquiry if you
please, and treat us, the believers in such things, as
dreamers and fanatics. But neither these stubborn
facts, nor the conviction which clings so tenaciously to
them can be overcome by pretended indifference or
laughed into oblivion. Men like myself, with no more
claim to .consideration than the possession of sound
common sense, and the full command of our faculties,
lenow that the phenomena called Spiritual which excite
so much wonder and incredulity are real, and science
must either deal seriously with such facts as we present,
or leave them to force their way and stamp their reality
on the minds of an unbelieving Materialistic generation.
A huge pyramid of phenomena, thoroughly attested,
stands already before us, and as we see by the incidents
more immediately under consideration they are in¬
creasing in magnitude and significance. Are they true ?
Professors of religion and of science are equally in¬
terested in solving that question. Being true, the
manifestations of modern’times support the credibility of
Bible miracles, and explain many mysteries which
have puzzled philosophers in every age.
The carrying away of Mrs. Guppy is perhaps the most
extraordinary event of its kind upon record. But there
are analogous instances in history. The Bible contains
at least one ; that of Philip, who was “ caught away ”
when he was in the city of Gaza, and carried to
Azotus, a distance of about twenty miles.
Among the “ miracles ” recorded in the Catholic
Church there are no doubt many, but I have not had
time to collect more than the following. They were
believed in by two Protestant writers—Grotius, the
great jurist, and John Locke, the great moral philoso¬
pher. Locke refers to “ Ammon, who was borne by
angels over the River Lycus.”**
Calmet, the French historian, says—“ "We have known
a good monk who sometimes rises from the ground, and
remains suspended without wishing it. I know a man
to whom it has happened, in spite of himself, to be thus
raised up into the air,” and of another, “ who, in her
ecstacies, rose from the ground with so much im¬
petuosity that five or six sisters could hardly hold her
down.”
“ Gorres says in his Ch/ristliehe My stilt—others had the
power in their devotions of becoming invisible, of rising in the
air, of being carried from place to place as St. Joseph of Coper-
tina, of passing through closed doors, &c., &c.
“ St. Theresa was frequently lifted from the earth in her
devotions. She says that when she strove to resist these ele¬
vations, there seemed to her such a mighty force under her
feet that she did not know to what to compare it.”
The Athenaeum of March 26, 1859, remarks on the
history of St. Catherine of Sienna, that such persons
“ have united themselves to a strength not their own,
and transcending all human obstacles.”
St. Philip of Neri, St. Catherine Colembina, and
Loyola were also raised from the ground.
These are but a few of the ** miracles ” which all
true Catholics are bound to believe, and the Catholic
Church has marked her convictions by canonising the
Mediums to whom the “ miracles ” occurred.
The members of that Church cannot, therefore, con¬
sistently discredit similar manifestations of the present
day. It will not do to say the days of miracles have
passed ; there is no authority for such an assumption,
and we who have witnessed so many instances of the
apparent violation of natural law, know they have not,
but on the contrary, we know that astounding events
transcending many of those believed in by the Catholic
fathers are now occurring every day in the heart of this
metropolis.
The Church of England treats Catholic miracles as
figments and delusions. I do not. I am forced to
credit their probable reality, and I know several digni¬
taries of the Protestant Church who, having witnessed
the marvels of modern Spiritualism, admit their genuine¬
ness and are governed in their ministrations accord¬
ingly.
I am one of a multitude who, trusting the evidence
of my senses, am compelled by the manifold proofs I
have had of spiritual forces accompanied, be it re¬
membered, by intelligence, to disregard the false teach¬
ings both of the religious and the scientific worlds in
* See The History of the Supernatural, by Wm. Howitt.—Longman & Co.
this respect, and I even presume to become their teacher.
I discard dogmas and theories, and stick to the facts of
my individual experiences. Nothing can persuade me
that I have not seen material substances moved about,
and heavy bodies floated and raised into the air, with¬
out human or mechanical agency of any kind. If this
be so—and a thousand intelligent living witnesses are
ready to testify that they have seen similar manifesta¬
tions of spirit-power—can all the learned bodies of the
world reasonably withstand the evidence ? Can they
prove a negative? Must they not, sooner or later,
admit they had something to learn from us ?
I contend then that there are forces in active operation
around us, unrecognised as yet by science ; I am sure
the facts are indisputable; I am equally satisfied they
are not new, but that “ they have been rapping at the
door of every thinker throughout the ages for a solution.”
I believe they are Spiritual, because none of the
theories I have met with to prove them anything else
cover the facts. You who acknowledge the phenomena
may call them what you please. You who deny
the facts without investigation, occupy an entirely
false position, and are surely not qualified to lay
down the law for the guidance of other men. The
higher your position in the world of science the more
necessary is it that you should lay aside all prejudices,
and undertake a calm enquiry into the claims of
Spiritualism. Prove it a delusion if you can, or failing
that, manfully yield and honestly confess your error.
Remember “ It goes for nothing to say that evidence
of the truth of a proposition does not appear.
“ Do you see the evidence of its falsity ? Before you
reject a proposition, or series of propositions, for what
you suppose to be their error, take care that you appre¬
hend all their truth.” Or as Carlyle shrewdly advises—
“ Be sure you see before you assume to oversee”*
AMONG THE SWEDENBORGIANS.
NTTMBEK TWO.
A few months, ago at a meeting of New Churchmen, con¬
vened for the purpose of bringing into closer harmony the
several London congregations, one of the speakers gave
a quaint account of the notions entertained by the public re¬
garding the followers of Swedenborg. Among other matters
he jocularly remarked that the Rev. J. Bayley, better known
as Dr. Bayley, was looked upon as one of those learned
individuals who could solve any mathematical problem or
argue any question, but who knew little of true Christian
charity.
The reverend gentleman alluded to occupied the pulpit on
the first Sunday evening in July, at the Argyle-square chapel,
and, although on that occasion he solved neither mathematical
problems nor intricate theological questions, his sermon was
a distinct manifestation of sound practical experience. There
was hardly a trace of orthodox Swedenborgian notions to be
discovered in the discourse, and, unless the stranger had been
aware that he was among those of the “ New Jerusalem,” he
might have fancied. himself in a church or witnessing an
imitation church service.
The building itself was arranged, decorated, and painted
with some taste. The singing was rather lively, but the
organ laboured unpleasantly. The congregation hardly
numbered 120 ; there appeared to be accommodation for four
or five times the number of those present, but it happened
to be uncertain weather on the 2nd of July,
The text of the sermon was taken from John xvii. 17,
i “ Sanctify them by the truth.”
From the Lord down to the very lowest existences, the
preacher said, everything offers to human thought, if correctly
understood, an abundance of Divine truth. In the human
character there is a certain pollution which can only be cor¬
rected by truth. People impose upon themselves the notion
that there is no such immense necessity for new truths be¬
cause most classes of society, with the exception’ of a few
criminals, seem to get on all right. It must, however, be
borne in mind that for thousands of years myriads of truths
have become, as it were, embodied, so that even an ordinary
education now-a-days is of considerable effect. Look at the
savages and reflect what we should be without these truths,
and recognise the importance of having more and more ; for
there is a mass of error still retained. A soul without truth
is as the earth without water, as a world without light; it is
a mental stone—a city without defences. By truth we rid
ourselves of flagrant sins. A man should always purpose
what is good, and mean what is loving and gentle. Instead
of selfishness, hardness, and bitterness, there should be kind¬
ness, charity, and goodwill. The general order of things now
is business first, health next, and then the soul. This ought
to be reversed, for bad states of the soul sap the pith and
power of the body.
In the treatment of children the principle should not be
“ obey or be punished,” but, little by little, they should be
supplied and filled with truths, It is difficult, the preacher
said, to make an empty sack stand upright; fill it hence with
good corn.
Because of the pressure of late news, this Number of Th e
Spiritualist was not printed till Monday, July 17th.
This afternoon (Saturday, July 15th) Mr. and Mrs.
Edmiston, of Beckenham, Kent, gave a garden party to thirty
or forty of the leading Spiritualists of London. Afterwards
there was a seance, and altogether a very delightful evening
was spent.
Mbs. Guppy’s Mediumshtp.—Last Friday week at a
dark seance at the residence of Mr. Guppy, 1, Morland-villas,
Highbury-hill-park, N., two live lobsters were placed on the
hands of one of the sitters. It was then made known that
Miss Thom, of Pendleton, near Manchester, whispered to her
mother that she wished the spirits would bring a live lobster
instead of flowers. Mrs. Thom, who attended the circle merely
as an inquirer, did not think it proper to repeat the request
aloud, so neither the medium nor anybody else at the circle,
knew that a desire for a lobster had been expressed. Several
influential visitors were present at this seance.
* IAfe, its Nature, Varieties and Phenomena. By Leo H. Grindon.
180
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 15, 1871.
AN EXPERIMENTAL INVESTIGATION OF SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA.
BY ME. WILLIAM CEOOKES, F.E.S., BE. HUGGINS, Y.P.E.S., AND ME. SEEJEANT COX.
Fig 1.
Fig. 2.
The following article by Mr. W. Crookes was pub¬
lished in the last number of The Quarterly Journal of
Science, under tbe title of “ An Experimental Investi¬
gation of a Hew Eorce.” The facts are attested, it
will be-seen, by Dr. Huggins and Mr. Serjeant Cox.
Mr. William Crookes, E.R.S., is the editor of The
Chemical News and of The Quarterly Journal of
Science; it was he who discovered the new metal
thallium. Dr. Huggins is Yice-President of the
Royal Society, and it was he who discovered, by spec¬
trum analysis, that iron, hydrogen, lime, and other
•common substances, exist in an intensely heated
-state in several of the fixed stars. Mr. Serjeant
Cox is well-known as an acute metropolitan magistrate.
The English scientific world is much indebted to these
gentlemen for the unquestionable evidence they give as
to the existence of facts in nature of which the said
^scientific world has little or no knowledge, and is less
informed than many of the general public:—
“Twelve months ago in this journal* I wrote an
•article, in which, after expressing in the most emphatic
manner my belief in the occurrence, under certain cir¬
cumstances, of phenomena inexplicable by any known
natural laws, I indicated several tests which men of
science had a right to demand before giving credence
to the genuineness of these phenomena. Among the
tests pointed out were, that a | delicately poised balance
should be moved under test conditions and that some
•exhibition of power equivalent to so many ‘ foot¬
pounds ’ should be ‘ manifested in his laboratory,
where the experimentalist could weigh, measure, and
submit it to proper tests.’ I said, too, that I could not
promise to enter fully into this subject, owing to the
difficulties of obtaining opportunities, and the numerous
failures attending the inquiry; moreover, that ‘the
persons in whose presence these phenomena take place
are few in number, and opportunities for experimenting
with previously arranged apparatus are rarer still.’
“ Opportunities having since offered for pursuing the
investigation, I have gladly availed myself of them for
applying to these phenomena careful scientific testing
experiments, and I have thus arrived at certain definite
results which I think it right should be published.
These experiments appear conclusively to establish the
existence of a new force, in some unknown manner
•connected with the human organisation, which for con¬
venience may be called the Psychic Eorce.
“ Of all the persons endowed with a powerful develop¬
ment of this Psychic Eorce, and who have been termed
‘ mediums ’ upon quite another theory of its origin,
Mr. Daniel Dunglas Home is the most remarkable, and
it is mainly owing to the many opportunities I have
had of carrying on my investigation in his presence that
I am enabled to affirm so conclusively the existence of
this force. The experiments I have tried have been
very numerous, but owing to our imperfect knowledge
of the conditions which favour or oppose the manifesta¬
tions of this force, to the apparently capricious manner
in which it is exerted, and to the fact that Mr. Home
himself is subject to unaccountable ebbs and flows of
the force, it has but seldom happened that a result ob¬
tained on one occasion could be subsequently confirmed
and tested with apparatus specially contrived for the
purpose.
“ Among the remarkable phenomena which occur
under Mr. Home’s influence, the most striking as well
as the most easily tested with scientific accuracy are—
* “ See Quarterly Journal of Science, vol. vii., p. 316, July, 1870."
(1) the alteration in the weight of bodies, and (2) the
playing of tunes upon musical instruments (generally
an accordion, for convenience of portability) without
direct human intervention, under conditions rendering
contact or connection with the keys impossible. Hot
until I had witnessed these facts some half dozen times,
and scrutinised them with all the critical acumen I pos¬
sess, did I become convinced of their objective reality.
Still, desiring to place the matter beyond the shadow of
a doubt, I invited Mr. Home on several occasions to
come to my own house, where, in the presence of a few
scientific enquirers, these phenomena could be sub¬
mitted to crucial experiments.
“ The meetings took place in the evening, in a large
room lighted by gas. The apparatus prepared for the
purpose of testing the movements of the accordion, con¬
sisted of a cage, formed of two wooden hoops, respec¬
tively 1 foot 10 inches and 2 feet diameter, connected
together by 12 narrow laths, each 1 foot 10 inches
l long, so as to form a drumshaped frame, open at the
top and bottom; round this 50 yards of insulated
copper wire were wound in 24 rounds, each being rather
less than an inch from its neighbour. These horizontal
strands of wire were then netted together firmly with
string, so as to form meshes rather less than 2 inches
long by 1 inch high. The height of this cage was such
that it would just slip under my dining table, but be
too close to the top to allow of the hand being intro¬
duced into the interior, or to admit of a foot being
pushed underneath it. In another room were two
Grove’s cells, wires being led from them into the
dining-room for connection, if desirable, with the wire
surrounding the cage.
“ The accordion was a new one, having been purchased
for these experiments at Wheatstone’s, in Conduit-
street. Mr. Home had neither handled nor seen the
instrument before the commencement of the test experi¬
ments.
“ In another part of the room an apparatus was fitted
up for experimenting on the alteration in the weight of
a body. It consisted of a mahogany board, 36 inches
long by 9)r inches wide and 1 inch thick. At each end
a strip of mahogany 1% inches wide was screwed on,
forming feet. One end of the board rested on a firm
table, whilst the other end was supported by a spring
balance hanging from a substantial tripod stand. The
balance was fitted with a self-registering index, in such
a manner that it would record the maximum weight
indicated by the pointer. The apparatus was adjusted
so that the mahogany board was horizontal, its foot
resting flat on the support. In this position its weight
was 3 lbs., as marked by the pointer of the balance.
“ Before Mr. Home entered the room the apparatus
had been arranged in position, and he had not even had
the object of some of it explained before sitting down.
It may, perhaps, be worth while to add, for the pur¬
pose of anticipating some critical remarks which are
likely to be made, that in the afternoon I called for
Mr. Home at his apartments, and when there he sug¬
gested that as he had to change his dress, perhaps I
should not object to continue our conversation in his
bedroom. I am, therefore, enabled to state positively,
that no machinery, apparatus, or contrivance of any
sort was secreted about his person.
“ The investigators present on the test occasion were
an eminent physicist, high in the ranks of the Royal
Society, whom I will call Dr. A.B.; a well-known
Serjeant-at-Law, whom I will call Serjeant C. D.; my
brother; and my chemical assistant.*
* “ It argues ill for the boasted freedom of opinion among scientiflc men,
that they have so long refused to institute a scientific investigation into the
existence and nature of facts asserted by so many competent and credible
■witnesses, and which they are freely invited to examine when and where
“Mr. Home sat in a low easy chair at the side of the
table. Close in front under the table was the aforesaid
cage, one of his legs being on each side of it. I sat
close to him on his left, and another observer sat close
on his right, the rest of the party being seated at con¬
venient distances round the table.
“ Eor the greater part of the evening, particularly
when anything of importance was going forward, the
observers on each side of Mr. Home kept their feet
respectively on his feet, so as to be able to detect his
least movement.
“The temperature of the room varied from 68° to
70° F.
“ Mr. Home took the accordion between the thumb and
middle finger of one hand at the opposite end to the
keys (see woodcut, Eig 1), (to save repetition this will
be subsequently called ‘ in the usual manner.’) Having
previously opened the bass key myself, and the cage
being drawn from under the table so.as just to allow
the accordion to be passed in, keys downwards, it was
pushed back as close as Mr. Home’s arm would permit,
but without hiding his hand from those next to him
(see Fig. 2). Yery soon the accordion was seen by
those on each side to be waving about in a somewhat
curious manner; then sounds came from it, and finally
several notes were played in succession. Whilst this
was going on, my assistant got under the table, and re¬
ported that the accordion was expanding and contract¬
ing ; at the same time it was seen that Mr. Home’s
hand which held it was quite still, his other hand rest¬
ing on the table.
“ Presently the accordion was seen by those on either
side of Mr. Home to move about, oscillating and going
round and round the cage, and playing at the same
time. Dr. A. B. now looked under the table, and said
that Mr. Home’s hand appeared, quite still whilst the
accordion was moving about emitting distinct sounds.,
“Mr. Home still holding the accordion in the usual
manner in the cage, his feet being held by those next
him, and his other hand resting on the table, we heard
distinct and separate notes sounded in succession, and
then a simple air was played. As such a result could
only have been produced by the various keys of the
instrument being acted upon in harmonious succession,
this was considered by those present to be a crucial ex¬
periment. But the sequel was still more striking, for
Mr. Home then actually let go the accordion, removed
his hand quite out of the cage, and placed it in the
hand of the person next to him, the instrument then
continuing to play whilst no one was touching it.
. “ I was now desirous of trying what would be the effect
of passing the battery current round the insulated wire
of the cage, and my assistant accordingly made the con¬
nection with the wires from the two Grove’s cells. Mr.
Home again held the instrument inside the cage in the
same manner as before, when it immediately sounded
and moved about vigorously. But whether the electric
current (passing round the cage assisted the manifesta¬
tion of force inside, it is impossible to say.
“ The accordion was now again taken without any
visible touch from Mr. Home’s hand, which he removed
from it entirely; I and two of the others present not
only seeing his released hand, but the accordion also
floating about with no visible support inside the cage.
This was repeated a second time, after a short interval.
Mr. Home presently re-inserted his hand in the cage
and again took hold of the accordion. It then com¬
menced to play, at first chords and runs, and afterwards
they please. For my own part, I too much value the pursuit of truth, and
the discovery of any new fact in nature, to avoid inquiry because it appears
to clash with prevailing opinions. But as I have no right to assume that
others are equally willing to do this, I refrain from mentioning the names
of my friends without their permission.”—W. O.
July 15, 1871.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
181
a well-known sweet and plaintive melody, which It
executed perfectly in a very beautiful manner. Whilst
this tune was being played, I took hold of Mr. Home’s
arm, below the elbow, and gently slid my hand down it
until I touched the top of the accordion. He was not
moving a muscle. His other hand was on the table,
visible to all, and his feet were under the feet of those
next to him.
“ Having met with such striking results in the experi¬
ments with the accordion in the cage, we turned to the
balance apparatus already described. Mr. Home placed
the tips of his fingers lightly on the extreme end of the
mahogany board which was resting on the support,
whilst Dr. A. B. and myself sat, one on each side of it,
watching for any effect which might be produced.
Almost immediately the pointer of the balance was seen
to descend. After a few seconds it [rose again. This
movement was repeated several times, as if by succes¬
sive waves of the Psychic Force. The end of the board
was observed to oscillate slowly up and down during
the time.
p Mr. Home now of his own accord took a small hand¬
bell and a little card match-box, which happened to be
near, and placed one under each hand, to satisfy us, as
lie said, that he was not producing the downward pres¬
sure (see Fig. 3). The very slow oscillation of the
spring balance became more marked, and Dr. A. B., on
watching the index, said that he saw it descend to
61 lbs. The normal weight of the board as so sus¬
pended being 3 lbs., the additional downward pull was
therefore 31 lbs. On looking immediately afterwards
at the automatic register, we saw that the index had
at one time descended as low as 9 lbs., showing a
maximum pull of 6 lbs.
“ In order to see whether it was possible to produce
much effect on the spring balance by pressure at the
place where Mr. Home’s fingers had been, I stepped
upon the table and stood on one foot at the end of the
board. Dr. A. B., who was observing the index of the
balance, said that the whole weight of my body
(140 lbs.) so applied only sunk the index 11 lbs., or
2 lbs. when I jerked up and down. Mr. Home had
been sitting in a low easy-chair, and could not, there¬
fore, had he tried his utmost, have exerted any material
influence on these results. I need scarcely add that
his feet as well as his hands were closely watched by
all in the room.
“This experiment to me appears, if possible, more
striking than the one with the accordion. As will be
seen on referring to the cut (Fig. 3), the board was
arranged perfectly horizontally, and it was particularly
noticed that Mr. Home’s fingers were not at any time
advanced more than l! inches from the extreme end,
as shown by a pencil-mark, which, with Dr. A. B.’s
acquiescence, I made at the time. How, the wooden
foot being also l! inches wide, and resting flat on the
table, it is evident that no amount of pressure exerted
within this space of 1^ inches could produce any action
on the balance. Again, it is also evident that when
the end furthest from Mr. Home sank, the board would
turn on the further edge of this foot as on a fulcrum.
The arrangement was consequently that of a see-saw,
36 inches in length, the fulcrum being inches from
one end ! Were he therefore to have exerted a down¬
ward pressure, it would have been in opposition to the
force which was causing the other end of the board to
move down.
“ The slight downward pressure shown by the balance
when I stood on the board was owing probably to my
foot extending beyond this fulcrum.
“ I have now given a plain unvarnished statement of
the facts from copious notes written at the time the
occurrences were taking place, and copied out in full
immediately after. Indeed, it would be fatal to the
object I have in view—that of urging the scientific in¬
vestigation of these phenomena—were I to exaggerate
ever so little ; for although to my readers Dr. A. B. is
at present represented by incorporeal initials, to me the
letters represent a power in the scientific world that
would certainly convict me if I were to prove an un¬
trustworthy narrator.
“ I confess I am surprised and pained at the timidity
or apathy shown by scientific men in reference to this
subject. Some little time ago, when an opportunity
was first presented to me of examining into the sub¬
ject, I invited the co-operation of some scientific friends
in a systematic investigation; but I soon found out
that to obtain a scientific committee for the investiga¬
tion of this class of facts was out of the question, and
that I must be content to rely on my own endeavours,
aided by the co-operation from time to time of the few
scientific and learned friends who were willing to join
in the inquiry. I still feel that it would be better
were such a committee of known men to be formed, who
would; meet Mr. Home in a fair and unbiassed manner,
and. I would gladly assist in its formation; but the
difficulties in the way are great.
“ A committee of scientific men met Mr. Home some
months ago at St. Petersburgh. They had one meeting
only, which was attended with negative results; and
on the strength of this they published a report highly
unfavourable to Mr. Home. The explanation of this
failure, which is all they have accused him of, appears to
me quite simple. Whatever the nature of Mr. Home’s
power, it is very variable, and at times entirely absent.
It is obvious that the Bussian experiment was tried
when this force was at a minimum. The same thing
has frequently happened within my own experience. A
party of scientific men met Mr. Home at my house, and
the results were as negative as those at St. Petersburg.
Instead, however, of throwing up the inquiry, we
patiently repeated the trial a second and a third time,
when we met with results which were positive. ■
“ These conclusions have not been arrived at hastily or
on insufficient evidence. Although space will allow
only the publication of the details of one trial, it must
be clearly understood that for some time past I have
been making similar experiments and with like results.
The meeting on the occasion here described was for the
purpose of confirming previous observations by the ap¬
plication of crucial tests, with carefully arranged
apparatus, and in the presence of irreproachable wit¬
nesses.
“ Prospecting the cause of these phenomena, the nature
of the force to which, to avoid periphrasis, I have ven¬
tured to give the name of Psychic, and the correlation
existing between that and the other forces of nature, it
would be wrong to hazard the most vague hypothesis.
Indeed, in inquiries connected so intimately with rare
physiological and psychological conditions, it is the duty
of the inquirer to abstain altogether from framing
theories until he has accumulated a sufficient number of
facts to form a substantial basis upon which to reason.
In the presence of strange phenomena as yet unexplored
and unexplained following each other in such rapid
succession, X confess it is difficult to avoid clothing their
record in language of a sensational character. But to
be successful, an inquiry of this kind must be under¬
taken by the philosopher without prejudice and without
sentiment. Komantic and superstitious ideas should be
entirely banished, and the steps of his investigation
should be guided by intellect as cold and passionless as
the instruments he uses. Having once satisfied himself
that he is on the track of a new truth, that single
object should animate.him to pursue it, without regard¬
ing whether the facts which occur before his eyes are
‘ naturally possible or impossible.’
“ Since this article was in type, the Author has been
favoured with the following letters from Dr. Huggins
and Mr. Serjeant Cox—the Dr. A. B. and Serjeant C.
D. therein referred to :—
“ ‘ Upper Tulse Hill, S.W.,
“ ‘ June 9, 1871.
“ ‘ Dear Mr. Crookes,—Your proof appears to me to contain
a correct statement of what took place in my presence at your
house. My position at the table did not permit me to be a
witness of the withdrawal of Mr. Home’s hand from the accor¬
dion, but such was stated to be the case at the time by your¬
self and by the person sitting on the other side of Mr. Home.
“ ‘ The experiments appear to me to show the importance of
further investigation, hut I wish it to be understood that I ex¬
press no opinion as to the cause of the phenomena which took
place.—Yours very truly, William Huggins.
11 Wm. Crookes, Esq., F.R.S.’
“ ‘ 36, Russell-square,
“ ‘ June 8, 1871.
“ ‘ Mv Dear Sir,—Having been present, for the purpose of
scrutiny, at the trial of the experiments reported in this paper,
I readily bear my testimony to the perfect accuracy of your
description of them, and to the care and caution with which
the various crucial tests were applied.
“ ‘ The results appear to me conclusively to establish the im¬
portant fact, that there is a force proceeding from the nerve4
system capable of imparting motion and weight to solid bodies
within the sphere of its influence.
“‘I noticed that the force was exhibited in tremulous pulsa¬
tions, and not in the form of steady continuous pressure, the
indicator moving and falling incessantly throughout the
experiment. This fact seems to me of great significance as
tending to confirm the opinion that assigns its source to the
nerve organisation, and it goes far to establish Dr. Richard¬
son’s important discovery of a nerve atmosphere of various
intensity enveloping the human structure.
“ ‘ Your experiments completely confirm the conclusion at
which the Investigation Committee of the Dialectical Society
arrived, after more than forty meetings for trial and test.
“ ‘ Allow me to add that I can find no evidence even tending
to prove that this force is other than a force proceeding from,
or directly dependent upon, the human organisation, and
therefore, like tall other forces of nature, wholly within the
province of that strictly scientific investigation to which you
have been the first to subject it.
“ ‘ Psychology is a branch of science as yet almost entirely
unexplored, and to the neglect of it is probably to be attri¬
buted the seeftingly strange fact that the existence of this
nerve-force should have so long remained untested, un¬
examined, and almost unrecognised.
“ ‘ Now that it is proved by mechanical tests to be a fact in
nature (and if a fact, it is impossible to exaggerate its im¬
portance to physiology and the light it must throw upon the
obscure laws of life, of mind, and" the science of medicine) it
cannot fail to command the immediate and most earnest ex¬
amination and discussion by physiologists and by all who take
an interest in that, knowledge of ‘ man ’ which has been truly
termed ‘the noblest study of mankind.’ To avoid the ap¬
pearance of any foregone conclusion, I would recommend the
adoption of some appropriate name, and I venture to suggest
that the force be termed the Psychic Force ; the persons in
whom it is manifested in extraordinary power Psychics; and the
science relating to it Psychism, as being a branch of Psychology.
“‘Permit me, also, to propose the early formation of a
Psychological Society, purposely for the promotion of the
study by means of experiment, papers, and discussion, of that
hitherto neglected science.—I am, &c.', Edwd. Wm. Cox. ■ '
“ ‘ To. W. Crookes, Esq., F.R.S.’”
Since tlie publication of tlie foregoing articles and
letters, in The Quarterly Journal of Science, the following
correspondence has taken place between Messrs. Yarley,
and Crookes, and those gentlemen have favoured us
with copies of their letters :—
“ 2, Great Winchester-street-buildinga, London,
% 8th July, 1871.
“My Dear Sirs,—Permit me to take this opportunity of:
thanking you in the cause of truth, for your article and letters ,
on a ‘new force’ in the Quarterly Journal of Science.'. It
is exceedingly gratifying to me, who have had to bear the ■
ridicule of the world for many years on account of these
phenomena, to see three gentlemen of such position as your-:
selves, possessed both of the curiosity to enquire into this (for¬
bidden) topic, and the manly courage to boldly state the
results of your investigation. I hope that you will continue
your enquiry, and give the world, from time to time, the
results thereof. In this matter you probably do well to
deal only with the physical forces most evident to the senses ;
I am, however, anxious to hear how you will explain the
performance of music upon the instrument by physical force,
unless guided by intelligence.
“ Inasmuch as intelligence is necessary for the performance
of music (unless it be on the ‘barrel-organ’), I should like-
to know to what conclusion you have come as to what intel¬
ligence was governing the display of the “ new form ’’ of
physical forces.
“ I have had many opportunities of seeing similar experi¬
ments to those which you have described.
“ I have seen a message printed in Philadelphia by a machine
constructed for the purpose by a non-scientific man, which,
in consequence of faulty mechanical construction, required a
force of two or three pounds acting through one inch, to emboss
each letter, and yet with all this waste of force a message was
printed out at considerable length.
“ When I first became acquainted with the phenomena I
endeavoured to ascertain whether it was my own brain, or
that of another person in the room, that was acting, or a
disembodied spirit—but in every instance the ‘ intelligence ’
itself said that it was a Spirit.
“ In some few instances it has been the spirit of a person
whose body was not dead, but in a state of sleep or trance.
In the majority of cases the intelligence declares itself to be
that of a departed human being, generally some intimate
friend.
“ I do not press you to answer this letter, nor do I wish to
interfere with your course of investigation, but I feel certain
that by interrogating the ‘new force’ itself, you will come
to somewhat similar conclusions to those which, almost with¬
out exception, we Spiritualists have arrived at.
“ In your experiment shown in Fig. 3,1 would like to suggest
for the convincing of outsiders that the support on which Mr.
Home presses should be placed well behind the fulcrum, so
that he by pressing could only reduce and not increase the
weight upon the spring balance.
“ I have been unsuccessful in this country in obtaining
mediums gifted with a large amount of this ‘new force,’
who would undergo a series of test sittings for investigating
the nature of the physical powers developed.
“ I have in broad daylight seen a small table with no one near
it but myself, and not even touched by me or any visible
person, raised off the floor and carried horizontally ten feet
through the air; and I have repeatedly seen a large dining
table lifted bodily off the floor, and when so supported in the
air the table has moved in the direction that I mentally
requested it to take. In this experiment not only was the
‘ new force ’ well developed, but in addition it obeyed my
unspoken mental reguest, to convince me that there was present
an ‘ intelligence ’ that could, and did, read my thoughts.
“ I have on a few occasions been able to see the Spirits them¬
selves, sometimes to talk with them. They have frequently
foretold things that were about to happen, and in most
instances the events have occurred as predicted.
“ These same ‘ intelligences ’ have told me that the reason
why beginners often fail to have successful seances is because
their minds are not in harmony with those of the others present.
“ Disbelief seems to be no hindrance to the phenomena, but
a strict preconceived desire that the latter should not occur is
unfavourable to the development of the ‘ new force. ’ Har¬
mony is an important condition for a successful seance; a
powei ful brain out of harmony frequently, if not generally, is
sufficient to destroy the ‘ new force ’ as fast as it is collected.
“ In America, when I sat with Mr. C. F. Livermore, Miss
C. Fox* the medium, and Mr. and Mrs. Townsend, I have
* This young lady may shortly be expected in England. Mr. Coleman
has shown us a letter from Mr. Livermore, the banker of New York, in
which he says:—“It is likely she may get away early in July, but that is
uncertain.... It is not her intention to make a professional visit, but she
will no doubt consent to see a limited number of people if desired.. .. The
desire for the marvellous is such, that however great the powers of a
medium, human curiosity cries for something still more startling. Miss
Fox’s mediumship, however, bears no resemblance to the Davenport
manifestations, and might not satisfy those who are mere curiosity-
seekers.
“ Her mediumship is of a gentler kind. 1 have, during the past winter,
received through her several communications which deserve to be recorded
in letters of gold. She has also written for me in Spanish, Italian, and
French, although she herself knows none of these languages.”
For the information of those unacquainted with the history of modem
Spiritualism, it may be stated that the manifestations first commenced in
America through the mediumship of Miss Kate Fox twenty-one years ago,
when she was a child, and we are informed that her mediumistic powers
are undiminished.—Ed,
182
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 15, 1871.
frequently been told by tbe unseen ‘ intelligences ’ not to
look under tbe table while tbe ‘ force ’ was being collected,
but as soon as it was collected I was allowed to look. Tbe
reason given was that tbe abnormally active state of my mind
at tbe time prevented them from collecting together tbe
‘ force l necessary for producing tbe phenomena.
“ I have seen in the dark a luminous globe, about eighteen
inches in diameter, proceed from under Miss Fox’s dress ; it
then moved up and round over her shoulder, and went to tbe
door, producing very loud raps. Mr. Livermore, who was
with Miss Fox near tbe door at tbe time, exclaimed, ‘ Ob 1 I
see a band in this light.’
“ During this experiment I was sitting at tbe table, which
was ten feet from the door.
«‘ On another occasion I was told to go to tb e door with Miss Fox,
when a similar cloud of light appeared. I could not see a band
in it, but to make me conscious that there was something, tbe
light came to my bead and back and touched me, and I dis¬
tinctly felt tbe form of a hand. I was holding both of Miss
Fox’s hands at the time, and no one else in the ordinary
human body was near us.
“ I have frequently seen smaller brighter lights produced
visible to all; these have moved about in slow, and at times
in rapid motion and various directions impossible to be
performed by the medium, or secret mechanical contrivance,
and in addition, on several occasions I have had convincing
proof as to the identity of the departed, Spirits communicating
with me.
“ There is a very full account of Spiritualism under the name
of the Divine afflatus of the Hindoos, in the Dublin University
Magazine, No. 204, for December, 1849. This contains in¬
teresting matter throwing some light upon the conditions
favourable for the development of the trance, and its perusal
may suggest experiments, if nothing else. It is interesting to
find well-authenticated accounts of Spiritual phenomena oc¬
curring in all parts of the world, and amongst various races
of humanity.
“ It would indeed seem to be the basis of almost all Super¬
stitious and Religious ceremonies.
“As to the formation of a Psychological Society, as suggested
by Mr. Serjeant Cox, I think the time has arrived when this
is highly desirable. I would suggest:—
“ 1st. That the society should sit every fortnight from
November to June.
“ 2nd. That a sufficient subscription be charged for member¬
ship to secure worthy and earnest members—say two guineas
per annum.
“ 3rd. That a committee or committees of unprejudiced men
of ability be formed, to try experiments and report thereon to
the society periodically.
“ 4th. That committees be formed to cross-examine mes¬
merists, mediums, and others, and to report the results of
their labours to the society.
“ 5th. That there should be public meetings to read and
discuss papers and the reports of the committees.
f I think you would have no difficulty in collecting twelve or
twenty gentlemen, distinguished in science, literature, law
and social standing who have more or less investigated the
subject, who would form the council of the society, and whose
knowledge, ability, and high standing would command the
attention of the great bulk of the public.
“Y am, my dear Sirs,
“• Yery truly yours,
“ Okomwell F. Varley.
“ To W, Crookes, Esq., F.R.S., Dr. W. Huggins, Esq., F.R.S.,
' and E. W. Cox, Esq.j S.L., J.P.’’
“20, Momington-road, N.W., July loth, 1871.
“ My bear Sib,—In your very interesting letter of the 8th
inst., you ask many questions which I am not prepared to
answer, and state problems which it will probably take years
of labour to solye.
“ In common with many who have publicly or privately
noticed my recent experiments, you press me on a subject to
which I have hitherto avoided referring, viz.:—the association
of the psychic force with intelligence. My reticence on this
subject has been caused by a desire not to venture an opinion
on so momentous a problem, without having a sufficient mass
of evidence drawn from my own personal experience to enable
me to answer all reasonable objections. As, however, this
silence has been misinterpreted by some critics, I may as well
take this opportunity of stating that I have avoided writing
anything which could fairly convey an opinion adverse to the
views of Spiritualists. I have always kept prominently before
my mind the fact that the accumulating evidence was such as
might lead to the belief that independent intelligences—spirits
—were at work. I have, therefore, carefully avoided saying
anything which would render an ultimate retreat to that view
difficult. But at present I wish to reserve any opinion on
the causes of the phenomena until I have submitted the facts
themselves to sufficiently accurate scientific tests.
“ In the meantime I submit the’psychic force theory as com¬
mon ground on which all parties may meet. For scientific
men cannot deny that we are now getting evidence of a
hitherto unrecognised force or power in nature, whilst Spiri¬
tualists will see that I have simply used the term psychic
force as a convenient and unobjectionable substitute for what
they have been in the habit, of calling “ magnetism,” “ electri¬
city,” “ nerve force,” &c. But how that force is actuated and
controlled—whether the mind of the psychic can exert a
power over material things outside the body; whether it can
quit the body for a season and produce the results we see; or
whether the psychic force can be wielded by other invisible
and immaterial beings who are thus temporarily enabled to
manifest themselves to us—are problems of vast interest in
the future, but which I firmly believe will yield solutions
when intelligently submitted to scientific experiment.
“ Believe me, very truly yours,
“ William Crookes,
“To Cromwell F. Varley,Esq., F.R.S., &c.”
Spirituaiism in DAlston and Hackney.—On Tuesday
evening, June27th, Mrs. Emma Hardinge gave an oration at the
Manor Rooms, Hackney, on “ Spiritualism—Past, Present, and
Future.” The hall was well filled by a large and influential
body of listeners, who were quite carried away by the eloquence
of the speaker. At the close of the address several theological
questions were put to Mrs. Hardinge, who said that all disem¬
bodied spirits, differing as they do in their religious opinions,
state that they are in a state of bliss or misery in exact pro¬
portion to the good or evil nature of the deeds they did while
in the body, and that there is no eternal punishment. This
meeting was convened by the Dalston Association of Inquirers
into Spiritualism, and its successful character was due in a
great measure to the energy of the secretary, Mr. T. Blyton,
74, Navarino-road, Dalston.
A SECOND EDITION.
A Second Edition of The Spiritualist will
be published on Monday, July 31st, 1871,
containing a long report of the farewell meeting
to Mrs. Hardinge, and other news.
As the present number of The Spiritualist is
useful for distribution among the general
public, a limited number of copies may be
obtained in quantities of not less than one
hundred, at the greatly reduced price of Ten
Shillings per Hundred, carriage unpaid. Ladies
and gentlemen may obtain parcels on these
terms, by remitting the proper amount to the
publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
EfC., on condition that they order them for
gratuitous distribution, and not for sale.
PROFESSOR HUXLEY OX MATTER AND SPIRIT.
A pew weeks ago Professor Thomas H. Huxley, F.R.S.,
delivered a lecture at the Royal Institution to a very
large and influential auditory on “ Bishop Berkeley and
the Metaphysics of Sensationin other words, the
lecture was on the subject of matter and spirit. Sir
Henry Holland, Bart., M.D., P.R.S., President of the
Royal Institution, occupied the chair.
Professor Huxley began by stating that Bishop Ber¬
keley lived between the years 1684 and 1753, at a time
when the charge began to be brought against the
English scientific world that it strongly favoured mate¬
rialism. He lived when Locke and Clarke maintained
that matter might possibly be able to think; when there
was a tendency to reduce everything to a system of
mechanics; and when Leibnitz, in his celebrated letter
to the Princess of Wales, brought the following
charge:—
“ Sir Isaac Newton and his followers have also a very odd
opinion concerning the work of God. According to their
doctrine God Almighty wants to wind up His watch from
time to time ; otherwise it would cease to move. He had not,
it seems, sufficient foresight to make it a perpetual motion.
Nay, the machine of God’s making is so imperfect, according
to these gentlemen, that He is obliged to clean it now and
then by an extraordinary concourse, and even to mend it as a
clockmaker mends his work.”
The Bishop of Cloyne, said the lecturer, had to face
this condition of philosophical thought, but he did it in
an intelligent way. He said to the philosophers, “ You
tell me that all the phenomena of nature are resolvable
into matter and its affections. What you say is very
true, but I insist that you shall not stop there; you
must follow up your own train of reasoning in your
own way, and if you find that it does not land you on a
material basis, you must give up materialism.”
The mainspring of Berkeley’s arguments is to be
found in the following statement, which he published in
his Treatise coneerning the Principles of Human Know¬
ledge :—
“ Some truths there are so near and obvious to the mind
that a man need only open his eyes to see them. Such I take
this important one to be, viz., that all the choir of heaven and
furniture of the earth—in a word, all those bodies which com¬
pose the mighty frame of the world—have not any substance
without a mind ; that their being is to be perceived or known;
that consequently, so long as they are not actually perceived
by me, or do not exist in my mind or that of any other created
spirit, they must either have no existence at all or else subsist
in the mind of some eternal spirit; it being perfectly unintel¬
ligible, and involving all the absurdity of abstraction, to attri¬
bute to any single part of them an existence independent of a
spirit.”
Professor Huxley said:—
“ The key to all philosophy lies in the clear apprehension of
Berkeley’s problem—which is neither more nor less than one of
the shapes of the greatest of all questions, ‘ What are the limits
of our faculties And it is worth any amount of trouble to com¬
prehend the exact nature of the argument by which Berkeley
arrived at his results, and to know by one’s own knowledge the
great truth which he discovered—that the honest and rigorous
following up of the argument which leads us to materialism,
inevitably carries us beyond it.
“ Suppose that I accidentally prick my finger with a pin. I
immediately become aware of a condition of my consciousness
—a feeling which I term pain. I have no, doubt whatever
that the feeling is in myself alone; and if anyone were to say
that the pain I feel is something which inheres in the needle,
as one of the qualities of the Substance of the needle, we
should all laugh at the absurdity of the phraseology. In fact,
it is utterly impossible to conceive pain except as a state of
■ consciousness.
“ Hence, so far as pain is concerned, it is sufficiently obvious
that Berkeley’s phraseology is strictly applicable to our power
of conceiving its existence—‘ its being is to be perceived or
known,’ and ‘ so long as it is not actually perceived by me, or
does not exist in my mind, or that of any other created spirit,
it must either have no existence at all, or else subsist in the
mind of some eternal spirit.’ .... So much for pain. And
the same reasoning applies to all the other simple sensa-
: tions 
“ It is undoubtedly true that, as Berkeley says, their ‘ esse is
percipi ’—their being is to be ‘ perceived or known.’ But that
which perceives, or knows, is mind or spirit; and, therefore,
that knowledge which the senses give us is, after all, a know¬
ledge of spiritual phenomena.
“ All this was explicitly or implicitly admitted, and, indeed,
insisted upon, by Berkeley’s contemporaries, and by no one
more strongly than by Locke, who terms smells, tastes, col¬
ours, sounds, and the like, ‘ secondary qualities,’ and observes,
with respect to these ‘ secondary qualities,’ that ‘ whatever
reahty we by mistake attribute to them [they] are in truth
nothing in the objects themselves.’. . .
“ Thus far then materialists and idealists are agreed. Locke
and Berkeley, and all logical thinkers who have succeeded
them, are of one mind about secondary qualities—their being
is to be perceived or known—their materiality is, in strictness,
a spirituality.
“ But Locke draws a great distinction between the secondary
qualities of matter, and certain others which he terms ‘ pri¬
mary qualities.’ These are extension, figure, solidity, motion,
and rest, and number; and he is as clear that these primary
qualities exist independently of the mind, as he is that the
secondary qualities have no such existence.
“ Once more let us try to work out Berkeley’s principles for
ourselves, and inquire what foundation there is for the asser¬
tion that extension, form, solidity, and the other ‘ primary
qualities,’ have an existence apart from mind. And for this
purpose let us recur to our experiment with the pin.
“ It has been seen that when the finger has been pricked
with a pin, a state of consciousness arises which we call pain;
and it is admitted that this pain is not a something which in¬
heres in the pin, but a something which exists only in the
mind, and has no similitude elsewhere;
“ But a little attention will show that this state of con¬
sciousness is accompanied by another, which can by no effort
be got rid of. I not only have the feeling, but the feeling is
localised. I am just as certain that the pain is in my finger,
as I am that I have it at all. Nor will any effort of the imagi¬
nation enable me to believe that the pain is not in my finger.
And yet nothing is more certain than that it is not, and cannot
be in the spot in which I feel it, nor within a couple of feet
of that spot. For the skin of the finger is connected by a
bundle of fine nervous fibres, which run up the whole length
of the arm, to the spinal marrow and brain, and we know
that the feeling of pain caused by the prick of a pin is depen¬
dent on the integrity of those fibres. If they be cut through
close to the spinal cord, no pain will be felt, whatever injury
is done to the finger ; and if the ends which remain in con¬
nection with the cord be pricked, the pain which arises will
appear to have its seat in the finger just as distinctly as
before. Nay, if the whole arm be cut off, the pain which
arises from pricking the nerve stump will ^appear to be
seated in the fingers, just as if they were still connected with
the body.
“ It is perfectly obvious, therefore, that the localisation of
the pain at the surface of the body is an act of the mind. It
is an extradition of that consciousness, which has its seat in
the brain, to a definite point of the body—which takes place
without our volition, and may give rise to ideas which are
contrary to fact. We might call this extradition of conscious¬
ness a reflex feeling, just as we speak of a movement which is
excited apart from, or contrary to, our volition, as a reflex
motion. Locality is no more in the pin than pain is; of the
former, as of the latter, it is true that ‘ its being is to be per¬
ceived,’ and that its existence, apart from a thinking mind, is
not conceivable.
p The foregoing reasoning will be in no way affected, if,
instead of pricking the finger, the point of the pin rests gently
against it, so as to give rise merely to a tactile sensation. The
tactile sensation is referred outwards to the point touched,
and seems to exist there. But it is certain that it is not and
cannot be there really, because the hrain is the sole seat of
consciousness; and, further, because evidence, as strong as
that in favour of the sensation being in the finger, can be
brought forward in support of propositions which are mani¬
festly absurd.
“ For example the hairs and nails are utterly devoid of sen¬
sibility, as every one knows. Nevertheless, if the ends of the
nails or hairs are touched, ever so lightly, we feel that they
are touched, and the sensation seems to be situated in the
nails or hairs. Nay more, if a walking-stick a yard long is
held firmly by the handle and the other end is touched, the
tactile sensation, which is a state of our own consciousness,
is unhesitatingly referred to the end of the stick; and yet no
one will say that it is there.
“ Let us now suppose that, instead of one pin’s point resting
against the end of my finger, there are two. Each of these
can be known to me, as we have seen, only as a state of a
thinking mind, referred outwards, or localised. But the exist¬
ence of these two states, somehow or other, generates in my
mind a host of new ideas, which did not make their appear¬
ance when only one state was present.
“ For example, I get the ideas of co-existence, of number,
of distance, and of relative place or direction. But all these
ideas are ideas of relations, and imply the existence of some¬
thing which perceives those relations. If a tactile sensation
is a state of the mind, and if the localization of that sensa¬
tion is an act of the mind, how is it conceivable that a
relation between two localised sensations should exist apart
from the mind ? It is, I confess, quite as easy for me to imagine
that redness may exist apart from a visual sense, as it is to
suppose that co-existence, number, and distance can have any
existence apart from the mind of which they are ideas.
“ Thus it seems clear that the existence of some, at any rate,
of Locke’s primary qualities of matter, such as number and
extension, apart from mind, is as utterly unthinkable as the
existence of colour and sound under like circumstances.
“ Will the others, namely, figure, motion and rest, and soli¬
dity, withstand a similar criticism? I think not. For all
these, like the foregoing, are perceptions by the mind of the
relations of two or more sensations to one another.”
When due allowance is made, said the lecturer, for
the occasional looseness and ambiguity of Berkeley’s
terminology, and the accessories are weeded out of the
essential parts of his famous Essay, his views may
he fairly and accurately summed up in the following
propositions:—
“ 1. The sense of touch gives rise to ideas of extension,
figure, magnitude, and motion.
“ 2. The sense of touch gives rise to the idea of ‘ outness,’
in the sense of localisation.
“ 3. The sense of touch gives rise to the idea of resistance,
and thence to that of solidity, in the sense of impenetrability.
“ 4. The sense of touch gives rise.to the idea of ‘ outness,’
in the sense of distance in the third dimension, and thence to
that of space, or geometrical solidity.
“5. The sense of sight gives rise to ideas of extension of
figure, magnitude, and motion.
“ 6. The sense of sight does not give rise to the idea of
‘ outness,’ in the sense of distance in the third dimension, nor
to that of geometrical solidity, no visual idea appearing to be
without the mind, or at any distance off.
“ 7. The sense of sight does not give rise to the idea of
mechanical solidity.
; “8. There is no likeness whatever between the tactile ideas
called extension, figure, magnitude, and motion, and the
July 15,1871
THE SPIRITUALIST
183
visual ideas wliieli go by the same names ; nor are any ideas
common to the two senses.
“ 9. When we think we see objects at a distance, what really
happens is that the visual picture suggests that the object
seen has tangible distance ; we confound the strong belief in
the tangible distance of the object with actual sight of its
distance.
“ 10. Visual ideas, therefore, constitute a kind of language,
by which we are informed of the tactile ideas which will or
may arise in us.”
In arguments which, unfortunately we have not the
space to spare to quote here, Professor Huxley ques¬
tioned the strict accuracy of some of these propositions,
more especially the ninth, hut he admitted most of
them.
Professor Huxley towards the close of his lecture
said:—
|| To sum up. If the materialist affirms that the universe
and all its phenomena are resolvable into matter and motion,
Berkeley replies, True ; but what you call matter and motion
are known to us only as forms of consciousness ; their being
is to be conceived or known; and the existence of a state, of
consciousness, apart from a thinking mind, is a contradiction
in terms.
f I conceive that this reasoning is irrefragable. And there¬
fore, if I were obliged to choose between absolute materialism
and absolute idealism, I should feel compelled to accept the
latter alternative. And indeed, upon this point Locke does,
practically, go as far in the direction of idealism as Berkeley,
when he admits that the simple ideas we receive from sensa¬
tion and reflection are the boundaries of our thoughts, beyond
which the mind, whatever efforts it would make, is not able to
advance one jot.  
SPIRIT POETRY.
Mr. T. L. HARRIS is an American trance-medium, and while he himselt
was in an insensible state, his organism was controlled by disembodied
spirits; while in this condition several volumes of poetry were given
through his lips, sections of moderate length being spoken during each
entrancement; his words were taken down in shorthand, in the presence
of witnesses, and in this manner some of the purest and most magnificent
poetry the world has ever seen found its way into the press. Mr. Harris, it
will be remembered, formed a community of Spiritualists at Wassaick, in the
State of New York, whichcommunity was joined by Mr. Laurence Oliphant,
late M.P. for Stirling, and by Lady Oliphant. The following sample of
the spirit poetry given through Mr. Harris’s mediumship, is quoted from
A Lyric of the Golden Age,* which book is a rich treasury of inspirational
poetry of the highest order:—
All theories are thought-forms that the mind
Creates from its own knowledge or its guess.
God never yet revealed Himself in full
And never will No intellectual form
Is able to receive the Deity
Save as a crystal draws the solar light.
This is my faith, that God reveals Himself
To every man according to his state,
Higher to highest minds, so lessening down
To the dim verge of reason. I believe
That there are faculties in man that are
Mind-organs for the Infinite to fill,
And that these may unfold without an end,
And multiply without an end, and all,
Inter-pervaded by one common life,
Inform the soul for ever. This I know,
Or, knowing not, believe in as in God;
But still my thought is circumscribed; my faith
Being the Sum of all my added thoughts,
And these the measure of the active mind.
“ Faith" grows for ever in the universe,
With the eternal progress of the worlds
From sphere to sphere of knowledge and of love.
Each Angel sees the past beneath his feet,
The radiant future like the sky above,
All that he is,like heaven about himself.
He knows the past, down to his mother’s womb,
He knows the present as a written page;
The future lies before him, luminous,
A Wonder-land he never yet has seen,
But infinite in promise—nearer God.
“ When His Philosophy, who made the worlds,
Opens to Angels in eternity,
The boundless Infinite, whence issue forth
Creations numberless, becomes the theme
Of never-ceasing praise. They never know
To-morrow’s revelation overnight.
Why then should man presume to limit God?
Why dare shut out the mind that brightens all?
Why say God formed the world and then stood still,
Ended creation when he made mankind,
And revelation when the prophets died?
The creeds that men in Christendom create
From the distempered workings of the brain,
From the harsh discords of bewildered sense
And tottering reason, like a shadow rise,
Like sickly odours from a buried corpse,
Like sooty clouds from ancient catacombs,
Where pits of mummies through the midnight bum.
The agonies men suffer, from the dawn
Of consciousness till death obscures the brain,
Spring fromlperverted theories of life.
The widow dies on the funereal pile
Of her dead husband; so the world’s great heart
Bums on the pyre of moral reason dead.
“ Fear is the soul’s insanity; distrust,
The aching numbness, springs from lack of love.
All men are sick in body, heart or brain.
The shadow falling from the face of Night,
The lustre gleaming through the veil of Day,
The sleep-dews of the golden-petalled stars,
And the awakening kisses of the sun,
Express, in alternating forms, the same
Eternal Providence. O brother man,
Why, like the moth, destroy thyself in flame
Evolved from grossest substance of decay?
Why, like the drunkard, suck the poisonous still,
Where truth perverted, like the precious grain
Changed into liquid lava, bums the sou] ?
“ Sects loom before me like distilleries,
And churches, consecrate to death and hell,
But splendid gin-shops on the streets of Time.
The poor inebriate who pawns his rags
Or sells his manhood for a fiery dram,
Finds his fit counterpart where sages pawn
The starry vesture of the sciences,
The purple robes of high philosophy,
And sit like drunkards maudlin o’er their creeds.
“ 0 Genius, phcenix-bird who lov’st the sun,
And singest ’mid the dawn-fires of the day,
Chant thou no more of harmonies to come;
Pierce with thy kindling eye the darkling clouds
Of superstition, clammy as the robes
That vail dead victims of the pestilence;
Chant thou of human rights and human wrongs,
Of errors that corrode the human mind,
And midnight crimes that stab the bleeding soul;
Sing from thy lofty height, and tell the world
That which it dares not utter though it feel.J
“ The simplest truths are mightiest in their force;
The nearer to the practical men keep,
* Glasgow: John Thomson,39, John-street, 1870.
The less they deal in vague and abstract things,
The less they deal in huge, mysterious words,
The mightier is their power. God writes His thoughts
In facts, in solid orbs, in living souls ;
His revelation is the concrete world;
He sows the earth with flowers, and shines on man
Through vital spiritual heat and light.
The metaphysics wordy men exalt
As arbiters of fate, ne’er found a place
In the conceptions of the prophet-seers
Or Christ’s great Epic. O had Jesus taught
In windy tropes, or vailed his burning thought
In unintelligible abstract phrase,
He had not been the Saviour of mankind.
He spake as never man spake, clear, direct;
His speech was logic set on fire with love;
Men heard Him as the voice of their own souls.
So every man should speak who loves mankind;
So every man should write, whose written page,
Streaming, a flaming scroll through heaven, should light
The dreary darkness of the present age.
Napoleon spake with battles in his words,
And armed millions stormed the steeps of death,
And burst the massive gates of victory;
While the mere rhetoricians of his time,
By great occasions tried, proved imbecile,
Wanting in power to energise the soul.
Therefore, Isaiah-like, with kindling eye
Fixed on the summit of the age to be,
And with a tongue love-quickened from the heart,
And with a brain transparent as the light,
The thinker should address his fellow-men.
His theories, that scale Empyrean heights
Should rest on granite ledges, solid truths,
Touched, seen, felt, comprehended by the race.
Who builds a pyramid on winter ice ?
Who spans an arch from buttresses of sand?
The obelisk that cleaves the lofty clouds
Rises from bases massive as the world.
Bacon lives on, while Aristotle dies.
The simplest peasant who observes a truth,
And from a fact deduces principle,
Adds solid treasure to the public wealth.
The theorist, who dreams a rainbow dream,
And calls hypothesis philosophy,
At best is but a paper financier,
Who"palms his specious promises for gold.
Facts are the basis of philosophy;
Philosophy the harmony of facts
Been in their right relation. Every word
The teacher utters should find evidence
In fixed realities. So grand and large
Unfolds the dome of the new Future’s faith,
Resting on all that is, and rising up
To the diviner splendours yet to be.
Speak all thy thoughts, O Thinker, howsoe’er
They flout the speculations of the age,
Its pet conceits or fantasies; speak on,
Marshal thy thoughts like phalanxes of horse
Scatter the idle dreamers of the time.
The phantom hosts of popular ignorance
Shall strike their cloudy tents, and silently
Shrink to their own nonentity again.
The age needs plainness and simplicity;
To mystify the people is the trick
Of painted harlequins of Church and State.
Be true, 0 Thinker, to thy nature’s law,
And borrow not another’s style, but speak
Thine own brave thoughts in thine own spirit’s tongue.
Call things by their right names, right minds shall hear;
The Senate of the mighty gods, who sit
In sky-built palaces, rejoice in thee,
As worthy to repeat their loftiest speech.
And sow their wisdom broadcast through the earth.
The pedant talks to pedants like himself,
The man who follows Nature to mankind;
The bookworm dies in dusty libraries;
The man of sense lives on as time endures;
The man who adds a science or an art
Or new invention, practically wise,
Leads the great host; while those who simply talk
Of what men did, are laggards in the rear.,
All shams are tottering on their pedestals;
False reputations shrivel as the grass
Of western prairies bathed in billowed fire.
Mere theorising is the idler’s trade,
The madman’s boast, the trickster’s common-place,
The dreamer’s castle floating in the brain.”-
{Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
THE TRANSBORTATION OF THE HUMAN BODY.
Sir,—Having been requested by several gentlemen to report
upon the condition of a room in which a lady is said to have
been brought through the ceiling, and placed upon the table,
as well as to satisfy my own curiosity, I visited the house (No.
61, Lamb’s Conduit-street), took measurements of the room
in question, and examined the adjoining apartments, stair¬
case, &c.
The question I was particularly requested to answer was the
following : “ Was it possible for a person to have been intro¬
duced into the room, other than by the so-called spiritual
agency, without being noticed by any one of those present ? ”
I am of opinion that it was quite possible.
My reasons for arriving at this conclusion are as follows :—
Firstly. The adjoining room could be darkened so that on
opening the door no light would be seen.
Secondly. If a curtain had been placed before the door,
light and dranght would both have been excluded, whilst an
entrance was being made.
Thirdly. If the table had been placed in the centre of the
room, there would have been sufficient space to admit of the
door being opened wide enough for one person to enter.
Fourthly. Though the doors made the usual considerable
noise on opening, yet this would not be sufficient to’attract
attention during the noises which sometimes attend dark
stances.
I wish, however, to state that the possibility of a person
entering is no proof that a lady was not brought through the
ceiling ; the probability resting in a great measure upon the
evidence of the assembled witnesses.
By the kindness of Messrs. Herne and Williams, I shall
be enabled to try some experiments, which, if successful,
will prove that it is possible to pass solid matter through
wood.
I wish to state in conclusion that Messrs. Herne and
Williams gave me every facility for examining the premises.
Leytonstone, June 30th, 1871. T. Y.
[The publication of the compact mass of evidence about the transporta¬
tion of Mrs. Guppy from Highbury to Holbom, printed in the last number
of the Spiritualist, awakened so much interest, that for a week or two
afterwards the chambers of Messrs. Herne and Williams became a. kind
of public promenade, so many persons called who asked for permission to
examine the premises; some of these gentlemen were, like our correspon¬
dent, engineers; they sounded the walls, and in other ways made an
efficient examination. Mrs. Guppy came plump down upon the centre of
a table round which eleven persons were sitting shoulder to shoulder,
whilst there was no unoccupied chair or stool in the room; the room
was almost entirely filled by the sitters; the outer doors were locked.
Our correspondent devotes his attention to the possibility of anybody
entering this room without the sitters knowing it, keeping entire silence as
to the possibility of getting, in addition, from the floor to the centre of the
table, with nothing but the backs of the chairs of two or three of the
sitters to afford a foothold. The sitters next to the folding doors were
holding each other’s hands at the time.—Ed.]
CHARACTERISTICS OF SPIRIT POWER.
Sir,—A natural question arises, What are Spirit Manifes¬
tations ? The answer is, Evidences of unseen, living, moving,
acting beings, having shape and substance—seeing us, acting
on us, guiding us to good and evil, while we are using our
physical bodies to move in this material world.
How are the Existence and Power of Spirits Shown ?
1st.—By moving tangible articles when asked to do so.
2nd.—By producing sounds of various kinds, on tables,
chairs, walls, &c., when asked so to do.
3rd.—By consecutive sentences of advice, reproof, &c., pro¬
duced by sounds, when a pencil is passed over an alphabet.
4th.—Premonitions.
5th.—By using the voice of a person, and uttering words
the person acted upon has not in his mind.
6th.—By using the arms and hands of susceptible persons to
write prescriptions—give information—give warning of a
personal and relative character—and inculcate purity of life,
and prayerfulness of inclination; the person acted upon simply
consenting to let the hand be used, but totally unconscious of
what is to be produced.
7th.—Audible voices 'heard, and conversation so carried on
by mediums.
8th.—^Apparitions of the whole body, or part of the body.
9th.—Spirits touching the human body, sometimes gently,
sometimes roughly.
10th.—Musical instruments used, and exquisite melodies
produced on pianos, accordions, etc., no seen hand touching
the instruments.
11. —Curing the sick, by the hand of the medium being
floated to the patient by a power/eft but not seen, and placed
on the diseased part of the body; the medium till then not
knowing where the diseased part was.
12. —By taking up persons, and heavy 'substances off the
ground into the air, and that in the presence of hjany
witnesses.
When the angels are asked why they produce these proofs
of existence, they reply :—To convince you that the (to you)
dead still live ; and by tests and tokens prove themselves to
be—the mother to the orphan,—the husband to the widow,—
the child to the parent,—the sister or brother to those left on
earth.
Can these things be ? Yes—
1st.—Because the writer, and very many of his friends have
for many years been accustomed to the manifestations of
Spirit-power, as detailed; and it is therefore to us—“we
know.”
2nd.—The Bible contains similar statements, giving to us
therefore the assurance that the spirit phenomena mentioned
in the Gospels and the Acts are credible, and that the law is
still in force, there being no text in] Scripture to annul or
suspend; and the proof of non-suspension being the daily
. production of similar spirit-power manifestations in England
and elsewhere.
One thing is tolerably certain, even now; that is, that about
one-third of the population of Great Britain is susceptible to
spirit influence ; or, in other words, nine millions of the inha¬
bitants of Great Britain are mediums of more or less power.
No marvel therefore, materialists, that so many of your
fellow men worship God, believe that spirits exist, and that
man is immortal. JOHN JONES,
Enmore Park, South Norwood, July, 1871.
SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHS. '
Sib,—t have a suggestion to make about spirit photo¬
graphs :— '
Firstly. The material body of the spirit must be capable of
reflecting the sun’s rays, or the plate could not be impressed.
Secondly. The body of the spirit being quite invisible, it
evidently does not reflect the rays of ordinary light.
The picture must therefore be formed entirely by the ultra
spectral and dark (to our eyes) rays. Hence, perhaps, its
faintness.
Would it not be possible, by using a plate prepared for the
purpose, to make the image of the spirit in the camera visible
to the eye, inside the instrument ? For instance, if a slab
consisting of a sheet of paper soaked in sulphate of quinine, or
decoction of horse chestnut bark were placed in the camera,
could not these dark rays be rendered visible by the well-known
phenomena of fluorescence ? The refrangibility of the rays
would be reduced, and they would then be able to affect the
eye. The thought has also occurred to me that it might be
possible in this way to render visible in the camera forms
visible only to the medium himself outside, and if so, why
could not photographs be taken in that way ?' You will know
whether all this has been already done, and with what result.
Bristol. A. B.
[In the case of the authenticated spirit portrait taken by Mr. Mumler, of
New York, which Mr. Livermore, the New York banker, swore in court to
be a good likeness of his wife, and which formed one of the points on which
Mr. Mumler was acquitted of the charge of fraud, the spirit form produced
a thicker deposit of silver on the glass than did the face of Mr. Livermore.
Hence, if the extra-violet rays had anything to do with it, they must have
been emitted from the body of the spirit, and not reflected, because their
intensity was so abnormally great. Several of the chief London mediums
have been photographed, but the spirits about them have not made an im¬
pression on the plate, except that in one instance some very feeble indica¬
tions are said to have been obtained. Probably the work of producing them
is all done inside the camera, for Mr. Mumler always stands near the
camera while they are produced; the photographers who tested his
mediumship brought their own cameras, chemicals, and plates, and would
not let him touch them. This kind of manifestation is very exhausting to
the medium. Of course it would be easy enough to try the suggestion
of our correspondent, and to paint the ground glass with solution of
quinine, or aesculine, or to use a square of ground uranium glass. Any
photographer can easily produce much better spirit pictures than the real
ones, by a well-known plan.—Ed.]
We are making arrangements to give a supply of news
in connection with. Spiritualism, at shorter intervals of time
during the coming winter.
Some good scientific observations of Spiritual phenomena
were published in a book written by the late Professor
Gregory, F.R.S.E., of Edinburgh. The book is now un¬
fortunately out of print. Perhaps Mrs. Gregory may republish
it at a future time.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
0.—No room for your letter; the discussion also shows a tendency
to degenerate into personal questions not of public interest.
J. J. Birmingham.—Your address is indistinctly written. Send it
to us, and your letter shall be published in an abridged form, in
accordance with the permission you give.
Probe.—Not of sufficient public interest.
T. B.—Pressure on space prevents the publication of your letter.
E. W. O.—Messrs. Heme and Williams leave London for Man¬
chester next Tuesday; it is doubtful whether they will be in
London next Saturday.
A. B. T. and 0. W. P.—Cannot spare space for your letters at present.
184
THE SPIRITUALIST
July 15, 1871
FACTS FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
The phenomena seen at spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
within the ordinary range of human experi¬
ence, that it is quite right not to'accept them
on the testimony of others. Each individual
should witness and test-them personally, and
believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
t is gained that denial is impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses that the. phenomena of Spiritualism . are
actual facts, and' not imposture or delusion, has of
late years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr.-Robert
Chambers, Mr. C. F. Yarley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
. Mrs. S. C. - Hall, and others, all made affidavits
strongly in favour of Mr. Home. The following
was a portion of the affidavit of Mr. C. F. Yarley,
' C.E., F.R.G.S., M.R.I.'
, “ I have been a student of electricity, chemistry, and
natural philosophy for twenty-six years, and a tele¬
graphic engineer by profession for. twenty-one years,
and I am the consulting electrician of - the Atlantic Tele¬
graph Company, and of the Electric and International
Company.
■ •“About eight years ago, I called on Mr. Home,
the defendant in this suit, and stated that I had
not yet .witnessed any of. the physical phenomena,'but
that I was a scientific man and wished to investigate
them carefully. ,
' • “ He: immediately' gave me every facility for the pur¬
pose, and desired me to satisfy myself in every possible
way, and .1 have been with him on divers occasions
when thie phenomena have occurred. I have examined
and tested them with him and with others, under con¬
ditions of "my own choice, under a bright light, and have
made the most jealous and searching scrutiny. I have
been, since then, for seven months in America, where
the subject attracts great attention and study, and where
it is. cultivated by some of the ablest men, and having
experimented with and compared the forces with elec¬
tricity and-magnetism, and after having applied me¬
chanical and mental tests, I entertain no doubt whatever
that the manifestations which I have myself examined
were-not due to the operation of any of the recognised
physical laws of nature, and that there has been present
on the occasions above-mentioned some intelligence
other than that of the medium and observers.”
It also came out in the evidence given at the
trial, tbat^Mr. Home had been the invited and un¬
paid guest of the Emperor and the Empress of the
French, the Emperor, Empress, and the late Em¬
press Dowager of Russia, the Grand Duke Con¬
stantine, the King of Prussia, the late King of
Bavaria, the late King of Wurtemburg, and the
Queen of Holland. Mr. Home'says that all his
life he has "never taken a farthing of pay for his
seances. In March, 1869, the Spiritual Magazine
gave the names of the following gentlemen as
those who have" long been investigating the sub¬
ject:— **i
“Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., Fleetwood-house, Becken¬
ham; Alfred'®. "Wallace, Esq., Holly House, Bark¬
ing;-Professor De Morgan, 91, Adelaide-road, N.W.;
Captain Drayson, B..A., Woolwich; Dr. J. M. Q-ully,
The Priory, Great Malvern: Dr. J. J. G. Wilkinson, 4,
St. John’s-wood-villas, N.W.; Dr. Dixon, 8, Great Or-
mond-street, W.C.: S. C. Hall,'. Esq., 15, Ashley-place,
Victoria-street, S.W.; Newton Crosland, Esq.; William
Howitt, Esq., The Orchard, Harg-green, Esher, Surrey;
Robert Chambers, Esq,, St-1 Andrew’s, Edinburgh; H.
D. Jencken, Esq., Eilmorey-house, Norwood; J. G.
Crawford, Esq., 52, Gloucester-crescent, N.W.; W. M.
Wilkinson, Esq., Oakfield, Kilbum; Lord Adare, 5,
Buckingham-gate; The Master of Lindsay, Grosvenor-
square.” 1 -
Mrs. De Morgan has written a book, entitled
From Matter to Sphit^Xhongvosjas), where she
gives many interesting particulars, the result of
ten gears’ experience-in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan" President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in his preface to the book, says:—
■ “T am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by
a.rational being to be capable of explanation byimpos-
tui'e, coincidence, or, mistake. So far I feel the ground
firm under me.”
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President
of the British Association at Norwich in 1868,
spoke very highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, F.L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist. Professor Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
action ” theory explained all the facts. A friend
wrote to him detailing • things he had seen which
were inexplicable by that theory. Hare at once,'
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
result was that he came into communication with
some., of his. own departed relatives. He then
made mechanical telegraphic machines, which
were intelligently worked by spirits while the
apparatus was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote a book recording all these
facts. That book is now in the British Museum
Library. Judge Edmonds, of New York, is another
very eminent American Spiritualist, who has also
written interesting books on the subject. Recently,
in England, Yiscount Adare has written a book
bearing testimony to" the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord .Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; fpr spirit rapping and movements of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley.
Mr. W. Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Cliemical
Mews, is now investigating Spiritualism, and he
has published an article in the Quarterly Journal oj
Science, stating that its phenomena are real, and
not delusion or imposture, though he does not know
as yet whether they are produced by disembodied
spirits. The following letter, which he wrote to
Mr. Varley, was published in the Spiritualist of
July 15th, 1870 :—
“ 20, Momington-road, London, N."W.
“ July 13th, 1870.
“ Dear Mr. Varley,—I was very pleased to receive
your letter of the 9th inst., in which you discuss some
points alluded to in my paper on “Spiritualism viewed
by the Light of Modem Science.”
“You have been working at the subject for more
years than ! have months, and knowing, as you do, the
enormous difficulties in the way of accurate investigation
—difficulties for the most part interposed by Spiritualists
themselves—you will not be surprised to find that I only
feel the ground firm under me for a very short distance
along the road which you have travelled so far.
“ I was deeply interested in reading of your experi¬
ments, the more so, as I have been working in a similar
direction myself, but as yet with scarcely a tangible
result.
“ You notice that I admit freely and fully the physical
phenomena. Let this openness be a guarantee that I
shall not hesitate for a moment in recording with equal
fearlessness for the consequences, whatever convictions
my investigation leads me to—whether it points to a
mere physical force, or makes me, as you predict, a con¬
vert to the spiritual hypothesis—but I must let my con¬
victions come in'myown way, and if I hold somewhat
stubbornly to the laws of conservation of force and in¬
penetrability of matter, it should not be considered as
a crime on my part, but rather as a peculiarity in my
scientific education.
■-“I have already had many letters, both from Spiri¬
tualists and from leading men of science, saying that
they are glad I have taken up the subject, and urging
me to continue the investigation. In fact, I have been
agreeably surprised to find encouragement from so many
scientific men, as well as sympathy from the good
friends I possess amongst the Spiritualists.—Believe
me, my dear sir, very truly yours,
William Crookes.”
A work entitled The Book of Nature, by 0. O.
Groom Napier, F.O.S. (London, John Camden
Hotten, 1870), has a preface by the late Lord
Brougham, in which that eminent statesman
says:—
“There is but one question I would ask the author, is
the Spiritualism of this work foreign to our materialistiCj-
manufacturing age?—No; for amidst the varieties.of
mind which divers circumstances produce, are found
those who cultivate man’s highest faculties;—to these
the author addresses himself. But even in the most
cloudless skies of scepticism I see a rain-cloud, if it be no
bigger than a man’s hand; it is Modern Spiritualism.”
Signor G. Damiani, a Sicilian gentleman living
at Clifton, has written a pamphlet, still in print,
in which he severely censures Professor Tyndall,
Mr. G. H. Lewes, and others like them, for refus¬
ing to investigate the subject. He further offers a
reward of 1,000 guineas to any respectable, scien¬
tific or educated men, who will investigate. the
subject and prove it to be an imposture. The
following are his words:—
“ I now offer you two challenges.
“First, I challenge you, or either of you, or any of
the public who, like you, disbelieve in the genuine cha¬
racter of spiritualistic phenomena, to deposit in the
hands of any well-known London banker whom you or
they may name, the sum of five hundred guineas; and
I pledge myself to immediately deposit in the same bank
a like amount,—the ownership of such sum of one thou- )
sand guineas to depend upon my proving by evidence
sufficient to establish any fact in history or in a criminal
or civil court of justice.
First—That intelligent communications and answers
to questions put, proceed from dead and inert matter in
a manner inexplicable by any generally recognised law
of nature.
“ Secondly—That dead and inert matter does move
without the aid of any mechanical or known chemical
agency, and in defiance of all the admitted laws of gravi¬
tation.
“ Thirdly—That voices appertaining to no one in the
flesh are heard to speak and hold ratjional converse with
men.
“ A jury of twenty-four gentlemen; twelve to be chosen
by each party (such jury to consist exclusively of mem¬
bers of the learned professions and literary men), to
decide whether or not the facts contained in the above
propositions are conclusively proved per testes—i.e., by
witnesses of established character. A majority of
the twenty-four to decide. If the verdict be that these
facts have not been established, the thousand guineas
are to belong to the party accepting this challenge; if
the verdict be that these facts are established, the thou¬
sand guineas to be mine.
■ “ Secondly—Immediately after the above wager being
decided, either way, I offer a like challenge of five hun¬
dred guineas (to be met on the other side in like manner
as above)—the ownership of the second sum of one
thousand guineas to depend upon the establishment of
the facts contained in the propositions already given, by
experiments conducted in the actual presence of the twenty-
four gentlemen who have decided the previous wager;
the verdict of the majority to decide' in this case likewise.
“In either case, the seances are to be conducted in any
public or private building which the jury may select,
and which may be available for the purpose.
“ The result of these challenges (if accepted and de¬
cided) to be advertised by ,the victorious party, at the.
expense of the defeated party, in all the London daily
papers.
. “ I hope this is plain English.
“Awaiting a reply to this letter, and to the challenge
with which it concludes, I'am, gentlemen; your obedient
servant, . ' ' G. DAMIANI.'
/‘Clifton, Oct. 1,1868.
“P.S.—Letters addressed ‘ Sigr. Damiani, care of
Manager of "West of England and South Wales District
Bank, Corn-street, Bristol,’ will always reach the writer.”
In addition to the above evidence," there is the
testimony of numbers that the modem spiritual
manifestations are realities., Mr. Hepwbrth Bixon
in his New America estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United'States at rather less than
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybody has made. There are no accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
When reports of the speeches of spirits are printed in this
Journal, non-Sviritualists should understand that spirits
out of the body are wise or foolish, truthful or untruthful,
iust the same as spirits in the body. Moreover, they are but
individuals, so do not know everything. The statements of a
spirit are but the assertions of an individual; but by com¬
paring the statements of many spirits, it may in time be
possible to discover in what points they agree, and to sift
out the unreliable communications. Many spirits cannot
see each other, any more than we can see them, and as some
of them are thus in different states of life, it doss not follow
that contradictory messages are therefore untruthful.
Spirits are of different religions, consequently their teach¬
ings do not altogether agree; there is no more uniformity
in the next world than in this one. It is the business of this
iournal to report facts, so we are in no way responsible for
the religious, scientific, or any other teachings given by indi¬
vidual spirits.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family
friends and relatives; often, gives the most satis¬
factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the same time, as no fully developed
medium is present among those who have never
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will be no results. Nevertheless, "it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for every one successful
new circle thus started without a medium, there
are six or seven failures, but no accurate statistics
on this point have yet been collected. ' When
once manifestations have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at" suc¬
cessive sittings. The following is a good plan of
action:—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but
cool rather than warm—let arrangements be made that
nobody shall enter it, and that there shall be no inter¬
ruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
Wet, damp, and foggy weather is bad for the production
of physical phenomena.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit round an un¬
covered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands
in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance.
Any table will do, just large enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
6f the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it
sometimes, but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, plac some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may be
obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, except with well-developed
physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, but an
acrid feeling against them is a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature. A prayerful,
earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely, to avoid confusion, let one person only speak,
and talk to the table as to an intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean
“Yes,” one means “No,” and two mean “Doubtful,”
and ask whether the arrangement is understood. If
three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, aud spell us out a
message ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations?”
Probably s6me members of the circle will then be told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will be
afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the
medium ? ” When spirits come asserting themselves to
be related or known to anybody present, well-chosen
questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as spirits out of the body have all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms
of other forms of mediumship than tilts or raps
may make their appearance.
British imperial insurance
CORPORATION, LIMITED.
, FOR EFFECTING
BANKING LIFE, & SELF, INSURANCE POLICIES
ON GOVERNMENT SECURITIES.
Head Offices:
Brown-street and Marsden-street, Manchester.
Branch Offices:
20, King William-street, London, E.C.
Victoria-buildings, 66, Renfleld-street, Glasgow.
4, College-green, Dublin.
1, Brown’s-buildings, Exchange, Liverpool
93, Princess-street, Edinburgh.
Market-place, Douglass, Isle of Man.
THE DISTINGUISHING FEATURES OF THIS SYSTEM ARE
It provides Government Security for the Life Premium
Funds.
All the Premiums (with the exception of one-fifth for
Expenses of Management, Reserve, and Bonuses) are"
invested in the Names of Trustees, for the sole purpose
of meeting Policy claims. These Trustees act indepen¬
dently of the Directors.
This form of Security is strictly defined by the General
Deed of Trust, and is unalterable.
An equitable Surrender-value endorsed on each Policy
and payable on demand.
From 50 to 70 per cent, of the net Premiums paid (ac
cording to the Table under which the Policy is effected)
can be obtained on demand by Insurants desirous of ceas¬
ing premium paying. The Surrender-value is endorsedon
each Policy, and; Policyholders, upon depositing their
Policies with the Corporation, may draw upon the Sur¬
render-value to its full amount, for any purpose, without
sacrificing their Policy; thus using it as a cash balance at
their Bankers. . The Surrender-value cannot be forfeited.
Insurants cannot pay more in premiums than the amount
for which they have insured.
Insurants, desirous.of ceasing premium paying, and
not wishing to withdraw their “Surrender-values" can
obtain “Free” or “Paid-up” Policies, for the whole
amount of Premiums paid, in exchange for the former
Policies held by them.
By this arrangement Insurants who have paid in
premiums, an amount" equal to the sum for which they
are insured, can have a “Paid-up” Policy for the full
amount, together with the Bonus additions added there¬
to, (if; insured, with.pro fits,) granted them in exchange for
their former Policies, without further payment.
Bankers: Bank of England, London. Manchester and
Liverpool District Bank, Manchester. Auditor (To the
Government Security Life Insurance Fund): Dr. William
Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c.,.London. General Manager: John
A. Feigan. Secretary: William Davies, Brown-street,
Marsden-street, Manchester.
THE BRIXTON SOCIETY OF spiri¬
tualists meets at 98, Lothian-road, North
Brixton.
Exhibition of spirit drawings
in WATER COLOURS, by Miss Houghton.—
NEW BRITISH GALLERY, 39, Old Bond-street, Picca¬
dilly. Open daily from 10 a.m. till 6 p.m. Admission Is.
Catalogue Is.
D ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF EN¬
QUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM, 74, Navarino-
road, Dalston, E. Seances are held every Thursday
evening at 8 o’clock; and a Library is in course of
formation for use of members. Prospectuses and Rules
on application to the Secretary. Subscription Is. per
month in advance. Thos. Blyton, Secretary, &c.
Messrs, herne and williams,
Spirit Mediums, beg to inform investigators that
they" are at home daily to give private stances from 12
a.m. to 5 o’clock p.m. Tbey are also open to receive
engagements for private stances in the evening, either at
home or at the residence of investigators. Address, 61,
Lamb’s Conduit-street, Foundling, W.C.
MR. THOMAS R. MASON teaches
thoroughly and rapidly the VIOLIN, BANJO,
and GUITAR,’ at his Musical Academy, 134, Renton-
ville Road, N., or at the pupil’s residence. Terms sent
on application.
- “A Violin Solo (comique), entitled ‘Echoes,’ per¬
formed by Mr. T. R. Mason. It consisted of Echoes of
London, Echoes of the Christy Minstrels, and Imita¬
tions of the Old Fiddler, the Bagpipes, the Hurdy Gurdy,
the Banjo, Paganini, and the Cries of Animals in a Farm-
yard. The Imitations were remarkably good.”—Zondon
Daily Chronicle.
IT
ARE WELL MEETING TO MRS. HAR-
DINGE.
Lady Patronesses.
The Countess de Pomar, Portland Place, W.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Green Street, Gros-
yenor Square, W. -
Mrs. Berry, Hyde Park Place, W.
Mrs. Scott, Kensington, W.
Mrs. Everitt, Pentonville, N.
Mrs. Beilfleld, Euston Road, N.W.
Mrs. Dombusch, Victoria Park, N.E.
Mrs. Phillips, Bollin Hall, Wilmslow, Cheshire.
Mrs. Cowper, Edgware Road.
Mrs. Stokes, Upper Holloway.
Mrs. Stephens, Strand, W.C.
Mrs. Pearce and Mrs. Steele, of the Clerkenwell
Association.
Mrs. Swinton and Mrs. Pearce, of the Kilbum
Association.
Mrs. Bird and the Misses Ponder, of the Brixton
Association.
Mrs. Richmond, of the Dalston Association.
Mrs. Maine, Bethnal Green Road.
Mrs. Hitchcock, Children’s Lyceum, Nottingham.
Mrs. Ambler, Halifax Psychological Society.
Mrs. Smith, Bradford Association.
Mrs. Simkiss, Wolverhampton.
Mrs. Franklin, Birmingham.
Mrs. Tyndall, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
Mrs. Weatherhead, Keighley.
Mrs. Kilbum, Bishop Auckland.
On FRIDAY EVENING, JULY 28th, a FAREWELL
MEETING to MRS. HARDINGE will be held in the
St, George’s Hall, Langham Place, London. Short
Addresses from eminent Spiritualist^ will be delivered,
and a valedictory Address by Mrs. Hardinge, who, in the
course of the evening, will be presented with a purse,
and an inscribed address.
Tickets, Is. each; Reserved Seats, 2s. 6d.
Subscriptions and Communications may be addressed
to the Secretary of the Committee of Management,
Mr. N. F. Daw, 15, Southampton Row, London, W.C.
SPIRITUAL SEANCES are held every
Friday evening, at 15, Southampton-row, Holbom,
W.C., at eight o’clock. Mr. J. J. Mobse, Medium. Ad¬
mission One Shilling.
HEATEN OPENED; or, MESSAGES
for the BEREAVED from our LITTLE ONES
IN GLORY. Through the mediumship of F:aT. T. With
observations by Mrs. De Morgan. In neat clpth,'ls. In
enamel wrapper, 6d. London: J. Burns, 15, Sputhamp-
ton-row, Bloomsbury, W.C. .
Foolscap 8vo., cloth. Published at 3s., now offered at
2s.; post free, 2s. 3d. .
THE MENTAL CURE: illustrating the
. Influence of the Mind oh the Body,-both in Health
and Disease, and thePsychologicalMethod of Treatment,
by Rev. W. F. Evans, author of “ The Celestial Dawn,”
“ The Happy Islands,” “ The New Age and its Messenger,”
&c., &c., &c. ,
The design of this Treatise is to explain-the nature and
laws of the inner life of man, and to contribute some
light on the subject of Mental Hygiene, which is beginning
to assume importance in the treatment of disease, and to
attract the attention of physiologists. The author has
aimed to illustrate the correspondence of tlie soul and
body, their mutual action and reaction, and to demonstrate
the casual relation of disordered mental states to diseased
physiological action, and the importance and mode of
regulating the intellectual and affectional nature of the
invalid under any system of medical treatment.
Glasgow: James MGeachy, 89, Union-street,
A
304 pp., 8vo, cloth gilt, price 5s., post free.
LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Thomas L. Harris.
Glasgow: John Thomson, 39, John-street.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One
Volume Demy 8vo:, pp. 780,-price 12s. 6d.
Emanuel • swedenborg .- ..his
LIFE AND WRITINGS. By WILLIAM
WHITE. Wherein the History, the Doctrines, and
the other-world Experiences of the great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin
and Condition of the Swedenborgian Sect. The Volume
is illustrated with Four Steel Engravings, by Mr. C.
H. Jeens—1. Jesper Svedberg, Bishop of Skara. II.
Emanuel Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s
House, Stockholm. IV. Swedenborg, aged 80.
“ It is by the profusion of his extracts, the honesty of
his comments, and the picturesque'detail with which he
crowds his pages, that Mr. White at once captivates
attention. The work may be described as a long ex¬
haustive gossip about Swedenborgyhis writings and his
disciples ; pleasant thoughtful gossip from a mind which
impresses you as being kindly and truthful above the
common. We can with confidence" assure thoughtful
readers that there is more to interest them in Mr. White’s
biography than in any work of the year whose professed
object is to entertain.”—Pall Mall Gazette.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
The rise and progress of
Spiritualism in England, by Benjamin Coleman,
recently published in the Spiritualist, reprinted in
pamphlet form, on toned paper, with coloured wrapper.
The discussion is also included in the pamphlet. Copies
may be had at one shilling each, of Mr. E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C., and are of. especial value for
presentation to those who are uninformed on the subject
of Spiritualism.
Anthropology.—The June number of
The Spiritualist contains a report of a discussion
on Spiritualism, which recently took place at the Anthro¬
pological Institute. Price 3d. or 3Jd. post free. London:
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
THE SPIRITUALIST.—No. 1 of The
Spiritualist contains an overwhelming weight of
evidence for the general public, as to the truth and
reality, of Spiritual phenomena. No. 13 contains the
leading arguments in favour of and against the theory
that the manifestations are due to Satanic agency.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
tontents.
Reichenbach’s Magnetic Flames and the Levitation
of the Human Body ...  177
A Psychological Society ...  177
Further Experiments by Mr. Crookes  177
Dr. Hare’s Experiments in Spiritualism  178
A Farewell Meeting to Mrs. Hardinge  178
The Transportation of Living Human Bodies ... 173
Among the Swedenborgians. Number Two  179
Experimental Investigation of a New Force  180
Professor Huxley on,Matter and Spirit  182
Poetry:—Spirit Poetry'  183
Correspondence:—The Transportation of the
Human Body,' 183; Characteristics of Spirit
Power, 183; Spirit Photographs 188-
PARAGRAPHS:—Miss Florence Cook, 177; Mr. J.
M. Peebles, 177; Mrs. Guppy’s Mediumship, 179;
Spiritualism in Dalston and Hackney  182
Answers to ’ Correspondents 183
Printed for the" Proprietor by Beveridge ft, Fraser,
at the Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents,
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published
by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
