No. 64.—(Yol. III.—No. 25.) LONPON: NOVEMBER 14, 1873. Published Weekly; Price Threepence.
WEEKLY PUBLICATION OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST.”
The weekly publication of The Spiritualist begins to¬
day (Friday), and the price is reduced to THREEPENCE.
Contents.
National Organisation of Spiritualists ...
Spirit Teachings  ...
The Testimonial to Judge Edmonds
Canon Kingsley on Reasonable Prayer...
Spiritualism in Australia 
Review.—“An Antidote to Spiritualism”
Seance at Mr. Everitt’s  
Inspirational Poetry^  ...
One of Dr. Dee’s Mirrors 
Swedenborg and the Quakers   
Dr. Carpenter on Planchette Writing ...
Poetry:—“The Voyage of Earth;” “Joy and Sorrow
Correspondence—A Proposed New Spiritual Society; The Clairvoy¬
ance of Andrew Jackson Davis; The National Association:
Psychological Revelations and Physics; Spirit Forms; Good and
Evil Spirits; Madame Louise’s Mediumship
The Spiritualist Newspaper ... .... ...  
National Organisation ... ...   ..
Paragraphs—Veracity; The Anthropological Institute; Liverpool
Anthropological Society ; Woolton Mechanics’ Institution
Answers to Corres pondents  
386
387
389
389
390
390
391
392
393
393
393
394
394
397
397
398
398
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAR? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL^ ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London: Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
THE ST. JOHN’S association of spiritual-
■ ISTS.—Sunday Evening Services are Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o'clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
R.-Pearce, Hon. Sec.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERR'S, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals dbvoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
A NEW ERA IN JOURNALISM!
T
HE FREE SPEAKER, a High Class Family News¬
paper. Weekly—One Penny.
SPECIAL POLITICAL AND SOCIAL ARTICLES,
BY INDEPENDENT WRITERS. ' .
Full Reports of Home, Foreign, and General News. Law and Police.
FREEDOM OF CORRESPONDENCE.
WEEKLY TALES BY THEj. FIRST WRITERS.'
Publishing Office: 125, Fleet-street. Advertisement Office: 106, Shoe-lane.
Lately published,
WHAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Mental
Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. I. The MECHANISM of MAN
By EDWARD W. COX, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s. 6d.
Contents.
chap.
1. Introduction.
2. What am-1?
3. The Man.
4. How we Grow.
5. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classillcation of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. -The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind.
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the Will.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
31. Soul—Spirit—Anima.
32.. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. The Natural and the Supernatural.
36. What the 'Soul is.'
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of .the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery.
45. Conclusions.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and charming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and not
unsteady band.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Herald.
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I ?”—Leicester Mercury.
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at h ast, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflective readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientifle
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest,—South Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
London: Longman and Co., Paternoster-row.
► IRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29
’ Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
and 30,
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Roonfe, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E, LOVELL, President.
THOMAS BLYTON, Secretary and Treasurer.
386
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 14, 1873.
CHARGE EOR ADVERTISEMENTS :-Three shillings
and sixpence for tlie first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, B.C. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. "W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions':—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. 6d.
London; E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of '■'■The Spiritualist" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always he informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then he ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado,—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street,
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
Or The Spiritualist maybe had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for -each number is one penny;
thus the total cost of thii’ty numbers is 10s., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office.Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
NATIONAL ORGANISATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Several full meetings of the committee of the Na¬
tional Association have been held within the past
fortnight, at which a great deal of business has been
done, a carefully-considered set of rules and a constitu¬
tion having been drawn up and finally agreed to last
Tuesday night. The results have, of course, to be sub¬
mitted to the consideration of the council, which will
first be considerably enlarged by the issue of invitations.
If the present rules should be adopted, the Association
will be governed by a president, several vice-presidents,
and a council of thirty or more members. One of the
members of the committee tells us that it is probable
that the actual number upon the council will be sixty
or seventy. The council will meet not less than once
a month, the intermediate work being carried on by an
executive committee of, say, twenty or thirty persons
appointed by the council from among its own members.
The powers and duties of this committee should be very
carefully considered beforehand. It may be given power
only to do routine work, and to report monthly to the
council, with ho right of its own to incur expenditure
or to take public action; or, as not a few of .the mem¬
bers of the council live out of London, so as to be unable
to attend except on rare occasions, perhaps greater
powers may be given to the committee. Town councils
and learned societies are very cautious in giving great
powers to committees, generally allowing them only au¬
thority to inquire and to report, or to expend a definite
sum in doing certain definite work. On the other
hand, we believe that the Social Science Congress, and
certain other associations in which it is inconvenient
for a large council to meet often, appoint executive
committees for a- lengthened period—say for one year—
to do the work. Those members of the council of the
National Association who have had experience in the
working of both systems should explain the merits and
disadvantages of each, before the system to be adopted
is finally decided. It has been thought desirable that
two honorary secretaries should be appointed. In-order
to make the Association as broad and national as pos¬
sible, the committee recommends that the minimum
annual subscription shall be five shillings, but the
maximum may be as high for each individual member
as he pleases.
In framing the proposed rules, a printed copy of
which, owing to the kindness of the committee, is now
lying before us, great experience has been brought to
bear. Precedents in connection with learned societies,
limited liability companies, ■ insurance offices, and
friendly societies have been brought forward by mem¬
bers who have had practical knowledge of the working
of each, so that the experience which has been gained
by other associations in the long course of years is
embodied to a large extent in the rules recommended
for adoption. The rules themselves would occupy a
great deal too much space, or we would publish them
in this number of The Spiritualist; moreover, they
have not yet been passed by the council. A prospectus
of the Association has to be drawn up, and the council
enlarged, so there is much preliminary work yet to do.
There is reason to be grateful to the gentlemen of high
character and intelligence who are doing all this work
out of pure love for the cause of Spiritualism. Their
hands are greatly strengthened by public opinion, and
by all the greater societies of Spiritualists in this
country being so unanimously in favour of their work.
Indeed, the chief societies are already represented on
the council, in the persons of Dr. G. B. Clark, presi¬
dent of the Psychological Society of Edinburgh ; Mr.
Alfred E. Lovell, president of the Dalston Association;
Mr. Brown, secretary to the Glasgow Psychological
Society ; and some half dozen of the leading members
of the Psychological Society of Liverpool. These are
the largest and most efficient Spiritual societies in this
country, and several of the smaller societies, including
the one at Darlington, are in favour ofHhe present step
to secure national organisation.
The whole undertaking also is founded on a good
basis. The chief workers are men of high principle,
and thorough Spiritualists at heart, so the union is
not one merely of external form. When once Spi¬
ritualists band together throughout the nation to take
united public action, it is absolutely necessary to elect
officers, and to appoint a managing body. It will be
the duty of that body to do the maximum amount of
good for Spiritualism with the minimum of expendi¬
ture, to submit all its actions to public scrutiny, and to
publish regular balance-sheets. All other religious and
scientific bodies do the same thing, and why should we
not have similar advantages ? There is therefore reason
to look forward Hopefully to the results of present
action in the direction of national organisation.
Although the organising committee has worked as
expeditiously asjdie vital nature of the various points
would permit, the work has occupied two. weeks, and
perhaps another week or two will pass before the
proposed prospectus, and invitations to act upon the
council of the future, can be issued. Hence it is evi-
Nov. 14, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
387
dent that if any sudden danger, such as the political or
other persecution of any Spiritualist or body of Spi¬
ritualists, had threatened the movement in the past,
much valuable time would have been lost, if it had
been necessary to quickly form any efficient organisa¬
tion. Now, while all is peaceful, is the time to form
and perfect such powerful machinery, which, when once
at work, will give Spiritualism an influence it has never
possessed in this or any other country. The more
powerful the engine, the more necessary it is that it
should be well under the control of its' owners ; hence
the system of voting should be carefully examined
before adoption, to see that each member shall have
full facilities for exercising his right. The plan which
the committee recommends is a good one. A voting
paper will be sent to every subscriber, containing the
names of the retiring members of the council, and the
names of those recommended by the council for elec¬
tion. The voter can then strike out any or all of
these names if he pleases, and put others in their place.
Thus, residents in the provinces need not come to Lon¬
don to vote, but can exercise their privileges without let or
hindrance through the agency of the penny post. The com¬
mittee recommends the adoption of the principle of the
ballot in voting; probably it acts wisely in this particular,
although we believe Spiritualists to be better than their
neighbours, and to have no desire to persecute any
person for openly voting according to his convictions.
In the present state of society, vote by ballot is right
in principle in connection with politics; in a future
purer state of society it will be wrong in principle.
It is only right now because it is the substitution of a
lesser evil for a greater—the substitution of con¬
temptible secret voting for the power possessed by
unprincipled landowners, lawyers and ecclesiastics in
small constituencies, of ruining people who vote accord¬
ing to their convictions. The better remedy would be
to establish free trade in land, law, and theology, and to
turn the persons connected with these three things out
of Parliament for ten years, to remove all the laws they
have made for their private advantage at the public
expense. Still, a change for the better is coming over
English society, and even among “ county families ”
who are most intimately connected with the evils just
mentioned, men are in some few districts beginning to
lose caste if they are known to exercise undue influence
over the weak, who also are equally to blame for cringing
instead of kicking, so deserve their position. These
thoughts have led us from the subject of our
National Association to the other National Association.
Perhaps when ours is fully fledged and has done a
little useful work by economically establishing regular
public meetings in different parts of London, it may as
well try its strength and introduce itself to the other
National Association, for it can easily by means of its
ordinary machinery get up a petition from the Spiritualists
of the United Kingdom, requesting Parliament to secure
a special record at the next census of the number of
Spiritualists in this country, or asking for the appoint¬
ment of a Royal Commission to inquire into the influence
likely to-be exerted by Spiritualism upon Church and
State. Some little experiment of this kind will involve
no expenses beyond those of pens, ink, and paper, and
will let the other Association know—“ Here we are,
and perhaps we shall have a little business to do with
you in the future.” It will be a practical way of
certifying the existence of Spiritualism. Spiritualists
have no business to exist, as Parliament and everybody
else knows, yet somehow here we are, and in a state
of national organisation to boot. It is difficult to
make many persons see facts. A table hitting and
breaking itself against the ceiling would, probably, be
unconscious cerebration in the estimation of Dr. Car¬
penter. “ I tell you it is illegal—that they cannot put
you here,” said the solicitor to the imprisoned criminal.
“ But I am here” was the obstinate rejoinder of the
incarcerated one, who cpuld not see the beauty of the
reasoning. “ I tell you that they cannot put you here?”
repeated the lawyer. Said the obtuse client, “But
they have 'put me here” Pacts are stubborn things.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
Question ashed as to the occupations of spirits.
Occupations are varied. The learning and knowing
more and more of the sublime truths which the great
God teaches us, the worship and adoration, the praise
and glorifying of Him, the teaching to benighted, ones
truth and progress, the missionary work of the advanced
to the struggling and feeble, the cultivation of our
intellectual talents, the development of our spiritual
life, progress in love and knowledge, ministrations of
mercy, studies in, the secret working of the universe,
and the guiding and direction of cosmic forces, in short
the satisfaction of the cravings of the immortal being
in its twofold aspect of intellect and affection.
What earth Tcnowledge helps you most!
Knowledge of aught that is true and good helps in
training the soul; knowledge of self, and its needs and
wants; of progressive science in its benefits to man in
all the several ways in which he needs help; knowledge
of the working of nature’s laws and of the duty and
work of man. All true knowledge helps; none is
wasted; no crumb falls to the ground wasted ; all sub¬
serves man’s progress and God’s glory; all is store
which is increased hereafter.
Then the philanthropist is the ivisest ?
Eriend, the true philanthropist, the man who has the
benefit and progress of his fellows most at heart is the
true man, the true child of the Almighty Father, who is
the great philanthropist. The true philanthropist is he
who grows likest God every hour. He is enlarging by
constant exercise the sympathies which are eternal and
undying, and in exercising which perpetually man finds
increasing happiness. The philanthropist and the phi¬
losopher, the man who loves mankind and the man who
loves knowledge for its own sake, these are God’s jewels
of priceless value and of boundless promise. The one,
fettered by no restrictions of race or place, of creed or
name, embraces in his loving, tender heart the whole
brotherhood of humanity. He loves them as friends,
as brethren. He asks not what are their opinions, he
only sees their wants, and in ministering to their
* In the Spiritualist of August 15th, an account was printed of some
remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-road, St. John’s-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also the extracts they gave from their, writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Librarjrand elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium, free, to a large extent at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently, the “spirit teachings” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many: each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing, peculiar to the communicating intelligence, is always preserved,
and the individuality remains throughout the same.—Ed.
388
THE SPIRITUALIST.
progressive knowledge lie is blest. This is the true
philanthropist, though frequently the counterfeit who
loves those who think with him, and will help those
who fawn on him and will give alms, so the generous
deed be well known, robs the fair name of philanthropy
of that universal beneficence which is its true mark.
The other, the philosopher, hampered by no theories
of what ought to be, and what therefore must be; bound
down by no subservience to sectarian opinion, to the
dogmas of a special school, free from prejudice, recipient
of truth—whatever that truth may be, so it be proven—
he seeks into the hidden mysteries of the divine wisdom,
and, searching, finds his happiness. He need have no
fear of exhausting the treasures, they are without end.
His joy throughout life shall be to gather ever richer
stores of knowledge, truer ideas of God. The union of
these two, the philanthropist and the philosopher, makes
the perfect man. Those who unite the two, progress
further than spirits who progress by love alone.
“ His life’’ you say. Is life eternal 1
Yes, friend, we have every reason to believe so. Life
is of two stages, progressive and contemplative. We,
who are still progressive and who hope to progress for
countless myriads of ages (as ye say), after the farthest
point to which your finite mind can reach, we know
naught of the life of contemplation. But we believe
that far—far in the vast hereafter—there will be a period
at which progressive souls will eventually arrive, when
progress has brought them to the very dwelling-place of
the Omnipotent, and that there they will lay aside their
former state and bask in the full light of Deity in con¬
templation of all the secrets of the universe. Of this
we cannot tell you. It is too high. Soar not.to such
vast heights. Life is unending, as ye count it, but ye
are concerned with the approach to its threshold, not
with the inner temple.
Of course. Do you Jcnow more of God than you did
after some eighteen centuries of spirit life l
We know more of the operations of His love, more
of the operations of that beneficent power which con¬
trols and guides the worlds. We know of Him, but
we know Him not; nor shall know, as you would seek
to know, until we enter on the life of contemplation.
He is known to us only by His acts.
# # # #
Allusion having been again made to a conflict between
good and evil, a question ivas ashed on the subject, and it
was written:—
What you hear are the first mutterings of a conflict
which will be long and arduous. Such are of periodical
occurrence. If you could read the story of the world
with spirit sight, you would see that there have been
ever periodic battles between the evil and the good.
There have recurred seasons when undeveloped intelli¬
gences have had predominance. Especially are such
seasons consequent on great wars among you. Many
rude spirits are prematurely withdrawn from the body.
They pass before they are fit: and at the moment of
departure they are in evil state, angry, blood-thirsty,
filled with evil passion. They do mischief great and
long in sphere-life.
Nothing is more dangerous than for souls to be
rudely severed from their bodily habitation, and to be
launched into spirit-life with angry passions stirred
and revengeful feelings dominant. It is bad that any
should be dismissed from earth-life suddenly and before
the bond is naturally severed. It is for this reason that
all destruction of bodily life is foolish and rude: rude
Nov. 14, 1873.
as betokening a barbarous ignorance of the conditions
of life and progress in the hereafter: foolish as re¬
leasing an undeveloped angry spirit from its trammels,
and enduing it with extended capacity for mischief.
Ye are blind and ignorant in your dealings with those
who have offended against your laws and the regula¬
tions, moral and restrictive, by which ye govern inter¬
course amongst yourselves. Ye find a low and debased
intelligence offending against morality or against con¬
stituted law. Straightway ye take the readiest means
of aggravating his capacity for mischief. Instead of
separating such an one from evil influence, removing
him from association with sin, and isolating him under the
educating influence of purity and honesty and nobility,
where the more refined intelligences may gradually
operate and counteract the baleful power of evil and
evil ministrations, ye place him in the midst of evil
associations, in company with offenders like himself,
where the very atmosphere is heavy with evil, where,
the hordes of the undeveloped and unprogressed spirits
most do congregate, and where, both from human asso¬
ciates and spirit influence, the whole tendency is evil.
Yain and short-sighted and ignorant folly ! Into
your dens of criminals we cannot enter. The mission¬
ary spirits pause and find their mission vain. The good
angels weep to find an associated band of evil—human
and spiritual—massed against them by man’s ignorance
and folly. What wonder that ye have gathered from
such experience the conviction that a tendency to open
crime is seldom cured: seeing that ye yourselves are
the plainest accomplices of the spirits who gloat over
the fall of the offender. How many an erring soul—
erring through ignorance, as frequently as through
choice—has come forth from your jails hardened and
attended by evil guides, ye know not, and can never
know. But were ye to pursue an enlightened plan
with your offenders, ye would find a perceptible gain,
and confer blessing incalculable on the misguided and
vicious. Ye should teach your criminals: ye should
punish them, as they will be punished here, by showing
them how they hurt themselves by their sin, and how
they retard their future progress. Ye should place
thorn where advanced and earnest spirits among you
may lead them to unlearn their sin, and to drink in
wisdom: where the Bands of the Blessed may aid their
efforts, and the spirits of .the higher spheres may shed
on them their benign and elevating influence. : But ye
horde together your dangerous spirits. Ye shut them
up, and confine them as those who are beyond hope.
Ye punish them vindictively, cruelly, foolishly: and th
man who has been the victim of your ignorant treat6
ment pursues his course of foolish, suicidal sin, until i-
the end you add to the list of your foolish deeds thin
last and worst of all, that ye cut him off, debased, des
graded, sensual, ignorant, mad with rage and hate-
thirsting for vengeance on his fellows: ye remove from,
him the great bar on his passions, and send him into
spirit-life to work out without hindrance the devilish
suggestions of his inflamed passions.
Blind! Blind! ye know not what ye do. Ye are
your own worst enemies, the truest friends of those
who fight against God, and us, and you.
Ignorant no less than blind! for ye spend vast
trouble to aid your foes. Ye cut from a spirit its
bodily life. Ye punish vengefully the erring. Ye
falsely arrogate to yourselves the right by law divine
to shed human blood. Ye err: and know not that the
spirits ye so hurt shall in their turn avenge themselves
THE SPIRITUALIST.
389
Nov. 14, 1873.
upon you. Ye have yet to learn the earliest principles
of that Divine tenderness and pity which labours ever
through us to rescue the debased spirit, to raise it from
the depths of sin and passion, and to elevate it to purity
and progress in goodness. Ye know naught of God
when ye do such deeds. Ye have framed for yourselves
a God whose acts accord with your own instincts. Ye
have fabled that He sits on high careless of His crea¬
tures, and jealous only of His own power and honour.
Ye have fabricated a monster who delights to harm,
and kill, and torture: a God who rejoices in inflicting
punishment bitter, unending, unmitigable. Ye have
imagined such a God, and have put into His mouth
words which he never knew, and laws which His loving
heart would disown.
God—our Good God, Loving, Tender, Pitiful—
delighting in punishing with cruel hand His ignorantly-
erring sons!' Base fable! Base and foolish fancy,
produced of man’s cruel heart, of man’s rude and un¬
developed mind. There is no such God ! there'is none.
He has no place with us : none, save in man’s degraded
mind.
Great Pather! reveal Thyself to these blind wan¬
derers, and teach them of Thyself. Tell them that they
dream bad dreams of Thee, that they know Thee not,
nor can know till they unlearn their ignorant conceptions
of Thy Nature and Thy Love.
Yes, friend, your jails and your legalised murder;
the whole tenour of your dealings with criminals are
based on error and ignorance.
Your wars and your wholesale murderings are even
more fearful. Ye settle your differences' with your
neighbours, who should be your friends, by arraying
against each other masses of spirits—we see not the
body; we care only for the spirit temporarily clothed
with those human atoms—and those spirits ye excite
to full pitch of rage and fury, and so ye launch them
rudely severed from their earth bodies into spirit life.
Ye inflame their passions, and give them lull vent.
Yengeful, debased, cruel, earth-bound spirits throng
around j^our earth-sphere, and incite the debased who
are still in the body to deeds of cruelty and lust and
sin. And this for the satisfying of ambition, for a
passing fancj', for an idle princely whim, for lack of
something else to occupy a king.
Ah! friend, ye have much, very much to learn : and
ye will learn it by the sad and bitter experience of
undoing hereafter that which ye have now done. Ye
must learn the golden lesson that Pity and Love are
truer wisdom than vengeance and vindictive punish¬
ment: that were the Great God to deal with us as ye
deal with your fellows, and as ye have falsely fabled
that He will, ye would be justly sent to your own
imagined hell. Ye must know of God, and of us, and
of yourselves ere ye can progress and do our work
instead of our adversaries’.
Priend, when others seek from you as to the useful¬
ness of our message, and the benefit which it can confer
on those to whom the Pather sends it, tell them that it
is a Gospel which will reveal a God of tenderness and
pity and love, instead of a fabled creation of harshness,
cruelty, and passion. Tell them that it will lead them to
know of intelligences whose whole life is one of love and
mercy and pity and helpful aid to man, combined with
adoration of the Supreme. Tell them that it will lead
man to see his own folly, to unlearn his fancied theories,
to learn how to cultivate his intelligence that it may
progress, to use his opportunities that they may profit
him, to serve his fellow-men, so that when they and he
meet in the hereafter, they may not be able to reproach
him that he has been, so far as he could, a clog and an
injury ft) them. Tell them that such is our glorious
mission: and if they sneer as the ignorant will, and
boast of their fancied knowledge, turn to the progres¬
sive souls who will receive the teaching of wisdom:
speak to them the message of Divine truth that shall
regenerate and elevate the world: and for the blind
ones pray that when their eyes are opened they may
not despair at the sight which they shall see.
THE TESTIMONIAL TO JUDGE EDMONDS.
Mb. Benjamin Coleman, of 1, Bernard-villas, Upper
Norwood, S.E., would be much aided in his work of
getting up the testimonial to-Judge Edmonds, of New
York, if intending subscribers would send him their 5s.
each and their photographic likenesses, with their sig¬
natures on the backs, for the album. It would save
him a great deal of letter writing to those who are
known to intend to join in the work.
A few weeks ago we suggested that if Judge Edmonds
would, through standard publishers, such as Messrs.
Triibner, issue an edition of his own works in England,
at moderate price, they would be valued. Directly
Mr. Burns saw this, he wrote off to Judge Edmonds
and entered into a contract with him, agreeing to
publish his works in this country, in consequence of
which Judge Edmonds has promised to send Mr. Burns
some of his stereotype plates of the pages. Mr. Burns
then published an appeal to Spiritualists to find money
to enable him to fulfil the terms of his trade contract,
and calls the demand to others to carry out his agree¬
ment “ A testimonial to Judge Edmonds,” thus inter¬
fering with work which Mr- Ooleman had begun many
weeks previously. Spiritualists had better leave Mr.
Burns to execute his own business engagements. If
not, why should they not also be called upon to execute
other of Mr. Burns’s existing book publishing contracts
for him ?
Mr. Burns publishes statements implying that ho is
on terms of great intimacy with Judge Edmonds, who,
like many other American Spiritualists, may not be
aware that Mr. Burns is solo proprietor of a little
bookselling business which he, without authority or
public request, calls “ The Spiritual Institution,” and
which he asserts in printed advertisements to be
founded upon a great system of organisation, of which
he is the managing representative. It is not sup¬
ported by any organisation at all, and he is not the
managing representative of any organisation; the
statements have no foundation in truth whatever. Ho
alone is sole proprietor of his business, which is not
recognised by London Spiritualists as having any official
connection with the movement in this country.
CANON KINGSLEY ON REASONABLE PRAYER.
In one of his sermons on the 119th Psalm, at West¬
minster Abbey, recently,Canon Kingsley pointed specially
to the grounds of the Psalmist’s confidence that his prayers
would be answered, as evidenced by his words in the
94th verse—“ I am Thine, 0 save me; for I have
sought Thy commandments.” “ This lesson,” said the
preacher, “ should be seriously laid to heart. There
are very few heathens and very few Christians who
will not, when they are in trouble, cry ‘ 0 save me.’ ”
“ It is an instinct of our nature,” said Mr. Kingsley,
390
THE SPIRITUALIST.
“ to call upon some unknown, unseen power for help.
But all prayers are not therefore heard and answered.
The old heathens in Borne prayed to the God of Money¬
making, and asked him to help them to cheat their
neighbours. Was it likely that such a prayer would
be answered? The Neapolitan brigands are said to
have carried leaden images of St. J anuarius with them,
and to have prayed to him to help them in their
dishonest work. .I leave you to think how that was
answered. And even in our own day, and amongst
religious people, there is too much praying of the same
sort. Too many people pray to God to help them in
the time of danger, difficulty, or death, but never pray
at any other season. They pray to be delivered from
what is difficult or disagreeable, but not to be made
good. We are all children at the best, and cry out
when we are frightened; but that is not religion. Nay,
still worse, the truth must be spoken, even among those
who are described as orthodox, most people’s prayers
are just as selfish and material. They pray to be saved.
What do they mean? They pray to be saved from
pain, and to get pleasure in this world and the next.
Pain and pleasure are their gods. They understand by
the former being lost and going to hell, and by the
latter being saved and going to Heaven, and, of course,
they wish to go to the pleasanter place, although they
know as little of the one as of the other. Such notions
are only worthy of savages. These people, and there
are too many of them by hundreds and thousands—do
not want to be blessed, they only want to be comfort¬
able. They know nothing what blessedness means.
The seven Beatitudes which commence with the words,
‘ Blessed are the poor in spirit,’ are not at all to their
minds, and are explained away by many of them until
they mean little or nothing. Thus, without any clear
notion of what they mean thereby, save selfish c.omfort,
they wish to go to Heaven, forgetting that whether they
arrive there or not will depend on whether they will
give up selfish calculations of loss and pain, and choose
what St. Matthew, whose festival we commemorate this
day, chose—choose what the blessed martyrs chose—
choose between being right and being wrong, between
being good and bad, or being, as so many people now
are, only half good—that is to say, as little good as they
can afford to be without paying the penalty of losing
their souls after death,”
SPIRITUALISM IN AUSTRALIA.
The Harbinger of Light (Melbourne) for September, says
that there are now two spiritual societies in Melbourne ; also
that the visit of Mr. Peebles to the colony, and the lectures by
Mr. Denovan at Sandhurst, have aided the movement very
much. Mr. B. S. Nayler, of Milford, Pembrokeshire, is work¬
ing hard at Stawell. He had not a very large flock to begin
with, and some months ago a portion of it adopted the religious
opinions of the late Allan Kardec, and seceded from the main
body. But although in his seventy-seventh year, Mr. Nayler
has overcome most of these difficulties, and Spiritualism in
Stawell is gaining strength. In Melbourne there is now a
Spiritualist’s “Lyceum,” with 120 members; it holds its
sessions every Sunday morning at the Masonic Hall.
What are known as “ the Sandhurst manifestations ” attract
much attention, and two spirits calling themselves John King and
Katie are very active at the seances. The manifestations much
resemble those witnessed at Messrs. Herne and Williams’s
seances, before the materialised spirits began to show them¬
selves in the light.
The likeness of Katie King, as published in the Spiritualist,
has excited much interest in the colony. The Harbinger of
Light also speaks highly of Dr. Hugh McLeod’s lecture to
the Dalston Association.
Nov. 14, 1873.
Iftebtete.
An Antidote to Spiritualism. By John Thomas, M.D.,
Christadelphian Publication Society, 69, Upper-street,
Islington, London.
This pamphlet is issued by a religious sect called
P The Christadelphians.” The author ignores the
physical phenomena of Spiritualism altogether, and
finds it easy to deal with the remainder by ascribing
the trances and visions of media to the influence upon
each medium of the present or past thoughts of the
person who attends to gain information from the spirits.
It is true that the thoughts of persons present often act
upon a very sensitive medium; but this theory will
only put aside a very small portion of the evidence in
favour of Spiritualism.
Dr. Thomas says of the medium and the inquirer:—
There is a connection established between them which
unites the haloes'of the two; so that even the hidden spectral
impressions of the seeker are daguerrotyped on the sensorium
of the medium, and the witch sees and hears in dream-
sight and dream-sound things which the seeker may have
himself forgotten. But the relationship established is not
limited to the seeker and the witch; through her, it extends
to all she knows, and through them, to others, and reacting
upon herself; and so through the seeker, to all the ramifica¬
tions of his acquaintanceship, both living and dead. He
says, “ Bring me up Samuel!” And Samuel, vividly depicted
on the sensorium of the seeker, appears also evoked as a
spectral impression before the magnetic sight and hearing of
the witch or medium. Saul saw nothing and heard nothing
of himself; but perceived by the woman’s description that it
was Samuel. “What sawest thou?” said he to the woman
She told him, and he “ perceived that it was Samuel,” and made,
obeisance. The conversation between the spectral impression
and Saul was carried on through the witch as through a
medium at this day. She heard as we hear in dreams, and
what she heard she reported; and Saul’s spectral forebodings
became prophetic in the witch’s mouth.
Spectral impressions may be made in divers ways upon the
sensorium. Irritation of the stomach will do it. A gentle¬
man in Edinburgh told me that for six weeks he had the ap¬
pearance of a pig’s head sitting upon his left shoulder, so
that whenever he looked to that side he saw it staring him in
the face. He was suffering from dyspepsia. It was as much
the disembodied spirit of a pig as the spectres seen by
mediums are the disembodied spirits of dead men and women,
boys and girls, infants and sucklings. When his stomach was
restored to healthy action, the pig’s ghost vanished from the
sensorium, and was consequently dethroned from my friend’s
shoulder; so, when the excitation of the medium’s sensory
from another cause ceases, the disembodied spirits and all the
angels vanish in a trice !
Dr. Thomas says:—■
The chief doctrines of the orthodox religion sustain a close
relationship to those of the Spiritualists. This, on slight re¬
flection, will be found no mere assertion ; for many thousands,
neither in name nor profession Spiritualists, are really nothing
else, so far as the essence of the thing is concerned. The
common and universal belief, as Milton puts it, is that
Millions of spiritual creatures walk the earth,
Unseen, both when we sleep and when we wake;
And seeing that orthodoxy stamps with its authority the
belief in disembodied ghosts, who are in the closest possible
proximity to us mundane creatures, the improbability of Spiri¬
tualism is much lessened—so far, at least, as professors of the
orthodox religion are concerned. The question between them,
indeed, is reduced to the power of evoking speech from beings
who, they affirm, are continually at our elbow.
"Who are the Christadelpkians who are thus launching
their fulminations in “merrie Islington ” against Spiri¬
tualism ? A pamphlet, price one halfpenny^ entitled—
Who are the Christadelphians ? and published by the
same society, gives an answer. They are another of
the thousand and one delightfully narrow sects which
doubt not that they have the truth, and that all mankind
THE SPIRITUALIST.
391
Uov. 14, 1873.
besides are in error. They believe in eternal punish¬
ment, and hold the following kindly opinion of their
neighbours:—
They regard the Bomish church as “ the Mother of Harlots
and the papal dynasty as “ the name of blasphemy,” seated
on the seven heads of Borne (Bev. xiii. 1; xvii. 9), and the
paramour of the Old Mother. They hold, also, that' their
harlot-daughters answer to the state churches of anti-Christen¬
dom ; and the 1 abominations of the earth,” to all the dis¬
senting names and denominations, aggregately styled “ names
of blasphemy,” of which the European body politic, sym¬
bolised by the eight-headed scarlet-coloured beast, is said to
be “ full ” (Bev. xvii. 3.)
Whilst regarding Roman Catholics as unfortunates,
doomed to endure something very unpleasant hereafter,
for honestly acting up to their convictions, Christadel-
phians are going to be very differently treated for doing
the same thing :—
They believe that the civil and ecclesiastical constitution of
the world, and the administration of its affairs, will he changed
by Christ when He appears ; that the latter will be transferred
to the saints after they have been immortal, and that then
“ the kingdom and the dominion under the whole heaven ”
will he theirs (Dan. vii. 27.)
Protestants and Dissenters are just as badly off as
the Roman Catholics in the eyes of the Christadel-
phians :—
They hold that the religious opinions and sacramentalism
of all orders and classes of men jn “Christendom” so-called,
are nothing more than that “ strong delusion” sent of God
upon mankind “ that they should beheve a lie, that they all
might he condemned who believe not the truth ” (2 Thess. ii.
11, 12), as a punishment for not retaining the truth in the
love of it after it was apostolically delivered.
Narrow, very narrow, a perfect hair-line, is the
path of the Christadelphians, but they are modest “ at
present”:-—
Christadelphians have no wish to “ rob ” ordinary churches
of “ their glory ” at present. They hope, however, when
Christ, their captain and lea'der comes, to assist Him in scat¬
tering them to the four winds, for nullifying the truth by
fables and traditions ; and thereafter to bless the world ; for
not until all the ecclesiastical rubbish of ‘ ‘ Christendom ” has
been cleared out of the way, can the families of the earth be
blessed through Abraham’s seed. At present, Christadelphians
are content to prepare themselves for this high destiny; and
in so doing, it is their duty to show to others how they also
may become associated with Jesus as warriors, kings, and
priests of the future age. They do this by means of printed
matter and public lectures.
The last sentence is very mild when compared with its
precursor.
The Christadelphians are an affectionate people,
for—
IHs not from any want of love that “ Christadelphians con¬
demn all other churches.”
Like the other sects, Christadelphians hold that—
He that believeth not shall he damned.,
SEANCE AT MR. EYERITT’S.
Osr Friday, October 31st, a seance took place at the
residence of Mr. T. Everitt, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill,
Hendon, N.W., Mrs. Everitt being the medium. Among
the guests present were M. Alexandre Aksakof, of St.
Petersburg; Mr. E. D. Rogers, Dalyell-road, Stock-
well, S.W.; Mr. W. H. Harrison, Herne-hill; and
others.
Mr. Everitt, according to very good custom, opens
his seances with prayer and the reading of the Bible.
Several hymns were sung, raps upon the table and
elsewhere kept time to the singing. The raps also
signalled a message, telling Mr. Everitt to read the
fifth verse of chapter v. of Daniel, which he did as
follows :—
i In the same hour came forth fingers of a man’s hand, and
wrote over against the candlestick upon the plaster of the
wall of the king’s palace ; and the king saw'the part of the
hand that wrote.
Then they told him to read the twenty-fourth and
twenty-fifth verses of the same chapter
Then was the part of the hand sent from him; and this
writing was written.
And this is the writing that was written, Mene, Mene,
Tekel, Upharsin.
Next they told him to read Daniel, chapter x., from
the fifth to the last verse :—
Then I lifted up mine eyes, .and looked, and behold a cer¬
tain man clothed in linen, whose loins mere girded with fine
gold of Uphaz:
His body also ovas like the beryl, and his face as the appear¬
ance of lightning, and his eyes as lamps of fire, and his arms
and his feet like in colour to polished brass, and the voice of
his words like the voice of a multitude.
And I Daniel alone saw the vision : for the men that were
with me saw not the vision; but a great quaking fell upon
them, so that they fled to hide themselves.
Therefore I was left alone, and saw this great vision, and
there remained no strength in me: for my comeliness in me
was turned in me into corruption, and I retained no strength.
Yet heard I the voice of his words: and when I heard the
voice of his words, then was I in a deep sleep on my face, and
my face toward the ground.
And, behold, a hand touched me, which set me upon my
knees and upon the palms of my hands.
And he said unto me, O Daniel, a man greatly beloved,
understand the words that I speak unto thee, and stand up¬
right : for unto thee am I now sent. And when he had spoken
this word unto me, I stood trembling.
Then said he unto me, Fear not, Daniel: for from the first
day that thou didst set thine heart to understand, and to
chasten thyself before thy God, thy words were heard, and I
am come for thy words.
But the prince of the kingdom of Persia withstood me one
and twenty days : but lo, Michael, one of the chief princes,
came to help me; and I remained there with the Kings of
Persia.
Now I am come to make thee understand what shall befall
thy people in the latter days : for yet the vision is for many
days.
And when he had spoken such words unto me, I set my face
toward the ground, and I became dumb.
And, behold, one like the similitude of the sons of men
touched my lips: then I opened my mouth, and spake, and
said unto him that stood before me, O my lord, by the vision
my sorrows are turned upon me, and I have retained no
strength.
For how can the servant of this my lord talk with this my
lord 1 for as for me, straightway there remained no strength in
me, neither is there breath left in me.
Then there came again and touched me one like the appear¬
ance of a man, and he strengthened me,
And said, O man greatly beloved, fear not : peace be unto
thee, be strong, yea, be strong. And when he had spoken unto
me, I was strengthened, and said, Let my lord speak; for
thou hast strengthened me.
Then said he, Knowest thou wherefore I come unto thee ?
and now will I return to fight with the Prince of Persia : and
when I am gone forth, lo, the prince of Grecia shall come.
But I will show thee that which is noted in the scripture of
truth: and there is none that holdeth with me in these things,
but Michael your prince.
Then raps instructed Mr. Everitt to put out the gas.
Shortly afterwards small twinkling lights were seen
floating about near the medium, who, by clairvoyance,
saw several of the spirit relatives of a gentleman present.
After a time the spirit, John Watt, came and spoke with
the direct voice. He frequently tapped all the sitters
on the head in turn with a roll of cardboard, and beat
the ceiling and chandelier with it when requested. His
conversation was that of an educated gentleman. In
392
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Uov. 14, 1873.
answer to one of the questions, he said that in pro¬
ducing the spirit lights the atmosphere was removed
from around them, and, to use his own words, “ They
were somewhat of the nature of electrical discharges in
vacuum tubes.”
IN SITUATION AL POETET.
Last Sunday evening, at the close of the service at the
Royal Music Hall, Holborn, London, Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan,
while in the trance state, delivered the following inspirational
poem. It professed to come from the spirit of a little Indian
girl, Ouina:—
If you ask me why I come here—
Why I leave my home above,
To attend your earthly council ?
I will say, “ I come in love.”
From this pale-faced gentle woman,
I have borrowed speech and tone,
That my words may sound quite human,
But the thoughts are all my own.
Far across the big sea water,
With my people once I dwelt;
I was but a forest maiden,
And at Nature’s shrine I knelt.
All the west land was our home then ;
In our wigwams made of skin,
Sheltered from the cruel north wind,
Dwelt my people and their kin.
We had corn and meat in plenty ;
We had neither gold nor wine ;
But the breath of the Great Spirit
Bade us never to repine.
All the chiefs and warriors gathered
Round the nation’s council fires ;
And the laws made for our people,
There were spoken by our sires.
The Great Spirit never told us
Not in war to slay our foes ;
If He had, we would have heeded,
But then came our darkest woes.—
For across the big sea water,
Came your ships, like many birds,
Bringing o’er the pale-faced warrior;
Bringing, too, his flocks and herds.
He brought gifts of beads and wampum ;
He brought corn, and gold, and wine;
He brought fire arrows to slay us,
Saying—“ ’Twas his I right divine.’ ”
He brought words of peace and goodwill
From the meek and lowly One ;
He brought deeds of darkest outrage
To the red man and his son !
One by one my race have perished;
Far towards the setting sun
They are driven—killed and driven ;
And their race is nearly run.
When the red man dies, they bring him
All his bows and arrows fine ;
All his weapons, dogs and horses,
Lest in death some foes he find.
And they lay his face to eastward,
That the living fire of day,
May light up his lonely journey
To his soul-land far away.
Then they bring him food and water
For three days, lest he might fail
In his journey to his Father,
And at last grow weary, pale.
I am told that your great Father
Has revealed here, long ago,
That you must not kill your brethren,
But you slay them still, you know.
I am told that the bright angels
Told the pale-face of His love,
And asked man to show us justice —
How did you that justice prove 1
I am told the lowly Jesus,
Came on earth with feet all sore,
Preaching—teaching in His goodness,
And for you His life did pour.
I am but a simple maiden,
But if He had come, I know,
To my people, and thus taught us,
We would not deny Him so.
I am told that pale-faced women
Carry arrows in their tongue—
Shafts of malice and of envy ;
And that sometimes drops are hung
Laden there with venomed slander,
And with baneful, piercing dart—
That they send these arrows homewards
Slaying some poor wounded heart!
I am told your sons and sires
Strive some place of power to buy,
With deceitfulness and falsehood,
With the bribing of a lie!
I am told that you oft gather
Wampum which is not your own ;
While your orphans die of hunger
In the streets, and make their moan!
Up in heaven, where I come from,
There is neither rich nor poor ;
The Great Father loves each spirit;
All are welcome at his door !
I am told your ships go westward,
Seeking there for gold and wine;
Taking fire arrows for killing,
Slaying nations just like mine.
I am told your ships go eastward,
Seeking hoards of wine and gold;
That you take fire arrows—cannon,
Forcing sorrows all untold.
Could I speak unto your nation,
In their council I would say—
What will you say when Christ sees you
In that dread and awful day.
When your spirit goes up heavenward—
When you meet Him face to face—
When you bring those slain ones to Him—
Can you ask Him for His grace ?
But I bring you beads and wampum;
I bring you gold and silver fine ;
But the gold is the Great Spirit,
And the silver is His wine.
I bring the feather of the bright bird
That you call Bird of Paradise;
You shall wear it with your striving,
If in peace and love you rise.
I bring you now some birds and flowers
From the hunting grounds above;
They were gathered by your loved ones
You call dead, but who still love.
Send your great ships eastward, westward ;
Let them carry words of peace;
But send no death arrows with them,
Bid the nation’s wars all cease.
Send your printed slips of paper,
With these words of peace and love;
Send Ouina’s message, will you ?
Then I’ll seek my home above.
There my white canoe is waiting—
It will take me where I dwell;
May I take a message with me
"To your loved ones ? Fare you well.”
The new Anthropological Society, inaugurated in the
early part of this year, has issued the first number of its
journal Anthropologia, price four shillings.
Nov. 14, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
393
ONE OF DR. DEE’S MIRRORS.
Perhaps the greatest curiosity in the Dublin Indus¬
trial Exhibition is the magic speculum of the celebrated
Dr. Dee, born in London, in 1527. John Dee raised
himself at an early age to a great reputation for his
learning, in the mathematical sciences especially, in the
most celebrated universities of his own country and of
the Continent. He is said to have imbibed a taste for
the occult sciences while a student at Louvain, but
there was evidently in his temper much of an enthu¬
siastic and visionary turn, which must have given him
a taste for such mysterious pursuits without the neces¬
sity of an external impulse. One of the oldest and
most generally credited of magical operations was that
of bringing spirits or visions into a glass or mirror, a
practice which has continued to exist in the East even
to the present day, and which prevailed to a very con¬
siderable extent in all parts of Western Europe during
the sixteenth century. The process was not a direct
one, for the magician did not himself see the vision in
the mirror, but he had to depend upon an intermediate
agent, a sort of familiar, who in England was known
by the name of a sJcyrer, and whose business it was to
look into the mirror and describe what he saw. Dr.
Dee’s principal skyrer was one Edward Kelly, and
during his connection with him Dee kept an exact
diary of all his visions, a portion of which was printed
in a folio volume by Meric Casaubon in 1659. The
mirror is an oval slab of black stone—of what kind we
have not been able to ascertain—but evidently of a
description which was not then common in Western
Europe, and Dr. Dee, who died in 1608, may have con¬
sidered it extremely precious, and as only to be obtained
by some extraordinary means. It was one of the orna¬
ments of the museum of Horace Walpole at Strawberry-
hill; and Walpole has attached to it a statement of its
history in his own handwriting, from which we learn
that it was “ long ” in the possession of the Mordaunts,
earls of Peterborough, in whose catalogue it was de¬
scribed as “ the black stone into which Dr. Dee used to
call his spirits.” It passed from that collection to
Lady Elizabeth Germaine, from whom it went to John
Campbell, Duke of Argyll, whose son, Lord Frederick
Campbell, presented it to Horace Walpole. This in¬
teresting relic was bought at the Strawberry-hill sale
for the late Mr. Pigott; and, at the more recent sale of
that gentleman’s collection, it passed into the hands of
Lord Londesborough. Butler alludes to this identical
stone in his well-known lines :— .
Kelly did all his feats upon
The Devil’s looking-glass, a stone,
When, playing with him at bo-peep,
He solved all problems ne’er so deep.
'The Freeman's Journal {Dublin).
Mr. Burns is getting up a meeting at Stratford, at
which Mrs. Tappan is to lecture. The speculation did not
originate with the Stratford Spiritualists, who, in consequence
of being taken by surprise in the matter, have not a local
committee to welcome the lecturer.
The Rev. J. Murray Spear.—Owing to the energetic,
friendly action of Mr. and Mrs. Tebb, the subscriptions in aid
of the aged Mr. Spear, the trance medium, did not cease when
the subscription list was officially brought to a close. They
have since received the following sums:—B. L, £10 ; B. C.,
10s.; T. Sherratt, 5s.; Mrs. Boreham, 2s. 6d.; E. Thornton,
£5, Any other friends who desire to contribute should write
to Mrs. Mary E. Tebb, 7, Albert-road, Gloucester-gate, Regent’s-
park, N.W.
SWEDENBORG AND THE QJJAKERS.
Mr. J. M. Peebles, in the course of a letter to the
editor of the Harbinger of Light, Melbourne, says :—
Do you not recollect that among the questions sent up to
me in Prince of Wales’ Theatre to be answered there were
several from Swedenborgians ? In reply I said that Sweden¬
borg was a medium—that some of the manifestations through
his organism were disorderly; and that he was no infallible
interpreter of the Scriptures. In addition to this I remarked
that Swedenborgians were exceedingly bigoted, and Sweden¬
borg himself uncharitable. Here is the proof—speaking of
Socinians or Arians—literally Unitarians—Swedenborg says :
“ The lot of both is * _* * they are let down into hell among
those who deny God. These are meant by those who blas¬
pheme the Holy Ghost, who will not be forgiven either in this
world, or in that which is to come.” .
‘‘In Swedenborg’s Diary, under date Oct. 29fch, 1748, he
says :—‘ The secret worship of the Quakers, sedulously con¬
cealed from the world, was made manifest. It is a worship so
wicked, execrable, and abominable, that, were it known to
Christians, they would expel Quakers from society, and permit
them to live only among beasts. They have a vile communion
of wives, &o.’ Again Oct. 28, 1748: ‘ They are indomitably
obstinate in their aversion to having their thoughts and doings
made public. They strove with me and the spirits who desired
(but in vain) to know their secrets.”—See Emanuel Swedenborg
his Life and Writings, by William White, London, 1867, vol. i.
pp. 386, 387).
DR. CARPENTER ON PLANCHETTE WRITING.
Last Sunday afternoon, Dr. W. B. Carpenter, F.R.S.
delivered a public discourse on the brain, at St. George’s
Hall, Regent-street, in connection with the Sunday Lecture
Society. There was a large attendance, and among the
listeners was Mrs. Leckie, who has given so much attention
to the philosophy of the growth of morals in connection with
civilisation.
While speaking of his theory of the unconscious action of
the brain, Dr. Carpenter stated that It was an established
fact that a lady could play a piano, talk in an absent
manner with a friend, and be thinking of a lover—all three
operations being carried on at the same time. He thought
that table-turning and planchette writing belonged to the
same class of phenomena. He had found that the answers
given by tables and planchettes did not express anything
known to the individual at the time, but it turned out after¬
wards that it had been in his mind before. He would not
detain his hearers with details, but cerebral changes and
mental changes might be distinct in consciousness of these
previous mental states.
He also said that fishes and reptiles had very little cere¬
brum, but he thought that the monkey, like man, had a pos¬
terior lobe. (Applause.) Dr. - Carpenter, after a pause of
surprise at the unexpected applause, added, “It is a pure
question of anatomy, ladies and gentlemen,” an .explanation
which elicited much merriment from the listeners.
Dr. Carpenter said much against phrenology; he seemed
uneasy about some article he wrote on phrenology twenty-five
years ago, and the recent discoveries of Professor Ferrier.
Our inference from Dr. Carpenter’s remarks is, that if anybody
took the trouble to search out his article and compare it with
Professor Ferrier’s experiments, the two things would not be
found to agree.
Everybody present appeared to be much interested in the
lecture.
Miss Louie Fowler’s present address is 28, Sherborne-
street, Strange ways, Manchester. She will not remain in
Manchester long, and her next address will be, “ Care of Mr.
Hinde, Bright-street, Yarm-road, Darlington.”
In Professor Ferrier’s experiments, some of the animals,
while under chloroform, rose, growled, scratched, lashed their
tails, and exhibited passion, just as if in full possession of
their senses, but had a fixed stare, as if gazing at something
at a distance.
Mrs. H. D. Jencken (Kate Fox), through whose medium-
ship Spiritual manifestations first began in America, is now
in very good power. Last week we witnessed interesting
manifestations through her mediumship, but as some of the
facts would cause trouble in private life if published in a
newspaper, we cannot give the particulars.
394
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 14, 1873.
THE VOYAGE OF EAETH.
This grey round world, so full of life,
Of hate and love, and calm and strife,
Still shiplike, on for ages fares,
And holds its course so smooth and true,
For all the madness of the crew—
It must have better rule than theirs.
JOY AND SORROW.
With every joy we haste to meet,
In hopefulness or pride,
There comes, with step as sure and fleet,
A shadow by its side;
And ever thus that spectre chill
With each fair bliss has sped,
And when the gladdened pulse should thrill,
The stricken heart lies dead!
The poet’s brow the wreath entwines—
What weight falls on the breast!
Upon the sword where glory shines
The stains of life-blood rest,
Do, where the rosiest sunbeam glows,
There lies eternal snow!
And fame its brightest halo throws,
Where death lies cold below.
Blackwoods Magazine.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically "opposed to those of this journal and its readers."]
A PROPOSED NEW SPIRITUAL SOCIETY.
Sir,—Will you please announce in your next number that a
new Spiritual Association is about being formed in this
locality, and that I shall be glad to receive the names of any
persons interested in such. W. Richards,
7, Tachbrook-street, London, S.W., Nov. 6th, 1873.
THE CLAIRYOYAR CE OF ANDREW JACKSON DAYIS.
Sir,—Apropos of your remarks, in your issue of 1st Nov.,
respecting the claims of clairvoyance generally, and those of
Mr. A. J. Davis in particular, regarding the eighth and ninth
planets, your contemporaries, Human Nature and the Spiritual
Magazine, in August and September last, published in large
type a quotation from the Banner of Light of a claim made
by a Mr. Whipple, viz., that “in a still more important
matter’’ (than that of the planets) “has Mr. Davis antici¬
pated scientific discovery” by having “declared, twenty-
seven years ago, that the outermost planets of the solar system
enjoy inherent light several hundred degrees greater than
what our earth receives from the sun ; ’’—a statement which,
he says, has only “ been verified through the revelations of
the spectroscope within the last year.” See No. 3 of the
Popular Science Monthly, wherein “ Mr. Proctor publishes the
results of recent investigation.”
The above assertion regarding Mr. Davis would, if true,
appear to cut the ground from under your dictum, that his
mediumship “ has proved unreliable when dealing with
physics.” But, is it really true that he ever made any such
declaration ? I have been at the pains of appealing to Mr.
Whipple through the Banner of Light, for proof of his asser¬
tion, but he remains silent. Why not give the public chapter
and verse in proof of his statement ? I doubt it altogether.
The American spiritual periodicals are, as you intimate,
prone to make statements, unsupported by evidence ; and it
would be well if the London ones would be careful to avoid
the like fault. Mere unsupported assertion appears out of
place in relation to scientific facts ; especially so, when these
have reference to an unrecognised and disputed theory like
that of spirit communion. A. B. T.
[In Nature's "Divine Revelations, by Andrew Jackson Davis (John Chap¬
man, 142, Strand, London, 1847), page 167, it is stated that the “ darkness”
of Neptune is “ several hundred degrees lighter than the light which the
earth receives from the sun.” In the first place, the words “ several
hundred degrees ” have no meaning; there is no “degree ” of light, though
fifteen or twenty years after Mr. Davis made the foregoing oracular remark
Professor H. E. Roscoe tried to devise one. In the Popular Science Review,
Gctober, 1873 (London, Hardwicke), there is an article by Mr. R. A. Proctor
on Jupiter, in which he argues that that planet is in an intensely hot state,
the point being a disputed one. But he says not a word about the more
distant planets being either hot or self luminous; indeed, they apparently
have a deficiency of light and heat as compared with the earth. On page
237 of Davis’s book the clairvoyant “ revelation ” is made that light may be
condensed so as to form water, which at present is a monstrously absurd
statement regarded from a physical science point of view. Light is the
wave motion of an imponderable fluid; water is s combination of two
ponderable gases, oxygen and hydrogen. If Mr. Davis by clairvoyance can
reveal how to make light into water, the discovery would put the whole
world of science into a blaze of excitement, but the assertion as it stands is
pure nonsense, and Davis’s revelations about physics are unreliable.—Ed.]
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
Sir,—An article in the last issue of your journal, whilst
discussing the constitution and future work of the National
Association of Spiritualists, suggests that its most effectual
and economical mode of operation, at first, would be to make
money grants to local societies, with a view to enable them to
carry on well conducted Sunday services.
As the St. John’s Association of Spiritualists has been the first,
and up to the present time is the only London society which
has established regular Sunday services, it may probably be of
interest to your readers, and also serve as information for the
guidance of other societies who may desire to follow our
example, if I state the result financially of the meetings,
eight in number, which we have held up to the present date.
For these the expenditure has been as follows :—Rent of
Goswell Hall, £4 4s.; printing and advertising, £2 18s. 8d. ;
lecturer’s expenses, &c., £4 ; sundries, 15s.; total, £11 17s. 8d.
On the other hand, the receipts at the doors, as voluntary
donations, have been £5 15s. 7d.,leaving a deficit of £6 2s. Id.
The success of the meetings, as regards attendance and the
good that is being accomplished, are all that could be
expected.
I must not omit to mention, that owing to the kindness of
the gentlemen who have occupied our platform, and to whom
our best thanks are due, the item of expenditure having
reference to their fees and expenses, is much less than it
would have been had we adequately recompensed them for
their good offices.
The article to which I have referred, in speaking of our
efforts, says, “ The St. John’s Association has a small debt,
which ought to be cleared off by public aid, but its present
work is probably nearly self-supporting.” It would give us
much pleasure to receive assistance, whether as grants from
the National Association, or in the shape of subscriptions from
individual Spiritualists ; and I trust we may before long bo
able to work more effectually and on a wider basis than it is
possible for us to do at present. At any rate, our committee
are resolved to continue the services, and firmly believe they
will eventually be self-supporting.
I have not referred in the above statement to our members’
subscriptions, because they are at present quite absorbed by
the expenses connected with St. John’s Hall, and the weekly
meetings on Thursday evenings carried on there.
Richard Pearce, Honorary Secretary, St. John s
Association of Spiritualists.
Committee Rooms, 30, Parkfield-street, Islington, N.
10th November, 1873.
PSTCHOLOGICAL REVELATIONS AND PHYSICS.
Sib,—After reading, “ The Connecting Link between
Science and Spiritualism,” by Mrs. Tappan, in the Medium,
I was much struck with your sensible, enlightened, and
searching remarks. Now take the account of the brain. She
says :—“ The brain is simply the instrument of the mind, the
temple of the spirit. The frontal brain is the seat of intelli¬
gence, the top brain of the religious faculties, while the lower
order of propensities have their seat about and near the
spinal column.” Here we have a blundering and ignorant
misconception of the phrenological system, with a frontal
brain and a top brain, and no reference to the lower brain,
the cerebellum. Now when Mrs. Hardinge was asked the
same question, her reply was different, and quite right,
according to my published views, founded on experiment, to
the effect that tie superior brain chiefly relates to the mind
proper, and the lower and lesser brain to the muscular and
other bodily functions to which its relative situation in the
brain implies.
But her chief remarks were on the cosmical aspect of
nature, and the spiritual union and source of power. Now,
sir, she might find all this most fully gone into in my “ Letters
to Miss Martineau,” particularly in letter twenty-two. In¬
deed, how could one be experimenting for years on matters in
respect to mesmerism, clairvoyance, thought-reading, and
phreno-mesmerism, without becoming impressed with the
spiritual nature of power, and the absolute necessity of all
being united by a spiritual atmosphere. The medium is not
the source of all power and natural action, and it does not
require one to rise from the dead to tell us these things.
I watched and weighed these revelations under mesmerism
long before the advent of Spiritualism, and the different
Nov. 14, 1873.
th;e spiritualist.
395
phases of the fact are very curious and interesting ; and when
by testing we find a bit of genuine power in any direction, we
must use it with the greatest caution, accepting nothing as
true until it has been confirmed, unless we find the power as
unerring as in respect to the ordinary powers of observation.
Each case must be tested, and in any case what is said taken
for little more than suggestion. There can be no doubt but
that all [power and every formative process and principle is
spiritual, utterly beyond the reach of the human understand¬
ing, and, as it were, behind the mind. The finite cannot
grasp the infinite, nor phenomena a cause, which cause must
be sui generis, and utterly unlikes any of its effects, the mind
and sense included. The spiritual is fundamental to the
material, or rather, it is the very life and efficient nature of
the substance; but mind is a mere sense and after growth.
The notices therefore about final causes are simply the blunder
of taking effect for cause, arising from the illusion of .the mind
that it is an original and free power in itself—which is non¬
sense. But to return to the unity of nature. The central law
of pervasive unity of will, quoted from p. 255 of the Letters :
—“ But, while we dilate the sight in the sense of the unity of
nature, and the relations of the sciences, we must not forget
to contract the sight to every particular and circumstance,
that nothing may be omitted, and nature may be searched for
the truth which is said to lie at the very bottom of the well;
for that which is most potent, and has most the character of uni¬
versality, is most hid, and least palpable to the ordinary sense,
indolently applied. Bacon compared knowledge to a pyramid ;
physical facts nearest the base, and gradually narrowing and
rising to metaphysics (ideas) ; and again to a tree, in which
there is no division, but all the branches form a whole, and
unite in one stem. And this is the true cosmical view of
nature and the actual fact ; the sense of variety in unity,
and unity in variety ; the whole in the parts, and the parts in
the whole; all of one growth and origin, and consequently
presenting those analogies and true correspondences; exhi¬
biting the same laws under various aspects, and all evolved,
and fitting together as closely as the seal to the print, each
symbolical of all, and all of each. And as it is with the con¬
ditions of matter, so of the properties or forces of matter in
their interchanging relations throughout.”
Now, in respect to spirit, although a minute germ cell is a
physical object, we are forced to regard its latent or innate
ability to develope into a man to be incomprehensible and
spiritual. P. 258, I say:—“ Thoughts pass from one brain
and become consciousness in another brain. This we call
sympathy of mind, or thought-reading. Now, the question
occurs, what is the medium through or by which power of any
form is conveyed from one body to another. 1Ve say, that
electricity is conveyed by a wire, and sound by the air, or a
log of timber ; but these are very shallow notions. We have
yet to learn whether there be a universal medium, or different
media interfused for each distinct character of power, or
cardinal motion; and if all actions, as in respect to light and
heat, are actions from solid matter to the medium, or if there
be a spirit contained and close about all bodies ; and parti¬
cularly from animals and man’s brain, and the action first
takes place in this ; or if all effects are from an agitation, as
it were, of the universal medium or media pervading all
things, and all spaces;—if bodies, animate or inanimate,
have a particular evolved or eliminated spirit condition,
which is acted upon by the body on one side, and by
impressions through the universal medium condition on
the other. But body does not act directly on body,
we know, because bodies do not actually touch, and therefore
it is clear that whatever the spiritual condition, or conditions,
be, all actions are by and through such spirit conditions.
Therefore, in fact, solid body does not act on body, in any
case, nor spirit on' body ; but spirit acts on, or in spirit, and
through spirit.” But enough to show that, without any reve¬
lation, the source of power and guiding principle has been
referred to the spiritual; and I think, sir, that you are fully
borne out and justified in the observation you have made in
regard to what Bacon terms those indolent and ineffectual
ways of acquiring knowledge, since all must be derived from
accumulated observations—that is, from observed facts and
, careful induction—after all. The human mind cannot antici¬
pate that which it must interpret after exact and approved
methods.
What I should define as spiritual in nature is all that is
essentially incomprehensible, then I must conclude that all
power, all formative principle, and all substance fundament¬
ally considered, must be regarded as spiritual, or, to use Pro¬
fessor Tyndall’s term—transcendental—to the human mind,
and, in contrast to human power, miraculous, as a mechanical
power, or that which moves mechanism, is just as inscrutable
as all the rest. If such bo the nature of things—and who can
question it ?—there can be no longer in thought any obstruc¬
tions or unnatural divorce between matter and spirit, seeing
that the human mind is but an effect in nature, and quite
incapable as a cause ; however strong the illusion may be, we
get nothing by supposing a mind in nature, for, as I have
said, the primal cause must be sui generis—utterly incon¬
ceivable and essentially unlike any of its effects. Mind is
merely phenomenal, spiritually caused, but incapable of dis¬
cussing what that cause is. Mind is not the bottom of things
but the top. Henky G. Atkinson.
18, Quai de la Douane, Boulogne-sur-Mer, France.
Sir,—I was very much pleased to see in a late number o*
the Spiritualist some remarks on the futility of the attempts
of trance speakers to interpret the physical aspects of nature.
Either vague generality, or absolute error, is the outcome of
the untrained mind, however powerful, when physics is the
subject in hand. There is, however, less excuse when a
remarkable speaker puts forward, as inspired utterance,
an erroneous statement, which shows ignorance of the
intentions of such a leader in philosophy as Kant.
In the report of Mrs. Tappan’s first lecture, in the
Medium newspaper, she is made to say that Kant tried to
prove that the soul was not immortal (or words to that
effect). There is an error here, and it rests with the speaker
and the reporter to set it right. The truth of the matter is that
the three great questions, God, freewill—and immortality—
were beyond the reach of Kant’s analysis, and he knew and
proclaimed this fact. What Kant could not legitimately main¬
tain on the grounds of pure reason, he held, as an ordinary
human being, on the grounds of practical reason.
J. E. PuAdon, M.B.
Sandown, Isle of Wight. Nov. 12th, 1873.
SPIRIT POEMS.
Sir,—As I have not for some months asked for any space in
your paper, I am not without hope that you will find room in
your next issue for the following account of a stance held at
my house on Monday, the 10th instant, Miss Cook being the
medium. All took place under the usual test conditions,
Miss Cook’s hands being securely tied together with tape, and
also round her waist was a tape which was passed through and
tied to a piece of brass screwed to the floor, so that she could
not properly get into an erect position, or indeed move but a
short distance from where she was placed. My back drawing
room was used as the cabinet, and we all sat in the
front room. I should have said that all knots in the
tape were carefully sealed, and the one round the waist was
sewn under the seal, to prevent the probability of its being
accidentally broken. I need scarcely add that all seals and
knots were perfect when the seance ended.' There were pre¬
sent Mrs. Cook, Mr. Geo. Tapp, 18, Queen Margarets-road, N.;
Mr. Harrison, Wilmin-villa, Herne-hill; Dr. and Mrs. Purdon,
Sandown, Isle of Wight; a friend of Dr. Gully ; and myself.
In a short time after Miss Cook had been seated in the room
which formed the cabinet, Katie (the spirit) brought us the
poker from the fire-place, which is several feet from where
Miss Cook was seated, and very much beyond her reach, seated
and tied as she was. Katie then brought us two china jars from
the mantelpiece; next a standard screen weighing some ten or
twelve pounds. She then, under a subdued light, but quite
sufficient to see all that was going on, walked out into the
room, touched most of those present, turned herself round
several times, as if to show that there was no tape round her
waist, and that her hands were quite free. Katie tied my
hands together, very much looser than I tied Miss Cook’s, but
I could not get free, except by force sufficient to break that
with which I was handcuffed. Much more occurred, but as it
would only he a repetition of what has before appeared in the
Spiritualist, I think it useless to recapitulate.
J. C. Luxmoore.
16, Gloucester-square, Hyde-park, W., Nov. 11th, 1873.
Sir,—On Friday evening, October 31st, I had the pleasure
and privilege of attending a seance at the house of Mr. Cook,
and witnessed a most astonishing display of spirit power; the
spirit is known as Katie King, the medium being Miss
Florence Cook.
There are many reasons why I, for one, should shrink from
an avowal of sympathy with modern Spiritualism in the
396
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 14, 1873.
phases in which it is being now presented in this and other
countries of Christendom, but I desire to have the pleasure of
testifying to the actuality of the phenomenon as I witnessed
it on the occasion referred to.
Miss Cook, the medium, was securely fastened by tapes
going round each wrist, and knots sealed with my signet; the
tape round the waist “ ditto,” and brought through a strong
staple in the floor of the cabinet, thence conveyed across a
side table, so that any movement by the medium would have
been instantly detected. A lamp was burning the whole
evening, with the exception of once, when it was accidentally
turned out by Mr. Tapp. The light was sufficient for all
present to see each other and every thing that was in the
room.
That Miss Cook and Katie King are not the same person
was evident to my mind from the following facts:—Katie
appeared full three or four inches taller than Miss Cook ; the
arms, hands, and feet, which were all bare, were also longer and
stouter in proportion. Katie, I particularly noticed, had hair
of a lightish brown tint, and which projected beyond the
encircling head-dress quite straight, and half-way down the
back, while Miss Cook’s hair is very dark and arranged in long
profuse curls and ringlets. As I saw Katie two minutes before
Miss Cook came out of the trance state, and was liberated by
cutting the tapes, the seals on which were intact, I am sure
any lady will bear me out in the assertion that it would not be
possible in so short a period to change the hair from straight
to ringlets or long curls.
Katie came out of the cabinet into the midst of the circle at
least six or seven times, and conversed with most of those who
were present. On one occasion she went to the side-table, and
taking up some paper in the presence of all, wrote two
messages, one of which she presented to me, and which is now
in my possession; this was done in a good light and witnessed
by all who were present.
On one occasion, while Katie was in the centre of the room,
we heard a slight moan inside the cabinet, when immediately
she returned, saying it was necessary to keep her medium
asleep. Mr. Luxmoore put his hands and arms inside the
cabinet and adjusted the medium, who had slightly fallen on
one side of her chair; this done I was summoned by Katie- to-
leave my seat and go and examine the tapes. I did so, and
felt the tapes fnside the cabinet; these were all tight. I was
astonished during this episode to find that Katie had vanished,
for we could see inside the cabinet, while Mr. Luxmoore was
adjusting the medium, but before I had time to resume my
seat, Katie asked me if I had examined the tapes, and if I was
satisfied. Of course my reply was in the affirmative.
I am well aware of the futility of attempting to convince
people of the great fact of immortality and of communion with
the human spirit or soul, divested of its earthly covering or
body, who have confirmed themselves in the belief that these
are unknown and impossible, but for those who wish to know
these things there are provided means in abundance to satisfy
the most searching inquiry.
My own investigations into the phenomena of Spiritualism,
which are after all only “ appearances,” are for the purpose
of discovering the operation of the great law of life, and of
obtaining a true knowledge of the modus opercmdi whereby all
things come into existence and assume the forms in which
they are presented to our bodily senses. So far I have not
been disappointed, and find that “ Truth ” is not the will-o’-
the-wisp which so many imagine, but the greatest reality in
existence, and easily discoverable to those who wish to know
and understand. William Oxley.
Higher Broughton, Manchester, Nov. 4th, 1878.
GOOD AND ETIL SPIRITS.
Sib,—While admiring the courage of Mr. Meeson in pub¬
lishing his private experience in Spiritualism, and congratu¬
lating him on the result to which its open demonstration
has led in his own case, I cannot but wonder that he should
object to open communication with spirits in the case of
others, who are not clairaudient as he is, and who therefore
need the assistance of others which he does not. For, surely,
open communion may convince others of sin as well as him¬
self, while the secret machinations of some spirits may keep
them vile sinners for years, as they did him by his own ac¬
knowledgment. My opinion is that Spiritualism is con¬
vincing men of sin all round, or it ought to do. We are also
indebted to Mr. Meeson for his pamphlet on the Paray Monial
* miracle,” and that of the lady of Salette; but here again he
does not appear to have pointed out an influence from his own
abundant experience that might explain both these occur¬
rences, and which any practised Spiritualist would have no
difficulty in doing. Mr. Meeson has given us an example that
bodily torments are not produced by good spirits, and that ob¬
session in any form is deplorable, bnt may be perfectly authentic.
Here are the dicta of a spirit on this point; they must be taken
for what they are worth. To me they seem reasonable
enough :—“ To distinguish between good and evil spirits, all
your attention should be brought into requisition ; it is easy.
Only try to understand that nothing which comes from a good
spirit can do harm to anybody ; and that everything that is
bad can come from none but an evil spirit.”
As regards the lady of Salette, Spiritualists well know that
Mademoiselle Lamerliere, if a medium, may well have been
lifted up in the presence of the young shepherds, and also
made invisible. These things are often read of in the Greek
poets, in universal history, and in modern experience. We
have no fault to find with the testimony of the shepherds, but
rather with the lack of knowledge, or, perhaps, the want of
power or will of distinguishing of the priesthood.
Wh. B. Tomlinson.
MADAME lOUISE’s MEDIUMSHIP.
Sib,—According to my promise, I give you an account of
the principal features of some highly interesting seances at
Madame Louise’s, 16, Brunswick-street, Manchester. The
sitters were : the medium, Madame Louise, hbr son (a very
powerful physical medium), Mrs. Hesketh, Miss Hesketh, and
myself. We joined hands round a heavy solid table, and the
light being extinguished, the musical box and guitar, both at
the same time, were set violently floating. The guitar was
handled (so it was rapped out) by the same spirit friend who
manifested at our circle with the private medium, the report
of which appeared in your number of August. The three
strings were played upon, sometimes close to my face, then
again near the ceiling, as it were, and in turn very loud and
faint, quick and slow—in fact, in a most amusing manner.
Let me represent the three different strings or notes with 1.
2. 3. and describe a delightful little musical entertainment.
I said, “ You are indeed a clever musician, let me have further
proof of it.” Now I sang the notes in the reverse order, 3. 2.
31 and immediately they were played. Then, 2. 1. 3.—3. 1.
2.—2. 3. 1.; and having exhausted these combinations, re¬
sorted to rhythmical variations, as 2. 2.—3. 1., &c., and after
all had been correctly imitated, I cried out in a merry tone,
You are the cleverest pupil I have met with.” And now she
played away in joyous humour, swinging round and round
like dancing, in which excitement the musical box took also a
lively part.
After a while, I said : “ I suppose there are several merry
spirits present ? ” and increasing noise and clatter was the
reply; but the tremendous blows of our Irish friend, who
calls himself “ Mike,” now took the lead and rapped out :
“ Have a break for refreshments.” After having followed
this advice, he demanded: “ Mr. Reimer is to drink our health
in a toast! ” I responded with : “ Health to our friend, who
will unite with us in the battle for truth, and drive the con¬
ceited fools who sneer at us unto the winds ! ” The uproar,
the deafening noise which followed, baffles description, and I
really feared the next thing would be a policeman standing
before us demanding explanations.
This remarkable seance set me, of course, in a whirlwind of
reflections, and after a hard fight between pro and contra, as
to the possibility of collusion, I resolved on the severest
tests for the next sitting which my mind could suggest.
At the next seance the sitters and conditions were the same.
I bound with thin common cord the wrists of the sitters in
this manner :—The right hand of Madame Louise to the left
of her son ; his right to the left of Mrs. Hesketh, whose right
likewise to the left of Miss Hesketh ; the remaining two
hands I took hold of. The cords tight to the skin, and ends
cut off close to the knots ; the hands tied as near each other
as could be done. The light being put out, the musical box
was heard shuffling, wound up, and floated lustily along with
the guitar, as if to show that tests, not dictated by malicious
suspicion, would not interfere. The same phenomena as
before, including the merry musical lesson,kept us in constant
delight. Finally, I felt something dropping on my arm, and
the signal for “ light ” was given. First thing I saw were all
hands tied as before, and before me the most beautiful flower
I ever saw, a magnificent dahlia 1 The positive assertion of
Madame Louise that there was no flower in the whole house,
forces me, for the present, to accept this incident as the most
Nov. 14, 1873.
397
THE SPIRITUALIST.
wonderful manifestation on this occasion. However, I
resolved upon still more severe tests, and give you particulars
of the third seance.
Sitters, Madame Louise, her son, Miss Nelly Hesketh, and
myself. This time I bound the sitters in the following man¬
ner to the table, a large square one, the legs being close to
the corners. A~drawing will show it best : —
The hands could in this way not even reach so far as to touch
the instruments, as I carefully examined before extinguishing
the light. I now simply state, that we had again the same
manifestations as before, ending with two splendid bouquets
of flowers—one placed on the table, one at my feet on the
floor. Mark this 1 the bouquets consisted each of about eight
to ten flowers, not bound together, but the stems as near each
other, as if carefully placed out of the hand in passing by.
Had they been thrown, they must have separated, and all our
hands formed at the time a close, compact ring. Where is
the explanation ? Christian Beimebs.
Manchester.
[Hitherto Madame Louise has not been recognised by this journal as a
medium, but we are glad to see this letter from Mr. Renners, who is a close
observer. When professional media come before the public with unde¬
veloped powers, or with powers which they fail to prove to be real by per¬
mitting some kind ,of reasonable evidence to be obtained, they do the cause
more harm than good.—Ed.]
THE “ SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER.
After the introduction of the subscription system into
spiritual literature, the Spiritualist stood out against the prin¬
ciple for some years, and was loaded with heavy financial dis¬
advantages in consequence. After paying the resulting losses
for some years, without a murmur, or uttering a word, it
opened a temporary subscription list. A very liberal response
resulted, which to some extent made up for previous losses.
In consequence, also, of that subscription, the spiritual move¬
ment in this country obtained a great and permanent increase
to its literature, in the shape of the more frequent publication
of this journal.
As the weekly publication has just begun, thereby doubling
the previous fortnightly work and money losses, a second tem¬
porary subscription list is opened to-day, and the following is
the first instalment of contributions, which we have to thank
the donors very much for enabling us to announce:—
Charles Blackburn, Esq. ..
William Oxley, Esq 
J. O. Luxmoore, Esq.
F. S. A 
Thomas Grant, Esq 
Zetetes (Dublin) 
T. E. Partridge, Esq 
Sir Charles Isham, Bart. ..
A Friend (Temple) ... ..
G. T. Thomson, M.D.„. ..
Miss KMingbury 
Algernon Joy, Esq 
Mrs. Hennings   
H. Cook, Esq. (Snodlands)
Miss Douglas    ..
E. D. Rogers, Esq. ... ..
Arthur Maltby, Esq 
Mrs. Maltby  ... ..
A. C. Swinton, Esq.  
J. F. 0. (Glasgow)  
Mrs. Gunyon...   
£ s. d.
15 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
3 3 0
2 0 0
110
110
110
110
110
110
110
110
110
10 0
0 10 0
Other friends, who would take a pleasure in aiding in this
work, are requested to do so at once, as the list will very soon
be closed. In justice, it should be remembered that the
Spiritualist has always been in favour of the self-supporting
system in connection with spiritual literature, but has been
most unwillingly forced to fall in temporarily with the sub¬
scription system, or to submit to unfair financial disadvantages.
Subscriptions may be remitted to Mr. T. W. Taunton, Hill
House, Versailles-road, Norwood, who is kindly acting as
treasurer in this matter.
NATIONAL ORGANISATION.
The following paper, entitled “ National Organisation as
necessary for the Future Progress of Spiritualism,” was read
by Mr, John Chapman, secretary to the Liverpool Psychologcal
Society, before the National Conference of Spiritualists, re¬
cently held in that town :—
Mr. President and Friends,—When Moses, in his
account of the creation, describes the gradual completion of
our then disorganised world, he says the action of the Great
Spirit brought order, and light, and beauty out of its chaotic
condition, and tells how, thereat, the morning stars broke forth
in harmony, and sang for joy. If order and harmony are laws
of nature, then upon those laws must depend the well-being
of all things. Order begets harmony. As in nature, so in
all things else. I build my premises upon this, and reason
from nature’s grand laws, which show that order and harmony
are necessary to the success of any purpose we may under¬
take. It is with this view of the case, and with a desire to see
a well-ordered state of society among Spiritualists, that I
have undertaken to broach the subject of national organisation.
What I mean by organisation is a united effort to consoli¬
date our • ranks upon some such basis as shall be most
generally .acceptable, for the purpose of aiding in a wider
spreading of spiritual truth; and to afford further facilities
for the carrying out of our principles and the enforcement of
our claims upon public attention.
I do not wish by this step to narrow down the teachings of
the spirits to a sectarian creed, thereby trampling down the
fair and living realities, of their teachings to a priestly
formula, or parting with their truths for a mess of pottage.
Bather would I labour to assist in the unfoldment of spiritual
gifts like unto those our Elder Brother and his friends pos¬
sessed 1,800 years ago.
Spiritualism has again come suddenly and unexpectedly
upon the world; so suddenly that there has been little time to
consider its bearings upon mankind. Perhaps that has been
one great reason why there has not been any particular orga¬
nisation amongst us, of a national or representative character.
I think the time has now come when some steps should be
taken to gather our forces together-—as a defence and a tower
of strength against any and every attack of the enemy. Never,
perhaps, was there a cause more maligned than Spiritualism.
It has had its opponents from every conceivable quarter. The
Church has denounced it, the world has scouted it, and scien¬
tific men have disregarded it, treating it as an imposture and
a sham. Indeed, I do know that at present we are free from
all the superstitious laws that have disgraced our Statute
Books. There is a law, I believe, which can deal with some
phases of Spiritualism to-day. The law passed in the reign
of James L says—“Anyone who shall use, practise, or exer¬
cise any conjuration of any evil or wicked spirit, to or for any
purpose, shall suffer, &c.,” may serve for an illustration of
what we .have to defend ourselves against. It is necessary,
therefore, that our forces be in readiness to defend our rights
and freedom as citizens.
No Spiritualist would like to see our mediums, or their
friends, charged before the tribunals of our country, and left
to their fate, as would assuredly be the case, at the present
time, should the above statute be enforced against them. Or¬
ganisation would be the most likely means of preventing such
persecution. It wrould wield an influence palpable and patent
to all. In unity would lay cur greatest strength.
It has been said that Spiritualism presents the spectacle of
an “indefinite mass floating about in the world of mentality,
without aim or direction, at the mercy of every changing
tide, devoid even of any temporary mode of action,” and
“ that it cannot remain much longer in the present chaotic
condition it has retained through a fear of organisation
amongst its followers, if it is to hold to its prophecies as
a work of redemption and reform I ” Doubtless, many of
you who are present to-day will concur in the reasonableness
of the foregoing statements. Consequently you will be pre¬
pared with me to urge upon this Conference the advisability of
establishing a national organisation, which organisation shall,
if formed, be instructed and empowered to carry forward
such work as this Conference may decide upon.
I ■wish also, in conclusion, and in support of what I have
said, to quote the words of a well known advocate of this
measure, Mr. George W. Kates, as delivered by him before a
mass convention of Spiritualists in America, and reported in
the Banner of Light. Mr. Kates says:—“If we have vital
truths, if we have positive facts demonstrating immortality,
if we have a philosophy that shall revolutionise religion, it
398
THE SPIRITUALIST.
seems to me our duty to combine our forces for making them
beneficial to all mankind! ” In these suggestions I fully
concur.
The last number of the Medium says of the division on
the point whether Mr. Burns should be allowed to occupy the
chair at Mr. Morse’s soiree:—“ This choice, however, did
not appear to meet the approbation of a very small mi¬
nority present—the promoters of a rival newspaper—who
threatened to leave the meeting if this intention were carried
out.” There is no truth whatever in the dissentients having
to do with any newspaper ; the statement is a fabrication.
Yebacity.—An advertisement, a great many pages long,
is bound up at the end of the cheap edition of the Dialectical
Deport, and from the advertisement the following are ex¬
tracts :—“The Spiritual Institution, 15, Southampton-row,
London, W.C.—Plan of association and action : This institu¬
tion extends its influence all over the country. At the
Central Office, 15, Southampton-row, are rooms for seances
and other experiments; classes, meetings, conferences; read¬
ing rooms, supplied with the literature of Spiritualism from
all parts of the world; a reference and circulating library;
a publishing department for books and periodicals; an in¬
quirers department for affording information and introducing
investigators to circles and experienced students of Spiri¬
tualism in London and various parts of the country; an agency
for the appointment of lecturers, mediums ; an international
agency through which truthseekers from all countries may be
introduced, receive information, and to which they may have
letters addressed when on travel in this country. The Spiri¬
tual Institution is sustained and its work performed by
voluntary representatives, who, individually or in associa¬
tion, do what they perceive to be most desirable in their
several localities. No declaration of belief, opinion, or
method of procedure is demanded of the representatives of
the Spiritual Institution. Each person is free to follow his
own course, the Central Institution affording to all any help
in its power; and the representatives, in turn, do what they
can to sustain the Institution. The system of organisation is
thus : district representatives act as depositors, secretaries,
or collectors in the various centres of progressive activity.
Local representatives, in a similar capacity, labour in a
smaller sphere, but, when necessary, in co-operation with
other local representatives, and with the district representa¬
tive ; individual representatives work in combination with
others or the local representative, or act alone.” After a
description of the “ library department,” the advertisement
goes on to describe the “ publishing department,” saying that
“ the Institution is represented by a monthly magazine,
Human Nature, and a weekly newspaper, the Medium and
Daybreali; and the greatest facilities are afforded for the
circulation of the Spiritibal Magazine, Spiritualist, Christian
Spiritualist, Brittan's Quarterly Review of Spiritual Science,
Banner of Light, Religio-Philosophical Journal, Revue Spirits,
Harbinger of Light, and all other publications of a cognate
tendency, whether issued in England or abroad. . . . The
system of association with the Institution is so simple and
elastic that anyone may become a representative, and partici¬
pate in all the advantages thus derived, as inclination or con¬
venience may suggest.” After telling the representatives
how to sell the goods of the Institution, the advertisement
says:—“A bookstall should be a feature of every meeting for
the advocacy of Spiritualism.” Further:—“ When it can be
made useful, honorary deputations from the Central Institu¬
tion visit localities and assist in the work of organisation.
Travelling representatives, in like manner, visit circles and
societies, aid in promoting a knowledge of Spiritualism, and
endeavour to bring about a more intimate relationship
between local and individual representatives and the centre.
At present the working of the Spiritual Institution incurs a
deficiency of about £500 per annum. This has been in no
single year met by subscriptions from- other Spiritualists,
hence a very heavy amount of responsibility has devolved
upon the managing representative. A few wealthy Spiri¬
tualists have rendered indispensable service by making an
annual honorary subscription or donation to the funds of the
institution. This is a department of effort which is capable
of very great extension, as only a small proportion of wealthy
Spiritualists contribute anything to this phase of the work.
The support of the institution has been very much neglected
by Spiritualists.” The general objects of the institution are
stated to be—“The discovery of truth, and the diffusion of
truth.” The sooner it discovers truth the better.
Nov. 14, 1873.
The Freemason newspaper, 198, Fleet-street, has a dis¬
cussion going on in its correspondence columns about Spiri¬
tualism. Information has reached us that the Free Speaker is
willing to open its columns to the same subject.
A letteb has been sent us stating that a few friends of
Spiritualism desire to circulate tracts, books, and papers on
the subject among the poor, and have begun the work. Those
who desire to aid should communicate with “ G. F., 15, South¬
ampton-row, High Holborn, W.C.”
A newspapek called The Free Speaker, published weekly,
price one penny, has just been launched into existence. It is
well printed, and evidently managed by well-educated thinking
men. It professes to speak freely on many subjects, which
other newspapers will not take up; consequently, if it acts up
to its programme, it will serve a very useful purpose. The
office of The Free Speaker is at 125, Fleet-street.
The Antheopological Institute.—Last Tuesday the
first meeting this season of the Anthropological] Institute was
held, at 4', St. Martin’s-plaee, Trafalgar-square, W.C. The
institute appointed a psychological committee a year ago,
under the presidency of Mr. Francis Galton, F.B.S., but it has
done nothing as yet. It is in want of good papers on psycho¬
logical subjects from members or friends introduced by mem¬
bers, and we believe that accepted memoirs will be read and
discussed at the ordinary meetings of the institute, and not at
separate meetings of the committee.
Liyebpool Antheopological Society.—The Liverpool
Anthropological Society, founded by Dr. William Hitchman,
was established January 1st, 1869, “ for the acquisition and
promotion of a better knowledge of the true science of man—
spiritual, mental, and physical];” and its first council con¬
sisted of the following gentlemen:—President: C. Piazzi
Smyth, Esq., F.R.S. (Astronomer Royal for Scotland). Vice-
Presidents : Sir George Ramsay, Bark, M.D., William Osburn,
Esq., F.R.S., Barnard Davis, Esq., F.R.S., Sir Duncan Gibb,
Bart., M.D., Thomas Inman, Esq., M.D., Rev. George Bartle,
D.D., Rev. Joseph Taylor Goodsir, F.R.S. Council: Rev.
David Hirsch, M.A., Rev. Charles Voysey, M.A., Dr. Hugh
Doherty, Dr. Dawson, Dr. Podmore Jones, Dr. Hitchman,
Mr. Frederick J. Jeffery, Mr. Thomas Ellison, Dr. Slack, Rev.
James Turnbull, M.A., Dr. Harris, Mr. Robert Wood, Mr.
George Shaw, Mr. Richard Williams, Mr. James Plastow, Mr.
John Thompson. John Fraser, hon. sec.
Wooltoh Mechanics’ Institution.—On Tuesday even¬
ing, Dr. Hitchman, of this town, delivered a lecture to the
members and friends of the above society, entitled “ An Hour
with Myself.” In the course of his address, which occupied
nearly two hours and a half of uninterrupted speaking, he
quoted poems, essays, lectures, &c., from Freelight, the Medium,
the Spiritualist, Nature, and other periodicals—to which he
has been for many years a large contributor—illustrative of
the spiritual nature of man. “ Philosophy and poetry,” he
said, “ are absolutely meaningless if there be not a Divine
spirit in human nature, whose office it is to do all the work of
mind on earth, and, if the body be incapable of Spiritualism,
in heaven. So far as the soul is concerned, there is no with¬
out, logically.*" Objects which judged only by the eye and the
senses of ff eshly organisation, seem to be external to us, are
really comprehended within the eternal spiritual being of the
Divine image—created in the likeness of God—one attribute
of which is ubiquitousness, not in the ganglionic cells of an
ever-perishing brain or spinal cord, but in the immaterial
faculties of memory, imagination, will, conscience, and con¬
viction of personality—capable of embodiment wherever it
may be, here or elsewhere, the same architypal unity of plan
underlying both worlds of spirit and matter; and that what¬
ever for man is true, men can now verify.” James Thomely,
of Gateacre, presided, and there was a large attendance, the
usual votes of thanks being carried with enthusiastic acclama¬
tion.—Liverpool Mercury, Nov. 6th.
ANSWEES TO COEBESPONDENTS.
R. F.—At Mrs. Tappan’s Sunday meetings Mr. Burns is usually
on the platform, making occasional speeches, and his bookstalls
are in full flourish at the doors. At the Cavendish Room meet¬
ings trade interests were always in full force, and advertising
announcements often preceded the singing of hymns, which was
one reason why London Spiritualists did not support the meet¬
ings, another being they were only asked to pay the expenses,
but not elect their managing officers or to control their own
expenditure. Dr. Sexton generously cleared off the heaviest part
of the debt run up, when nobody else would have done so.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
399
Nov. 14, 1873.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.'
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
YERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
into England the subject attracted attention in Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Association.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga-
tioh of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, <fcc. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Uommittee
Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 39 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 41d. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
RALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS US TO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.)
President,—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell,
Council.
Mr. George Blyton, I Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mr. E.J. Wilson.
Secretary & Treasurer.—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
A DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on hear¬
ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, and in¬
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might be
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 15th September, 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, "and by various means to
induce others to give the matter careful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modem Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations {vide Rule IX). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordi -
nary seance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussicns, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on thejfrsf Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Rooms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelope
should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
A DOMESTICATED LADY seeks an ENGAGEMENT
as HOUSEKEEPER in a quiet family, where one servant is kept,
The lady is a Spiritualist, holding no sectarian views, and, with the privi¬
leges of a cheerful home, no salary will be required.—A. B. Reynolds’s
Library, 57, Loughborough-road, Brixton.
SIBYL, Seeress, Clairvoyante, and Test Medium, 53,
Great Ooram-street, Russell-square, W.O. Hours—12 till 6. Terms
—5s. each person.
DR. HUGH McLEOD acts in conjuholion with SIBYL for the Treat¬
ment and Cure of Disease, at the above address. Terms, for consultation, 5s.
Visits, to any part of London, 10s.
SIBYL.—Owing to the press of work she has to go through, Sibyl pro¬
poses to have two special days of rest in each month; and, therefore,
friends will please notice that she will receive no visitors on the first and
last Thursdays of the month.
53, Great Coram-street, Russell-square, Oct. 10, 1873.
SIBYL, Clairvoyante and Trance Medium, may be consulted
in all matters of ill-health or business. Terms 5s. each person. From
12 till 6. 53, Great Coram-street, Russell-square, W.C.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, tbe GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Revealing Startling Facts
to the public, can be consulted on either Medical or Business Affairs con¬
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 10 to 5. Terms, One Guinea.
Address, 28, Sherborne Street, Strangeways, Manchester.
MRS. OLIYE, TRANCE MEDIUM, also Medium for
the Cure of various Diseases by Spirit Mesmerism and Prescrip¬
tions. 49, Belmont-street, Ohalk-farm-road, London, N.W.
A Public Seance at the above address on Friday Evenings, at Seven
o’clock. Admission, 2s. 6d.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—19, Fitzroy-street, Fit;zroy-
square.
DR. R. WILLIAMS, M.A., MESMERIST, of Brunswick
House, Hayward’s Heath, continues to Lecture on Mesmerism and
Psychology; to give lessons in these Sciences, either for medical or scien¬
tific purposes; to develops Clairvoyance in those likely to become good
subjects; and to conduct cases for the treatment of disease, submitting
them, when desired, to a Somnambulist’s consideration.
Dr. Williams is willing to take into his house a Patient requiring Mes¬
meric Treatment.—For terms, &c., address, Dr. R. 'Williams, Brunswick
House, Hayward's Heath, Sussex.
MEDICAL CLAIRYOYANCE.—A Somnambulist,
under the guidance of a powerful Mesmerist, diagnoses and pre¬
scribes for Diseases of all kinds, either personally or through the post.
Patients and Invalids should send full particulars of complaint with age,
sex, and a lock of hair. Fee, 5s. Address, Somnambulist, care of Dr. R,
Williams, Brunswick House, Hayward’s Heath, Sussex.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5.s; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
HUGH McLEOD, M.D., Psychometric, Impressional, and
healing by the laying on of hands; in which departments of Medium-
ship Dr. McLeod is prepared to give the highest references. Terms, 5s.
each person. Visits by arrangement. Hours 10 till 4. 53, Great Coram-
street, Russell-square, W.C.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bernard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
'NSPIRATIONAL LECTURES-BY MR. J. J. MORSE
_ (Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“ The prayer over he commenced an eloquent and philosophical address
on modern Spiritualism.”—North-Western Daily Times.
“ The medium then passed into what is termed the trance state, and in
clear and forcible language, with a readiness of expression and fluency of
utterance delivered a, discourse on Spiritualism.”—Liverpool Daily Albion.
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lecturer, or what¬
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram¬
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature and its Needs’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!’’—South Wales Press.
“ Those who are intellectually inclined, and desire to know what Spirit¬
ualism is as taught by the spirits, will learn more in an hour’s conversation
with Mr. Morse's guides than in months of misdirected seeking.”—Medium.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.”—Spiritualist.
“ Mr. Morse is what is called a speaking-medium, of no mean order, for
he kept crowded audiences intently listening each evening for above an hour
and a half to his certainly most powerful and accomplished addresses.”—
Darlington and Richmond Herald.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—tyfawyow Herald.
MR. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
Mr. Morse holds a seance every Friday evening, at 8 o’clock, at 15, Southamp¬
ton-row, W.C., when he is in London, where letters, &c., may be addressed,
or to his private residence, Warwick Cottage, Old Ford, Bow, E.
400
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 14, 1873.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows: —
“H.Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J.S.Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; II. R. Eos: Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D. ; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq , M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.Q.S.; Jenner Gale
Hiliier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq ; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; 0. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs..Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or- mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported: —
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’ y; , 
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex.' Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact With its top surface. Whether the hands
touch eacfi other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to'get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
betable tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of -the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time Income
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, andfromthis time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “ Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened.. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The maj ority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; t he manifestations aro bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STERLING.
Head Q^te.-BRO WN STREET and MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
FIRE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates
Bonus Returns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Renewed Premiums.
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities.
RUSSELL, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, &c.,
• 238, STAFFORD-STREET, WALSALL. The Spiritualist and
other Spiritual Publications kept on sale. Bookbinding in all its branches
at London Prices. Machine Ruling with accuracy and despatch. Sta¬
tionery—Superfine Note, 6d. per quarter ream; ditto Envelopes, IJd. per
packet, 4s 6d. per 1,000. Albums, scraps, ladies' satchels, &c., in grea;
variety. Printing.—W. R. having entered into partnership with Mr
Cooper in the printing department, is prepared to execute orders at a few
hours’ notice. Taste and Style guaranteed. Fifty Visiting cards (without
expense of plate) 2s.; per post 2s. 2d. Country Orders promptly attended to.
TO OWNERS OF HOUSE PROPERTY.
' E. BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
11, PARK GROVE, SHEPHERD’S LANE, BRIXTON,
ESPECTFULLY solicits the patronage of Owners of
House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixton
Road, and near the Railway Station—offering special facilities for the
prompt letting of Houses of every descripiion.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
S, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
liberal discount for cash.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS. —Handsomely-printed Blue
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion, may be obtained in packets, each containing 400, price 2s 6d. per
packet. They are especially useful for distribution at public meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, reading-rooms, clubs, and places of
public resort.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, London, E.C.
LUNACY LAW REFORM.
ALL PERSONS cognisant of cases of INCARCERATION,
under a false plea of Insanity, or of MALTREATMENT OF
LUNATICS, or who are ready do co-operate in obtaining AMENDMENT
OF THE LUNACY LAWS, are earnestly requested to communicate wKh
* MRS. LOUISA LOWE,
97, BURTON ROAD, BRIXTON.
The following Extract from the “Act to Amend the Law relating to Luna¬
tics ” is a fair specimen of Lunacy Legislation :—
“ It shall be lawful for the Proprietor or Superintendent of any licensed
house with the previous assent in writing of two or more of the Commis¬
sioners, or in the Case of a House licensed by Justices, of two or more of
the Visitors to entertain and keep in such house as a Boarder for such time as
may be specified in the assent, any person who may have been within Five
Years immediately preceding the giving of such assent, a Patient in any
asylum, hospital, or licensed house, or under care as a Single Patient.”—25
& 26 Viet., ch. iii, sec. 18.
Crown 8vo. pp. 126, Cloth 2s. 6d.
HINTS for the “EVIDENCES of SPIRITUALISM.”
By M.P.
London: Triibner and Co., 57 and Q9, Ludgate-hill.
TO BOOK-BUYERS.—Just published, and sent post
free, CATALOGUE No. 6 nf Standard SECOND-HAND BOOKS,
being a portion of the large and valuable stock of CHARLES LOWE, 1,
Ann street, Birmingham.—Libraries and small parcels of Bpqks purchased
or exchanged.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
