AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 86.—(VoL. IY.—No. 3.6.) LONDON: APRIL 17, 1874. Published Weekly; Price Threepence
©ontents.
Spii it Teachings        181
Remarkable Psychological Experiences of Madame Aksakof   183
Tne Rise and Progress of Spiritualism  184
Newspaper Witticisms anent Spiritualism     185
The Soiree of the National Association   '    186
Recognisable Spirit Faces     ... 189
PoetryTyranny and Freedom ...     190
Correspondence:—Spirit Forms, 190; Psychic Force, 191; Spiritualism
in Oldham, 191; Painting and Clairvoyant Mediumship  191
Spiritual Phenomena in Ancient Times      191
Spirit Forms    192
Paragraphs:—Spirit Forms, 185; Miss Lottie Fowler’s Mediumship,,
192; Spiritualism in Brighton  ... 192
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London : Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1873.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary. ..
Mr. John Davidson, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. G. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. R. Casson.
Mr. D. Gay.
Mr. T. B. Griffin.
Committee of Management.
Mrs. Gay.
Mr. Riece.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox,
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Casson.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. John Lamont.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
Mr. Bretherton. | Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of tbis Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
A "WIDOW LADY seeks a Comfortable Home in a
Gentleman’s Family where she could render her services valuable
in any Position of Trust ■, she is an Experienced Housekeeper, and has
been Companioh to a Lady. References exchanged. Address H., care of
T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.O.
BEYERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A SOIREE will be held on Thursday, the 16th April, at the Cleveland
Hall, Cleveland-street, near Portland-road Station. S. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A.
will preside.
The Countess of Caithness.
Mrs. Honywood.
Mrs. Tebb.
Mrs. Showers.
Mrs. Rudd.
Miss Ponder.
Miss E. Ponder.
Lady Patronesses
Mrs. C. L. V. Tappan.
Mrs. T. Everitt.
Mrs. Strawbridge.
Mrs. Fitzgerald.
Mrs. H. D. Jencken.
Mrs. Kislingbury.
Miss Withall.
Tea served at 6.30. Chair to be taken at 8 o’clock precisely.
Single tickets 2s. 6d.; double tickets 4s., to be bad of Miss Kislingbury,
93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.,. of Mr. T. Blyton, 12, High-street,
Bow, George Farmer, 31. Museum-street, Bloomsbury, and at the rooms of
the Dalston Association, or of any of the members of the council.
Algernon Joy, l
E. Kislingbury, j
Hon. Secs.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing to
become affiliated, are requested 1o communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. Thomas Blyton, 12, High-street, Bow, London, E., of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.)
President.—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Mrs. C. A. Blyton,
Mr. George Blyton,
Mrs. Amelia Corner,
Mrs. Theresa Wood,
Council.
Mr. T, Blyton.
Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
A. M. Greene, Hon. Secretary.
A DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on hear¬
ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, andiu •.
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might!».
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 15th September, 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter careful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modern Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations (vide Rule IX). Strangers can only be admitted to the wdi-
wm-yieunce held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month Is devoted to
special stances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on the first Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Rooms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelope
should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
Dalston association of enquirers into
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly ; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. - Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
A. M. GREENE, Hon. Secretary.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
li
tfHE SPiRlTTiALlSt
April 17, 1874.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING- of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The, Objects of this Association are
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
. 2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tem., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Richard Fitton, Secretary pro iem.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee.
Hrs. Barber, 1 Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Libra/rian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.~-l£x. Richard Pearce.
ERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
into England the subject attracted attention in [Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some. of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assocciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer, acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISTS.—Sunday Evening Services are Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o’clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
R. Pearce, Hon. Sec.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRIT DALISM.
Presidents.
Mr. F. Cowper. | Mr. C. Hunt.
Treasurer.—Mr. Whitley.
Librarian.—Mr. Maynard, 103, Lisson-grove.
Secretary.
Mr. C. White, 4, Gray-street, Manchester-square, W.
The Membership Subscription is Is. per Quarter, which admits to full
fellowship, mcluding use of books from the Progressive Library. Seances
are held weekly, to afford members an opportunity of becoming acquainted
with the Phenomena. Members are assisted in the formation of new
circles. A public meeting is held every Wednesday evening at the
Hall of Progress, 90, Church-street, Paddington, at 8 o’clock.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION. ,
Traiswra’.—Herbert N. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane.
Offices.—64, BERNERS STREET.
lion. /8«c.—Mbs. Lowe (Louisa).
RS. CORA L. Y. TAPPAN’S INSPIRATIONAL
DISCOURSES.
The Committee, encouraged by the support given to their former Course,
have much pleasure in announcing that they have made arrangements for
the delivery of a further Course of SIX LECTURES, extending from the
5th of April to the 17 th of May, to be held at Cleveland Hall, as hereto¬
fore, at 7 p.m., on Sunday Evenings.
Tickets for the Reserved Benches will be 12s. each for the Course, and
for the Chairs 6s. each for the Course. Applications for Tickets to be made
to Mrs. Honywood, 52, Warwick-square, S.W., enclosing Post-office Orders.
The Committee hope that some friends of the movement will feel dis¬
posed to assist, by forwarding small donations at the same time.
Single Tickets of Admission, or Tickets for the Course, can be purchased
at the doors.
A large portion of the Hall is reserved for the Free Admission of In¬
quirers and the General Public.
Price 2s. 6d.
LIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND—
Showing the harmony of things spiritual with things material.
“The tone of the book is exceedingly pure and good.”—Christian Spiri¬
tualist.
*** A list of spiritual and mesmeric works on application.
London: Bailliere and Co., King William-street, Strand.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
C. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
• SELLER, STATIONER. AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39. Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, Supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
CHILDISH FANCIES.
Twenty short pieces in various keys for the pianoforte, composed'by
CHARLTON TEMPLEMAN SPEER (^ts. 13).
Dedicated to Mrs. Denis, Fairbrook House, Rathfamham, Dublin.
PRICE THREE SHILLINGS.
London: Published by R. Limpus, at the College of Organists, 41, Queen-
square, Bloomsbury.
ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
T
HE following are the Speakers at Goswell Hall
Sunday Evenings up to the end of May
April 19—Mr. R. Harper, “Reasons for being a Spiritualist.”
„ 26—Miss Keeves.
May lo} Mes’ BuliLOOK-
„ 17—Miss Keeves.
„ 24—Rev. F. R. Young, of Swindon.
LWbit Sunday—“ The Day of Pentecost and its Spiritual Phenomena.”
Dr. Sexton in the Chair.
R. Pearce.
on
NEWCASTLE SOCIETY
FOR
PROMOTING ENQUIRY INTO MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
OLD FREEMASON’S HALL
(WEIR’S COURT),
NEWGATE STREET, NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE.
President.—Mr. Armstrong.
Treasurer.—Mr, John Miller. Secretary.—Hit. F. Pickup.
Seances are held for Members and Friends on Sunday Evenings, doors
open at 6.30, to commence at 7; and on Tuesday and Thursday evenings,
doors open at 7.30, to commence at 8.
On no account will anyone be admitted after the time announced for
commencing the meetings, except on special occasions, when permission
must be obtained from the sitters who form the circle at the time of
application.
Tickets of Admission may be had of the Committee,
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851,—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &e., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
fi’om 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may he obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
' FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
TO OWNERS OF HOUSE PROPERTY.
E. BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
11, PARK GROVE, SHEPHERD’S LANE, BRIXTON,
RESPECTFULLY solicits the patronage of Owners of
House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixton
Road, and near the Railway Station—offering special facilities, for the
prompt letting of Houses of every description.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
VOtUjVlE FOUR. JHUJWBEI^ SIXTEEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, APRIL 17th, 1874
Spntalbt
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Eeduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for - publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions]:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of “ The Spiritualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publishes', Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E. C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals :—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street,
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
,, Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. 0. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road,
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H- Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-ttreet.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher.
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny,
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 10s., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
JjlEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objeets :—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W»
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
NO. X*
Thank you. That seems to me to be a sublime and
rational theological creed. But I must think over it for
some little time. You claim, as I understand it, to de¬
clare to us Him whom we have ignorantly worshipped.
You claim that your creed is not at variance with His,
but stands to our conception of Him and His work as the
spirit-body to the natural body; as the teaching of the
Christ during His earth life to the Judaism which He
found amongst the religionists of His day.
Friend, you gather dimly what we wish to convey.
We desire to show you that the popular Christianity of
the nineteenth century is not the religion taught by
Jesus. Far down below the surface of that medley
which has been gradually heaped together lies smothered
the pure theology of the Christ. Deep down must he
dig who would discover the truth. We desire to aid
you in your search after the pure truth which Jesus
taught. We would clear away for you the heap of
human error, and show you what is wise for you to
know. It is scarcely possible for you to grasp at once
the full measure of what we shall eventually show.
Nor is it possible but that many old ideas should re¬
ceive a rude shock, and that much that is venerable
from long 'established usage and belief should die hard.
But patience, friend. The time will come when you
will know that truth is indestructible, and that we
have no power to destroy the tiniest ray that issues
from the Son of Truth. Nor we nor you can imperil
truth. It is immortal, divine, indestructible. It will
live for ever, spite of friends and foes; for friends do
harm as well as foes. But we can strip off the shams.
We can reveal to you that which does but counterfeit
truth, and show you how men have been mistaken.
We have no fear that error will eventually be main¬
tained. Nor do we fear that man will in the end re¬
fuse to accept views of truth which not only commend
themselves to his reason, but which satisfy the higher
aspirations of his spirit.
[June 22, 1873.] —I have thought much on what has
been written ; and I am still perplexed. It seems plain
that a creed such as that given to me would be held to be
* In the Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of some
remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-road, St. John’s-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life •who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extracts they gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium, free, to a large extent at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently, the “spirit teachings" printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, maybe assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many: each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been, invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing, peculiar to the communicating intelligence, is always preserved,
and the individuality remains throughout the same.—Ed,
182
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 17, 1874.
contradictory of the Christian creed by most persons,
and it is not conceivable to me that such views should be
generally acceptable. They contradict the plain words
of the Bible in many cardinal points. Without laying
too much stress on individual expressions, and admitting,
as I do, faults of translation, and special individuality
of opinion as not being binding on me, still it cannot be
denied, as I think, that the Spirit Creed is irreconcilable
with the orthodox creed of Christendom. Numerous
passages occur to me in which men are specially learned
by writers in the Bible against views such as yours.
They are asserted to come from an evil source. Noiv
men will say, “ Here is what you are decidedly warned
against. Here is the very anti-Christ. Is it not written
that the end of the icorld and the return of Christ will
be heralded by just such manifestations and teaching as
yours V' And what is the answer ? Where is your
authority to override the plain words of the Bible?
And is not the outcome of Spirit Teaching, even in the
elevated form in which it comes from you, to weaken faith
and to substitute the vague and shadowy for the definite
and real ? These are questions which strike me. The
Bible is against you ; and you fulfil so nearly the con¬
ditions which prophecy has assigned to the later age that
orthodox Christians will inevitably view your statements
with suspicion, however rational they may seem to others
less prejudiced. I shall be glad to have any light thrown
on these points.
Friend, you have opened points on which we shall be
glad to speak with you. As to our authority, we have
touched on that point before. We claim it to be divine,
and we await with confidence the acceptance of our
mission when the times are ripe for our teaching. That
time must come after much steady preparation, and we
are quite prepared to find that none can yet accept in
full the teaching which we promulgate, save the little
band to whom it is given to precede in progressive
knowledge the rest of their fellows. We say that
this does not strike us with surprise. For, think!
has it ever been that- a fuller revelation has
found acceptance among men at once ? The igno¬
rant cry has always been raised against progress
in knowledge that the old is sufficient: that it has
been proven and tried, whilst of the new, men say that
they know nothing save that it is new and contradic¬
tory of the old. It was the self-same cry that assailed
Jesus. Men who had laboriously elaborated the Mosaic
theology, which had served its time and was to give
place to a higher and more Spiritual religion : men
who had drawn out the minutiae of this system until
they had reduced it to an aimless mass of ritual, a body
without a spirit, aye, a corpse without life : these cried
out that this blasphemer (so they impiously called the
Saviour of man’s religion), would destroy the law and
dishonour God. The Scribes and Pharisees, the
guardians of orthodox religion, were unanimous in
their disbelief of Him and of His pretensions. It was
they who raised the howl which finally led the Great
Teacher to the Cross. You know now that He did not
' dishonour God: and that He did but demolish man’s
glosses on God’s revealed law in order that He might re¬
fine and spiritualise its commands,, and raise it from the
dead by infusing into it spiritual life and power, by
breathing into it vitality from the spirit world.
In place of the cold and cheerless letter of the law
which prescribed outward duty to a parent,—a duty
discharged without heart of love, with scanty dole,
grudgingly offered,—he taught the spirit of filial affec¬
tion springing from a loving heart and offering the un¬
bought and ungrudged tribute of affection to earthly
parents and to the Great Father. The formalism of
mere external conventionality he replaced by the free¬
will offering of the heart. Which was the truer, the
nobler creed ? Did the latter override the former, or
did it not stand to it rather as the living man to the
breathless corpse ? Yet they who were content to buy
off from filial duty at the poor cost of a few paltry
coins scornfully given, were they who finally crucified
the Christ, as a man who taught a new religion blasphe¬
mously subversive of the old. The scene on Calvary
was the fitting culmination to such a religion.
Again, when the followers of the crucified stood forth
to declare their Gospel to a world that cared not for it,
and which was not prepared to receive it, the charge
against them perpetually was that they taught new
doctrine which was subversive of the old faith. Men
taxed their ingenuity to discover horrible accusations
which they might charge upon them. They found
nothing too monstrous to be believed by those who
were eager to credit any accusation of the new faith
which “ everywhere was spoken against.” They were
lawless; yet so rigidly respectful to the established
faith, and to the “ powers that be,” that no cause of
blame could be discovered. They were devourers of in¬
fants : they who were followers of the loving and
gentle Jesus. Nothing was too monstrous to be be¬
lieved about them ; even as men now wish to believe
everything that can discredit us and our missiou.
Has it not been so ever since ? It is the story of all
time that the new is spoken against and discredited in
religion, in science, in all with which man’s finite mind
deals. It is an essential quality of his intelligence that
such should be the case. The familiar commends itself:
the new and strange is viewed with suspicion and mis¬
trust.
Hence it is not any legitimate cause for surprise that
when we teach a spiritualised Christianity we should at
first be met with incredulity. The time will come
when all men will admit, as you do, the beauty of the
creed and recognise its Divine origin.
It is not wonderful that our message should seem to
contradict some human utterances. Nay, that it should
really controvert some details of the teaching given
through human minds more or less undeveloped in days
long past, is to be expected. We have no desire to hide
the plain fact that there is much in some parts of the
Bible which does not amalgamate with our teaching,
being, indeed, the admixture of human error which
came through the mind of the chosen medium. We
need not repeat on this head our previous argument,
which is familiar to you.
Revelation, as contained in your Bible, includes many
progressive developments of the knowledge of God
which are in themselves irreconcileablo in minute de¬
tail. And moreover it contains much admixture of
human error which has filtered in through the medium.
You can only arrive at the truth by judging of the
general drift. Private opinions selected without refer¬
ence to the body of teaching are but the sentiments of
the individual, valuable as showing his mind, but not
in any way binding as of faith. To imagine that an
opinion uttered many centuries ago is of binding force
eternally is mere folly. Indeed, all such opinions are
contradictory in themselves, and are contradicted by
other and opposite opinions contained within the same
| volume. No doubt it was a current belief, at the time
April 17, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
183
when many of the writers of hooks in the Bible com¬
posed the treatises which ye call inspired, that Jesus
was God, and harsh denunciations are made against
any who should deny the dogma. No doubt also that
the same men believed also that He would, in mysterious
manner, return in the clouds to judge the world, and
that before their generation should die. They were
mistaken in both beliefs, and over one at least, more
than 1800 years have rolled and still the return is un¬
accomplished. So we might push the argument were
it necessary.
What we wish to impress on you is this. You must
judge the Revelations of God by the light which is
given you: in the mass, not by the dicta of its
preachers ; by the spirit and general tendency, not by
the strict literal phraseology. You must judge of us
and our teaching, not by conformity to any statement
made by any men at any special time ; but by
the general fitness and adaptability of our creed to your
wants, to your relations with God, and to the progress
of your spirit.
REMARKABLE PSYCHOLOGICAL EXPERIENCES
OF MADAME AKSAKOF.
The following remarkable incident, which occurred to
Madame Sophie Aksakof, wife of the Russian Imperial
Councillor, M. Alex. Aksakof, is related in the March
number of the Psychic Studies (Leipsic) in an article
by Professor Perty:—
“At the time of this event, 1855, 1 was nineteen
years old, without any knowledge of Spiritualism, the
name of which I had never heard. I was brought up
very strictly in the Greek Catholic religion ; supersti¬
tious fears, as well as any tendency to enthusiasm or
mysticism, were foreign to my nature, and I was of a
calm and happy disposition. In May, 1855, we were
living at Romanolf-Borrisogliebsk, capital of the pro¬
vince of Jaroslav. My sister-in-law, then the wife of
Dr. A. E. Sengireef, now a widow after a second mar¬
riage with Colonel Tichonof, and living in Moscow, was
at that time residing at Ranneuburg, capital of the
province of Rjasan, where her husband held a post
under Government; we were, therefore, about one
hundred miles -distant from one another. In conse¬
quence of the overflow of the rivers in the spring, all
communication was attended with delay, so that though
we had been for a long time without news from my
sister-in-law, we felt no sort of anxiety, as we ascribed
it to the above cause.
“ On the evening of May 12th, I had said my prayers,
as usual, and had taken a last look at my baby-girl,
then six months old, whose cradle stood in my room,
so that I could see her from my bed. After lying down,
I began to read a book, but presently hearing the great
clock in the dining-room strike twelve, I laid my book
on the table beside the bed, and raised myself on my
left elbow, to put out the light. At that moment I
distinctly heard the door of the ante-chamber open, and
a man’s footstep come across the dining-room. I re¬
gretted that I had just extinguished the light, as I
believed it could be none other than my husband’s
man-servant Nicholas, who had probably come to
announce that my husband had been sent for by a
patient, as very often happened. Only one thing sur¬
prised me, which was, that the man-servant, and not
ray own maid, as was usual, should be the bearer of
the message. Raising myself upon my left arm, I
listened to the approach of the footsteps, and when
they appeared to be in the drawing-room, which
adjoined my bed-room, and the door of which stood
open at night, I called out, ‘ Nicholas, what do you
want?’ There was no answer; the footsteps came
nearer and nearer, and I could hear them at last close
behind the screen at the head of my bed; then, with
a sudden, indescribable feeling, I fell back on my
pillow.
“ Before my eyes, in a corner of the room, stood a
crucifix, before which a night-lamp always burned, whose
light was sufficient for the nurse in the care of the
child. (The nurse slept also in my room, behind the
screen, which stood against my head.) By the light
of this lamp I could now distinctly see that the person
who had entered, and who was now standing on the
left side of my bed, was my brother-in-law Sengireef, in
a costume quite strange to me—a long, black, monastic¬
looking garment, with long black hair hanging down on
his shoulders, and a large, round beard, such as I had
never seen him wear. I tried to shut my eyes, but
could not, and I felt my body become completely rigid,
and incapable of the slightest movement; even my
voice failed me, that I could not call for help; at the
same time my hearing, sight, and the power to under¬
stand all that was happening, remained so fully under
my control that I was able on the following day to
recal precisely at what hour the nurse had got up to
quiet the baby, and other details.
“ I remained in this state from twelve o’clock till
three in the morning of the 13th of May, at which
hour the following took place: The apparition came
close to my bedside, placed himself at my left hand, and
turning his face on mine, laid his left, deathly cold hand
on my mouth and said aloud, ‘ Kiss my hand.’ Being
physically unable to liberate myself I resisted this com¬
mand in thought with my whole will power. As if
guessing my meaning, he pressed his hand more firmly
against my lips, and repeated in a louder and more
peremptory tone, ‘Kiss this hand.’ I again resisted
with still greater energy of thought. He then repeated
for the third time with still greater emphasis the same
movement and the same words, and I thought I must
have been stifled under the weight and coldness of the
hand pressing upon my mouth, but I neither could nor
would give way. At this moment the nurse got up for the
first time, and I hoped that she would for some reason or
other, come near to me and would see what was taking
place; my expectation, however, was disappointed; she
only rocked the child a little, without taking it out of
the cradle, returned to her couch, and went to sleep
again. Seeing that there was no help for me, and
firmly believing, without knowing why, that my death
was inevitably at hand, I suddenly thought of repeat¬
ing the Lord’s Prayer. Scarcely had this idea entered
my mind than the figure withdrew his hand from my
lips, and said quite loudly, ‘ So you will not kiss my
hand? Well then, this is what awaits you.” Saying these
words, he laid with his right hand on the table at my
side a roll of parchment of the length of an ordinary sheet
of writing paper, and as he withdrew his hand, I heard
distinctly the sound of the parchment rolling together,
and could see sideways with my left eye a part of the
sheet, which then remained in this half-rolled up state.
Then the standing figure turned himself away from me,
went forward a few steps, placed himself in front of
the crucifix, hiding the light from me by his body, and
began to repeat loudly and clearly the words of the
prayer I had thought of, from beginning to end, slowly
184
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 17, 1874.
bowing from time to time; each time he bowed the
light became visible to me, and was again obscured,
when he stood upright. After he had finished the
said prayer with another bow, he stood motionless, as if
waiting for something; my condition had not altered in
the least, and when I again wished in thought to
address a prayer to the Holy Mother of God, he began
again to repeat this, just as loudly and clearly, and so
on with a third prayer desired by me. Between the
two last prayers there was a pause, during which the
nurse again got up, attended to the child, and went to
sleep again. During the repetition of the prayers I
heard distinctly the striking of the clock, and as already
remarked, every movement of the nurse, and of the child
whom I ardently longed to have near me, that I might
take leave of it and bless it before my expected death;
no other wish was uppermost in my mind, but it was
not to be fulfilled.
“ The clock struck three. Then I remembered sud¬
denly that the six weeks after the holy festival of
Easter were not yet over, and that Christ is risen would
still be sung in all the churches, and I felt a strong
desire to hear it. As if in answer to this there re¬
sounded all at once from a distance the divine tones of
the sacred hymn, sung by a numerous choir at an im¬
measurable height. The sound came nearer and nearer,
became fuller and clearer, and I heard such heavenly
harmonies that I felt breathless with pure delight; the
fear of death fled away, and I was consoled with the
hope that these sounds would quite encompass and ab¬
sorb me, -and carry me with them into endless space.
In the song of the choir I could distinguish the words
of the hymn, which were also repeated by the standing
figure. Suddenly the whole room was flooded with a
strange light, which was so powerful and dazzling that
I could no longer distinguish the flame of the night
lamp, nor the walls of the room, nor the apparition.
This light remained a few Seconds, during which the
sounds swelled higher till they became overpowering.
Then the brightness diminished, and I could again see
the figure standing before me, not in its full extent, but
only from the head to the waist; and, curiously enough,
the form became less and less distinct, till it dissolved
in the light, in proportion as this grew darker, and at
last quite vanished; the parchment lying at my side
disappeared in like manner. As the light diminished,
the tones faded away, just as gradually as they had
formerly increased. I felt that I was losing conscious¬
ness, and was soon in a deep swoon, accompanied by
convulsions of the whole body. This attack roused
those in the house, and lasted, in spite of all remedies,
until nine o’clock in the morning, when they succeeded
in subduing the symptoms, and restoring me to con¬
sciousness. The three following days I lay motionless
with exhaustion, in consequence of an attack of blood-
spitting.
“ The day after this terrible event we received the
news of the illness of my brother-in-law, Sengireef,
and about a fortnight later, tidings of his death, which
took place in that night of the 12th—13th of May,
about five o’clock in the morning. The following is
noteworthy. "When my sister-in-law, a few weeks
after the death of her husband, came to live with us at
Romanoff-Borissogliebsk, she mentioned incidentally to
a lady in my presence, that her late husband had been
buried with long hair hanging down to his shoulders,
and with a large curious-looking beard which had
grown during his illness. She also mentioned, as some¬
thing unusual, that the body had been laid out for
burial in a long garment of black cloth, nothing fitter
being at hand.”
Sengireef s character was a very curious one; he
was very reserved, seldom communicative, generally
melancholy and irritable, and only very rarely cheerful
or at all genial. He would sometimes, in his melan¬
choly fits, sit for two or three, even as many as eight or
ten hours in one place without moving or speaking a
single word; he would at such times refuse his ordi¬
nary meals and take no nourishment until some acci¬
dental circumstance roused him from his fit of absence.
His mind was not particularly active, and his views
were entirely material, caused perhaps by his profes¬
sion as a doctor, but he had led a well-regulated life.
He believed in nothing supernatural, neither in spirits
nor apparitions of any kind. Madame Aksakof did
not always keep on very good terms with him, be¬
cause she took the part of one of his children to
whom he had shown disfavour from its birth without
any just reason. As Madame Aksakof had become
very fond of the poor child, and defended it on every
occasion, he was vexed and quarrelled with her. About
half a year before his death, the last time that; he
paid a visit to Madame Aksakof with his family, they
came to high words on the subject, and parted with
great coldness from one another. It seems to me that
these details are of considerable importance to the right
understanding of this remarkable case.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM.
(From The Brighton Daily News.)
Foe a long time past a discussion has been kept up in these
pages on Spiritualism, one of the most perplexing subjects
which has ever beset newspapers which desire to set before
their readers absolute truth, without bias, upon all subjects
whatever. On the one hand, large numbers of people assert
that the spirits of the dead are now giving sign, and appeal
to humanity by methods governed by scientific laws not yet
understood ; on the other side stands the prima facie
glaring improbability of such statements being reliable, even
when endorsed, as they are, by many persons eminent in the
ranks of literature, art, and science. Under these circum¬
stances, perhaps the fairest thing we can do is to quote what
Spiritualists assert to be hard facts, and to give a bird’s-eye
view of the progress of the movement from the commence¬
ment.
Modern Spiritualism is said in spiritualistic literature (see
the Hon. Robert Dale Owen’s Footfalls on the Boundary of
Another World. London : Triibner and Co.) to have taken
its rise more than twenty years ago in Hydesville, New York
State, through the mediumship of a little child, Miss Kate
Fox, now the wife of Mr. H. D. Jencken, barrister-at-law,
Goldsmith-buildings, Temple, London, E.C. Noises were
heard in the homely farmhouse, more especially at night, and
in the chamber where Kate Fox slept with her little sister
Maggie; the first explanation of the puzzled parents was “rats,”
but as time passed on the noises grew more obtrusive, -till
one night nobody in the house could get any sleep because of
the disturbances, and by way of finale the children screamed
that a cold clammy hand had been passed over their
faces. The parents, who were strict Methodists, prayed
that the curse might be removed from them. Once, while
the noises were going on, and after some of the terror
of the family had worn off, mischief-loving little Kate
Fox said, “Now then, old Splitfoot! Rap three times!”
Three raps were given, and thus intelligence was dis¬
covered to be connected with the noises, which were then
most reverently questioned by the father and mother. The
alphabet was called over, and a rap- was given at particular
letters. By this means the unseen intelligence claimed to be
the spirit of a dead man, a pedlar, who said that he had been
murdered in the house by former tenants, and that his body
had been buried in the cellar. Long before this, Hydesville
had been in an excited state about the noises, which had been
April 17, 1874.
THE SPIBITUALIST.
185
heard by many; but when, after digging in the cellar, a
skeleton was found, and it was remembered that a pedlar had
mysteriously disappeared some years previously, the excite¬
ment reached its highest pitch, and the position of the
earlier tenants was rendered anything but enviable, though of
course the statements made by the raps would have had no
weight in a court of law. The noises further told the Foxes
how to sit round the tables, to give the alleged unseen in-
telligencies facilities for producing the phenomena. In this
way the first circles were formed in America. Now there are
many millions of believers in Spiritualism in the United
States, and the list of names and addresses of lecturers on
the subject often occupies a column and a half of the Banner
of Light, there being some hundreds. Spiritualism in
America has two leading weekly newspapers—the Banner of
Light (Boston), and the Beligio-Philosophical Journal
(Chicago); there are several other periodicals.
One of the first mediums who came to England, some
eighteen or nineteen years ago, was a Mrs. Hayden ; she was
visited by Sir Charles Isham, Bart., by the late Professor de
Morgan (President of the Mathematical Society of London),
and by others, who, for the most part, published their con¬
viction of the reality of the phenomena. Afterwards came
Mr. D. D. Home, who at first took humble lodgings over a
chemist’s shop, but afterwards became the welcome guest of
most of the crowned heads of Europe, including the late
Napoleon III., also the present Emperors of Russia and
Germany; all three of these potentates have, by word of
mouth, testified to the reality of the phenomena. The
Dialectical Society of London, under the presidency of Sir
John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., recently appointed a committee
consisting of men of science, lawyers, and professional gentle¬
men, to investigate the matter, and, after three years’ experi¬
mental inquiry, the committee reported that the phenomena
of Spiritualism were real, and were governed by some unseen
intelligence ; they did not give any opinion as to what was
the source of the intelligence. Mr. Cromwell Yarley, F.R.S.,
Mr. A. R. Wallace, and Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., are
among the eminent scientific men who have said, after inves¬
tigation, that the phenomena are real. There are now three
or four societies of Spiritualists in London, and others in
Liverpool, Edinburgh, Manchester, Glasgow, Newcastle, and
other large towns. The Spiritualists of the United Kingdom
are banding themselves together, by forming a National
Association, the first meeting of which, in London, will be held
next Thursday, under the presidency of Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.
According to the reports in the Spiritualist newspaper,
there has been much excitement among the faithful during
the past few weeks. Mr. C. F. Varley, F.R.S., the Atlantic
Cable electrician, describes in its pages how he tried some
curious experiments a few weeks ago, by passing an electric
current through the body of an entranced medium, while a
spirit which had “ materialised” itself by means of vital-in¬
visible emanations taken from the sleeping girl, appeared in
the drawing-room of Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, of 16, Gloucester-
square, Hyde Park, W., where it was clearly visible to Mr.
Varley, Mr. Crookes, and other observers. Further, the
Spiritualist of last week contains an article by Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of Science,
and of the Chemical News, stating how he held the hand of
the same entranced medium, while the spirit stood by her side
and looked at him smilingly. These are astounding statements,
made by men who have everything to lose and nothing to
gain by their testimony, so that it is clear that in Spiritualism
we have either the grandest truth or the most diabolical
delusion or imposture that has perplexed thinking men in the
present century. It is not pur business to decide what Spiri¬
tualism really is, but men of science ought to settle the question,
and we think that the Royal Society and the British Associa¬
tion are greatly to blame that they do not give the public
authoritative information on the point; it is their duty to do
so, and they have shirked the responsibility.
These particulars we have collected for the most part from
the Spiritualist newspaper, a scientific journal, published by
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O. The Spiritualist is
the oldest newspaper connected with the movement, and
among those who have .contributed to its columns are Mr. C.
F. Yarley, F.R.S., Lord Lindsay, Mr. A. R. Wallace, Mr.
William Crookes, F.R.S., the Hon. A. Aksakof (Russian Im¬
perial Councillor at St. Petersburgh, and Chevalier of the
Order of S. Stanislas), the Baroness Vay (Austria), Prince
Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden), and several barristers and literary
men. Spiritualists are now getting up a semi-public testi¬
monial to the editor of this journal, who has neglected
orthodox scientific literary work for the last five years, in
order to attend to Spiritualism; about £300 have been
guaranteed within the past few weeks, and it is anticipated that
the total amount will reach £600.
Thus, from Spiritualistic sources, we have compiled a brief
summary of the main facts recorded in the literature of
Spiritualism ; whether these facts can be shaken by legal or
scientific investigation we cannot tell, but whether modern
Spiritualism be true, or delusion, or imposture, it has spread
among so many millions of people all over the civilised
world, that in any case it is a very serious subject. Science
ought to deal with it authoritatively.
NEWSPAPER WITTICISMS ANENT SPIRITUALISM.
Many newspapers do not know exactly how to deal
with Spiritualism. The wholesale abuse common a
few years ago is now rarely seen, and the editors, not
knowing what to make of the alleged phenomena, fre¬
quently deal with the subject in a comical strain. The
following lively specimen is from the Evening Standard
of April 7th last:—
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., whose belief in Spiritualism
is the result of what he calls scientific examination, announces
to the world that with the aid of a six-ounce bottle of phos-
phorised oil he can see spirits, when, as usual, the gas is
turned off. Of course his first ambition was to see Katie; for
Katie is the best known, and, if we may use the word, the
most sprightly of all the spirits who consent to attend
seances. It is only when Bishop Colenso and such like digni¬
taries have to be convinced that one can ensure the presence
of Moses and Aaron to ask conundrums, but for “ general
utility” purposes Katie is the handiest spirit we have. She
has not revealed her surname ; perhaps whatever it is, she is
open to change it, and such is her amiability of disposition
that she would make any ghost happy, who could gain her
hand and heart; for that she has a hand and probably a
heart, is what Mr. Crookes has just proved, having seen her
in bodily shape, and, as we may reasonably suppose, suitably
attired in ghosts of clothes. But there is this peculiarity
about Katie—she varies in length. On one occasion Mr.
Crookes saw her six inches taller than her medium, and on
another occasion not much more than four inches, though
always above the medium height. Mr. Crookes need not
distress himself about this. It is in strict accordance with all
that we kpow of Spiritualism, and is certainly not more diffi¬
cult to explain than the preternatural elongations of Mr.
Home. The lines from Sir Walter Scott’s Olenfinlas will
occur to the reader—
“ Tall waxed the spirit’s altering form,
Till to the roof her stature grew,
Then mingling with the rising storm,
With one wild jell, away she flew.”
The truth is that spirits and Spiritualists live in “ Wonder¬
land,” and those who have followed “ Alice ” in her explora¬
tion in that region will know that nothing there is commoner
than to find oneself opening and shutting like a telescope.
Let Mr. Crookes prosecute his researches boldly, and he will
soon be able to tell us that he has seen the vanishing
“ Cheshire cat,” has joined the mad tea-party with the Hare
and the Hatter, and heard the Mock Turtle weeping by the
sad sea waves.
Spiuit Foums.—At the close of a seance held on Satur¬
day last, at the residence of Mr. J. C. Luxmore, 16, Gloucester-
square, Hyde-park, Miss Showers being the medium, the
following test was obtained, showing the rapidity with which,
under favourable conditions, the spirit manifesting in the
“ full form ” can dematerialise herself. The spirit Florence,
standing in her flowing white robes, in a good light in front
of the curtain, directed one of the sitters to take the hand-
lamp from the table, and follow her at once into the dark
room used as a cabinet. This was done, but Florence had
vanished. Only the medium, in her black silk dress, lying
entranced in her chair, was to be seen. After carefully
examining the room, the gentleman resumed his seat outside,
and again Florence came out in her white robes, asking him
to repeat the experiment more quickly. He did so, but
Florence had disappeared, the medium being found entranced
as before. Another sitter was then allowed to do the same,
with a like result. This almost instantaneous appearance and
disappearance of the spirit Florence was a remarkable and
satisfactory test.
18(5
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 17, 1874.
SOIREE OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
Last night a soiree, under the auspices of the British
National Association of Spiritualists, now in course of forma¬
tion, was held at the Cleveland Hall, Cleveland-street, Port-
land-road, under the presidency of Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.
The platform end of the hall had been tastefully decorated
for the occasion.
There was a large and influential attendance, including,
among others, Mr. Martin Smith, Mrs. Honywood, the Bev.
Mr. Yoysey, Mr. Wm. Crookes, F.B.S., Mrs. Boss Church, Dr.
Ponder, the Misses Ponder, Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D., Mr. and Mrs. Morell Theobald, Mr. and Mrs. T. Everitt,
Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe, Dr. Hinders, Mr. E. Dawson Bogers, Mr.
and Mrs. H. D. Jencken, MissJFlorence Cook, Mr. H. Cook, Mr.
G. E. Tapp, Mrs. L. Lowe, Mr. and Mrs. C. W. Pearce, Miss
Katherine Poyntz, Mr. T. Herbert Noyes, B.A., Mr. B.
Hannah, Mrs. Kislingbury, Miss Kislingbury, Mr. J. T. Taylor,
Mr. and Mrs. Pearson, Mr. Crisp, Mr. T. Slater, Mrs. Cora L.
V. Tappan, Mr. J. J. Morse, Mr. T. Shorter, Dr. George.
Sexton, Mrs. E. Bird, Mrs. Olive, Mrs. Dickinson, Miss Lottie
Fowler, Mrs. Wood, Mr. Cogman, Mr. Algernon Joy, M.I.C.E.,
Mr. Farmer, Mrs. Tebb, Miss Houghton, Mr. A. L. Henderson,
Miss Dickson, Mrs. Maltby, the Misses Maltby, Miss Malvina
Claxton, Mr. T. Blyton, M. Boullard, Mr. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Dr. Lindesay Bichardson, Mr. Simkiss, Mr. E. T. Bennett,
Mr. Keningale Cook, B.A., Mr. D. Fitzgerald, Mrs. Fitzgerald,
Mr. and Mrs. Stokes, Mr. J. Freeman, Mr. Edmiston, the
Misses Withall, and Mr. W. H. Harrison—Mr.'B. Coleman, Mr.
Moncure D. Conway, the Bev. 0. Maurice Davies, and others,
wrote expressing regret at inability to attend in consequence
of absence from London or other causes.
The early part of the evening was spent over tea and con¬
versation, after which Mr. S. C. Hall took the chair.
The Chairman said—It is now my pleasing' duty to open
the formal proceedings of the evening. You will not expect
from me a speech of any length, for there is attractive matter
before you, and I have little to say; I am here to learn, and
not to teach, and my giving information to you would be as
useless as to go to the Stock Exchange to teach the Buie of
Three. We meet here under very pleasant circumstances.
When I became a believer in Spiritualism, some fifteen years
ago, whenever such an assemblage as this was brought to¬
gether, the public criticised us all as fools or cheats; but it is
very different, thank God, now. At last we are listened to;
we are heard, and we can make an impression when we now
speak that which we know from experience; which we know
as well as we know the right hand from the left. Further,
let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that if it were neces¬
sary to search out members for a jury to deal with cases of
life and death, nowhere could you find individuals more to be
depended upon than a selection from a band of Spiritualists.
Men will now listen to us, and that is a great deal gained;
we are no longer charged with deliberate fraud when we ex¬
press opinions that startle half mankind. Every new thing
has met with opposition; take, for instance, steam, gas, and the
electric telegraph; but I have lived to see all these come into
use, and their applications changed from theories into practical
facts. The time will come when the young among us will see
Spiritualism admitted as an equally undeniable fact. Marvels
which were marvels when I began to inquire into Spiritualism
are marvels no longer, for more wonderful things have ap¬
peared in our midst. Men of science have become our allies ;
men of knowledge, intelligence, and experience second to
none in the world, have joined us, and borne testimony to
the truth of our doctrines; this very meeting, indeed, is
ample evidence of our intelligence and our power. We
have, however, one special danger to encounter; and
I trust that a merciful God will guide us through;
let us beware lest a spirit of disunion creep in
among us. (Hear, hear.) I see evidence of its
presence continually in our various publications; let
us not deter God’s holy purposes by quarrels among
ourselves, or injure our cause, which is the cause of
God. My friends, I am now an old man, and my course
cannot be very long upon this earth, and I will not part from
you without thanking God with all my heart and soul for the
light which Spiritualism has given to me. (Applause.) There
are those who will quarrel with me because it has pointed out
a way to faith which is not the turnpike road that they
believe in. I had become an old man when I believed in no
faith and hardly in a superintending Providence—-certainly
not in a God who cared for a poor worm like me; but Spiri¬
tualism removed the scales from my eyes. It is not my busi¬
ness to quarrel with any man for the faith which is in him—
that is a matter between himself and his Maker—but I base
my faith upon a high and holy Christianity; I am a Christian
Spiritualist, and I rejoice to avow it; I believe in the recorded
miracles because of those I have seen; and for that blessing I
am devoutly thankful. I know that I cannot remain long
on this earth, but am certain that when I lie upon my death¬
bed the change will be no greater than a journey from one
land to another, and the separation from my wife will be no
greater than going to the East Indies for several years. Spiri¬
tualism has taught me that my life in the next world will be one
of continual progress, ever leading me nearer to the Lord above.
Not many hours have passed since I was talking on this sub¬
ject to a clergyman of the Established Church, a man of great
knowledge and indomitable courage; he said to me—‘ Sir, I
would give all I have in the world, and ten million times more,
if I had it, to possess a faith like yours.’ (Applause.) I be¬
lieve I shall be the means, under God, of giving him that
faith. He told me that he often shrank from proclaiming
from the pulpit things which he could not understand and
could not believe; no doubt many other clergymen feel the
same. (Hear, hear.) I hope I have been the means of carry¬
ing conviction to many, as certainly I have to some, and I
hope that that clergyman will become faithful and true.
Latterly I have seen little of Spiritualism for various reasons,
and have become alarmed because of the spirit of disunion
which has crept in amongst us. Spiritualism without har¬
mony will prove but Dead Sea fruit; a Spiritualism which does
not reconcile us is base coin and not true gold. (Applause.)
Let us try to work in harmony. (Applause.) We may all
have plenty of motives and reasons, but let us do all we can
to get Spiritualists to work together, believing, as I do, that
Spiritualism is the cause of God, and that Spiritualism is
the cause of man. (Applause.)
Mr. Thomas Everitt said—Mr. Chairman, ladies, and
gentlemen, I have been requested by the council of the
British National Association of Spiritualists, to give at this
meeting a brief statement of its origin and progress. For
years past it has been patent to all who have observed the
growing interest felt in this country in this great modern
movement, that a central or national organisation was only a
question of time. The several attempts which have from
time to time been made to organise, but which from various
causes have failed, were only regarded by thinking men
amongst us as so many indices of the wants and wishes of
Spiritualists, which unmistakably pointed to the time when
an organisation should be established, upon a broad and
liberal basis, in which 'all Spiritualists could be united, and
could heartily co-operate in making known the demonstrable
fact of man’s continued existence, after he has disappeared
from physical life. The sixth Conference of the Spiritualists
of Great Britain, as you doubtless are aware, was held at
Liverpool in the August of last year, and it might very pro¬
perly be called a representative Conference from the number of
delegates and other persons who attended it; all the leading
societies in the United Kingdom were represented on that
occasion. More than ninety persons were present, including
twenty delegates from various towns and societies; twenty-six
letters were received also from other places, giving a report of
the progress of Spiritualism in their respective districts. The
Psychological Society of Liverpool appointed a committee to
draw up a programme of practical and interesting subjects for
the Conference to consider, and the first day’s Conference was
occupied in discussing the question of national organisation.
Two valuable papers were read, in which some excellent sug¬
gestions were made, and after a lengthy and a thorough ven¬
tilation of the subject, in which all present were evidently
deeply interested, it was resolved that a national organisation
should be formed, and the following resolution was drawn up,
up, and carried unanimously:—
That this Conference invite its president, Mr. Thomas Everitt, also
Messrs. J. C. Luxmoore, A. E. Lovell, T. Blyton, A. C. Swinton, D. H. Wilson,
and R. Cogman, of London ; Dr. J. M. Gully, of Malvern; Messrs. Andrew
Leighton, J. Chapman, J. Shepherd, .T. Lamoat, and T. Dimsdale, of
Liverpool; Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Manchester; Dr. G. B. Clark, of
Edinburgh ; and Mr. J. Brown, of Glasgow; to form themselves into an
executive head, with power to add to their number, to carry out the objects
of the National Association.
In accordance with this resolution I took an early oppor¬
tunity of writing to a number of well-known workers in the
cause residing in or near London, informing them of the
unanimous desire of the Liverpool Conference, and inviting
them to co-operate in the formation of a National Association.
Many cordially and readily consented to help in the establish¬
ment of an association which should be governed by a respon-
April 17, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
187
sible body of respectable and practical business men. Others
replied that they wished us success, but excused themselves
on the score of having borne the heat and burden of the day,
and that the work should now be carried on by younger heads
and hearts. One brave and distinguished old warrior, among
the foremost in the ranks of Spiritualism in this country, who
has fought and gained many a tough battle for us in days
gone by, took up his pen against organisation, and not content
with expressing his views privately, gave them publicity
through the spiritual press. This threatened for a time to
hinder the work we had at heart; but we found one of our
esteemed honorary secretaries, Mr. Joy, although a stripling
in years compared to Mr. Howitt, more than a match for that
gentleman. Perhaps none of William Howitt’s literary pro¬
ductions have ever received so much criticism. A most com¬
plete answer to all the arguments advanced, and a thorough
refutation of all the statements made, will be found in Mr.
Joy’s reply. I hope and believe that Mr. Howitt will see
cause to regret having penned such a letter, if, indeed, he does
not do so already. Another active worker in the cause, and
one who we fondly hoped would have readily accorded his
assistance, from some cause or other actually took the trouble
to write private letters to gentlemen to induce them to have
nothing to do with the movement, and started a spiritual
institute on his own account, which, however, I believe never
had a substantial existence. I have thought it necessary,
though I have done so with regret, to refer to these facts to
show that it has not been all smooth sailing with us, but upon
the whole, sufficient encouragement was received to guarantee
the belief that the time had arrived when the formation of a
National Organisation of Spiritualists would be extensively
regarded with the most thorough satisfaction. At this stage
of the proceedings, finding there was an increasing demand for
information upon the subject, I invited Mr. Thomas Blyton to
act as secretary pro tem. We called the first Council meeting
on the 20th of October last, since which time thirteen Council
meetings have been held, and ten committee meetings. The
rules of the Association were most carefully and anxiously
considered, occupying the close attention of the Council during
several sittings of some hours duration, and we think, that
none of the learned societies can boast of a more appropriate
and comprehensive set of rules than the British National
Association of Spiritualists. The “ Declaration of Principles
and Purposes,” was also the subject of most earnest and careful
thought. The object of the Council was to frame such a form
of what may, perhaps, be not inappropriately termed, “The
faith and duty of the members ” as would, while setting forth
their views clearly and distinctly, hurt no man’s feelings, and
clash with no man’s prejudices; we trust that none of our
spiritual brethren will think that a single clause in that
declaration fails to realise the object we had in view. We
have already 58 ordinary members, 42 members of council,
10 honorary corresponding members, and one life member, so
that altogether 111 friends have joined the association.
Invitation to influential Spiritualists to fill the offices of Presi¬
dent and Vice-Presidents have been sent out, and 10 Vice-
Presidents have already been elected. Invitations to affiliate
themselves with us have been forwarded to all the local and
provincial societies. A large number of letters of a very
encouraging nature has been received from all parts of the
world, and first-proof copies of the constitution and rules have
been issued. This is a very brief outline of the origin of, and
of the work done by the British National Association of
Spiritualists up to the present time. Our numbers at present
are small, but no special effort has yet been made to obtain
members. At present we count them by scores, soon we shall
number them by hundreds and thousands. The Council has
hitherto been engaged in preliminary work, and right well has
it stuck to its task, which has not been very easy, although,
I believe, it has been to every member a most pleasant one.
Notwithstanding that great differences in religious belief exist
among the members of the Council, the greatest harmony and
good feeling have always prevailed. We have met here for work,
and not for theological discussions ; most men, I believe, are
better than their creeds. It is not what we believe, but the
life we live that receives the approving declaration, “ Well
done, good and faithful servant, enter into thy rest.” We are
all the children of one common Parent, all-wise and all-loving,
and actuated by the recognition of this assurance, the mem¬
bers of the Council have met from time to time to devise the
best means of getting at the masses of the people, to open
their eyes to the fact that the day is dawning upon us to
which the great and good of all people and all nations have
pointed, a day in which]spiritual light and life, truth and love,
harmony and peace, shall reign throughout the length and
breadth of the habitable globe, when righteousness shall cover
the earth, as the waters cover the mighty deep, when angels
shall be the ministers and teachers of the people, and the
chasm called death between the two worlds shall be tr dged
over, with such an accumulation of evidence that the way¬
faring man, though a fool, shall not err therein. (Applause.)
Miss Malvina Claxton then sang “ Never a care have I,” very
beautifully.
Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan said:—Mr. Chairman, Brothers and
Sisters,—This is a baptismal evening; you are here as
sponsors to the first organised expression of any number of
Spiritualists in London, or in England we may say, but
more especially in this metropolis. Organisation is the re¬
sult of growth; it never comes from without, but it comes
from within. It consists of spirit and of body. We do not
see that nature creates a body first and then a spirit, but
that the soul is within the germ of the flour, that within
the acorn is the tree; in all forms of life there first must
be the spirit and then the expression of the spirit. Some doubts
have been expressed about organisation. For our own parts
we see that the universe is organised, God’s soul speaking
through suns, systems, starry worlds, and the leaves of
the flowers; but there must first be the living soul. The
spontaniety of this evening’s gathering proves that there is a
soul within this assemblage, and so long as that spirit con¬
tinues, so long will the Association continue to exist. The
difficulty is that when the life has passed from organised
bodies the world has not been content to bury those
bodies, but rather to cling to the decaying forms after
the life has departed. How sad it would be if the remains of
your loved ones were able to walk the earth after the spirit
has fled; unfortunately, men have done this in a spiritual
sense in connection with their organisations, and the world
has been hampered and pressed down by institutions the
spirit of which has long since ceased to exist. Another
feature of our assemblage is that the spirit world claims to
have something to do with this movement. (Hear, hear.)
The first tiny rap which sowed the seed of modern Spiritual¬
ism has grown into a stupendous tree, from whose branches
such men as your venerable chairman have plucked the fruits
of immortal life. Who sowed this seed? The spirit world
through the permission and laws of Almighty God. (Ap¬
plause.) The spirit world stands as a sponsor to the child
now struggling for life, which is under the influence of the
angels, who have led you step by step as children along the
pathway of spiritual knowledge; before that, you were misled
by doubt, and fear of death was an ever-abiding terror in the
world. Those angels have opened wide the gateways of im¬
mortal life, and to them must you look for assistance, for guid¬
ance, and for counsel. The life of a united body of brothers
and sisters is born of the spirit; see that you do not shackle
the spiritual world with too much mechanism, and that the uni¬
versal solvent of love shall so bind all together as to make you
one. There is a majesty of strength in the united voice of an
assemblage like this, and there is a majesty of power in the
great concourse of spirits present to-night, as some of you
whose spiritual eyes are opened perhaps can see; hundreds of
rooms like this could liot hold the assemblage of spirits look¬
ing on at our meeting .this evening. It is good that this
association will give out no creed, but Jew or Gentile, Christian
or heathen, Buddhist and Farsee, can alike taste of its
bounties. So also can the man of Science, who, after
striving in vain to discover God in the atoms of material
nature, has announced to the|world that there is no God, or im-*
mortality—even he shall listen to the silent voice of the spirit,
or to the delicate raps which tell of a force in nature mightier
than any he has ever dared to dream of. With such a broad
platform, there can be nothing perishable in your organisa¬
tion; its shrine is the whole earth teeming with life and
beauty; its oracles are those whom the spirit has reared up ;
its teachings shall never perish from the face of the earth,
but shall go on until doubt and prejudice shall fail before its
vision. We welcome this child of Spiritualism; that it shall
grow up in wisdom and loving-kindness, and good deeds, we
most sincerely pray. We desire that it shall have the gifts of
the Spirit and of the interpretation of tongues ; but chiefest of
all we pray that that charity shall be cultivated which suffereth
long, and thinketh no evil. (Applause.)
Mr. Edmiston and Miss Withall then gave a flute duet
with good effect.
Mr. Algernon Joy, C.E., honorary secretary, said that many
years ago an old friend of his, who was a subaltern in the
army, was made treasurer to the mess; he knew nothing
188
THE SPIRITUALIST.
about accounts, but being an Irishman that did not binder
him from accepting the office. When he presented them, by
far the largest item was ‘ ‘ cash.” His commanding officer
said, ” What does this mean?” The reply was,” Oh, every¬
body knows what cash means—it means—well, it means cash
of course.” (Laughter.) They would also remember the answer
of Sidney Smith, who, when asked “ What is an archdeacon ?”
replied, “ One who exercises archdiaoonal functions.” So
when he (Mr. Joy) was first asked, “ What is the Association ?
What is it for?” he was at first nonplussed,its meaning and
use being to him so obvious, that he was inclined to reply, ” The
Association is an Association of course,” or to parody the
famous answer of the great Archdeacon, and say, ” An asso¬
ciation is an aggregation of abstract particles into a concrete
mass, for purposes of mutual support and concentrated action.”
If true, Spiritualism was the greatest blessing ever vouchsafed
to earth by our Almighty Father. How could it be otherwise
than true ? Had it not redeemed the infidel, and comforted
the afflicted ? Had it not changed the lives of many from a
blank and hopeless to a bright and hopeful existence, or from
a wicked and reckless to a pure and benevolent one ? Had it
not taught us faith, hope, and charity ? and that Hod is a
God of mercy, incapable of hating the worst, or despising the
meanest of His children ? If true, it was desirable to spread
it for the benefit of humanity ; also that those who hold the
great truth should influence the dealings of men with one
another, should influence legislation, should influence the
treatment of the sick and insane, that its existence might be
felt and known as a power in the land. This could be accom¬
plished by union and the machinery which could only be sup¬
plied by combination. Doubtless individual efforts could do
much, especially in the way of spreading information, and of
course association could do nothing except by the individual
exertions of its members. But an organised and united action,
pivoting on a centre whose exact position is defined and firmly
fixed by the beliefs and feelings common to all, and not forced
away by the vanity and ambition of one man, or by the peculiar
crotchets of another, such action, he affirmed, working
on such centre, must surely have more effect than individual
action alone can possibly have. But the question to which
he had to address himself was rather how the Association pro¬
posed to act. Its progress must, of course, depend to a great
extent upon funds, and it was hoped that a great deal of its
time might at first be occupied in enrolling members and re¬
ceiving their subscriptions. As to what it would do with said
funds, of course, members would not expect any return in kind
to themselves, even for the minimum subscription. The Asso¬
ciation must be careful so to apply its funds that country
subscribers should not complain that it was sacrificing their in¬
terests to those of the metropolis. The first business to think
of would probably be an office, and if it were large enough to
accommodate the council meetings so much the better : it
would at all events serve as a head-quarters for making ap¬
pointments, for keeping the books, and to give the Association
a recognised local habitation. Some one would attend there
at certain hours, which would be extended as funds and busi¬
ness increased. The Association would, of course, make it its
business to collect all obtainable information as to the exact
nature and extent of the powers of different mediums and
their suitability for various purposes. Lt would keep up a
correspondence with all affiliated societies and with
honorary members abroad, exchanging useful informa¬
tion with them. The Association would furnish its office
with bookshelves, and he might perhaps be allowed inciden¬
tally to remark that it would be glad to receive contri¬
butions from authors or benevolent individuals, nor need
any hesitate to send a copy of some well-known work lest the
Association should have one already; it could not have too
many copies of first-class books. The library would pro¬
bably be self-sustaining, as it would not lend its books
gratuitously. It would be glad to receive also MSS., whether
from members or others, with a view to their publication
and circulation, if the Council on the report of their pub¬
lication committee should see fit to do so. In cases where
such communications were of indubitable value, the Associa¬
tion should, of course, be prepared to make such arrangements
with the authors as would not subject the Association to any
undue risk of loss. Too much should not be attempted at
first. Some of these matters might be taken up early, and
the subject of schools and other important undertakings be
dealt with afterwards.
Mr. T. Herbert Noyes, B. A., said that hehad been unexpectedly
called upon to address the meeting, and he had not the faculty
of speaking impromptu so well as he could wish. ’ The ad¬
April 17, 1874.
vantages of co-operation and organisation were innumerable,
and the benefits of a National Association would be much
appreciated by inquirers. He felt the want of it himself after
he had first heard seriously of Spiritualism in an accidental
conversation at a table d’hote, and wished to prosecute inqui¬
ries. Many facts in connection with Spiritualism were known
to people in private life who ought to be encouraged to give
them to the world. One thing Mr. Joy had left out, and that
was mesmerism. (Hear, hear.) In mesmerism he believed
that the key to many of the phenomena of Spiritualism
would be found, and he hoped to see the Mesmeric Infirmary
resuscitated under the auspices of the National Association.
(Applause.) There was also a large and most beneficent
power of healing in mesmerism. Psychic force would not
explain the phenomena, and he did not think that the con¬
clusions come to by Serjeant Cox flowed legitimately from the
selection of facts which he (Serjeant Cox) had admitted. The
education of children should be attended to by the Association.
He thought that phrenology should be studied and taught in
schools ; for want of it there was a great waste of teaching
power; there was too much forcing upon children branches of
knowledge which they had no natural aptitude to learn.
Mr. J. J. Morse said that he had come to town from Merthyr
Tydvil, in South Wales, on purpose to attend that meeting,
and to represent the Psychological Society of Liverpool upon
that platform. Mr. John Lament would have represented the
Liverpool Society, but had been unexpectedly prevented from
coming to town. He had been requested by that Society to
say that their sympathies and desires were still with the Bri¬
tish National Association of Spiritualists, and they sent that
meeting their sincere greetings. (Applause.) He remem¬
bered the Monday in August last, on which the formation of
the National Association was unanimously decided upon at
Liverpool, and there was no doubt of the equal harmony of
the present large meeting in London. He looked forward to
the time when every local organisation would unite with and
work in harmony with the National Association.
Miss Sexton then gave a recitation, after which Mr. Morse
delivered an address, in the trance state.
Mr. 0. W. Pearce then made a few remarks, urging Spiri¬
tualists to support the Association with funds.
Mr. Thomas Shorter said he had been asked, but felt
some hesitation in speakin'g, as he thought that preference
should be given to the members of the Association. He
had no sympathy with the severe strictures which Mr.
Everitt had pronounced upon Mr. Howitt," which he
thought were in bad taste. Mr. Howitt had acted from good
motives, and if his remarks led Spiritualists to examine well
the dangers which beset organisations, his warning voice
would not have been raised in vain. He (Mr. Shorter) was
in favour of union among Spiritualists, and wished that all
work in the movement might be carried on in the broadest
spirit of love and charity.
Dr. Sexton expressed his pleasure in seeing such a veteran
Spiritualist as Mr. S. 0. Hall in the chair on that occa¬
sion. He saw the dangers pointed out by Mr. Howitt, but
he thought organisation in Spiritualism might do a great deal,
and he reciprocated the sentiment of Mr. Shorter that Spiri¬
tualists should lay aside differences and work together har¬
moniously. Like their president of that evening he was a
Christian Spiritualist, and at first he had some hesitation in
joining the Association till he found out that its platform was
a very broad one, and that it would attempt to give no creed,
so he hoped that it would do good and escape dangers.
Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan then passed into the trance state
and delivered the following poem:—
SPIRITS’ PRESENCE.
Mortals, we greet your souls to-night,
Frojn the Imd of mystic shadows-—
From the land of glorious shadows
Tinted with God’s endless light;
Toned and tinted with the light
Which falls from the great fount of love
Beyond the spirits' night.
And we would weave a chain aromnj;
Your own souls shall be the golden
Links with which the chain so golden
And so spiral shall he wound—
Spiral, like a wave of sound,
Rising to the great dome of heaven,
And circling God around.
Above you stand the living souls—
Pure souls arrayed in shining glory,
Arrayed in their own bright glory;
There the tide of wisdom rolls
From the Spirits’ inner goals,
Like crested waves of rolling thought
Around earth's darkened shoals.
April 17, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
189
Yes, just above your world to-night
There hovers an enchanting Spirit—
There broods and hovers a pure Spirit,
With flashing pinions of great might,
Flashing beneath Truth’s endless light.
Illumining, with Love’s pure beams,
Earth’s dark and shadowed night.
And all the world shall feel its breath—
Its breath like chained and forked lightning—
Forked and flashing like the lightning.
Which strikes with burning tongue pale Death,
Stings the pale worms Fear and Death,
And fllls creation’s living soul
With Love’s eternal breath.
Mr. H. D. Jencken on rising to propose a vote of thanks to
Mr. S. C. Hall, the chairman, for his great kindness in presiding
over the meeting, said that their much respected chairman had
been from the very first a firm supporter of Spiritualism; braving,
as he had done in its early days, every opposition, and the
more painful attacks of his nearest friends, he had with the
spirit of a English gentleman, maintained the reality of the
wonderful phenomena and facts upon which the movement
was founded.
Mr. S. 0. Hall, in returning thanks, said that Mr. Howitt
had been a gallant fighter ever since Spiritualism had been
first talked of in this country; and his wife, Mary Howitt,
had also done much good for the cause. He had cause
to remember both of them with gratitude; for it was in
their house that he first saw that which brought convic¬
tion of the truth of Spiritualism to him. And in remem¬
bering the merits of Mr. Howitt, one of the earliest
workers in Spiritualism, he would call attention to the good
done to the movement by one of the latest; he re¬
ferred to Mr. Crookes (applause), who had recently been
fighting most earnestly and successfully, and it required no
small courage for a man in any public capacity to [advocate
the cause, therefore the grateful thanks of all Spiritualists
were due to Mr. Crookes (applause), who was one-of the leading
men of science who had stood up to defend the truths of
Spiritualism. Of himself he would say nothing. Some of those
who were in the habit of using their pens, had conclusive
evidence of the influence which spirits withdrawn from earth
exercised upon themhe (Mr. Hall) had lately written a poem,
which he hoped had done some good in the world, and he was
as certain that he had the aid of spirits in writing that poem
as he was that he dipped his pen in the ink, and he used to
say to the spirits, “ Thank you, good friends, for giving me
these ideas.” All who did good had the aid of good spirits, so
he trusted that men would always strive to do what was right.
He believed that Spiritualism would be the means of destroy¬
ing materialism, and that that was its chief mission at pre¬
sent. (Hear, hear.) He wished that he could express his
thoughts upon this point half as well as Dr. Sexton had done.
He believed that Spiritualism was sent of God to help man¬
kind to lead holier lives, and he thanked God for having
made him a Spiritualist, in addition to many men of far
higher intelligence than himself. They should work out the
principles of Spiritualism in their hearts and souls, and then
he hoped that the National Association would prove one of
the most efficient means by which the cause would be main¬
tained and spread. (Applause.)
The meeting then broke up at a late hour.
Ms. Mabtiit R. Smith has been elected a vice-president
of the National Association.
Thebe is every probability that the price of the Spiritualist
will be reduced to twopence in a few weeks’ time.
Me. F. Piebcy, the artist of Pall Mall, who is known to
many of the readers of these pages, has issued a pamphlet,
carefully illustrated, proving by critical comparison of features
that Arthur Orton is not the late Roger Tichborne.
Mb. S. C. Hall, in his closing speech at the National
Association soiree last night, paid a well merited tribute to Mr.
Crookes for the valuable public testimony he has recently
given as to the reality of certain spiritual phenomena. The
Standard last week published some ” chaff ” about him for
doing the same thing.
Mbs. Lowe informs us that from having read many of
the certificates on which alleged lunatics have been incarcerated,
it is quite certain that they are often locked up because of
their acquisition of incipient mediumship, which is often
disorderly. When improperly treated by persons ignorant of
Spiritualism, such persons are often driven mad in real earnest
RECOGNISABLE SPIRIT FACES.
Fkequent reports in the American Spiritual periodicals,
and other journals, show that there are now many
mediums in the United States, in whose presence spirits
can materialise themselves so as to be recognised by their
friends; in fact, it is becoming a common manifestation
there. We quote the following report from the JReligio
Philosophical Journal (Chicago) of April 4th, last:—
Mr. F. K. Parmenter testifies and says, that at the
spirit seances of Mr. J. H. Mott, held at his residence
in Knoxville, that in addition to a great variety of
phenomena for which he is unable to account, he saw
the spirit face and form of Mrs. Andrew Hamilton,
deceased, with whom he was acquainted in life, as
plainly and distinctly as he ever saw her in earth life;
and that she saluted him by a motion of her hand, and
said, somewhat indistinctly, “ Thank God this is truth.,,
He also saw the form and face of a youth who gave his
name as Orville Bassett, and expressed a wish to see
his brother, Edwin C. Bassett; also the spirit face and
form of a man in shirtsleeves, with a very heavy black
beard. He gave his name as Dr. J. H. Reed. Also,
the spirit form of my brother-in-law who passed to
spirit life in the year 1863. I held a lengthy conver¬
sation with him concerning his father and mother.
Mr. Luther Weatherbee testifies that he distinctly
saw and recognised the spirit form of his deceased wife,
Esther Ann Weatherbee, who passed to spirit-life in
the year 1866, with whom he had lived thirty years—
that she showed herself to him on five successive
evenings as plainly as he ever saw her in earth-life.
That one evening she took a small dinner bell from the
shelf of the cabinet, with her own materialised hand,
lifted it and placed it in his hand, which fact was
witnessed by every person in the room.
Mr. P. K. Clark testified as follows:—Mrs. Mott
(who was sitting in the circle) announced, “ Here is a
gentleman with a crippled hand,” at the same time a
hand was shown to all present. My wife stepped up
to the door and saw a spirit-form she thought to be her
father. He called her by name. She said, “ Is this
you, father?” The reply was, <c Yes.,, She then re¬
quested me (her husband) to come there. I did so,
and said: “ Father, if this is you, will you show me
your left hand ?” The hand was instantly laid out
upon the shelf, and I saw a facsimile of his hand when
living; the second finger of the left hand was taken off
at the second joint, the first finger crooked. My wife
then asked him several questions, which were answered
satisfactorily. She then felt a hand patting her head,
and heard the words, “ God bless you,” distinctly
spoken. I saw several other spirit forms very dis¬
tinctly, some much plainer than others; could hear them
speak in a whisper, some seeming much stronger than
others—saw many hands, varying in size and appear¬
ance—one very handsome lady’s hand reached out-with
a small bell in it and set it down on the shelf of the
cabinet. Some little time after, the same hand in ap¬
pearance reached out, took up the bell, and put it into
the hand of Mr. Luther Weatherbee, who was standing
at the door of the cabinet, making a motion to have it
taken away.
The Banner of Light is republishing, at considerable
length, some of Miss Lottie Fowler’s experiences in Scotland.
Mb. Geeald Massey is now lecturing in California; he
•will shortly work his way eastward again, and will probably
return to England about the end of May.
190
THE SPIKITUALIST.
April 17,1874,
laoetvj).
TYRANNY AND FREEDOM.
The following verses relating to Chepstow Castle, and written by the
Editor of The Spiritualist, were originally published in the Cambria Daily
Leader: —
In the'sllenee of eve when the shadows were falling,
And the rooks in the twilight grew pallid and grey,
I gazed on a castle once famous in story,
And thought upon those who had long passed away.
Round the ivy-clad turrets the sea-bird was screaming,
And the torrents beneath in their murmuring flow,' ' H
S ghed a sorrowful d'rge 'mid the gloom and the darkness,
O’er the graves of the mighty ones sleeping below.
I gazed on the moat with its cold icy water,
On the courtyard and terrace with nettles o’ergrown;
Through each dark winding passage my footsteps re-echoed,
And I silently mused as I wandered alone.
The rack and the dungeon, the chain and the fetter,
Have long done the work of oppression and wrong;
But their dark reign of terror has vanished for ever,
For the truth has prevailed o’er the power of the strong.
0, beautiful rum, a moral thou teachest,
Thy dark desolation, thy dust and decay,
Are but emblems and types of tyrannical ages,
■Which are fading full fast and must soon pass away.
I wish not to see thee again in thy splendour,
Of pomp and magnificence—fleeting as sand—
O’er the race of humanity freedom is dawning,
And a happier time for mankind is at hand.
Of the natims of earth the foundations are shaking
For purposes deeper than mortal can tell,
Are working and weaving with men and their passions,
And ruliog the universe wisely and well.
(Eflmsjpotttrence.
[dreat freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
SPIRIT FORMS.
Sir,—The letter of Mr. Cholmondeley Pennell in your
impression of last week is dictated by so good a motive, and
is inspired by so much candour and right feeling, that I cannot
forbear expressing my gratification at its perusal. I was
always of opinion that Mr. Pennell had arrived at a hasty
and erroneous conclusion with reference to the facts of the case
to which he refers; but his amende, after what has since
occurred to establish the absolute integrity and good faith
of Miss Cook, must be extremely satisfactory to her, as also to
her friends.
The most recent experiences of the phenomena, pro¬
duced through the splendid mediumship of Miss Cook
and Miss Showers, are of a description to carry conviction to
any mind not irremediably and hopelessly obscured by preju¬
dice, and what is more to be deplored, ignorance.
“ Why are these wonders produced in the dark ?” used to
be the stock argument of the class to which I refer. The
answer came in the fulness of time. They are now observed
—not only in the ordinary light, but under the intense and
bewildering illumination of Ignited magnesium ! Baffled by
this stubborn fact, Ignorance and Prejudice shift their ground,
and exclaim, “ Why can’t the medium and the apparition (or
materialised figure) be seen at one and the same time ?” The
answer is that they are so seen. Upon this point there can
be no manner of doubt, and if I had not seen them myself I
should not venture to be so absolutely positive in my asser¬
tion.
Witnesses of high character and credit—men and women
whose veracity no one who knows them would think of ques¬
tioning in the ordinary transactions of life, have seen and do
believe. When they first saw the apparition they were already
satisfied that the medium was where they had placed her, and
this is perhaps the reason why they have also been privileged
to witness the materialised figure and the medium at one and
the same moment.
It seems that those who for so long a period have borne the
shafts of ridicule, and who have suffered unjust obliquy
because they have been guilty of the terrible indiscretion of
believing the senses with which Nature has endowed them,
are at length beginning to reap the reward of their perspi¬
cacity and patience.
It is now perhaps allowable for them to express their
opinion that the following “manifestations” may be antici¬
pated:—Prejudice will have to surrender a good deal; Ignor¬
ance will have much to learn; Envy and Uncharitableness will
have much to condone ; and Science—so called—will have to
come down from its stilts and assume an attitude of
humility.
All this may not be accomplished in a day, nor yet in a
year; but that truth will in the end prevail is the belief of
yours very faithfully, Henry M. Dunphy.
3, Essex-court, Temple, April 14th.
Sir,—Those who believe that the phenomena of Spiritualism
are “ the lying wonders of these latter days,” must be certainly
very credulous persons, however sincere they may be in their
religious belief, and in their faith as regards the fruits by
which the tree may be judged. But those who persist in
attributing the .whole to trickery and collusion, and among
whom are men of eminence in science and literature, men of
learning and erudition, what an opinion they must entertain
of human nature in Regard to a universal cunning and deceit¬
fulness, backed by a cleverness that is not apparent in any
other direction ; in fact, believing in a kind of miracle—strain
at the gnat and swallow the camel. It is very true, that
under abnormal conditions persons are not always themselves,
and I have known somnambules very untruthful, whilst others,
in the opposite direction, have been sublimely sincere and
truthfulness itself. But to suppose that a young girl would
attempt to produce by any artifice such phenomena as reported
in respect to Miss Cook is quite out of the question ; or to
suppose that she might be able to perform such a feat is to
attribute to young persons abilities they do not possess. But
there may be collusion, and no opinion in regard to persons,
honour, or respectability, should prevent that being looked
to; and persons so circumstanced will excuse all suspicion
or hesitation, and be but too ready in every way to facilitate
investigation, since the matter is at first beyond all belief.
Spirits of the dead returning and appearing in our midst is
startling enough, and clothed from head to foot, if not in
armour like the ghost of Hamlet, but the appearance of the
wraith, or double, or materialised form or spirit, and draped
in elegant attire and of materials you may handle, as “ palp¬
able to feeling as to sight,” is, at first, most incredible. But
facts are facts, the elements of reason, and not to be reasoned
out of existence. The facts of Spiritualism will throw light
upon all the “ problems of life and mind and to think that
Mr. Lewes in his new work should ignore all these deviations,
or exceptional instances, is strange indeed, and corresponding
to those rare or deviating phenomena that have cast so much
light in regard to each and all the sciences. As well give
Hamlet without the ghost, Macbeth without the witches,
or Paradise Lost without angel, God, or devil ; or nature
without sunlight. And now is the turn come for the science
of human nature. The sounding and sensitive flames is a
good instance of an unexpected and extraordinary phenomenon
brought to light; and at this moment see the excitement
everywhere in regard to the transit of Yenus, for it is ever
the exceptional, or extraordinary, that proves or exhibits the
rule, not the ordinary or normal that explains the excep¬
tional. Mr. Lewis is completely wrong on this. I say, as I
said and exemplified the matter twenty years ago in my letter
to Miss Martineau, that the abnormal or exceptional instances
exhibit the law, and but for these we should make but little
advance in the science of most matters. See what the rain¬
bow did for the science of light! and the facts of Spiri¬
tualism and of mesmerism, and all their devious correlations,
are the principal elements needed for the basis of a science of
man and mind; setting aside superstitious errors on the one
hand, and metaphysical illusion and nonsense on the other,1
for the purely physical and the spiritual.
Boulogne. Henry G. Atkik«on,
Sir,—Mr. H. C. Pennell’s letter in your last will be read
with pleasure by all who followed with attention the remark¬
able development of Miss Cook’s seances. When a candid,
critical investigator finds out that he has been mistaken, the
gentleman ought to step in to retract his former assertions,
especially if the honesty of a person is involved in the
question. By so acting, the injury done in the first instance
will not only be removed, but may turn into actual good as
testifying to the principle of the strict honesty of the writer.
If other lovers of truth would follow the fair example of
Mr. Pennell, much, if not all, of the harm inflicted upon the
medium and her friends would be reduced to a mere ‘‘ freak
of conflicting circumstances.” C. Reimers,
Manchester.
April 17, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
191
PSYCHIC FORCE.
Sir,—Mr. Atkinson, if I rightly understand his argument,
combats the existence of psychic (or soul) force, which I con¬
tend to be the motive force of the mechanism of man, by
simply denying the existence of soul or spirit as a part of
that mechanism. He says that I assume its existence,
although it is altogether unproved and purely conjectural.
True that I assume the existence of soul or spirit as the
foundation of the theory that psychic force is the agent in
the phenomena called Spiritual. But I contend, also, that
there is abundant evidence of the existence of a soul in man,
not the least conclusive being these very phenomena.
Mr. Atkinson is, I believe, still a materialist, although he
admits the reality of many of these phenomena. As he is a
gentleman who has reasons for the faith that is in him, and
is well able to express them, it would, I am sure, be satisfac¬
tory to all your readers if he would state explicitly how he
reconciles with his materialism the facts he admits.
Moat Mount, Hendon. Edward W. Cox.
April 13,1874.  
SPIRITUALISM IN OLDHAM.
Sir,—On Easter Sunday, last year, Mr. Wood, the well-
known Yorkshire medium, gave an Oldham audience their
first experiences in Spiritualism, Mr. Kershaw, a tradesman
of the town, having taken the subject up with great energy
and enthusiasm, and having invited Mr. Wood, and engaged
a hall, on his own responsibilty and at his own risk. So far
as I can learn, Mr. Kershaw was then the one solitary
Spiritualist in the town. There are now, I believe, upwards
of 300, and on Good Friday last an audience of about 130
avowed Spiritualists assembled to listen to inspirational ad¬
dresses through various mediums.
Miss Barlow, of Rhodes, near Manchester, was the first to
be influenced, and opened the proceedings with a prayer or
invocation, which would not have disgraced Mrs. Tappan’s
guides, either as to its matter or its delivery. You are doubt¬
less aware, sir, that Miss Barlow is in no sense a professional
medium. She is, however, a very well developed one; the influ¬
ences that control her are of the highest order; her voice is
sweet and clear, her delivery good, and her manner graceful.
She was controlled three times by different influences. Mr.
Wood was also controlled by Tom Paine, Josiah, and “ The
old friend,” the latter of whom vigorously chaffed the chair¬
man for exercising his authority in telling him to “go on.”
Mrs. Leach gave a splendid poem under influence, in a most
impressive manner, and other mediums gave testimony of
clairvoyance, and addressed the meeting under influence.
About twenty undeveloped, or half-developed mediums,
gave signs of the power that was on them; and at last the
chairman thought it wise to bring the pi’oceedings to a close,
as about ten mediums were under influence at once, and
could not be kept quiet. Algernon Joy.
Rochdale, April 7th, 1874*
PAINTING AND CLAIRVOYANT MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—A young gentleman who frequents my circle for
development, has lately been painting under spirit control,
and one evening brought a spirit-painting he had finished
during the week. The subject was, a tall male spirit clothed
in white, with a white turban, or hood. Across the face, and
down to the centre of the body was represented a gleaming
white cross, as of light. The spirit’s hands were raised, and
resting on the arms of this cross. The whole form was sur¬
rounded by light floating clouds, decidedly Turneresque in
effect. Floating, as it were, almost at the feet of the male
spirit, was the beautiful face of a young spirit girl; only the
face, with the long golden hair, could be seen, turning with a
lovely smile towards the beholder, the remainder of the form
being lost in the clouds.
I regret that the rest of my account must appear rather
egotistical, as I have to be the relator of events which hap-
peiied to myself. As we stood in a group, admiring the
beauty and spirituality of the painting, and enquiring of the
artist if he knew who the male spirit was, I felt a very power¬
ful influence descend upon me; a radiant figure stood in our
midst, directly in front of me, bearing a striking resemblance
to the one in the picture. In my open trance I described him
to the company. He then controlled me to speak. The pur¬
port of the communication was that he was John King, and it
was his picture, but that it was not he who had controlled the
young artist for painting. It was the spirit of one who had
been eminent on earth as an artist himself, and who would
give to our young friend pictures of ravishing beauty of
scenes in the spirit-life. The name of the artist was enquired.
“ Turner,” was the answer. John, being interrupted by a new
arrival, bade adieu, promising to give us at a future time the
symbolical meaning of the cross. The floating female figure
we all know as that of a very sweet and beloved spirit visitor
to our circle. At the seance, afterwards, all the information
given by John was confirmed through another medium, under
the control of another spirit, also through the table-tilts.
A few days after, whilst sitting alone, writing, John, who
with many other spirits is my frequent visitor, appeared to
me, this time with the cross borne as in the picture before
him, but gleaming with a living radiance which no oil-paint¬
ing could represent. The two hands were uplifted, and
resting upon the arms of the cross ; and his face more beauti¬
ful than I had ever seen it, with a spirit delicacy and beauty
unsurpassable; the regular features wearing an expression of
God-like majesty, the eyes shining like stars, and the flesh
almost transparently luminous. But brighter than all shone
the cross, formed of long rays of light, brilliant as the sun,
behind which John’s figure, clothed in radiant white, seemed
almost to disappear and be lost; although shining brightly
itself, it appeared as if it would be refined away into the
very brightness of life, and yet the noble face with the long
black hair and beard, and beaming eyes, was intensely vivid.
The sight was ravishing, and filled me with such delight,
that it was some little time before I could be brought down
to the more ordinary state of writing under control, the
following explanation given by “John King ” of the Cross
of Light in A.’s picture :—
“It means the purity of my mission. I bear a cross in
coming to earth, because I endure a good deal for you all,
and my cross is pure and white, because my work is pure
and good; and I bear my cross upon my face, as it were,
because it is a Divine mission, in which I find my glory,—
the glory of an angel. Therefore the cross is luminous. I
love my work for its good and use, and upon its arms I
lightly rest my upraised hands to indicate that love. It is no
burthen upon my shoulders, but, borne before me, becomes
the insignia, or badge of my office in the spirit world, and is
my support, consolation, joy, and uplifter; for by it my soul
makes its progress into higher states of purity through the
love of that .humanity for which I work, to aid in uplifting
mortal man to a knowledge of spirit life.”
“ Henry Morgan, alias ‘John King,’ for spirit-circles.”
Upon asking him if he were not Sir Henry de Morgan, he
answered—“ Yes,” but that he cared not for earthly titles,
and preferred simple Henry Morgan.
41, Bernard-street, Catherine Woodfobde.
Russell-square, W.C.
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA IN ANCIENT TIMES.
An anonymous letter in the Brighton Daily News of last
Wednesday contains the following statements:—“Hermippus,
in his first book concerning Pythagoras, speaks as follows :—
‘ Pythogoras, upon the death of one of his associates, whose
name was Caliphon, a Crotoniate by birth, affirmed that this
man’s soul conversed with him both day and night.’ This is
also mentioned by Josephus in his first book against Apion.
In the fourth century, the Greeks living among the Romans
discovered the means of communicating with spirits by means
of an alphabet marked on a table. For endeavouring to find
out who should succeed Yalers, the reigning emperor, they
were arrested, and, after trial, executed, in the year a.d. 371.
A full account of the trial and the mode of communicating
with the spirits is given by Ammianus Marcellenus, and
differs only very slightly from the present way. Gibbon
also mentions this execution, and says it was confirmed by
many of the early Church historians. Hue, the traveller in
Thibet and Tartary, says that in the thirteen century Rub-
ruk, the French Ambassador, while in Tartary at the Court
of the Moguls, heard rappings on a table which were ascribed
to spirits, and further, that at that period table-rapping and
table-tilting were familiar to the Mogols in Tartary, and that a
tambourine was often used in place of a table for the rappings.
In Sheffer’s ‘ History of Lapland,’ published in London, 1704, all
the present phases of modern Spiritualism are enumerated as
taking place among the Laps. Instead of a table for the
spirit to rap on they used a drum, which was held in very
great respect by all, no woman being allowed to touch it.
Amongst other mediums may be mentioned Swedenborg—
perhaps the greatest that has ever existed; the German
mediums—chief among whom is Johann JJung’ Stilling, the
celebrated medium of Stockholm, whose seances some of the
192
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 17, 1874.
Boyal Family and many of the nobility attended; the somna-
bulic mediums of Oahagnet, in France, which were the means
of convinoing many hundreds of immortaliiy, and I might
further supplement the list by hundreds of others, all of whom
lived long—in some instances more than 100 years—before
Kate Fox was bom, while in China every description of me-
diumship we have any knowledge of here has been practised
for hundreds of years; see ‘ Social Life among the Chinese,’
by Eev. — Doolittle. I think the cases I have cited are suffi¬
cient to prove that Spiritualism was practical and known long
before the Fox family.”
SPIRIT FORMS.
Last Saturday Mr. Charles Blackburn forwarded the fol¬
lowing letter to the editor of the Times:—
SPIRITUALISM A SCIENTIFIC SUBJECT.
To tjie Editor Of “ The Times," London.
Sir,—Some time ago you opened your columns for about
a fortnight upon this subject, but then I did not trouble you;
possibly now 1 may be granted the indulgence in your much
esteemed paper, considering the subject has rapidly progressed
since that time. Two years ago I went to the various seanees
held in London, and came to the conclusion that the public
mind for years to come would never believe paid mediums, so
I ascertained the name and residence of one just coming into
notoriety (but not paid), viz. Miss Florence E. Cook, aged
about 17, of Hackney; and, to settle the truth or falsity oi
all the reported manifestations of Spiritualism before the
world, I resolved I would try to prove it true to scientific
men, or I would get them to show it up as all imposture, and
so report it through all the leading newspapers. It has been
a work of time to do. this. 1 made a little arrangement of
compensation with the family, so that I 'might have all power
in admitting whom and when I pleased, and to make sure I
was not humbugged; giving instructions to hold one or two
seances weekly, and appointing Mr. Luxmoore, J.P., of
16, Gloucester-square, as leader if I was absent. The seances
began and haveacontinued ever since, either at her own house,
or those who invited her to theirs, and I have been reported
to regularly, what was doing, if absent myself. The develop¬
ment of the spirit form has been gradual, as the medium has
practised, and the company have obeyed conditions, directed
in oral voice by the spirit Katie. At first we got all sizes of
hands and arms, then a voice, then various faces, white and
black; then a face and bust, and finally a full form, which
comes out of the cabinet and walks now amongst us, and
proved true by Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., also Mr. Crom¬
well Yarley, F.R.S., which is greatly to their credit, and for
which labour|I sincerely thank them, and Miss Cook also, who
deserves every praise for her willingness to oblige those gentle¬
men on all occasions. Charles Blackburn,
Parkfield, Didsbury, near Manchester.
Miss Lottie Fowler’s Mediumship.—Mr. 'W. H.
Harrison, of Chaucer-road, Herne-hill, S.E., writes :—“About
the middle of last month (March) I sent by post a lock of the
hair of a very dear friend then lying dangerously ill, to Miss
Lottie Fowler, the clairvoyante, who was in Edinburgh. She
took the lock of hair to Glasgow, where one evening she went
into the trance state while twisting the hair in her fingers,
and a gentleman present took down what was said by Annie,
who purported to be the spirit communicating through her
organism. Before going into the trance state, Miss Fowler
was aware whose hair it was, and of the state of health of the
invalid ; beyond this the medium had no information or clue
of any kind whatever bearing upon what she afterwards
uttered in the trance. The trance revelation gave some clear
facts in the shape of dates and thoughts, which were in the
head of the sufferer to whom the hair belonged; the revela¬
tion also clearly and distinctly contained some of my thoughts,
and I of course had handled the hair in placing it in the enve¬
lope. These results were ample proof of [Miss Fowler’s
abnormal powers, but not of the existence of spirits, for
everything in the revelation which had not previously been
in our minds was. wrong, and some of the anticipations which
were in our minds, and which came back to me as revelations
from spirits, proved to be erroneous as time passed on. This
is one of many examples demonstrating that the utterance of
information already in the minds of inquirers, is no proof of
the existence of spirits, and ..that those who record spiritual
revelations, should be careful to state how much of the said
revelations had been previously in the thoughts of members of
the circle.”
Miss Lottie Fowler is in London, and will shortly
begin to give public seances.
Mr. C. E. Williams, physical medium, of 61, Lamb’s
Conduit-street, W.C., leaves London for Paris next Wednes¬
day, April 22nd, and will remain there for a fortnight.
Mrs. Beresford Scott, who was well known to London
Spiritualists, passed in perfect peace to a higher life on
Thursday, the 26th March, after a lingering illness.
Spiritualism in Brighton.—The article on Spiri¬
tualism, published in the Brighton Daily News last Saturday,
has been followed by a great deal of correspondence on the
subject in that journal. Mr. Herne is in Brighton, and giving
public seances once or twice a week at the house of Mr. Bray,
St. James-street. A conjurer who calls himself Professor
Wernolf, recently attended one of the seances and played
some tricks thereat, so that Spiritualism is made a handle
whereby his name is advertised in the correspondence columns
of the newspapers.
MILTON HALL, CAMDEN TOWN,
HAWLEY-CRESCENT, KENTISH-TOWN-ROAD, N.W.
A LECTURE will bo given by
DR. G. SEXTON,
M.A., F.Z.S., F.A.S., Editor of the 11 New Era,"
ON TUESDAY EVENING-, APRIL 21st., 1874,
ON
«MAN AS A SPIRITUAL BEING."
A LECTURE will also be given by
MRS. CORA L. Y. TAPPAN,
ON TUESDAY EVENING-, APRIL 28,
The subject of the Lecture may be chosen by the audience.
The chair will be taken by
JAMES THORNTON HOSKINS, ESQ., M.A.
Doors open at Half-past Seven; Chair taken at Eight o’clock.
Admission—2s., Is., and 6d.
OOO REWAIlD-—MA-SKELYNE & COOKE.
^ an EXPOSE
OF THE FALSENESS OF THEIR PRETENSIONS.
By ALGERNON JOY, M.I.O.E. (Iota).
London: J. Bums, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.
Price One Penny.
THOMAS S. NEWMAN, late of the U. S. America,
Inspirational Lecturer; also Heals by the Laying on of Hands (no
medicines given). Patients treated at his rooms, or he will attend them at
their residences. Terms: 10s. single visit at his rooms, or 15s. at their own
residence, if within the parish; if out of the parish £1 with travelling expenses.
Will also accept engagements to lecture on Wednesday evenings, or Sunday
afternoons and evenings, in London, either in public or private. Terms
moderate. Office hours from 7£ a.m. to 9 p.m. The poor considered. All
communications must be addressed, until further notice, to Dr. T. S.
Newman, 3, Torrington-street, W.C.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
EJ. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North, that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c., &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms, cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to MR. BARKAS),
N e wcastle-on-Ty ne.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS. — Handsomely-printed Blue
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion, may be obtained in packets, each containing 400, price 2s. 6d. per
packet. They are especially useful for distribution at public meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, reading-rooms, clubs, and places
public resort.
E. W. Allen, II, Ave Maria-lane, St. PauTs-churchyard, London, E.C.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy 8vo.,
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel swedenborg: his life and
WRITINGS. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History the
Doctrines and the other-world Experinces of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav¬
ings, by C. H. Jeens—I. Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80.
London; Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
April 17,
1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Revealing Startling Facts
to the public, can be consulted on either Medical or Business Affairs con¬
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 12 to 5. Terms, One Guinea.
Address, “ Crown Hotel,” George-square, Glasgow, Scotland.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bernard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Campden-hill, Kensington.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
6.s; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
MR. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush,
W. Please write.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
"YMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
WORK BY THE SAME AUTHOR.
An elegant little volume, bound in blue and gold, carmine edges,
Price 4s. 6d.
LYRICS AND BUCOLICS. The Eclogues of Virgil,
a selection from the Odes of Horace, and the Legend of the Sibyll.
“Mr. Noyes’ qualifications are of no mean order. In the first place, he
has the essential one of thoroughly entering into and appreciating the true
spirit of his master, and even where, as we have said, he exceeds what
we conceive to be the limits of a translation, we attribute it rather to his
being carried away by his own muse than to his misunderstanding his
author’s. And here we have a second and no less important qualifi¬
cation for success. Mr. Noyes has a genuine poetic vein of his own, and
his lines have almost always the ring of true metal.”—Standard,
April 7th, 1868.
“There is a certain freedom and swing in these translations, which not
only more resembles the brisk spirit and ringing tone of the original, but
is truly refreshing after the stiff rendering which had been generally made
of Horace’s choicest composition.’ —London Review, Feb. Xbth, 1868.
“The Translations from Horace are spirited and musical. His light
Epicureanism and gay Stoicism are happily hit off.”—Daily News,
March Zd, 1868.
“Mr. Noyes’ Version of Virgil’s Pastorals may fairly take its place by the
side of Mr. Oonnington’s translation of the jEneid. The lovers of such
poetry have here as pleasant a bouquet as can well be set before them,”—
Speculator March 7th, 1868,
TO THE READERS OF “ THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.”) Printed and published
by T. Scott, 1, Warwick-court, Holborn. Price One Penny.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82, St. James’s-street, and 87, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery.
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E,, respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingslaud.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
Aaron franklin, preserver of birds and
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE. Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’-heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847, AARON’ FRANKLIN, 100, Suf¬
folk street, Birmingham.
Lately published,
WHAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Mental
Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. % The MECHANISM of MAN
By EDWARD W. COX, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s. 6d.
Contents.
chap.
1. Introduction.
2. What am I?
3. The Man.
4. How we Grow,
5. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind,
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the Will.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
31. Soul—Spirit—Anima.
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. The Natural and the Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery.
45. Conclusions.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and charming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and no
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Herald.
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I ?”—Leicester Mercury
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflectiv readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest,—South Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book, is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
London: Longman and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just published,
The second volume of “what am i ?”
A Popular Introduction to Psychology and Mental Philosophy. By
EDWARD W. COX, Sergeant-at-Law. Price 10s. 6d.
This Volume completes the work. It treats of the Mechanism of Man in
action. The following are the
Contents :—
CHAP.
Preface.
1. Introductory.
2. Ofthe Intelligent Motive Forces.
3. The Conditions of Existence.
4. The Mechanism in Health.]
5. Of Sleep.
6. Of Dreams.
7. Of some of the Phenomena of
Sleep and Dreams
8. Of Delirium.
9. Of Insanity.
10. Of Natural Somnambulism.
11. Of Artificial Somnambulism. I.
The Condition.
12. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
II. Clairvoyance.
13. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
III. The Mental Phenomena.
14. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IV. Catalepsy.
15. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
V. Insensibility and Uncon¬
sciousness.
CHAP.
16. Of Artificial Somnambulism
VI. History.
17. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VII. Healing Power.
18. Of Artificial Somnambulism
VIII. Supersensuous Percep
tion.
19. Of Artificial Somnambulism
IX. Thought Reading.
20. Of Trance.
21. Of Unconscious Cerebration.
22. Of Psychic Force.
23. Of Psychic Force. I. The
Proofs.
24. Of Psychic Force. II. Its Phy¬
siology.
25. Of Psychic Force. III. The
Directing Inteligence.
26. Other Psychic Phenomena. I
Communicated.
27. Other Psychic Phenomena. II
Experiments.
28. The Summing Up
29. The Conclusions.
VOL. I. MAY BE HAD, PRICE 8s. 6d.
London: Longman & Co., Paternoster-row.
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Weekly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman.
Price Threepence. Tolbe had of W, H. Terry, 96, Russell-street Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.;
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Apkil 17, 1874.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H.Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J.S.Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D. ; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.Q.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.E.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Eeed, Esq.; C. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’  
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquikebs into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing mediah powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature, A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts' or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, sat to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the medium ? ” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
Tbe best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations arc bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STEELING.
Read 0#ces.-EEO WN STEEET and MAESDEN STEEET, MANCHESTER
FIBE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates
Bonus Eeturns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Benewed Premiums.
FIDELITY GUABANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STBEET, LONDON, E.C. j
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities
NSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press.
_ “ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lecturer, or what¬
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram¬
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature and its Needs’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!”—South Wales Press.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.'’—Spiritualist.
“The address quite riveted the attention of the audience.”—Eastbourne
Chronicle.
“ He spoke for neatly an hour-and-a-half. Not a hitch occurred. The
address was more or less argumentative throughout, in parts it was really
eloquent.”—Brighton Guardian.
MB. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend stances, or address public meetings.
All letters should be addressed to his private residence, Warwick Cottage,
Old Ford, Bow, E.
The alleged identification of the
ENGLISH NATION WITH THE “LOST HOUSE OF ISRAEL.”
By A. L. Lewis, Honorary Secretary, London Anthropological Society.
Being a Paper read before the British Association for the Advancement of
Science (Brighton Meeting), and before the London Anthropological
Society, with the Discussions thereon. Reprinted from Anthropologia,
No. 2 (by permission of the Council of the London Anthropological Society).
With the addition of an Append on the alleged Scriptural Evidence. The
whole showing that Englishmen are not Israelites.
London: Published by the Author, at 4, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.C. 1874.
Price Sixpence.
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER, LETTER¬
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapersand Periodicals supplied. Agent for TIteNewspaper.
A CIRCLE is in Process of Formation: Sitters of Re¬
fined, Intellectual, Harmonious Natures are required: present
Members Ladies and Gentlemen of good standing. Manifestations of a
high order are promised by the Guardian Spirits for regular, faithful
attendance. Each Applicant will be submitted to the Spirit Guardians for
approval, and it is hoped offence will not be taken upon rejection. Address
by letter, with stamped envelope for reply, to 0. W., 41, Bernard-street,
Russell-square. Applicants may call, if preferable.
PHOTOGRAPHIC COPIES OF THE ILLUMINATED
ADDRESS to be presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain to
Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Aye Maria-lane London, E.O.
